-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/gun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Terrific voice acting.
 Fun horseback riding.
 Some intense, gory shooting action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short storyline isn't made up for by shallow side missions.
 Some noticeably undercooked elements of play.
 Some of the violence and profanity feels too gratuitous.
 Visuals don't take advantage of the Xbox 360, looking bland and blurry.
 Higher retail price than other versions for no good reason.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.6, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 2,572 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the Xbox 360, this short Old West action adventure feels old all right. And its fairly fun shooting 
 action is dragged down by a slapdash presentation. 

  Recently released for most other gaming platforms, Gun, a Western-themed action adventure from 
 Tony Hawk series-developer Neversoft, is now available for the Xbox 360, complete with a premium 
 price tag and implicit promises of next-generation gaming quality. But all you get is the same 
 decent game you could be playing on a PlayStation 2 right now, except that if you run it on a high-definition 
 TV, all the flaws in its graphical presentation stick out like a sore thumb. The game itself is 
 somewhat more commendable than the quality of the translation. Featuring an open-ended environment 
 that you can traverse on foot or on horseback, plenty of gory shoot-outs, numerous optional side 
 missions, and an interesting story, Gun initially seems like a 19th-century Grand Theft Auto. Gun's 
 main story missions are pretty exciting, but the main plot is over so quickly that the whole thing 
 just ends up feeling rushed, and the various side missions aren't compelling enough to hold your 
 interest after the end credits roll. So it turns out that a terse, simple title like "Gun" is really 
 the perfect fit for what could have been a great game, if only it had more meat on its bones and 
 had been properly tailored to a system with a lot more horsepower.  

          Like a cowboy in New York City, Gun for the Xbox 360 just doesn't look right.     

 
  If you're already familiar with the other versions of Gun, know that the only real differences 
 are that this port runs on the Xbox 360 instead of other platforms, and it also costs more. Control 
 differences compared with other versions are practically negligible, though the layout of the Xbox 
 360 controller is slightly better suited to this game than most of the other versions. When you 
 play Gun on an HDTV, low-resolution textures and character models shine through, undermining what 
 was a great-looking presentation on other platforms. Seams in textures, some weird shimmering, 
 clipping, and other little graphical flaws just get magnified. On top of that, when running in 
 true HD resolution, for some strange reason the game comes out looking extremely dark compared 
 with other versions of Gun and other Xbox 360 games (we confirmed this using Xbox 360s, component 
 cables, and HDTVs) . Or, if you play it on a standard television, Gun barely looks different from 
 what you could be playing on a PS2 or an Xbox, except that it forces you to play in a letterboxed 
 widescreen mode, for whatever reason. It doesn't really suffer from frame rate drops like the other 
 versions do, but the frame rate still isn't fast and smooth, on the whole. So even though the quality 
 of the visuals may be technically better on the 360 than other platforms -- some of the textures 
 are definitely sharper, for instance -- the game just doesn't look at all flattering compared to 
 other Xbox 360 titles, and it isn't going to live up to your expectations of what a game for a 
 powerful new console ought to look like.  

  Gun is the tale of Colton White, a soft-spoken gunslinger raised by a resourceful old hunter named 
 Ned, made instantly likable thanks to an excellent voice performance by Kris Kristofferson. One 
 day Ned and Colton's hunt lands them on a steamboat carrying some sort of important artifact that 
 Ned seems to know about. However, he's not alone in his knowledge, and as the ship is besieged, 
 Colton barely escapes with his life. He makes his way to Dodge City at Ned's request, and from 
 there embarks on a journey that will put him up against a greedy ex-military railroad mogul and 
 his wicked cohorts. There's a strong cast of characters in Gun, and the 3D cinematic cutscenes 
 are nicely choreographed, making each story mission worth looking forward to if only to see how 
 Colton's misadventures will continue to pan out. Colton will find himself on both sides of the 
 law, allying with a diverse array of different comrades in his efforts to find answers and seek 
 vengeance.  

          Colton White doesn't take long to exact his revenge on the unsavory customers who made 
 his life difficult.     

  Unfortunately, the story hurries along at a breakneck pace. Situations that seem intended to introduce 
 entire chapters of gameplay tend to be resolved almost immediately. For example, at a certain point, 
 Colton is deputized as a peacekeeper in Empire City, the game's largest town. You expect to then 
 undertake a series of sheriff-style missions, but Colton's career path very quickly goes sour as 
 the story jarringly goes in another direction. It blazes on like this until the end credits roll -- maybe 
 six hours after you first begin play, depending on how many side missions you opted to take on 
 and depending on how much trouble you had with the final battle, which is one of the only tough 
 fights at the normal difficulty setting. There's just no time to really get to like (or dislike) 
 the main cast.  

  The mechanics of gameplay are good, and even though there are only a few main story missions, they 
 tend to be diverse and packed with action. Gun carefully walks the line between being a run-and-gun 
 shoot-'em-up and more of a realistic tactical shooter. You get to use all kinds of different authentic 
 weapons, including pistols, rifles, shotguns, sharpshooters, bows, and dynamite to take on vastly 
 superior odds, which Colton can overcome because of his excellent marksmanship and his ability 
 to instantly recover all his health by drinking from his flask (what's in that thing?) . Controlling 
 Colton primarily from a third-person perspective, you also get to take on ferocious Apache warriors, 
 play with barrels of TNT, fire cannons, and more.     

  Plus, you also get to ride and fight on horseback, making for some high-speed battles. Your horse's 
 hooves are arguably even more dangerous than your firearms, and besides, it can be mightily entertaining 
 to trample your foes, causing their bodies to get flung about like rag dolls. The horse-riding 
 mechanics are fun and well designed, letting you shoot rather effectively while mounted. You also 
 get to execute quick sliding turns (an awful lot like hand-brake turns in a driving game) while 
 balancing your horse's health with your top speed. You can spur your horse to go faster and faster, 
 but this wears the animal down. With the exception of those times when you run up against a barrier 
 of some sort and just keep running, all the animation on horseback looks very convincing. The only 
 problem is that there's no real sense of horse ownership in the game, as horses are completely 
 disposable. Western heroes like Colton White ought to have their very own trusty steeds, but in 
 Gun, you'll just grab whichever animal is closest to you, and you won't grow attached to any of 
 them.  

          There are a lot of dudes that what need buckshot to the face here.     

  If you figured there would be a lot of shooting in a game called Gun, you figured correctly. 
 Colton will typically be up against large numbers of foes, but there's a very wide auto-aim window 
 on his pistols, which lets you easily blast multiple foes even when they're hiding behind cover. 
 Chances are you'll do most of your damage with your rifles, though, since you can aim down the 
 sights of these in a first-person view, which lets you effectively shoot foes from afar. You also 
 have limited access to a quick-draw ability, which slows everything down for a little while and 
 lets you quickly line up a bunch of deadly shots against groups of foes. Magically, you don't even 
 have to reload during a quick-draw attack, though Colton's pistol ammo is unlimited anyway, and 
 his other ammo types may be replenished by conveniently strewn power-ups. Colton can even go to 
 town with melee weapons like knives and hatchets, easily slicing up large numbers of foes. So the 
 action isn't exactly realistic, but it still feels that way to a certain extent, since your foes 
 tend to weave and dodge effectively and will shout to press the attack when you're caught reloading. 
 Most importantly, the weapons feel like they pack a real punch, and enemies are fun to fight, especially 
 ones on horseback. It's hard to decide whether it's more satisfying to shoot a rider from his mount 
 or to take the mount out from under him.  

  The shooting action's not for the faint of heart. The makers of this game must be big fans of HBO's 
  Deadwood  or something, because the level of violence and general vulgarity in Gun surpasses what 
 you'd probably expect from a typical Western, even if you've seen some of the gorier ones. Gun 
 pays tribute to the classic films in the genre, from the unbelievable rescue from the gallows in 
  The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly , to the unforgettable last battle (courtesy of a Gatling gun) 
 in  The Wild Bunch . However, Gun's more than just bloody, like when you blast a big chunk out 
 of an enemy's head with a clean shot from your rifle. But this stuff isn't nearly as shocking when 
 viewed in high definition, so the impact of the action feels lessened on the Xbox 360. Nevertheless, 
 expect graphic violence, racism, and misogyny in heavy doses during the course of the game. Hey, 
 no one said the Old West was pleasant. But for what it's worth, some of this mature-themed content 
 borders on being gratuitous, since Gun clearly isn't aiming for historical authenticity. You'll 
 realize this from the moment you first catch a glimpse of the main villain's private locomotive, 
 emblazoned with a big fat skull logo. The game is far too over the top to be taken seriously.  
 

          Fighting on horseback is one of the better aspects of the game.     

  Apart from the brevity of the storyline, other aspects of Gun feel rather half-baked. For instance, 
 you can purchase a scalping knife, which you can use to finish off dying enemies rather gruesomely. 
 Although, other than whatever sadistic thrill you might get from this, there doesn't seem to be 
 any point to it at all, since mortally wounded foes are effectively out of the fight, and all the 
 scalps you're ostensibly collecting aren't even quantified as a line item on the statistics screen 
 (which, for reference, records things like number of headshots you've scored) . Furthermore, the 
 free-roaming format of Gun means that you can trot in to town and start trouble if you so choose, 
 such as by wantonly killing random townspeople. This causes a "town patience" meter to dwindle, 
 and if you empty it, a "showdown" scenario begins as a posse rolls in to get rid of you. Only, 
 this posse tends to be laughably weak, and should you defeat all its members, the town just goes 
 back to normal, as if you never even hurt a fly. Alternatively, if you get killed, you automatically 
 restart without penalty -- same difference. The world of the game definitely evokes that Old West 
 charm, and it's nice to see townspeople milling about, as well as the occasional shoot-out between 
 uppity citizens. But Gun really doesn't reward exploration or experimentation as free-roaming action 
 adventure games ought to do. The more you explore, the less you'll find. The game does offer a 
 variety of different side quests, though.     

  Gun's assorted side quests can be fun for a while, and they offer a decent amount of variety, since 
 they range from hunting down wanted felons, to cattle ranching, to competing in poker tournaments. 
 Most every side quest is unique in some way, with its own voice-over narration and basic twist, 
 but these tend to be only a few minutes long, fairly easy, and rather repetitive, in spite of everything. 
 For instance, almost every bounty hunter mission simply tasks you with galloping some brief distance 
 before taking on a hoodlum and his thugs. Often you can earn more money by bringing your victim 
 in alive, but all this comes down to is rushing up close and "subduing" your target instead of 
 killing him. The missions end abruptly in this fashion, at which point you can go find another 
 or proceed with the main story missions, if you have any left. An onscreen radar display conveniently 
 points out both enemies and destinations of importance, so for better or worse, it's very simple 
 to figure out where to go next. At any rate, the side quests in Gun certainly are nice to have, 
 but they're not so fleshed out or enjoyable as to make them anywhere near as good as the story 
 missions.  

          The world of Gun initially seems big and expansive, but there's really not a whole lot 
 to it.     

  One of the main reasons you might not be compelled to take on side quests is that the rewards for 
 successfully accomplishing them aren't all that necessary. You'll improve Colton's stats for things 
 like gun handling, melee weapons, and quick draw with each side quest you complete, but the effects 
 of these boosts tend to be so subtle as to be barely noticeable. Besides, you can also purchase 
 weapon and health power-ups, and you can find better weapons at the end of almost every mission. 
 In practice, you'll probably be drawn to some of the side quests and be compelled to earn money 
 with which to buy new items and power-ups. However, the game is easy enough on normal difficulty 
 to where you really don't need to worry much about building up Colton's strength. On hard and "insane" 
 difficulty, the challenge is substantially greater, since your foes will deal a lot more damage 
 with every hit. You might want to play on hard mode if normal difficulty seems too easy, but it 
 would have been better if the normal difficulty simply were more challenging overall. The action 
 is that much simpler because story missions tend to have multiple checkpoints. So even if you fail, 
 you'll restart from just a few minutes or seconds before with full health. At least the game isn't 
 frustrating (not for the most part, anyway) .  

  On the Xbox 360, Gun looks just OK. Since the character models look blockier and less realistic, 
 the cutscenes in the story aren't as impressive, and the cookie-cutter enemy gunmen found in other 
 versions of Gun stick out even more on the 360. At least Gun features a good use of realistic physics, 
 in addition to plenty of lifelike animations. The sorts of explosions that become more and more 
 prevalent later on in the story are particularly flashy, causing nearby characters (possibly Colton 
 himself) to get flung fast and hard away from the blast, and oftentimes causing them to get flattened 
 against nearby walls. Other than that, the game's rendition of the Old West is decent, and since 
 it's one continuous stretch of land, you really get the feel for the place. Various lighting effects 
 signifying day and night, wild animals, tumbleweeds (of course) , and other little visual flourishes 
 help make the world of Gun a little more believable, though the simplistic-looking environments 
 and blurry textures drag things down.  

          It's an unimpressive port of a short, shallow game.     

  On the other hand, the game's 
 audio is quite good, thanks especially to the excellent voice acting heard throughout the story. 
 Thomas Jane ( Deep Blue Sea ) is great as the quiet, confident Colton White, and the main villains, 
 played by Lance Henriksen ( Aliens ) and Brad Dourif ( Deadwood ) , sound at least as wicked and 
 nasty as they look. The music shies away from spaghetti Western twanging, instead going for an 
 epic feel that the gameplay doesn't really live up to. Apart from that, effects for gunfire, galloping 
 hooves, and the other sounds of the Wild West are pretty much accurate, though they aren't as noteworthy 
 as the voice work.  

  Gun for the Xbox 360 ultimately offers too little content for it to be a truly satisfying game, 
 and it's got little in the way of visual punch, to boot. The shooting and riding action can make 
 for a good time, to be sure. But the hastily delivered storyline (which, fittingly, concludes with 
 an incredibly abrupt ending) and the lack of any real depth to the gameworld make Gun much better 
 suited for some quick, fleeting thrills instead of for the long haul. So you could give it a rental 
 if you run out of other 360 games to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (225 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay right from the start I liked this game, somewhat of a sandboxish type of game, you can roam 
 around a fair bit. The graphics are good enough, the missions are fun, lots of cool side stuff 
 to do. Plenty of variety..... and stuff to look for.
  
  What killed me on the game was the final boss.... admitably I'm not a fan of boss battles. I don't 
 mind boss battles if beating a boss involves, outwit, outplay, outlast the boss.... I can't stand 
 boss battles where the only way you can beat him is by doing some stupid, random, frustrating thing... which 
 sums up the boss battle at the end of this game. EG... I emjoyed the boss end boss battle in DOOM 
 3.... never even got killed by him. Here I was having a great time, and lots of fun... then I get 
 to the last boss, which was so frustrating that I took the game out of my 360..... threw it... thus 
 ending it's life. Well I did only pay $7.99 for it. LOL. 
  I would have rated the game a little higher if I had beaten it. Up until that point it was a fairly 
 enjoyable, and easy game.... the final boss ruined it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedicaptain
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I just purchased Gun and I figured it would be a great game. You know, awesome topic, looked 
 like good shooting mechanics, etc. But I was sadly mistaken. From the first mission I played when 
 I was on the ferry, the storyline seemed broken and confusing. A guy talks to some random chick, 
 guy gets pissed, he kills the girl. Then he calls Indians out of nowhere to destroy the ship. Why? 
 Where the hell did the Indians come from and why are they on the guy's side. Then the guys get 
 on the ship and you cant tell if they are Indians or just random thugs. Once again, why? Then I 
 tried the shooting mechanics, it felt like a weird mix of first and third person shooter, and it 
 didn't work. On top of all of that, the environment looked like a bad ps1 game type graphics. As 
 I progressed through the game the story just got worse and worse and the graphics pretty much stayed 
 the same, they couldn't really get any worse. I mean, if I played this on ps2 or xbox, it would 
 be different. They did make the same game for both those systems, but I think people have come 
 to expect a little more from 360 games than they did from xbox or ps2 games, which they should, 
 seeing as how the 360 is the new generation of consoles and with a new generation should come better 
 graphics, not worse graphics.. But beyond all of this, it pains me to say that there was one good 
 thing about the game, the horses. The horseback riding was awesome, if anybody has played Assassins 
 Creed you'll know what I'm talking about. Overall, this game seemed like it had some great potential 
 and could have been the next Halo or Call of Duty. But, sadly, bad shooting mechanics, bad graphics, 
 and a weak and confusing storyline held this game back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintsroller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  When I first played gun I got so addicted that I stayed up all night and that' when I got dissapointed..... I 
 clocked it in about 4 hours.... But GUN is a very fun game and is definatly a must buy!
  But when the game is done there still is heaps of activities to do. It's just like GTA only in 
 the wild west...
  
  THE STORY-
  I thought that the story was simply amazing, it made you go really deep down into the game... Almost 
 like it was going to suck you in!
  
  THE GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are nothing amazing but they are pretty good for it time.
  
  Similar Games-
 
  If you like this game you may like:
  Call Of Juarez (Based In The Wild West)
  Grand Theft Auto (Based in Free roaming environments)
  The Godfather (Similar to GTA but in the 
 MAFIA days!)
  
  *Prey
  and *Pirates Of the Carribean!
  I seriously loved this game!
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilcheddar
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Apart from weak graphics, limited character expansion and weird controls this game has.... uh... 
 a good story line. Wow, its sad that that's all i can find in this game, i mean really 1 out of 
 4 things... Wait, the old west theme wasn't to bad... But still those are the only plus sides i 
 could get out of it... Well that and 900 gamerscore. If you ask me I think this game needs a DLC 
 with a few new levels and achievements, to reward the people that couldn't quite let go of this 
 game (gotta keep your only fans happy) . I think I should stop before i destroy any chances of anyone 
 getting this game... Over all, if your looking for easy achievements, but you don't want to buy 
 a game, go out and rent Gun. And if you do want to buy a game, this one is really cheap... OH, 
 there's one more plus side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a firm believer of Gamespot reviews. I now only trust Gameinformer magazine and my 
 own personal play and friends. This game is fun. the missions aren't the hardest, but overall the 
 game is fun with a spin on something a bit different for those seeking a fun filled game. The side 
 missions are cool to play along with the main mission. The graphics are good for the BEGINNING 
 of this generation gaming. It is a good step in a direction that some times gaming needs a break 
 from. Gaming needs a wild west RPG maybe with more RPG elements, but with how much can you do with 
 the west in the 1880's? There are a limited number of pure fun games for the Xbox 360. Sometimes 
 developers get too wrapped up with making the emphasis on graphics and gameplay that the fun factor 
 is left behind somewhere. I now do not trust Gmaespot reviews tho and leave the reviews to myself. 
 Games are like opinions, everyone has some, sometimes you just have to listen to your friends. 
 That is better advice than the PAID reviewers of Gamespot.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  You start off as a young man shooting wildlife for pay but become the very person to take down 
 evil where ever it lies.
  Gun has everything. Wildlife, a typical western village, loveable characters, a great arsenal, 
 horses to ride, american indians.... it goes on.
  The story is fantastic and the missions are even better. I could see an improvement over the PS2 
 version but nothing major.
  Its lifespan is normally sized because of numerous side missions such as card games. I love the 
 health system how it uses a whisky bottle instead of something ordinary like a first aid kit.
 
  I particularly liked the missions involving hunting species of animal they were great because 
 they involved sneaking and timing. .
  This game is well worth the purchase even though its getting old. Even if a game is old it doesnt 
 mean its bad. Give it a try, see what you think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  
  [Plot] 
  It's the classic cowboy story of a young man out for revenge against a dastardly villain who's 
 pursuit of a vast deposit of gold winds up killing the young man's father. You take up the role 
 of this young man, journeying across Kansas and New Mexico (or two towns in these states, anyway) , 
 bringing a bloody justice to the lawless lands, still reeling from the Civil War and Indian raids 
 from the Apache and B-foot tribes.
  
  [Characters]
  Feel cartoony at times but don't bring down the value of the game 
  
  [Graphics/sound] 
  
 At times the graphics are stunning, and the ingame music really adds to the experience 
  
  [Level design] 
  The story missions are easy enough to breeze through, and there's a good variety 
 of side missions to pad out the length of the game. All in all, you can probably get 100% completion 
 of the title in about 20 hours. There's a few different difficulty levels, but not much difference 
 between them, other than the number and strength of the enemies.
  
  [Replay value]
  Not so much, maybe when I am feeling nostalgic but you can only ride into the sunset once and be 
 cool 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  GUN is a third person shooter set in the west. You play as protagonist Colton White. Basically 
 the game starts out with you and your supposed father Ned White who are out hunting in the forest. 
 Eventually Ned gets attacked by a bear and you have to save him. After that you board a ferry boat 
 which eventually gets attacked and Ned dies. As soon as that happens, the open world of GUN is 
 open to you. Basically GUN is an open world, third person western shooter. The game's actual story 
 mode portions are definitely shorter than they should be but when you add in the side missions 
 you'll definitely have a lengthier game overall. GUN also has an rpg element in which as you complete 
 story or side missions, you earn money in which you can buy upgrades to your weapons, health, etc. 
 You also earn experience points toward your skills. Your skills range from gunhand which deals 
 with your guns. The other skills are health, horse riding, etc. The voice acting is also top notch 
 and what you'd expect from a western theme of characters. Also, the music fits in just perfectly. 
 GUN truly is the greatest western shooter available today and I think anyone craving that won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Gun is a western third person RPG/shooter. It combines the two game modes in that you have a semi-free 
 roam in a closed world. By closed world I mean that is isn't all instantly accessible from the 
 start of the game and that parts of the world unlock as you play through. This game is pretty fun 
 in terms of controls and game play; however the story and game length are pathetic. The story has 
 you taking control of Colton White whose father is killed at the start of the game and you go out 
 on the hunt for revenge. In the mean time you meet new people, making new friends and enemies subsequently 
 taking on a whole new purpose to the bloodshed and you end up seeking to destroy a massive plan 
 to uncover a massive buried city of gold. Anyway, the story is not what the game is about. Gun 
 has plenty to offer anyone wanting a short game to occupy their weekend. It has some excellent 
 gun battles and the combat is good fun. Horse riding is smooth and well constructed so its fun 
 galloping around the world, jumping fences, rivers, and shooting bandits from horseback. There 
 are some really good moments. The game fails in that it is extremely short, offering very little 
 replay ability and having so few side quests. Once the game world is full open, you can know it 
 like the back of your hand in a matter of minutes and from then on the game loses its appeal. You 
 cannot go into taverns and buy drinks, shops to buy ammo or new clothes, or houses to sleep. The 
 game world is very dead and there is little to do. That said, the most excitement comes when doing 
 the missions, which once all completed leaves only a husk. The game is small, short, and has little 
 to offer. What little is does give however, is entertaining right till the end, and then it's frustrating 
 and annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Showdowns. Bank robberies. Psychopathic renegade generals. GUN brings all the fun from the wild 
 west right into your living room. Sadly, it only lasts for about six or seven hours. 
  
  The game's major problem is really just the fact that it's over way too fast. Other than that, 
 it's a blast. It isn't too easy or hard. Playing the game on easy is exactly what it should be. 
 Easy. Playing the game on hard is exactly what it should be. Hard. 
  
  I thought GUN's story was really good. it had some great characters and even a lot of drama at 
 some points. It also has some really memorable bad guys, all of which are completely and totaly 
 insane. 
  
  I bought GUN off ebay for fifteen bucks new a few months ago, and it's easily one of the best bargain 
 bin games you can get. Although it isn't very long, it's fun, has a decent story and some really 
 easy achievments. It's a good game you can motor through on a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdude06081
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  in the gun game you play coltn white a gun sligin no crap takein bad*** so your out to avenge your 
 fathers death ned white or so you thought but i dont want to spoil anything anyway you first get 
 a colt just like your name now it isnt the most powerful gun in the game but it will get you by 
 now we come to jenny shes a sweet a**kicking prositute now along the way youll meet a jacked preacher 
 he is one of of the main guys your chasing and he is way jacked but macgruder is the one eyed pig 
 your after and hes the worst of the worst overall it is a good but short game it has a fell that 
 hasnt been toped yet it is a buyyyyyyand if you dont like it you can bite my shiny metal a** pleas 
 dont take this offincely i was just joking so the grahpics are really bad and the game is short 
 but is a very good game the guns are authientic its never been done its fresh fast paced action 
 thrillride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a great shooting game. It's simple interface and controls allow the player to be absorbed 
 into a vibrant violent vision of the wild west in all it's violent gory excellence. The only problem 
 is would be that is all Gun brings to the palette and it's nothing new. The story of gun is a typical 
 wild west tale, nothing special is brought but this is unimportant. The main point it would seem 
 for this game was basically to blow whatever is thrown at you to bits. This may sound like fun 
 and it is but there is no variety to the game itself. Every mission is the same, kill these people, 
 kill those people, blow something up. The side missions are the same as well, even the courier 
 missions have you killing bandits who try to steal your cargo. By the end the player is left not 
 feeling good but just feeling like they killed a whole lot of people. The gore is at times way 
 over the top and unnecessary particularly in the cool but overused 'bullet time' moments. Overall 
 the gameplay of this while not anything new is very fun but at times is over the top and quite 
 inane. 
  The graphics in this game to put it simply are horrendous. The textures look like an N64 game for 
 the most part but there is some nice lighting and bloom effects to be seen when Colton is riding 
 on his horse through the desert sun. Other then that though it is a rather ugly game and the character 
 models are only decent looking. The characters while ugly though are brought to life by the terrific 
 voice acting notably from Thoman Jane who plays Colton. 
  Overall Gun is a very decent game and if you want a western game, it is a steal now at just 10 
 dollars pre owned at many stores. Though it is short Gun is a game you can play through many times 
 as the gun play and shooting is very fun. For many though the over the top violence and lame graphics 
 could be a major turn off. Do not expect Gun to be a long game, it took me 8-10 hours tops to finish 
 everything the game had to offer at a slow pace. I recommend Gun to fans of Western games or to 
 someone just looking for a decent shoot 'em up. For everyone else, it's worth a rent and nothing 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  this is exactly the same as the ps2 game. even the same graphics, and nowadays i can't fault them. 
 i know this was a ps2 port, but it almost hurts to play now. i know i want achievements but ouch. 
 this is gonna be rough.
  
  other than that there is little to talk about. this is pretty much exactly the same as the first 
 game, but the load times are virtually nonexistent. that is nice.
  
  the voice acting still rocks, the story still too short, the combat still pretty fun but too easy, 
 and searching for gold is still annoying.
  
  all said and done you'll still have a nice immersive time galloping around the old west, but you 
 will not discover anything new or fresh. and it won't be pretty and glorious just cause it jumped 
 systems. 
  
  but if you loved silverado, or really any western then likely you'll enjoy gun for what it is a 
 dusty good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a game with a great story about a man named Colton White, a man who's out to find out the 
 mystery of life and encounter some magical adventures filled with happiness and love along the 
 way.
  Not really, Gun is an epic tale about a man out to set things right for his family.
  
  Through some great story telling, some fantastic voice acting, some cool lookin' buffalo, and 
 a lot of horses, it'll be sure to please your single player adventurer for at least a short while.
 
  The story lasts about 7 to 8 hours, depending on the difficulty. Difficulty levels are really 
 broken up as well, playing on easy can pose a challenge to some, and the "insanity" difficulty 
 level is on par with CoD2 on veteran. Insane difficulty is really, well, insane, but very rewarding 
 when you beat it.
  
  After playing the story there are plenty of side missions to be played as well (or even along with 
 the story for that matter.)
  Most of them are pretty fun, but some are more annoying and tedious than anything else, especially 
 the pony express missions. I thought those would be the best since they're pony, but noo.
  Anywho, moving past that lame joke, the side missions are in 5 different forms.
  In one you basically 
 grab a horse, run somewhere as fast as you can, and talk to somebody.
  The second you play Texas Hold Em.
  The third you do all the work for a police officer, that 
 lazy son of a gun, i swear..
  The fourth, you prove yourself to the Indians by hunting.
  And finally the fifth, you help out a rancher on his farm.
  
  Most of these side missions are 
 very short, only taking a few minutes to do, but all together take about an hour to complete each 
 category, give or take.
  The good thing about most of these missions is none of them are very repetitive, each category 
 is based around the same idea but they're all still very fun.
  
  The graphics are really nothing special, looks pretty much like an original xbox game with some 
 minor improvements. Although it does have some issues, like glitching through the heads of buffalo. 
 But that's just funny and kinda cool, and when did graphics become the most important thing anyway, 
 right?
  
  As for the achievements (for those that like them, and who doesn't?) , most are fairly simple. The 
 most difficult ones are beating the story 4 times since they're non-stackable, and mining all the 
 gold. All the others are really based around the story and doing all the side missions. If you're 
 worried about the Texas Hold Em one too, don't worry, I literally have no idea how to play and 
 i beat all the tournaments in about 40 minutes.
  
  
  SO, to sum up, GUN is a great, yet short, story driven game with great horses, great voice acting, 
 average graphics, and plenty to keep you busy for a weekend rental. If you can find it in your 
 bargain bin though (I bought it for $10) i'd recommend it. It's fun for what it's worth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Scores:
  Overall Score : 7
  Gameplay : 7.5
  Graphics : 5
  Sound : 6
  Replay Value : none
  
  The Good:
  A semi open Western third person shooter. Easy to use shooting 
 controls and horse riding make for an enjoyable gaming experience. Nice voice acting and music.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Limited things to do in the open world. Direct port of an Xbox game in every aspect (visually and 
 game play) . Very short main story. (Less then 5 hours needed to complete) Ridiculous Uber boss 
 final battle. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gun follows the life of a lone young man looking to understand his past and bring vengeance on 
 the bad guys causing troubles in the old west.
  
  The game is interesting to play while the main story and the few side missions last. Unfortunately, 
 the game designers ended the game with an Uber Boss battle. (I loath these!) The game forces you 
 to stop playing as a gun slinging cowboy like you were doing for the entire game, and forces you 
 to defeat the final boss by firing only your one special weapon when he is standing near a certain 
 spot that will hurt him. The boss is not really hard to defeat, it's just that the unrealistic 
 way you have to defeat him takes away from the overall feel of the game as a real shoot'em up western. 
 
  
  Achievements List:
  As with most of the early games that were released for the XBOX 360's coming out party, the achievements 
 for Gun are very easy, and all but the three achievements dedicated to what level you are playing 
 on can be accomplished in your first play through.
  
  Overall View:
  Although a good game experience while it lasts, the total lack of any replay value limits this 
 game to at best a rental or bargain bin (Under $10) selection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a good game with a lot of potential. Some good ideas were presented and it makes me want 
 a revamped sequel. The graphics are not as good as they could be for the 360. They seem to only 
 be a port. The music is so great that you will often just find yourself just riding to the music 
 as you would see in an old west movie. The story line is okay. The side missions don't really tie 
 into the story and the leveling up is okay, but not completely necessary. The Shops work great 
 as upgrading your guns and your health makes a great difference. The game plays well, but doesn't 
 seem as fluid as it could be. The animations just seem stiff at times, but still is bearable. Those 
 who love shooters and especially westerns would enjoy this game. Everyone else just go after something 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Gun is the exact same game as it was back on the original Xbox. Yes, the graphics are a little 
 bit better, but the gameplay is not any different, so what would make someone want to replay Gun 
 on the Xbox 360 if there isnt much different than it was back on the cheaper Xbox? The simple answer 
 is that Gun takes full advantage of features that the Xbox 360 offers. The biggest difference between 
 the two versions is the addition of the Xbox 360 achievement system. Anyone who played the game 
 back on the earlier consoles probably remembers that there were no real rewards for completing 
 all of the poker missions or finding all the gold pieces. However on the 360 there are achievements 
 that you gain after you complete these so you feel a real sense of satisfaction. After completing 
 the game 100% on the Normal difficulty I already had over 800 points. Now that I have described 
 the biggest difference between the 360 and regular Xbox version, lets actually talk about the game.
 
  
  Gun tells the story of Colton White, a man with nothing to loose. Yes this does sound pretty cheesey 
 and yes you have heard the story before. Gun starts out kind of shallow, it seems as if the game 
 is constantly throwing characters at you, just so they can piss you off and then you can kill them. 
 Nothing really changes until about half-way through the game where the story actually gets interesting 
 and good. The characters are rich and interesting and you actually care about them, unlike in the 
 first half of the game.
  
  The game features a pretty good soundtrack, it sounds like a western, everything from the horses 
 to the music in the background. The voice overs are definately one of the highlights of the game. 
 The main character Colton White is voiced by Thomas Jane who you may know from The Punisher and 
 from Deep Blue Sea. The other voice overs are done by fairly well known actors (I recognized the 
 names but not the voices) so if you have an extensive knowledge of movie actors than you will probably 
 recognize even more.
  
  The graphics in this game are not ones that really show off the capabilities of the Xbox 360, but 
 they are no slouch either. On a regular TV they dont look much different than the original Xbox 
 game, but on an HDTV at the highest settings the game does have some pretty impressive lighting 
 effects and the game just looks smoother overall.
  
  One thing that it seemed most revewiers had against the 360 version of Gun is that it was relatively 
 the same game but with a higher price tag. Well guess what? Now that Gun is available on the Xbox 
 360 for only 14.99 used at GameStop it is definately worth picking this game up. This is one of 
 the greatest games to take off on the whole Grand Theft Auto formula. Pick this game up right now, 
 you will not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  You don't even have to be a wild west fanatic to enjoy this game! The quick draw mode is awesome. 
 Some parts of the game are pretty funny. This is not a game for children, however, so parents: 
 This one deserves its M rating.
  
  I am stuck on the final boss ... I may never beat him - he is tough. But the journey to get to 
 that point was well worth it. There are a few problems as in most games. The map doesn't seem to 
 show your current position, unless I am missing something. It is possible to get stuck at the final 
 boss not having upgraded your equipment enough. You cannot back out of that confrontation as you 
 can all of the others. 
  
  There isn't one specific thing I can say about this game that makes it fun. It is just the game 
 as a whole ... such as scalping. It serves no useful purpose, but it is funny to hear the victim 
 complaining that you are taking his hair "aww not my hair .. .blah blah".
  
  Pick this up - it is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespoting
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  
  
  slick presentation from production to story; completing side missions rewards players with upgraded 
 weapons and skills that provide even more visceral gunplay; Xbox 360 version has achivements that 
 push players to dig a little deeper; gameplay, when played "right", can very rewarding;
  
  The Bad:
  
  
  game can be very short and shallow if no side missions are complete; some side 
 missions can be tedious; the game world is large but suprisingly empty; not much to do after game 
 is complete beside side missions-when those are done there is nothing to do except kill towns folk 
 and buffalo;
  
  
  TAKE NOTE:
  
  
  The year is 2007 in the month of december. This game is offically over two years old. I don't feel 
 as if I need to hand write out what the gameplay is like or what the graphics look like. There 
 are dozens of professional reviews that would do a better job than me. All I want to do is explain 
 to you why I feel this game is enjoyable. 
  
  
  I have owned this game four times. Once on the PS2 and original Xbox and twice of the Xbox 360 
 (hey I needed some trade) . I have beaten the game fives times, twice completing it to 100%. I have 
 beaten every difficulty except the highest one. I have gotten 29 out 31 achivements only missing 
 two that require me to beat two more times than I already have. I can't explain why this is one 
 of my most played games of all time. I know it is not that great but I keep coming back to it. 
 
  
  
  I have to say that completing the game 100% was very satifying. Finding every piece of gold proved 
 to be very difficult especially considering that I didn't use any outside help. The payoff was 
 visceral providing me with one of the most powerful arsenals I have ever played around with. Going 
 into town with a fully maxed out character was awesome. All I did was take one aim at someone, 
 pull the trigger and watched the gore fly as the body was dismembered.
  
  
  Believe me, I know the game can be pretty bad. I played through it on easy without doing one side 
 mission and it was over in about five hours. Not exciting stuff. But as a whole, depending on how 
 you play, this game be a lot of fun. And I mean a lot of fun. I have legitimately played this game 
 for about 50 total hours across three platforms. When everything is taken into consideration I 
 really like this game.
  
  
  And for the record the Xbox 360 version does look better. Especially on a standard definition tv. 
 High definition makes things look slightly muddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyc407
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Gun was definelty a fun play, I was really impressed with the graphics and the shooting. It has 
 a strong storyline, and interesting characters. The weapons that were included were fun and realistic, 
 but they didn't include enough weapons initially. As I said in the Review Deck, the campaign is 
 good, but it is only one player and doesn't offer Xbox live. Even thought the Campaign was a good 
 length, if you rent it and really play it, you can definetley beat it within the time that you 
 have it. After beating the game, I don't feel that it's something that makes me want to go back 
 and do it again. I strongly recommend that you rent it first, and then decide after if it's a game 
 that you want to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I had bought this game for another system so when I purchased this game I did it for... The Achievement 
 points!. Yes pretty much thats why I bought this game. Its a great game where you play a man in 
 the old west trying to revenge the murder of your father. You ride around on your horse hunting 
 down wanted men while progressing on your missions. There is not much of a difference between this 
 game and the game on any other system other then the obvious. The graphics on this game are great 
 and the sound is good. The game is a lot of fun with the fact that it is very short. You can blow 
 through this game in a day. Getting all of the points is not very hard and its fun to go for them. 
 At this point this game should be very cheap to get so get it if you can. If you never played it 
 its definately worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game may give you a little bit of deja vu. Haven't we played this already in GTA and on the 
 original Xbox? Well, you have. except the "next-gen" version is no different than the other version.
 
  
  On the positive side: GUN is still a great game to begin with and its still fun on the 360. 
 
  
  On the negative side: Its a dissapointing game considering its the exact same thing on the Xbox. 
 And, it costs more on the 360!
  
  Verdict: If you don't have an original Xbox, buy this game, however, if you have an original Xbox, 
 buy the Xbox version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  When you compare a game from 2 different kinds of consoles (especially next-gen from current-gen) , 
 you should be able to differentiate the advantages of the more advance console than the less one. 
 But this game proved me wrong.
  
  First of all the graphics is just a total let down. The cutscenes are terrible, so few people even 
 though the world was huge.
  
  Secondly, gameplay was just like other consoles. Nothing special made for the 360.
  
  Although 
 the gameplay is somewhat satisfying, like being able to shoot arrows while mounted on a horse, 
 the game was nothing special. Just very disappointing that it was ported to 360 with NOTHING changed. 
 Best play it in an xbox or ps2 or it is a WASTE OF MONEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Overall Score 8.5
  
  First of all, I will note that i did not buy this game until now because it did not rate that well 
 by many reviewers. I can see some of the problems with the game, but it rated highly on my most 
 important criteria... it's fun. i am going to review this game according to some different categories:
 
  
  Funess: 9.0
  
  Yes, I made up a word. This game is simply fun to play. The missions get a little repitive, but 
 overall the game does try and offer decent variety. the game is not open ended by any stretch, 
 but it does offer you some choices, such as side missions that you can take. There are some roleplaying 
 aspects that combine well with the overall shooter. You do get to make choices that affect gameplay, 
 and you get to choose how to spend your money (such as on weapon upgrades) . there are even some 
 fun mini games, such as texas hold'em poker.
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  
  The graphics are decent, if not amazing. The blood and gore can easily be seen when shooting a 
 bad guy in the head, etc. the facial expressions are rather fixed, and the animation is average. 
 the background scenes are very well done, and you may find yourself occassionally admiring the 
 view. Some more detail could have been added to the towns.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  
  The sound effects and music add to the overall mood of the game. While they are not spectacualr 
 in the sense that you won't be swept away in the amazing score, or wowed by the sound of someone 
 falling off their horse, they are good enough to add to the game. the sound effects help create 
 the feel of the game fairly well.
  
  Controls and Interface: 8.0
  
  The controls are easy and the interface is intuitive. nothing amazing, but you won't find it hindering 
 gameplay either. Overall, it works well.
  
  Story: 7.5
  
  Rather cliche, but good enough to be fun, and sometimes funny. You may even find yourself having 
 thoughts such as, hey, don't shoot my whore . This game is not going for a realistic view of the 
 west, it is portraying the 60's and 70's hollywood west. Overall fun to play in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceeunaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  With so few westerns available for the current crop of consoles its difficult to really like or 
 hate this game. If there were more of this genre available, similiar in numbers to WWII games, 
 then I would certainly be less forgiving.
  
  The positives:
  The storyline is fresh, it keeps you interested. So many games today delivery poor storylines. 
 The action is fun. Having the ability to roam freely about the world in GTAish fashion is nice. 
 The side missions are cleaver distractions that allow one to increase their skills and bank account. 
 Towards the end of the game however you are forced to stick to the story mission, leaving you to 
 return to the side missions only once the game has been completed. Also, the voice acting was superb. 
 Several well known actors did voice overs for this game.
  
  The negatives:
  At least with the 360 version, the graphics look to be mid 90's technologies. Colors somewhat muted, 
 human and animal forms blocky, movements choppy. There can be entertaining moments such as when 
 animals stand midway through walls, horseback riders appear to be horseless.
  
  The biggest setback for me was the difficulty level settings for this game. When set to 'Normal', 
 game play was not terribly difficult. You had to be strategic, think the scenario through. There 
 were a number of levels that must be played multiple times in order to defeat the enemy. Its not 
 until you reach the final level, the 'big' boss battle, that the developers kicked the difficulty 
 level up a notch, or should I say several notches. This battle was so difficult, not only did I 
 have to cheat by reading the FAQs, but in the end after several hours I still did not complete 
 this level. I finally reverted to starting a new game using the 'Easy' mode and playing through 
 again. This time around however the final battle was 'just right'. Too bad that there seems, at 
 least in my opinion, a great discord between the level of difficulty between the final level and 
 the rest of the game.
  
  On a postive note, once game play has concluded, you are left with all of the finest equipment, 
 weapons, and greatest horse. Too bad that all missions are complete and there is nothing really 
 to do but torment honest towns folk and 'blast' roaming buffalo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  When a game that gets my attention is about to come out, I generally rush to read all the reviews 
 available and, if the average of the reviews is favorable, I tend to go and get that particular 
 game.
  So when Gun came out late 2005 it was heavily criticized for all the reasons you can read in Gamespot&acute; s 
 review. So I let it pass.
  
  Two weeks ago, browsing through some discount games, I found it for 20 bucks, and I said What the 
 heck and bought it. Never made great expectations for this game so I loaded it in my 360 while 
 taking a break from Bioshock. Sure, the graphics look like a last gen game, but they are not bad 
 graphics, the ambiance is great and the characters look rough but functional. Yes, the story is 
 short, but it gest to the point fast. There are some games where the main story deviates into subplots 
 where it comes a time when you forget what are you supposed to be doing and what the main story 
 of the game is. None of that happens here; the side missions are simple and even if they are basically 
 more of the same they are fun to complete and boost your stats. PLUS they earn you a handsome quantity 
 of achievement points (if you are into that) . Yes, the violence! the profanity! Nothing that would 
 scar you for life..... theres more profanity in a 23 minute episode of Entourage. So I put a hold 
 on Bioshock, yes, BIOSHOCK, to finish the game and as short as it is (like 6 hours long) I really 
 enjoyed it because I played it without prejudice, without expecting to be Unforgiven and without 
 expecting to be the game that unleashes the technical capacity of the console. But surely I wouldnt 
 pay 60 dollars for it, 20 bucks is the right prize. Look for it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleet888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I just got 1000 points in Gun (360) and it was, by far, like no other. although I felt it did lack 
 in many ways, i still played through it. Here is my breakdown
  
  Good:
  1. Free to Roam (You can wait to do quests/sidemissions)
  2. Horses (What better way to get around 
 in the West then horses?)
  3. Quick Draw (A slow motion shooting skill that adds a nice pinch)
  4. Shoot anything... or 
 anyone (You shoot something... it dies)
  5. Sights (While its not the best for graphics, the sights are still nice)
  
  Bad: 1. Insane 
 ( It is well...... insane, you die way to quick for most people)
  2. Gold (Although it does give you something to do, its just to out there)
  3. Girls (There cute, 
 but to much of a tease for me :] )
  4. Side Missions (To repetative, for most its the same thing diff. location)
  
  WTF?:
  1. 
 Random wiskey bottles everywhere? common
  2. Throwing dynamite at horses dismemebers there head everytime! :]
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Achievement Breakdown
  Difficulty: Not hard at all (Besides Insane and Hard)
  Time: This game could take 8+ hours if your not careful (watch for gold)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tips: 1. Don't collect any gold till your done the game, then find a guide that'll tell you where 
 it is
  2. Try to always have your wiskey bottle full
  3. DO NOT JUMP OFF BIG CLIFFS.... I know it's tempting (even the smaller ones can still kill you
 
  4. WATER (Colton White is not a swimmer.... so dont try it :] )
  5. Dont push your horse to hard.. unless you like walking alot because horses arnt always around 
 AND Colton is a slow runner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincent9mm
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Of all the kinds of games you could think of and time periods to set them in, Westerns tend to 
 be held on the backburner. Then we have Gun, which sets the western just right with addictively 
 fun gameplay, a great storyline, and a vast land to explore and work with. With only a few drawbacks 
 Gun is one hell of a game overall.
  
  Gun is a 3rd person action based shooter, putting you in the shoes of Colton White. You begin by 
 making an honest living with your father hunting on the open plains of the west. A six shooter 
 is your best friend with a quickdraw mode slowing time down allowing for percise aiming or fast 
 shooting from target to target with the simple flick of an analog stick. You are given a rifle 
 for medium range combat which can be slow but pull off a good job while stalking the lands. A shotgun, 
 long shot, and arrow also accompany alowing for close range and stealth combat. Melee mixes things 
 up with everything from a pocket knife, to hatchet, to sword. All the weapons are decently authentic 
 but obviously are geared more towards making the gameplay fun rather then being a period piece. 
 You also will mount gun turrets, horse back, and even cannons in your quest against a vicious circle 
 of foes. Aside taking down multitides of enemy types from drunks, outlaws, apaches, and lawmen. 
 You also have a group of sidequests which help progress your character through the game. These 
 including of course poker, assisting the law as a deputy, becoming a ranchhand, and even steahfully 
 hunting down creatures of the land... as well as not so stealthfully hunting down outlaws. All 
 of these raise stats and deliver money to help you upgrade your character enough to deal with the 
 onslaught of foes. Boss battles appear every few missions and do break up simply gunning down your 
 foes. From a pair of sheriffs, to a reverend on horseback, to the golden armored Mcgruder each 
 boss has its own flare and strategies for finishing the fight.
  
  The story of Gun makes you go from town to town and person to person to find the man who killed 
 your father and left you for dead. With a token to a local brothel, you start your quest in the 
 search for this man. Among a web of twists and turns Colton serves with every force in the game 
 as well as guns down every force in the game. The story is well told through short cinematics before 
 and after each mission. Its fast pace tells well and doesn't allow you to get bored for soon enough 
 you'll be out to gun down the next man in the web that leads to Mcgruder and his quest for the 
 ultimate riches and power. Truly a great western tale which leaves little out and leaves no stone 
 unturned.
  
  The unfortunent part of this is that, with its fast pace, Gun winds up being no more than a 6 hour 
 game. 7-8 if you complete every sidequest for 100% completion. The 360 version allows for some 
 extra playability with acchievement points but even then, 2-3 days and you should be able to master 
 this game. Even the open world winds up being a little small bouncing from sidequest to sidequest 
 and really not allowing for too much exploration.
  
  Graphically, its mildly impressive on the last generation of systems but it merely seems ported 
 to the Xbox 360 and does not feel like the first batch of Next Gen games.
  
  Overall, Gun is a great title for less then 20 dollars or even for a rental you'll have a great 
 time. You just may feel slightly cheated when it ends so quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDiamnz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  gun is a great game. when i bought for 14 dollars i new it was a great game. and when i played 
 it it was great. but when i beat it, (2 am the next day) i got bored of it. the higher levels are 
 really hard. i havnt even beat normal yet. mp would be great that would be what would make me keep 
 it. but it gets boring. the worst thing is it kind of has bad graphics and its really glitchys. 
 for example you can take a horse go on it and walk through another horse or a person. besides those 
 its a great game. i wouldnt recomend getting, if you were gonna get a sp get bioshock. its great. 
 so is gun its just not good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Gun was a good game, the story line wasn't that bad u the graphics were the worst thing I have 
 ever seen on Xbox360 game however the horse wow, they did a great job when you are riding a horse. 
 Western games haven't been given much attention in the industry which is a shame considering the 
 incredible potential the genre has to offer. GUN proves itself to be the superior title compared 
 to Red Dead Revolver, but lacks in certain areas that could have made it a star. It's a fun adventure 
 that doesn't take much skill to complete. If you were one of those lucky individuals to pick up 
 an Xbox 360 on launch day (or pay well over a grand for one on eBay) , you may find GUN to be a 
 good game to saddle up with... or at least rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  The above statement says it all. Basically this is a game that was made for the XBOX and PS2 and 
 ported to the XBOX 360 with enhancements at all. What the game lacks in graphics though it makes 
 up for with fun gameplay. The gameplay is a little on the easy side but you can just tuen up the 
 difficulty if becomes too easy. The story is your typical revenge story with a little flair added. 
 It isn't going to keep you on the edge of your seat but I was looking forward to finding out what 
 was going to happen. The gameplay mechanics are your typical 3rd person shooter but with horse 
 riding and a slow motion quick draw ability that adds some fun to the mix. The characters voices 
 may seem a little familiar as well. The baddie in the game is voice by non other than Lance Henrikson. 
 The others, like the lead female and the lead male in the game sound familiar as well but I can't 
 recall if I know them from other video games, TV or movies. A definite buy for $19.99 or below 
 if you like western games or 3rd person shooter and don't much for the lack of graphics on a next 
 generation console. I would says that this is one of the best, if not the best western game out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 
 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It 
 is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when 
 it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get 
 it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. 
 If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! 
 Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never 
 buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and 
 xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the 
 same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's 
 on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, 
 get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If 
 going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! 
 Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never 
 buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and 
 xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the 
 same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's 
 on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, 
 get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If 
 going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! 
 Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never 
 buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and 
 xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the 
 same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's 
 on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, 
 get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If 
 going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! 
 Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never 
 buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and 
 xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the 
 same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, get it when it's 
 on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If going to get it, 
 get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. Never buy!!! Waste of money. If 
 going to get it, get it when it's on sale. It is the same as ps2 and xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This was a deception by Microsoft. It is the XBOX version in a different case and was an attempt 
 to rip you off. Great fun on the XBOX but not worthy of retal or purchase on the 360 because i 
 cannot suport this sort of deception. Buy it for $6.99 on the XBOX and you have both versions. 
 Enough said. Thjank You i hope to save you some money!!!
  
  xxx xxx xxx xx xx x xxx xxx xx xxx xx xxx xx xxx x x xxxx x xx x xxx xxxx xx x x xxx x x xxxx x 
 xxx xx x x x xxxx x xxx x x xxx x x xxxx x x xxx x. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  A friend of mine bought this game for PS2 and said he really enjoyed it so after seeing it on the 
 360 for the same price I deicded to buy it and wasw not dissapointed. I immediately got sucked 
 into the amazing storyline with the help of voice actors such as Thomas Jane, Lance Henriksen and 
 Whistler from Blade. The voice acting was great and really helped bring the story to life. The 
 only problem with this game was the repetitive nature of the missions and the very short main story. 
 There are plent of side missions to help level up your character for the final fight but these 
 become very repetitive also. The graphics were ok but not the next gen experience a lot of people 
 were hoping for and the towns are very small and not that full of life or many characters to interact 
 with. The saving grace of this game is the plot and the shooting someone from their horse is also 
 a plus in my books or better yet shoot the horse out from underneath them then empty your siz shooter 
 into them before they know whats going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Gun is a game that as soon as you put the disc in, you cannot put down. Its free-roaming featuring 
 the use of horses to help you travel around the vast landscape, even if it is pretty small.
  
  Like most people have said, I agree, the graphics are certianly not up to the 360 standard, 
 more along the lines of the normal xbox graphics. However, the number of missions you get to play 
 and the actual gameplay itself more or less makes up for it.
  
  If your the kind of person that goes after achivements, Gun will take you quite a while to get 
 the full 1000. Overall, I think its a great game with lots of different kinds of missions, featuring 
 excellent gameplay and weapons of that time as well as not forgetting the use of travel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjabean
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I was thinking of a game that I beat and that I enjoyed a lot to review. Gun came to mind instantly. 
 I enjoyed the storyline as well as the variable difficulty settings. Final boss was a monster to 
 destroy. I did find most of the side missions to become quite repetitive but I did not need to 
 finish them all except for the hardest setting. Being a Native American myself, it was hard capping 
 a lot of my peeps but to anyone (and that is probably pretty much anyone who has played) who has 
 played through that dilemma is wrapped up by the end of the game. It's a good game for anyone and 
 I applaud the makers for their valiant effort. If all video games were this much fun and accessible 
 I think that our hobby would challenge all entertainment for title of king of the mountain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgansiar
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is definately one of my all time favourites. everything except the graphics is phenomenal 
 and unique. the selection of old guns and weapons as well as the old style setting is great and 
 the villains are classic and ruthless. anyone who ever watched a western is gonna love this game 
 and play it multiple times. the sidequests are fun and the poker tournaments are in the style of 
 the old west because u can cheat ur way half the time. all in all the game is magnificently violent 
 and entertaining and u should buy it. only buy it on the 360 though because of the fact that achievements 
 and gamer points are so easily earned by beating each mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattler_player
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Gun was simply a good game. There's nothing mind blowing about the game, but the western GTA style 
 free roam gives you something new to keep your interest. it's a solid third person shooter, and 
 riding around a western world on a horse shooting people is an absolute blast. The game is very 
 immersive with plenty of side missions from running errands for the pony express to doing bounty 
 hunter missions for money. Shootouts are great and theres a fair amount of guns to choose from. 
 Gun is a fun game , that most gamers should at least play and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Gun is set in the Wild West in the 1800's. You play as an Indian with great hunting and shooting 
 skills. If you are a fan of Red Dead Revolver you will love this game but it doesn't have multiplayer 
 like Red Dead though.
  
  Overall the gameplay is just like anyother shooter, so if you are a big shooter player it takes 
 about 5 mins to learn how to play this game. If you don't play shooters a lot it may take a minute 
 to adjust but eventually you will get the hang of the simple gameplay. If you played this game 
 on the original xbox it is the same as the 360.
  
  The graphics are those of the last gen xbox and it looks like they have just ported this game to 
 the 360. Although the graphics are last gen the gameplay is good enough for you not to worry about 
 it.
  
  It sounds like a Wild West game should. It is sort of like you are in a Wild West movie as bushes 
 fly accross the ground and you here them scraping the ground and the gun explosions and tnt explosion 
 sound are so realistic.
  
  It is definately worth you money although it didn't sell well because it was first out on the original 
 xbox. If you have not played gun it is definately one that you should and the reason I gave it 
 a 10 inn tilt is because of the difficulty of the bosses and the storyline and the things you can 
 do other than the story line. You can catch criminals as a bounty hunter or you can deliver mail 
 to the stores around the west or you can even search for gold around the land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 12, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Gun is not a game i would have gone out and bought. I received it free of charge, along with Tony 
 Hawk's American Wastelad (Activision Double Pack) with the purchase of my Xbox 360. For so many 
 years, Neversoft have been creating and perfecting Tony Hawk games. Now they finally try something 
 new, and, the result is not too shabby. First of all, the graphics. It seems quite obvious, to 
 the average gamer, that this game is an import from current or last-gen consoles. The character 
 faces and clothing are more sophisticated by a long way in other 360 games. Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter is a great next-gen graphical experience, unlike Gun. The graphics don't actually take 
 away much from the gameplay value. The game is quite GTA oriented. You are given a character (the 
 same exact one, no matter how many new games you play on Gun) and you complete a set of missions 
 in a story mode along with many, many side missions. These missions will earn you cash, stat upgrades, 
 new weapons, access to new places and more. The beginning of the game isn't all that great. There 
 are a few boring tutorial type missions to complete, but once you get past this point, the story 
 begins to unfold and it sarts to get interesting. (Not to mention, quite entertaining) . However, 
 the fact of not multiplayer lowers the Lasting Appeal category by a significant margain. In my 
 opinion though, it would have been difficult to provide a multiplayer option. The guns, shooting, 
 etc are just not multiplayer-type aspects of the game. If you do and always have had an affinity 
 for RPG's, you have GTA (s) , Fable, The Elder Scrolls (IV) , and you feel like a nother RPG to wet 
 your appetite and perhaps for some variety, then i suggest that you look into purchasing this game. It 
 is the first western cowboy shooter game with some class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerdevil666
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 11, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  I first played gun on the playstation 2. And thought it was a fantastic game. So when i saw it 
 for the 360, I thought i gotta get it to see the what should of been superior graphics, beings 
 i have a hd tv aswell. However Im so disappointed by the chubby fingered grapahics on the game, 
 and altogether lazyness from creators of this. Its infact worse then the playstation2 version, 
 how is that possible. The game play is excellent if not a little easy, storyline and range of different 
 things to do also very good. But how rubbish does it look with horrible looking characters, and 
 poor poor poor presentation. This leads me to think activision and nerversoft are just after a 
 quick buck. So inlight of this i hope the whole company gets infested with bee's, cockroaches, 
 and anything else crawling around thats ugly, so much so it cost you the thousands of pounds to 
 sort out. Hopefully that will bite into your profit margin, you managed by stealing of honest gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMKfreak29
Rating: 2
Date: May 11, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  The concept of being a tough and rough cowboy is exciting but this game doesnt deliver. The story 
 line is ridicules. Nothing really ties into itself and the parts that do seems like there were 
 made up while the writer was taking a dump and watching The Quick and the Dead. It is retarded 
 all the way through the last cut scene. You start off in the woods with your Pa shooting deer 
 and wolves and bears; this level is basically here to help you get acclimated with the controls. 
 Some help it is though the controls stay awkward through out the entire game cause trust me youll 
 be swapping this game out with a different action game that is much more satisfying. But if you 
 stick to it and just play this game it will still be awkward. I could have sworn I was having a 
 seizure will trying to aim, its that frustrating. Another thing that is frustrating is reading 
 that very tiny print is hard. In the menus, I found myself clicking the zoom button on my monitor 
 a lot to read what the tutor was trying to tell me and also to make sure I wasnt saving over anyone 
 else saves. The graphics suck really bad, this is the 360 people not some low end PS2 game lets 
 get it together. Despite the crappy graphics and clunky controls its too easy even on hard (although 
 it is still frustrating) you will be push the quick draw more than anything and relying on the 
 out aiming, even on the last million man shoot out I just pressed the quick draw button and flicked 
 and fired. I wasnt even looking at my screen for most of it. It was pretty pathetic. Trust me 
 when I say this GUN SUCKS!! Just go buy a better action game because it is a waste of time and 
 money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Gun is a game everyone should try. Once you get a hang of the controls it loads of fun. I love 
 games that you are free to roam and do whatever you want and this is one of those games. The main 
 mission, although a bit to short for my liking, is still very interesting. There's lots to do. 
 You can be the deputy of a town, arrest people on wanted posters, mine for gold, play poker, hunt 
 animals, and thats just to name a few things and they are nothing to do with the main mission. 
 The main mission itself has a great storyline and you can play this game on 1 of 3 different levels. 
 Try it. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryoung4
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Gun is one of those games that you pick up expecting to shoot something, but when you play it, 
 it turns out you have just found an amazing story. Gun takes place in the west, and the story is 
 so good that it may be one of the best stories you can get out of a western.
  
  In Gun you play as Colton White. You both are on a steamboat that carries some important artifact 
 and you get to watch as the boat is attacked and sunk, and you are the only survivor. You then 
 set out to find out who killed your father Ned. You learn of terrible plots and watch many friends 
 die.
  
  Graphically, they could have done better for a next-gen console. The voice-acting is outstanding 
 and is definitely one of the best parts about this game. Every character is voiced very well.
 
  
  The gameplay is extremely fun. The gunfights are fun and always exciting. The horseback gunfights 
 are done extremely well also, and the controls are very easy to learn. However the game is over 
 too soon. There are side-quests to do to boost your stats, but you don't really need to do them 
 because there effects are subtle. There is a variety in the side-quests which is a good thing. 
 Overall Gun isn't a game you should pay full price for. Its a good title with good strengths and 
 it has its weaknesses, but it is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I'm quite familar with, I played it on the Xbox about a year and half ago and posted 
 one of my first reviews ever on the game. Incase you missed it I'm going to post the review for 
 the game below and end it with a paragraph about my thought of the 360 verision. Let's see if I 
 have grown a bit since then. Or hopefully my grammar has gotten slightly better.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Boy! Getta way from Betsy right now! I just finished the game and boy!!! After renting it last 
 night I can honestly say... wait what?! What am I going to do now... In all serious though, after 
 finishing the game I was shocked to find a couple key things about this game. Well done Story, 
 Graphics, Game play and Fun factor. When first turning the game on I wasn't excepting too much 
 out it but found myself playing straight through the game without stop. The graphics were nice 
 and clean. While traveling on my horse around the open ended world their wasn't a moment that I 
 stopped and looked around in disappointment in the scenery. Story kept me interested for the most 
 part wanting to know what happened next. Characters stuck out whether good or bad or even for how 
 short they played their roles. Though, like the game in whole it seemed rushed like they had to 
 get the game over with.
  
  The controls, game play and fun factor were all there. Perfect. All the action gun fights gave 
 me thrills and were intense. Diving for cover and using the world for strategy instead of just 
 standing in the middle of the street taking 100 bullets and keep on going. Even the horse rides 
 were great. Nothing beats riding your horse until it keels over and dies. Or racing at full speed 
 in flight after some WANTED: Dead or Alive bandits. Overall the game for me was well worth played. 
 Though, I would have been down right pissed had I bought this game brand new when it came out wasting 
 $50 bucks. Money wasted time not. Is what I call this type of game.
  
  If you can find it anywhere for a price point of $20 or cheaper I would recommend trying it out 
 but for the length of the game and no real replay value I suggest not spending any more then that. 
 7 hours for a game seems to be a trend lately but doesn't mean you have to pay the full price for 
 it.
  
  Shik
  
  After reading my review, I have to say that I pretty feel the same way I did back then about the 
 game. However, a few things have changed. My score for one is going to be a bit higher. I'm glad 
 for the graphic update on the system and how the Gun world runs smoother as you are flying at high 
 speeds on your horse. My only gripe with the game is they didn't add any extra's such as weapons 
 or added some more to the story. I'm glad however to have achievement's for the game. My only complaint 
 about the points however is the fact that it has you playing through the game 4 times on different 
 difficulties. I do like the game and it is very short but to go through the game at a higher difficulty 
 dying over and over again and part you just played through has caused me to hold off trying to 
 progress. They could have been a bit more creative with the points.
  
  That being said, I'm still glad I picked it up and even though it's on a next gen system I still 
 say pick up for price under $20.00 if you can or rent it. Hopefully with the sales on the 360 bringing 
 in more revenue they will bring us a sequel with more stories and more content.
  
  Shik again :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game but the one problem with it is it is way too short. The story is good, 
 I personally like Red Dead Revolver better but hey it is a good game. The controls are good. It 
 is a nice little game to pick up if you have a few extra bucks. I got this for about 13 dollers. 
 It was worth every penny. It kicks @ss. I think you should buy this game because it deserves a 
 sequel. It is such a great game but I think they should get some downloadable content. It looks 
 great, don't agree with Game Spot on this one. It is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Gun, the game known as GTA in the old west , but there's more to it than this title. Actually no, 
 that pretty much sums up what Gun is, but it is still a good game. In Gun you play Colton White, 
 who gets by day to day as a hunter with his father Ned White. The game starts out like a normal 
 day for the pair. They wake up and it's off to find their pay for the day. This serves as a tutorial 
 for the controls and shows a little about the relationship between the two. After this a steamer 
 comes by and they board it. Ned goes to talk with a lady whom he knows and is acting very weird 
 around Colton. As Colton wanders the ship a preacher comes and talks to him. Now this preacher 
 doesn't seem to be good but we'll overlook this for now since he's a man of God. Yada yada yada, 
 the ship is attacked by the preacher's henchman. Now we know he's bad. You and Ned fight for a 
 while and eventually Ned tells you he's not your father and tells you to go to the Alhambra bar 
 in Dodge City, throws you overboard and he goes down with the ship. You wake up on a shore somewhere 
 later as someone was trying to steal stuff off of you. This next sequence acts as a tutorial for 
 riding a horse. Later you arrive in Dodge City and you quest to find your real father truly begins.
 
  
  Gun plays very similar to Max Payne. They're both third person shooters and Gun has it's own version 
 of bullet time, called Quickdraw where all you do is hit the LB button and it goes into first person 
 and time slows down. To pick targets all you have to do is flick the left analog stick which works 
 very well. You are timed in Quickdraw and to increase your time all you have to do is get kills. 
 The gameplay in Gun is fast paced, Colton moves fast, as does his trusty steed and there is always 
 an enemy of some sorts around. After the tutorials Gun is just a roller coaster ride of action 
 and story. The story is well written and you really want to keep playing to find out what happens. 
 The characters are great also, they just have personalities that you want to love or hate. The 
 bad guys are truly evil, a bunch of murders who are in it only for themselves. However the game 
 is very totally linear with no branching paths or anything. this is a game where you are lead along 
 through the story with no choices for yourself. The story doesn't take very long to beat either 
 but there are plenty of side quests that'll keep you busy for an extra hour or two and improve 
 your stats. The side quests will improve your stats and are a fun diversion from the story. The 
 side quests range from protecting Dodge City as a deputy, to playing in poker tournaments, to helping 
 out on a ranch. The world in Gun is small. There are only two cities (Dodge City and Empire) , and 
 it takes about four or five minutes to go from one end of the map to another. This makes it easy 
 to remember where everything is though. The world is detailed however and you can get around just 
 by looking at the landscape and landmarks. Outside of the cities the world of Gun seems dead. There 
 is really only two houses with people in them outside of the cities. Even in the cities you can't 
 talk to the people walking around, the only people that you talk to are ones that will move the 
 story along, the shopkeeper, or the ones that initiate the side quests.
  
  The graphics for Gun look great... for a last generation game. I'm pretty sure Activision didn't 
 improve the visuals at all for this version of the game. The graphics are good though, don't get 
 me wrong but there needs to be an improvement of some sort. This was just cheap. The world of Gun 
 is very detailed, as I mentioned earlier you can get around by the landmarks. The characters are 
 very detailed, you can see the layers of clothing they're wearing. The game is very cinematic in 
 its presentation. The cutscenes show off many camera angles and are skip able for those multiple 
 play throughs. the soundtrack is good, it has a western feel to it. the voice overs as well are 
 done greatly. You can tell that Neversoft cared a lot about the way each character was presented. 
 Although there are a few characters in the side quests who sound terribly funny. Gun is very violent 
 and there is a lot of expletives flying around throughout the game. The load times are short, no 
 more than a few seconds with no loading once you are in the game. The only time there are load 
 time is with cutscenes and accepting some side quests.
  
  The achievements in Gun are well spread out with the most coming from just beating the game on 
 any difficulty and finishing the side quests. There are separate achievements for beating the game 
 on each difficulty which will be a little time consuming. Also another hard on eis for finding 
 all 44 of the gold mines throughout the world. Other than those the game is full of easy achievements 
 which will boost your score heavily from just beating it.
  
  It is worth noting that I personally think this game has one of the worst final bosses ever. It 
 is so cheap to me. To beat him you have to have dynamite explode under him when he's standing on 
 top of these geysers. You can shoot him in the head and it does nothing, you can have dynamite 
 explode by him and nothing happens since it only hurts when he's over a geyser. He's is wearing 
 a massive golden plate of armor that should slow him down but he's nearly faster than you. He is 
 able to through dynamite at you with pin point accuracy even when he can't see you. Now this might 
 just be me but I really didn't like this boss.
  
  Overall Gun is a good game with little or no improvement for the Xbox 360 version of the game. 
 Although short the story is great with solid gameplay and great characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadameMoo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  When I first began playing Gun, I thought it was going to be a great game.
  However, about half way into the game I started to get bored. The story line was failling and the 
 action just wasn't there.
  Not to mention the game was quite short, and the boss wasn't as challenging as he could have been. 
 As with movies, all the enemies leading up to the boss are always harder to beat then the actual 
 boss. However, Gun is a good game if you aren't looking for an in-depth story line, and something 
 you can blast through quite easily. Nice change in Genre of most video games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  gun was just like all those other games the 360 came out with. Bad grafics but decent. I think 
 that this game is fun because its like a gta and a saints row u can kill people at will. The guns 
 in the game all cause high damage on ur opnent. It may be a short game but it has good parts in 
 the game. The guns are good u can use a pistol, bow, rifle, shotgun, snipe, and a knife/ sword. 
 They all cause high damage. U can get a horse wich if u ride it to hard u can kill. It didnt have 
 much of a story to the game but the missions are fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspiffo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Gun is a wonderful game that captures the sense of the wild west really well. The only problem 
 is it is short and the side quests are completely meaningless besides for raising stats. At first 
 your all hyped up doing all these aprehened and fetch quests but after the tenth time it becomes 
 a little monotonous. The side quests don't take away from the main story but they don't really 
 add any value to the story. They don't explain any back story or anything. The main mission can 
 be blown through in a day or two. The story itself though is riveting and keeps you wanting to 
 play until you finish. Another plus is that the gunplay in Gun is among the best. Quickdraw is 
 an excellent touch. You never have a problem locking on and placing that perfect headshot. The 
 rifle will become your primary weapon in the game. The pistol just can't stop anything and the 
 rest of the weapons are far too slow and are reserved for specific moments within the game. The 
 graphics are very poor considering this is on the XBOX 360 but it's a last gen port after all. 
 The music sounds like it was inspired by the movie Dances with Wolves which means that Gun has 
 an excellent soundtrack. It's just ashame that their is little value to this title. When all is 
 said and done you really don't have a reason to go back through this game unless you are a completist 
 and need to finish all of the side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  In Gun you play as the character Colton white where you are searching for the person who murdered 
 your father. It turns out that he is half europian half native american and finds out who killed 
 his father from this native who was there that his dad got killed. The person who had kills his 
 dad was this evil office turned minor guy called ..... kinda forgot his game it's been a while 
 since I played the game. Gameplay: anyways about the gameplay, The gameplay is great, it's a Third 
 person old west style shooting. You can a range of weapson like the knife and toamahawk to duel 
 pistals to old fergenson rifle. There is this mode were you get to slow down time and shoot the 
 hell out of everybody and it seems that you never need to reload in that mode. Also this is a open 
 game meaning you can go anywhere you like just like in the Grand Theft Auto games. If you walk 
 on foot from point A to point B it will take to long so there are horses around for you to use. 
 In between the story you can do a bunch of bounty hunting but that dose not do much to lengthen 
 the game because the core story of the game is a little short, you can propbrably finish it in 
 about three to five hours after that there is nothing eles to do but do any more bountys you did 
 not do and just wonder around. To band there is no Multiplayer mode for GUN
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are pretty good, they are kinda like the Grand Theft Auto graphics but more 
 poished and realistic. The cut scence are very nice too it looks very real and sometimes very brutal. 
 But concidering it's the xbox 360 version the graphics are not up to the 360 standards
  
  Sound: The sound is great, voice acting is well done and the gun fire is fine but the explotions 
 they could of used a little bit more work on.
  
  Value: There is not much value in this game after you finish it. There is no multiplayer mode and 
 for the single player you done with it in about 2-5 hours. You might want to play it again but 
 yeah it's short.
  
  All in all this game is to short, the characters could have have even more deep development it 
 kinda seemed just on the surface kind of thing. All in all this was not a bad game it was just 
 to short. I give this game 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my system, Gun was a game that was included with it. When I eventually put the disk 
 in, I was lost in an epic story. Gun's storyline is very amusing. It starts off slow but picks 
 up with a story going back many years. The characters in the game are great fun. The game is obviously 
 a rental or a bargin bin game but that doesn't mean the game is bad in anyway. It doesn't have 
 alot of replay value unless you want to beat the game four times for all the achievements. I might 
 be a little bias in this review but I am a fan on those rental platformer / action games that last 
 for a fun weekend. I also really enjoy games with great stories and this game has one. There are 
 many things that could have been improved with the Xbox 360 version. The graphics are below par 
 but they didn't really bother me at all, for me the story was good enough that I didn't care about 
 the graphics. The lifespan and value also don't give as much as you would want in a game. Gamespot 
 was way too hard on this game. It says it doesn't add on to the Xbox version but who cares. They 
 complain its 10 dollars more but the game can be found for 20 dollars or less. Ignore what you 
 read, this game needs to be played to feel the full experience. Blood, violence, sex - you must 
 be in the West. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Voice Acting, Excellent musical score, Water looks good, Cole is a world class Kicking a** and 
 taking names kind of guy, The GUN world is large, Plenty of side missions to keep you busy for 
 a few hours, horse riding, horse combat, traveling by horse.
  
  The Bad:
  Boss battles, It is way too easy to die, Graphics could have been way better, Side Missions are 
 repetitive and only worth getting the achievements for and for having something to do once you 
 beat the game, Nothing at all to do once you have everything beaten and everything unlocked unless 
 you want to kill random bandits or townfolk, Achievements are too easy to obtain.
  
  The So-So:
  The story, Soapy, Hunting, Using whiskey to regain your health (Although I think 
 it's a clever idea) .
  
  The WTF?:
  Basically everything that I didn't mention in the Good, the Bad, and the So-So.
  
  GUN is a 
 rare breed because it's in the Historical Western category, not many games may come to mind when 
 someone mentions that genre other then the game Red Dead Revolver for the Xbox and PS2, which was 
 made by Rockstar Games. GUN may just be able to surpass Red Dead Revolver as far as story goes, 
 but Red Dead Revolver may just have it beat in other categories.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  GUN's gameplay feels a little like a mix of Resident Evil 2, Lost Planet, and Red Dead Revolver. 
 The combat is really what makes the game shine, whenever you get close to any enemy you can hack 
 at him with whatever handheld weapon you have obtained, rather that be a knife, musket, or calvary 
 horse, which you obtain respectively. Once you have the enemy slashed, you can scalp them with 
 your handy Scalping Knife (which you can obtain from a Shopkeeper for cheap) . There is plenty of 
 stuff to do if you don't want to get back in the story right away or if you have the story beat 
 and are looking for more stuff to do, all in all though the game is pretty short and doesn't have 
 a large amount of replay value.
  
  Graphics: 6
  For the Xbox 360, the graphics aren't very good. You'd think that you were playing the previous 
 generation version if it weren't for seeing your friends signing on with the 360 logo in place, 
 or when you unlock an achievement. The only thing that really looks good in the game is the water, 
 even still it could be mistaken for last gen. A lot of the character models look decent, but their 
 faces look kind of mashed and 2D when you're looking at the front of them.
  
  Sound: 9
  Probably the best part about the game, the voice acting is wonderful and the musical score is also. 
 If I could obtain it, I would buy the soundtrack in an instant. A lot of the most memorable voice 
 acting is provided by the guy that does Colton White, he did one heck of a good job.
  
  Value: 8
  Something that you may want to only play through maybe once or twice more, but after 
 a few years of not playing it it's something you'll definitely want to relive.
  
  Final Words:
  GUN is a memorable experience, it's something that you'll want to relive eventually, 
 maybe not soon after you've beat the game once, but eventually you'll want to. With all of other 
 games out there like Gears of War, Halo 2, and Lost Planet, there isn't too much of a reason to 
 play this game through a bunch of times unless you're really big on Westerns and slashing random 
 people to death.
  
  All in all, GUN is a game I'd only reccommend to Western and Shoot 'Em Up fans, other then that 
 you may want to overlook it or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodkilla75
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons. Pros: Easy Achievement points (for Xbox Live.) It has a very fun and active game 
 play and the story is exciting. I would say this game would be fun for someone just getting into 
 video games and for people who has played them for while. The shooting style was helpful and easy 
 to control. Cons: The game really is too short and might even leave you wanting more. The graphics 
 are not next gen quality and a bit disappointing. The enemies were boring and the fighting was 
 too easy. I hope you will enjoy or have enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattony75
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you'd want from a game. It does the action well and the environment looks 
 and feels like the Wild West. But the game is very short lived; when you play the game it just 
 feels like there could have been more mission between the main story missions to make the game 
 longer. As it is with this game, it feels a bit stripped of content in terms story missions and 
 the game just goes forward too fast. One minute, you'll have just escorted your lady friend to 
 the next town, and then half an hour later (real time) , you've been betrayed and your friend is 
 dead! Other than this however the game feels good and plays well to what you would expect from 
 a game of this genre. The wanted side mission help to lengthen the game somewhat. I would however 
 suggest that you look for this game on sale, b/c even though it is good, it looks like a regular 
 xbox game and is not worth $60. Look for it on sale around $20.
  
  -FatTony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: Well established storyline, large open-ended world, plenty of over the top, gory shooting 
 action.
  
  The Bad: Graphics aren't very good, especially on the Xbox 360, seems too have more language and 
 violence than necessary, no online features.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Unfortunately, there aren't many good western games. Many have tried to make the best western game, 
 yet pretty much all of them have failed. Neversoft's Gun is probably the most enjoyable western 
 game out, but it's not without it's flaws.
  
  You play as Colton White, an orphen who must discover who killed his adopted father, and return 
 the favor. The storyline in Gun is pretty well established, with cutscenes explaining Colton's 
 past, as well as setting up the next mission in the game.
  
  The actual gameplay in Gun is quite enjoyable. It has a GTA feel, except your jacking horses instead 
 of rides and gunning down desperados instead of pimps. There are hookers to save, but they're wearing 
 stranger clothing than the ones in GTA do. The game is in a third person perspective, but when 
 you use Quickdraw , you shift to first person and can gun down cowpokes in slow motion. You heal 
 yourself from drinking from your canteen. This actually makes the game quite easy at first, but 
 later on, it's harder to find refills for your canteen. The shooting is very satisfying, which 
 is expected from a game called Gun . You can upgrade your weapons at shopkeeps, then use them to 
 decapitate indians. What's more fun than that? Dispite what you may think of Neversoft's Tony Hawk 
 games, Gun is suprisingly gory and filled with colorful language. You can decapitate enemies, trample 
 them with your horse, or kill their horse, with blood pouring out. It is definately a mature title, 
 but it sure is a fun one.
  
  The biggest weakness in Gun is it's graphics. It really does look bad on the Xbox 360, but the 
 poor graphics really don't hurt the game bad enough to make it any less enjoyable. It basically 
 looks like the PS2 version, maybe a little more cleaned up than that.
  
  The voice acting and sound effects in Gun are well done, even though the graphics aren's so hot. 
 It also lacks an online mode, but it honestly is worth playing despite those weaknesses.
  
  Overall, at a budget price, Gun is worth buying or at least renting. It's the best western game 
 out right now, and should not be missed because of the shoddy graphics.
  
  Gameplay: It's a gory, language filled trek into the west, but it's one definately worth taking. 
 Just pack lots of ammo...
  
  Graphics: It's not a good looking game at all, but the gameplay makes up for the lack of graphical 
 wows.
  
  Sound: The voice acting and sound effects are well done.
  
  Value: If you can find this for under $30, I'd buy it. Otherwise, this is a great rental game.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: This town ain't big enough for the two of us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I finally for around to buying Gun, and the only real reason I bought it is cause its now only 
 20$. Now considering this is on the 360, I grade it a little lower than I would if I were reviewing 
 the original Xbox version. Mainly because its a simple port to a much more powerful system wih 
 barely any touchups. However, you cannot deny that this game is not pure fun. It captivates the 
 wild West perfectly; from the music, to the gun fights, downright to the people's personalities. 
 It all feels authentic. The controls are easy to grip and the storyline is captivating. The game 
 also supports some great voiceovers (Tom Jane aka The Punisher voices the main guy) . However, the 
 game is just far too easy, and you can easily beat it in a days work. It also supports no multiplayer 
 whatsoever, which is kind of a drag. Aside from these two main flaws, and of course the graphical 
 issues, its still a blast to play. Definately worth $20, but not the original 60$ that it was first 
 going for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  I really liked this underappreciated game. The story was solid. You embark on a revenge quest with 
 side missions which are very varied. You get to be a deputy, a ranch hand, a herder, a pony express 
 rider, a miner and a hunter. The voice work was great and the graphics were good. I played this 
 in standard def and high def and it was a little too bright in high def.
  
  The game is challenging on the harder difficulties and the final battle is challenging on any level. 
 The achievements are fair. You replay the game to get these achievements and you never feel as 
 if you are wasting your time. I dont regret buying this game and it is so cheap now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  GUN is essentially my dream game. I am tired of fighting in D-Day for the 5th time. I don't want 
 to be playing the same damn game over and over again. GUN does an excellent job of bringing something 
 new and fresh to the table. But it feels as if it's lost in time, and it almost has what it takes 
 to break through. But it doesn't.
  
  The game starts off with a quick tutorial, the game does a good job of explaining the controls 
 to the player and giving them chances to use them. Another good thing is, it doesn't give you too 
 much. The game doesn't babysit you and treat you like you are six years old. The action kicks off 
 right in the start of the game. Before you know it you'll have a horse, having shootouts in old 
 saloons. The graphics in this game are passing, but some things do make me wonder why they didn't 
 just skip the 360 version. Even on the 360 some of the textures look bland and blurred, and the 
 characters models limbs seem very strange in the cut scenes. Other than that, the areas of the 
 game are beautiful, capturing the look of the REAL West. Playing the game immerses you in it, I 
 found myself riding around on my horse just to look at the mountains. The area you get to play 
 in the game isn't very big. I have every spot memorized by now, so it was kind of a dissapointment 
 we didn't get more space to really flesh everything out. The shooting system is excellent, and 
 has pretty much no flaws. The thing that pretty much made me the most angry, is that I was done 
 within probably 8 hours. Maybe less. The story is rediculously short, even with all the side missions 
 you can do. Once you beat everything, there is no more to do. It will collect dust on your shelf. 
 I would DEFINITLEY reccomend this game to anyone, and especially anyone who is tired of playing 
 the same game with different box art. You will want to either rent this, or wait until it hits 
 a lower price, because you don't get much time with this awesome game for your money.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqueror569
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Gun... a good name for this kind of game, because mainly you use guns... lol, well going to gameplay. 
 I think this game is addicitive, when you finish the storyline you can jst shoot horses, buffalos, 
 birds or people, it is cool. I like it because it gives you a clear view about how the old wild 
 west was like. The only thing I dont like is that when you finish the texas hold em poker tournament 
 you cant play anymore, also you cant interact with other people, but it is still cool to play, 
 lost of upgrades and weapons. So I think this is a game everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  It seems the Wild West would be a genre that game developers would fall over themselves to recreate. 
 I mean who didnt play cowboy and indians when they were kids. Gun is the first game I can recall 
 that does a solid job of presenting the gritty hard world of the frontier cowboy. However, the 
 game just doesnt do enough well in the end to be considered a good game.
  
  First, let me say that the game is fun. When you put the controller down you will think that for 
 all its flaws, you enjoyed playing the game. This should be the ultimate goal of any game, but 
 the game misses out on a lot of other goals as well. The biggest one being presentation. The game 
 came out at launch for the 360 with graphics about as good as an Xbox game. That is unacceptable. 
 If you are going to port a title to the 360, please bump the grafx up a notch so you dont have 
 people paying 360 prices for a game that should be played on the Xbox. The character models are 
 not well defined and movements are not fluid. The overall landscape is very repetitive and bland. 
 This is perhaps the biggest area of improvement.
  
  Second, the game's story is not bad, but its way too short. This is supposed to be an action RPG 
 style game. 10-12 hours of gameplay is not enough. Of course, since many of the missions were basically 
 the same thing over and over, I might be grateful I wasnt forced to play 10 more hours of the game. 
 The story aspects were fine, but the side quests basically involved escorting townsfolk, capturing 
 bounties, finding creatures to hunt (and killing them the same way) and delivering messages within 
 a certain time. You can also play some very boring games of poker as well. At least is was no limit 
 hold em. Seriously though, once you play a couple of hours of this game you have pretty much done 
 everything in the game. The end result of the story is ok, but again leaves you feeling a little 
 shorted. Perhaps more dev time would have done wonders for this game.
  
  The gameplay is really where this game falls short. The controls are clunky and the special feature 
 (quickdraw) is basically an afterthought because fighting is SO EASY! Especially once you earn 
 some of the nicer rifles and shotguns. Even on hard this game was very easy.
  
  So if you like the Wild West, this might be the best available. Just dont expect to be blown away 
 or ultimately satisfied. The game is just plain average and it hurts because the potential for 
 greatness is there. Its fun, just not fun enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorttynaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I didnt know what to expect when I got this game. I knew it had mixed reviews before I got it, 
 but I figured why not. It resembles GTA quite a bit, but there's only so many horses that you can 
 steal and spur to death. When I first started playing it, I thought it wasn't worth the $40 I paid 
 for it. But once you give it a chance and if you do follow the story line, it is actually a pretty 
 addicting game!! The sound is amazing. The map is pretty big, and there is a lot of stuff to do 
 other than just the main story missions. My favorite is kind of cheesy, but I liked the poker where 
 you could stuff a card up your sleve. I would say to rent this game first, but if you liked GTA, 
 then you'd probably like this. It's not as intense as GTA, but same concept. And if you want to 
 put it in for a little bit to just kill some time and mess around, that's half the fun! If you 
 can find it used, then I would definitely recommend getting it. Pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  The graphics are fine it could have been better but it isnt awful. It has a good storyline with 
 some good side missions. The game is fairly big but could have been a few more towns. It was a 
 good first attempt but if there is a seaquel hpopefully it will be better. The game is a bit repetitive 
 with some of the side missions and there isnt enough wepons. But its still good to ride on a horse 
 and shoot bandits as you ride by in the wild west. Searching for gold and killing wanted people 
 puts you into a good western movie. Choosing the difficulty is a good option aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkeye1010
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Western game I have ever played. I feel that right from the start the game was 
 doing great. I was interested and wanting to continue and learn more. The story line so far is 
 curious. I've played it for a total of 5 hors so far, and I am very excited to see where I can 
 go next with this game. One thing I find very important for games, is the quality of dialouge and 
 voice. This game nailed it on that. Gun is an excellent example of what game producers should focus 
 on when considering voice and sound, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  When Gun came out for the PS2 &amp; Xbox, it received decent reviews and had a bit of hype around 
 it. There aren't a lot of games with a western setting, so I was somewhat exctied to play this 
 game. I never really got a chance since I traded in all of my Xbox stuff to upgrade to a 360. Of 
 course, I knew I could pick it up for my new console. I also new, however, that this was a lazy 
 port of a current-gen game. After finding it for a budget price, I finally gave in and purchased 
 the game. And I am glad I did.
  
  The first time you boot this game up, you will realize that Neversoft put zero to no effort in 
 making this better for the 360. So in other words, if you have played this game for the PS2 or 
 Xbox, don't bother with this 360 version. It offers nothing new except for the achievements you 
 can unlock. If you have never played 'Gun' before and can get it for a budget price, then I would 
 recommend checking this out.
  
  Pros: It's a 'sandbox game' (think GTA-clone) in the Wild West; great story with an interesting 
 cast of characters that I hope we see again in a fully developed sequal; excellent voice acting 
 by the likes of Kris Kristofferson, Thomas Jane, Lance Henrikson, &amp; Tom Skerrit; can't beat 
 riding a horse and shooting people; open ended gameplay along the lines of the Grand Theft Auto 
 series; lots of different &amp; fun side-missions to play; nice rewards for completing side missions 
 by raising your character's skills; I really like how the achievement points are distributed; the 
 'quick draw' feature is fun and is a real big help in a pinch; after you finish the main story, 
 you can go back and finish up any side-missions you didn't get to yet.
  
  Cons: It's an obvious lazy cash-in port of a current-gen game offering nothing new in terms of 
 gameplay or visuals; the graphics weren't that good on the PS2, and they certainly aren't here; 
 the final boss in the game is insanely annoying &amp; cheap; the game is way too short if you don't 
 play all of the side-missions; only two towns to explore and they are pretty vacant; was the west 
 really this barren looking?; most of the game is too easy, so that hurts the already limited replay 
 value and overall play time; there are no Xbox Live features whatsoever; while playing the game, 
 I could never lose that feeling of being insulted by the fact the I am playing such a lazy port 
 (although the game is still a lot of fun) ; DO NOT buy this game for more than $20-$30 as there 
 is virtually zero replay value &amp; no multi-player at all.
  
  Basically it comes down to if you have ever played or owned this game for the PS2 or Xbox, you 
 should not pick this game up. If you haven't played it before and can get over the crappy graphics, 
 presentation, &amp; the fact that this is an obvious cash-in port that games should be inulted 
 by, you will find a nice little GTA-clone set in the wild west. The story will have you interested 
 in a sequal and the voice acting is top-notch. It's just too bad Neversoft decided to put zero 
 effort into this version other than offering up some achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I rented this game so I didn't pay full price for it, but I enjoyed this game very much. I didn't 
 think the graphics were that bad but if you are comparing it to games like GRAW or Oblivion then 
 they don't compare. The controls were good and the story kept me interested. I played through the 
 game in around 10 hours and didn't rush. So you could probably complete the game in 7 hours if 
 you did rush. It was well worth the rental and if you are able to pick it up in a bargain bin for 
 $20 or less I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  As you pull back on the reigns, your steed skids to a dusty halt atop an overhang with a view of 
 the grassy plains below and the grazing buffalo. A large valley is crisscrossed by a beautiful 
 river that ends in a set of cascading waterfalls beside a small forest that hides a number of chirping 
 crickets. The sun is setting. A tumbleweed blows by. And on the sandy path below, your adopted 
 father Ned is calling you to start hunting for the day.
  
  This is the world of Gun, a fictionalised though true to life replication of the harsh reality 
 and beauty of the Wild West. From the rootin tootin shootin (with a name like Gun, expect no 
 less) , to the misogyny, racism and violence, Gun pulls no punches in introducing a cut throat world 
 that can hold many treasures.
  
  Developer Neversoft, known almost exclusively for the Tony Hawks line of skateboard games have 
 constructed a brand new title, and judging by the brief though fun game Gun is, this wont be the 
 last in this exciting new franchise. Gun is all about Colton White, the Thomas Jane voiced protagonist 
 whom the player will control and learn a great deal about as they play through the story.
  
  Like most traditional third person action games, the control is simple, and with the left analog 
 controlling Colton and the right directing his aim, shooting the crap out of innocent beasts and 
 horse riding bandits is a breeze. The addition of a bullet-time esque quick draw feature and the 
 riding on horseback yourself naturally works itself into the plotline, and throughout the game, 
 you will be taking aim at a number of foes who smartly outflank and dodge your skills as a marksmen.
 
  
  Your saddlebag carries a number of weapons, and even from the very start, you are cocking the lever 
 of a shotgun and rifle. As you progress, items like whiskey bombs, dynamite, bow and arrows, sniper 
 rifles and more powerful weapons become available. In many set pieces, you also take control of 
 Howitzers, machine gunners and cannons. And if you want to forget about the guns and get up close 
 and personal, a quantity of different knives present themselves.
  
  The statistical system will also have you upgrading the various skill of the many assorted weapons 
 you carry, and shopkeepers are scattered around to sell you the latest wares. Completing the many 
 side quests also has a positive effect on your skill as a player, and help pad out the games middling 
 story. From longer quick draw times to faster reloads and a longer health bar, learning the ropes 
 by doing side missions for various good and bad guys really helps you in the main game later on.
 
  
  To this end, gamers have the option of herding cattle, hunting beasts, searching out wanted men 
 (and bringing them in, dead or alive) , working as couriers, cheating in Poker and other various 
 deeds. Almost all missions have a cone on the radar that pinpoints you exactly to where you need 
 to go, which foregoes any real exploration on the player. However, this fast pace allows for action 
 packed game play, and it is here where Gun really shines. If youre thinking Grand Theft Auto meets 
 the Wild West, youre on the right track, but you arent spot on. While the free roaming nature 
 of Rockstars famous series is evident, Gun offers a tighter storyline that is far more personal. 
 The lack of playing for or allying with any other parties makes the player relate more to protagonist 
 Colton White in ways that you never could any lead character from the Grand Theft Auto titles.
 
  
  From the small town Dodge City to the genuine old west Empire, Guns world is authentic to the 
 last. Old gold mines, hunting grounds for native Indians, Canyons, plains, pastures and the trains 
 that run through them all lend an official look in to a life that games have barely scraped at. 
 Guns world isnt exactly bustling, but its small size means that getting from place to place 
 is relatively easy and small shortcuts and hidden gold veins help in some respect in having a keen 
 eye and breathing in the epic look.
  
  Riding your stolen steed and racing him hard to the next point only to be ambushed by bandits and 
 then racing after their leader, shooting while on horseback is quite thrilling. Little touches 
 like how horses turn as you do, rear up and trample most anything that gets in their way and the 
 thunder of their hooves makes for an elegant feel that hasnt previously been seen in games. The 
 only gripe is Horses are treated much like cars in the Grand Theft Auto series, and you never get 
 attached to your mount. It would have been good to have your own steed to call upon. Even more 
 strangely, you can ride a bareback wild horse or a heavy laden tamed one and there is no difference 
 in speed or strength. While horse riding is truly excellent, and shooting while on horseback is 
 easy and fun, there are just a few niggling problems that hold it back.
  
  The world of Gun lends itself well to sumptuous graphics, and I personally didnt come away disappointed. 
 Except for the opening cinematic, all cut scenes are rendered using the game engine, and the strong 
 personality of the characters, as well as their expressive look afford some of the greatest points 
 of the game. The enjoyable storyline is made more so by characters who are believable and engaging.
 
  
  The varied world that comprises of vistas, swooping valleys, hidden mines and masses of wildlife 
 looks awe-inspiring. And the wonderful original score, composed by the great Christopher Lennertz 
 (Medal of Honor) makes the whole experience feel that more epic. From the rustling of leaves to 
 the sound of running water and the howling of wolves, the alive world of Gun almost always has 
 something going on. The artistic nature of the game world and characters may seem a little out 
 of odds with the over the top nature of the game play, but the personal journey of Colton makes 
 for a more emotional experience than other games in the genre.
  
  Closing Comments
  
  The heavy emphasis on action, and fast pace of the plot best demonstrate a game that is a excellent 
 rental, but not one that has staying power. When all is said and done, a dismal six to ten hours 
 of gaming is on offer, and there is no replay value. Without any multiplayer, this comes as a hard 
 recommend, even though what is available is of excellent quality. At first glance, and first play, 
 you will be instantly drawn to the games believable atmosphere and wonderful orchestral score, 
 but the breakneck pace of the games storyline and the empty feeling of the missions that dont 
 reward discovery will dismay all but the most forgiving of gamers. You will enjoy Gun, but there 
 just isnt enough to make this a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigan12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  When I first played Gun I was apauled at how everyone thought wsa a lackluster game that only gave 
 a short story line and we have seen in the past and we have seen it done better gunplay. I am here 
 to tell you most of the popular thoughts are wrong. The story of Gun puts you in the postition 
 of a man named Colton White, who makes a living with his father figure, Ned, by selling animals 
 pelts (skins) . As usual in hte begining of the game all is going well, untill the steamboat that 
 Ned and Colton were to drop of their load at is attacked by indians. Colton is the only one who 
 survives after Ned pushes him overboard to escape the sinking boat with the words I ain't yer pa 
 . Driven to find out who killed his father and who ochestrated the hijacking.
  
  The gameplay uses a point and shoot mechanic the works well, basically if your target is even touching 
 your reticule, you can shoot him. Controls are all fairly basic with two points worth a mention 
 standing out, the first is Colton never has to look for health packs, if Colton is in a gun fight 
 and needs to heal all he has to do is drink for his flask and his health will shoot bask up. But 
 you still do have to find flask refillers. The other is Colton can at anytime enter Quickdraw mode 
 which slows time to a crawl and lets Colton lock on t his enemies in slow-mo and take them out 
 with out having to worry as much about being hit, although you can only use your pistols (your 
 weakest weapon) in Quickdraw and it only lasts a short while so make it worth it. although you 
 can recharge the meter by killing foes.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound the game nearly flawlessly captures the great look and feel of the 
 Old Western classics like The Good, The Bad, The Ugly or Blazin' Saddles . All of your enemies 
 are appropreately vulgar and the cutscenes look and sound really, really good. The flaws in Gun 
 are minor and chances are casual players will not notice them. For starters even though I think 
 it a bit harsh, I will admit the story is a bit short, it will take you about six or seven hours 
 to complete. Another thing that could have made the story line longer, is the fact the the story 
 in Gun never really capitalizes on a key points in the story. For instance at one point, Colton 
 is made Sheriff in one town, this could have opened up a whole new set of side missions, or give 
 him special privilages from that point on, but instead the game just motors on forward.
  
  For fans of Red Dead Revolver or other Western games or ovies you will like Gun, but if your just 
 looking for a good action game, Gun works well in both categories and should be a sure buy any 
 those fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siggidesert
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  I played me stright trough this game and had a lot of fun. But after 10 hours it was nothing, zero 
 zip to do. I had completed all the side missions and of course all the main story chapters.
  
  All right, 
 let me say one thing clear. The game is very good. The graphic could be better, but its fun and 
 interesting. The story is vell made and the controlls are good. But its so short. If you are thinking 
 of buying this game you better not expect to play it for weeks. 
 
  You are a man searching for his father. One his way you will met indians, bears, thieves, big 
 bosses, beatiful woman and drunken godfathers.
  
  And its good with freedom to. After a mission you are free to go hunting bears, horses! wolfs and 
 other animals.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Word of warning: GUN is butt-ugly. Its PS2 ugly. Its X-Box 1 ugly. There are plenty of jaggies 
 and plenty of rough textures and poor details. Despite that, its fun as hell. Really, really, really 
 fun. I dont think I've had as much fun on my 360 so far then playing this eight month old port. 
 Blasting through Indians and Cowboys is really fun, made twice as fun by the excellent QuickDraw 
 which slows the gunplay down and allows you to put percise shots into the bad guys. There's plenty 
 of gore too. Shotguns blow people's heads off, bloods flows like water in the ocean and limbs are 
 disembered. Its enough to get the blood flowing (No pun intended) . But what I really like is the 
 Western atompshere. The side missions are a blast. You can amble up to a Wanted poster and hunt 
 the villian down, either killing the bastard or taking him alive for a higher bounty. There are 
 Pony Express missions, Hunting missions, Ranching missions, Marshal missions, in short enough missions 
 to rival GTA and Saint's Row. The main story is excellent but still a long shot away from the superb 
 San Andreas plot that rivaled the best of films. The story follows Colton as he tries to avenge 
 his father, murder a terrible railroad tycoon, and save Indians. And let me tell you: This plot 
 is gritty. Whores get murdered, people get set on fire, and throats are slit. But the plot keeps 
 you engaged and engaged enough to keep on coming back for more. But, I would not recommend this 
 game to anyone under the age of 17. Honestly. I really liked GUN. Gamespot didnt and its there 
 loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdZero54
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  For all for all of you that love open ended games and movies like "Tombstone" or "Wyatt Earp," 
 Gun gives you a taste of what it was like in the West.
  From the start of the game, you are on a mission to find out who you are and why a group of people 
 killed your father. You'll meet different characters that fill the "Wild West Clichs," such as 
 the prostitute, the drunk guy, and the ruler of the small town.
  Although the game is very short, approximately 5-6 hours depending on if you do the side missions, 
 it gives you what you want: A non-stop action game with a good story and good control. The save/mission 
 system is very good in these days that time is more scarce for us older gamers. The save anywhere 
 feature and checkpoint missions give you a chance to finish the missions without having to reply 
 the same areas over and over again.
  With very few RPG elements, the game still gives you a change to upgrade your character, Colt, 
 to give him better health, shooting skill, horseback riding, among other things.
  If you're looking for a good, short game that you'll have a hard time not finishing in one sitting, 
 this a game you might want to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Its not every day you see a game based on films your grandparents used to watch vividly. When it 
 comes along, you may think, "This is going to suck, I bet you!" But this one pleasantly surprised 
 me a lot.
  
  You are hunting with your father, for a contract. When in the meeting with the contract, a weird 
 priest approaches you. He then follows your employer and kills her. The priest is part of a brotherhood, 
 who wish to recover a lost artifact for use against the indians. Since they killed your "father", 
 you seek revenge.
  
  The story is a hard one to describe, since there is a lot going on at once, but once you grasp 
 the plot, it unfolds quite nicely. There are plenty of things to do in the game besides the usual 
 shooting, but we'll get onto that in a bit. Its your average third person shooter, which is okay, 
 but the thing that really sets it apart is the Quickdraw (which kills a lot of enemys quickly, 
 if your lucky) , the Western environment, and the fact you can ride a horse and shoot at the same 
 time. These mechanics work very well together.
  
  The plot missions follow the usual heading into danger and shooting almost everyone in the room. 
 They also include one or two platforming elements. New weaponry can be found by doing story missions, 
 and greatly improve your efficiency. The side quests are really the thing that will be helpful 
 to you in this game, as they boost stats up for every mission completed. There are quite a few 
 types. The Wanted Posters are basically Dead or Alive. To get them alive is a challenge, but worth 
 the trouble as the rewards are bigger. Deputy missions are similar, but on a larger scale. Pony 
 Express make use of horse speed, and Ranch makes use of hearding skills. There are also hunting 
 missions, which improve attacks. There is also an optional side quest of Gold Mine hunting, which 
 gives more cash, and Poker tournaments which also rake in the gold. Gold can be spent on new upgrades. 
 All of these side quests are a lot of fun, but may get boring after a while.
  
  Visually, the 360 version is appealing. The colours are very bright and the game looks just like 
 a western. The soundtrack is amazing in this title, and the voices make you feel just like your 
 grandparents did watching John Wayne strutting his stuff. I don't have any real complaints about 
 the game, other than it gets tedious after a while, and once you've completed the side quests and 
 main quest, there isn't really an incentive to do it in a harder mode. Other than that, this game 
 should at least be played, just to show you westerns can work in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Gun tells the epic story of Colton White as he seeks revenge on those who killed his step father 
 Ned, and his real family many years ago. Theres something about a gold cross and a secret town 
 but I got sorta lost in the story with that, so sorry. This game is a pretty basic third person 
 shooter. You run around as Colton, shooting enemies which can be anything from Calvary men and 
 bandits to Apache indians. However the game play goes a little further then that - you can do bounty 
 missions by taking down wanted criminals, work on a ranch herding animals for some money, work 
 for the local sherifs in each town to help keep the peace, work for the Pony Express delivering 
 things, or hunt animals to proove to the Indians that you're a worthy warrior. Ontop of that you 
 can mine gold mounds that are scattered throughout the land, ride any horse you may find (that 
 has really good controlling oddly enough) , and even scalp your enemies when they lay on the floor.
 
  
  You get a lot of weapons in this game which consists of a variety of shotguns, rifles, handguns, 
 sniper rifles, knives &amp; hatchets. All these weapons can be upgraded via Indian traders and 
 Shopkeepers found in both Dodge &amp; Empire cities to be both stronger and reach further. However, 
 in order to obtain these upgrades you must have money which you can earn from doing the side missions 
 I mentioned above.
  
  A nifty little feature this game has is the Quickdraw mode, which is basically a first person bullet 
 time mode. Everything slows down giving you the chance to steadily aim and blow a hole in an enemy's 
 (or a few enemies for that matter) face. This worked especially well during boss fights where there 
 were multiple enemies. Sadly though, when using this feature you are only able to use the handguns 
 that you have equipped and they have a very limited reach which sucks.
  
  The graphics on the enviroment were pretty good, definitley had that Ol' West feeling with the 
 white sand, vast open lands, and hot sun beating down on you all the time. Not to mention all the 
 people wearing western clothing haha. Sadly though the character models look kinda weird by being 
 pale and they honestly look like zombies. The guns were awesomely crafted and better yet the cut 
 scenes were really cool to watch.
  
  The music &amp; sound effects were superb for this game. The music really helped add to the Western 
 atmosphere that game did a great job creating. The guns sounds really good except the rifle which 
 sounded like you were shooting a peashooter until you got Ned's rifle. The explosions were excellent 
 and so was the voice acting... I can't believe the guy who played the Punisher voiced Colton.
 
  
  What was the downfall of this game? Well the controls were kinda hard to get down... I mean the 
 left bumper to duck? Hmph. Secondly, this game was EXTREMLEY short - I give it maybe 5 or 6 hours 
 - and ontop of that the story moves so fast that I got kinda lost. Finally, the ending was garbage: 
 you battle Magruder (the guy who you find out killed your whole family along with some Indian's 
 family) , you escape this crumbling mine leaving Magruder to die (which he does when a giant rock 
 crushes him) upon exiting you tell the Indian, Now our fathers can rest. The credits roll and then 
 you can continue playing the game... after how hard of a time I had fighting Magruder I definitley 
 did not feel rewarded.
  
  To finish this review up I'm gonna say Gun was definitley an interesting &amp; entertaining title 
 even with its flaws &amp; lacking graphically in some spots. I mean it had a pretty riveting story 
 filled with revenge, it had a lot of violence, and the whole idea of traversing the West was cool. 
 I suggest you buy because even after you beat it you can still go back and do the side quests. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Gun For Xbox 360.
  
  From the Grand Theft Auto style gameplay to the matrix like quick drawing, this GUN is smoking. 
 GUN is a western style third person shooter that takes you back all the way to the 1800's west 
 and across a world of crazy kamikaze Indians to an assortment of well created characters. You are 
 Colton White, your supposed "father" is killed in a steamboat massacre and Colton journeys all 
 across the land to find the killer and on the way is threatened by ruthless murderers, bandits, 
 even the law.
  
  Gameplay : Even though GUN is one of the many Grand Theft Auto knock-offs, it does something all 
 the others couldn't, it keeps you playing. GUN has many different styles of gameplay. There is 
 something for everyone to enjoy in this game, whether it be the shooting portion, horse riding 
 or many other things. GUN is easily the best in the western genre to date in gameplay, it surpasses 
 Red Dead Revolver and Dead man's hand. If you are a fan of the western style, this is a must buy 
 for you. The game play is good. The controls are easy enough to figure out, and after you get a 
 grasp of what you are doing, shooting enemies should not be very difficult. Also Neversoft added 
 in side quests that allow your character to improve his stats, that is making him a better fighter, 
 horse rider, what have you, which I thought was an excellent idea on their part. It makes you the 
 player want to go through and complete this missions, it makes the game longer and fights easier. 
 GUN's story is one of the few that I think actually keeps you playing especially because of its 
 storyline. It falls into place so easily and is really easy to understand, it blows other games 
 plots away. The story is quite simple, you (Colton) are trying to find out who killed your father 
 while facing several challenges along the way. Such as the villains Hoodoo Brown, Magruder, and 
 many others keep the storyline rich and entertaining. The only down effect of the story is its 
 length, it only takes about 2-5 hours to beat on the easiest mode, the insane mode only takes a 
 little bit longer. Despite its length it still manages to be a great game.
  
  Sound : From the hoof beats and noises of your horse, to the incredible voice acting displayed, 
 GUN has to be one of the greatest games on the 360 when it comes to sound. The voice acting cannot 
 be described, it's so great that up to date, no game has shown better. Every character has a unique 
 western voice and accent that sounds as if you're talking to them in real life. The environment 
 is also full of sounds, every second of the game there is something happening in the environment, 
 from falling rocks to wind across the plains. Graphics : The only other flaw besides the length 
 of the story would be the graphics. For a 360 game, the graphics are just mediocre, some original 
 X-Box games even surpass GUN on the 360 in graphics. Neversoft definitely should of spent more 
 time on GUN fixing up the graphics. The landscape is good but it is not detailed enough. There 
 is not enough detail in the environment to even notice. If they spent as much time on graphics 
 as they did on sound, the graphics would be great.
  
  GUN is one of the more games that is barely ever developed, so if you're looking for a game with 
 a style like GUN. Nothing can compare to it, so GUN is the only way to go.
  
  If you are a fan of the action genre then this is necessary have for your collection. I would recommend 
 buying this for fewer than sixty dollars though. This great game will keep you busy for hours if 
 not days. Of course, if you are not sure then renting this game is always and option and you should 
 be able to find it on multiple platforms. Happy shooting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclxl11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Why is everyone givin this game bad ratings. It is pure fun. Its like a western GTA. Just a couple 
 bad things like the graphics and music otherwise pure fun. If they made a second one that was co-op 
 I would buy it rite away. Running around with a horse killing ppl. Just really fun. This is like 
 the first fun western game. Ppl should appreciate it more cause it is actually fun. The horse riding 
 is very fun. I really hope they make a 2nd one. If this game was storymode splitscreen co-op it 
 would be so much fun. Then you can ride around on horse and kill together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I was actually really suprised with this game when i brought it because i didn't know what to expect.
 
  The graphics in general are pretty good and the gameplay immerse.
  The actual storyline of the game is really gripping and there are plenty of missions and side-missions 
 to keep any hardcore gamer happy!
  I feel this game would have been interesting with a online/offline multiplayer feature but that 
 aside a good play!
  This game being western based shooter will not be to everyone's liking but if ya a big fan of shooters, 
 this is a good game for you!
  Well worth a purchase or at least a rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick-D
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  A 9.0. I'm a huge fane of the Western theme in games and loved Red Dead Revolver by Rockstar. I 
 think it's the most underused and underrated theme not being taken advantage of by game makers 
 today. I would definately recommend this game at the very least to rent because its well worth 
 the time. I give it an 8.5 because it uses a great idea and executes it fairly well, but is unfortunately 
 too short. The idea is great, if only the had provided a longer experience. Perhaps an attempt 
 at a second version will perfect the game. Maybe I am the only one who sees the potential, but 
 as I said, I absolutely love the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  GUN was a moderate success when it was released last November by Neversoft, the guys behind the 
 Tony Hawk series of games. It combines intense third-person shooting action with a unique western 
 theme and story. You play as Colton White, a rough-around-the-edges citizen in the old west. He 
 wields a wide variety of weapons on his quest to avenge his father's death. 
  
  "I ain't yer father!" are the last words Colton hears from his dad as he is shoved over the side 
 of a sinking steamboat, home to the first level and a massacre. As you progress through the story, 
 betrayal and redemption become a big part of your life. You head to Dodge City first, and this 
 is when you find yourself fighting the Apache Indian tribe trying to defend the crooked leaders 
 of the area. You soon realize that evil is afoot, and therefore you team up with the Apaches and 
 some rogue lawmen. You must bring down the kingpin, Magruder. 
  
  As this is a shooter, you'll kill many men as you progress through a fair number of levels searching 
 for the men who are plotting your demise. Controls are nicely formed on the Xbox 360's controller, 
 and aiming is a breeze. Quickdraw is the game's Bullet Time, where, for a limited time, you change 
 into a first-person perspective, where you simply flick the analog stick to lock on to enemies. 
 You can eliminate large groups with this, making the game all too easy in spots, except for a few 
 notable battle sequences and boss fights. It does not hamper the fun factor, however.
  
  Horseback combat is where GUN really gets it right. It feels so simple and smooth, and you'll feel 
 absurdly cool while evading bullets with your horse and taking out bad guys with the most powerful 
 weapons of the 1800s. There is no multiplayer, however. None at all. And this hampers the value 
 of the game greatly. You can ease through the campaign on normal difficulty in a couple of hours, 
 and while there are a nice number of side missions, there's not much reason to complete them, except 
 for the addictive Achievements.
  
  Presentation is where GUN can't make up its mind. For starters, the menus are poorly designed and 
 sometimes difficult to read. Also, the graphics range from beautiful in parts (landscapes) to downright 
 ugly in others (character models) . The inconsistencies are annoying, but it's hard to deny that 
 it looks a little better on the 360 than it does on the current-gen consoles. Just a little bit.
 
  
  The sound department is handled with pure skill here. Top-notch voice acting immerses you in the 
 compelling story, featuring Oscar-worthy performances. Sound effects are superb here as well. The 
 gunfire sounds so real, and the whinny of the horse as it runs as hard as it can to escape an ambush 
 by bandits is just grand.
  
  Finally, the Xbox 360 version has received a price drop. At $39.99, it's still twenty bucks more 
 than its current-gen console brethren, making it an iffy choice for any reason other than some 
 rather easy Achievements and slightly better graphics. You decide what you want. For $19.99, it's 
 easily worth it. If you're not sure, consider buying it for PS2, Xbox, GameCube, or even PC.
  
  Overall, GUN is a unique, exciting adventure through the Wild West. But next time around, it 
 needs to stick around a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Gun for the xbox360 has some good gameplay and storyline to it. There is hardly anyware to explore 
 and the character models in the game have a really dirty look to it.
  
  In gun you play as colten white who is a pretty cool guy. The aim of the game really is to crush 
 mugruger and his henchmen, and save towns and houses and stuff.
  
  Guns graphics are horrible and the guns that you use in the game are pretty mediocre and they look 
 dirty and horrible when you zoom in to your enemys.
  
  It does have a few strong points like its move like storyline, and its gameplay is acctulaly pretty 
 darn good, but the graphics, tilt, and sound take off alot of marks.
  
  Gun is worth a try if you like shooters but if you like games with good graphics this is definately 
 not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good at times and stunning at others. Character models are all nicely detailed, 
 although the same models are reused too often to give you the feeling of a truly populated towns. 
 The environments are fantastic. Riding along mountain canyons with a harsh sun beating down on 
 you and strolling along placid lakes all contribute quite a bit to the game's mood. While the actual 
 world isn't quite as big as it first appears, you'll still want to explore its beauty. The game 
 starts with you out hunting animals with your father, Ned. Soon enough you find yourself roaming 
 the great Wild West scenery whilst seeking revenge.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were okay, but could definetly been a lot better. It was one of the first FPS for 
 360 and t attracted a lot of hype. I was dissappointed with the final result. It was too short, 
 too easy and did I say too short? The "quick draw" feature was a nice feature that was remenisent 
 of the Max Payne series where a shot of adrenalin would put the game in slow motion. Another feature 
 was the story-line. The game did a good job telling a comprehensive story. the game played more 
 like a movie than a game with many interuptions with long videos. The game was fun, but it fell 
 short of the high expectations it set for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Gun's wild west setting was what first coaxed me into renting this third-person action shooter, 
 and it's surprising there is so few titles set during a time so ripe for adventure. But the obvious 
 rush through development to capitalise on the Xbox 360 launch leaves this very severely lacking, 
 and you can't help but wonder what an extra six or twelve months worth of next-gen minded tweaking 
 could have done for Gun.
  
  In it's favour, Gun boasts fairly decent controls, not least of which is the quick draw function 
 which leaps into a first-person viewpoint, slows down the action ala bullet time, and allows you 
 to aim much more accurately. This works well, especially while firing from horseback or amidst 
 thick action. Unfortunately, Gun's other flaws hamper the experience just a bit too much to be 
 an entertaining experience.
  
  While the voice acting is good, the actual plot features little to hook you in. It's a little too 
 by-the-numbers western, and not particularly engaging. The visuals are so un-next-gen as too border 
 on offense, which is a real shame, because some of the cliffs could have looked a treat given some 
 2006 polish. And I'm just not comfortable with the depiction of Native Americans in Gun. They're 
 apparently not happy with a railway being built through their land, and are naturally doing all 
 they can to prevent it. The solution? "Shoot them redskins down, boy!". Pffft. Not me, thankyou.
 
  
  With a little more polish and imagination, Gun could have been a nice ride into the sunset, but 
 it's rushed and flawed, and is a weekend rental at best. There's just nothing that really shines 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikichris20
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  You play as Colton, a cowboy in the West who is on a mission to find out about his past and get 
 revenge on the people who killed the only man he ever knew as his father.
  GUN has a interesting story with some very cool concepts, it's just too bad all of those concepts 
 felt underdeveloped and weak. The story will keep you entertained while you play along and reveal 
 more about Colton's past but it does feel that the story is kind of rushed. It feels like everytime 
 something big or interesting happens the game would jump deeper into the subject but instead it 
 just bumps you off to something completely new.
  GUN is a "free-roaming" game in a sense, you are allowed to travel to anywhere on the map at any 
 given time which can make it feel more alive but with the map being so small there just is not 
 enough area to explore. There are also many side-quests you can choose to participate in if you 
 choose ranging from bounty hunting to gold mining to poker tournaments. While these side missions 
 can add to the freshness of the game they can be can be completed with minimal effort and time 
 they become an afterthought. The actual game itself can be completed in 10 hours or less on normal 
 difficulty and there will really not be too many places you will get stuck at. If you are looking 
 for a challenge however just change the difficulty setting to hard or insane and be ready to get 
 killed at the same spot 50 times before making it through.
  Graphics are not anything to scream about in this game, afterall it is both a launch title as well 
 as a port so you can't expect too much. I noticed little jaggies from time to time and character 
 models outside of the cast of characters are just plain ugly. Sound on the other hand is outstanding! 
 The voice actors really make this story come alive and make the characters much more believable. 
 The sound effects for the most part also sound very authentic and real, and keep up to pace all 
 through the game. For those who are obsessed with achievement points I have some good news and 
 some bad news, good news is most of these achievements you will get from just playing through the 
 game and side missions. Bad news is the rest of the points are achieved by beating the game on 
 the rest of the difficulty levels, which can be a very LONG process.
  All in all, I enjoyed this game all the way through but it was finished fairly quickly, I say give 
 it a rent and if you still have any ambition to play when it is due back head out to your local 
 game store and you can pick it up for about $35.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Gun shows that there are some games that are really over hyped, and don't really live up to what 
 we want. The hype aside, Gun gives you a pretty interesting story, memorable characters, and some 
 nice shooting action. Its cheap now, so you wont lose much if you decide you don't like Gun's short 
 story.
  
  The graphics are just a small step above the Xbox / PS2 version, which is kinda disapointing compared 
 to what they could have done with them on the 360. The character animations are good though, looking 
 more "360"ish and the cut sences are really pretty good. Besides that, the land-scape looks very 
 bare and everything else in the envirorment is really plain and "been there done that" comes to 
 mind. The sound is really horrible, could be the worst part of the whole game, the sound of the 
 guns are weak and limp.. there is no "background" music or sound, and the voices are hard to hear. 
 (Although the voice actting itself is very well done) . 
  
  The gameplay is pretty dry, I was expecting open roads and an open plain to do anything I wanted 
 in the old west... I was wrong, you got from city to city doing main missions (which is for the 
 most part ,clearing out Indians) and other side missions (which have no depth what so ever.) In 
 the end, there is not too much to do besides the main storyline, and that is pretty easy in itself, 
 I advise to do the game on hard or insane, for the most challenge.
  
  Overall, Gun is worth the buy if you have some money to blow on a used game. If you are going to 
 buy this game, go to EB Games, since you can beat this game in less then 7 days and get a full 
 refund. That in itself is worth buying because this game is not longer the 14 hours, and that is 
 pushing it... alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  What i like about this game is that the story is good and i also like the side missions the graphics 
 are alright not graphics like Gears of War. But other than that i think that everything else is 
 cool but something that i hat about it is that it does not have Xboxlive i wish that it did i think 
 that it will be cool that everybody can ride around in a horse and have battles and you could rob 
 stores and the people that are oing the side missions could stop the frome doing something bad 
 and i thought that it would have been cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 7/10
  
  The gameplay sort of reminds me of Grand Theft Auto but in a cowboy era. The gameplay is actually 
 pretty fun and there are lots of weapons and upgrades for all your weapons and game stats.
  
  Graphics 5/10
  
  Worst looking next gen game EVER!!! There is almost zero difference from 
 the xbox version in graphics.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  The voice acting is very good nuff' said
  
  Value 6/10
  
  The game is very fun but its 
 over before you know it there are some side missons but nothing big its just like deliver a horse 
 to some guy or kill some animal and take its pelt. The achievements in this game is farely easy 
 too so there isn't a lot of replay value
  
  Tilt 8/10
  
  Very fun game but too short. I recomend it to anyone who wants a game to play for a day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Gun is a very fun but short game that trys to make up for that with a pretty good set of side missions. 
 The game play is great the horse back riding is done very well and the quick time shooting is also 
 very fun and helpful at times. The game is very easy and every difficulty except insane mode. The 
 side missions although short like the story itself are fun and leave you wanting more. The shoot 
 outs are great, intense and gory. The graphics are well not good. They look good gor a current-gen 
 console but not a next-gen one. The don't look like they were updated on the 360. The sound on 
 the game is very well done with incredible voice acting. This is a good game but should be rented 
 because it can be beaten in a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a game that has a great story line, that catches ou off guard at the very beginning and 
 it has the feel of an old western. The music adds more tension and makes the gamplay deeper. The 
 entire free roam of the map is quite fun. The playing cards and shooting system works great. The 
 characters seem real and believable. The game transitions rather smoothly but at times it is a 
 little confusing at times. The halping to bring outlaws to justice and being a ranch hand is fun. 
 The game doesn't have the best graphics but the gameplay makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  The game has a really good story line. i liked this game alot even though people around me said 
 it wasnt that great GUN offers the player freedom to do what ever you want after 4 missions you 
 can go anywhere you want lets say you want to herd cattle then u can do that and get payed for 
 it. The graphics are good, but not for the 360. They would have looked really good on the XBox. 
 I know that there are a lot of people who dismissed this game, but it is worth a look. Rent if 
 you have to, but there is some replayability here. This is so much better than it's given credit 
 for. You begin the game by hunting with your friend Ned, who teaches you the basics of the game. 
 Pretty soon you are plunged into the action when the steamboat you take gets ambushed. The story 
 continues with well voiced characters, towns that actually exist in real life, and an interesting 
 plot. I recommend this if you are a western fan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game did not get all the good grades it shouldve got. It has a great story with nice side 
 plots and cool mini games. The main reason it got bad scores was it was a port from the xbox. It 
 didnt really matter to me because i played the xbox 360 version. The single player is about 10-12 
 hours or so if i remember correctly. There is no multiplayer and the game has nice graphics and 
 sound. Just the cutscenes look bad but the in game is nice. It does get a little hard on the other 
 difficulties and the game is just a fun experience. Everyone should check this out but dont buy 
 it since it has no mulitplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Gun puts you in the role of Colton White, and sends you on the path of trying to avenge your fathers 
 murder. Its a pretty cliche story but it works for a western themed game. Gun does several things 
 right, its shooter and you spend the majority of your time shooting. The gun fights are face paced 
 and fun, but eventually they become stale. The game has a sandbox approach, but you are limited 
 as to the things you can do. Plus most of things you do wont really affect the game. There are 
 some side missions that can help curb this, such as poker, hunting, being a rancher or a courier. 
 But there are other side missions where you do more shooting.
  All of these side missions are optional, though they will improve your stats and give you money 
 which you need. But you could easily blow through the main story in a day or two.
  All of the technical things are well done, the controls are good, the presentation is nice, the 
 sound effects and music are good. The voice acting is decent with a star studded cast. The graphic 
 are a let down though, as they are not 360 quality. You could easily play a current-gen version 
 and not miss a thing.
  In the end, I felt like Gun was on to something, with the idea of a GTA style game with a western 
 setting. But it just comes up short. It might as well have been a linear third person shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyemc2004
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Im pretty strict whe it comes to graphics I expect some of the best when I get a game. GUN is the 
 kind of game where everything in the game is done so well that you just forgive it for not looking 
 so good, I have only palyed one other game where I felt like this Alien vs Predator 2. So whatever 
 system you end up getting it one it will look similar enough that you might as well buy it on any 
 system you own that plays it. The gun and enviorment sounds were good but what really stood out 
 was the voice acting. Thomas Jane did a great job of this hard hero similar to his punisher role, Lance 
 Henriksen
  did a great job with his deep cold voice as the main villian Macruder, Brad Douriff did what he 
 does best playing as a psycopath, this time as priest, others such as Kris Kristofferson and Ron 
 Perlman did an amazing job as well. The weapons consist pretty much of shotguns revolvers and dynamite 
 and knives are what you will be using most, all guns are upgradable as well. The guns cause some 
 good realistic gore such as when you shoot someone with the revolver in the forhead part of there 
 skull will be shot off showing there brains or shoot someone in the eye and you will see their 
 eye socket, shoot someone in the arm leg or head with the shotgun and watch those parts go flying, 
 theres also a knife for scalping. So if violence really bothers you stay away from this game. The 
 whole map is a good size not to latge and not to small consisting of towns, canyons, caves, and 
 large fields and moutain passes. If your looking for a cross between red dead revolver and gta 
 this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  GUN was fun while it lasted but once you did everything you could do, it will just sit there and 
 collect dust. GUN doesn't have much replay value either, sure it's fun to run around and shoot 
 people... for about 5 minutes. It's way too easy and short. GUN tries to keep you playing by putting 
 on side missions, but fails.
  On the positive side GUN gives you a nice variety of weapons to use, and has decent graphics and 
 controls. You also get a good sense of freedom riding around on a horse.
  Overall GUN gets a 7.8 due to it's low replay value and length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jypson44
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I think GameSpot gave this game a bad rap. I'm going to review this game as the game it is and 
 not as a port to the 360. First, I'm not a Microsoft fan-boy, and I do have to admit that this 
 is the first game I ever played on the 360, so take it all with a tiny grain of salt. Alright, 
 here goes. This game was FUN! I had a blast riding my horse gunning down anyone who looked at me 
 sideways and shaking up the already shakey hand of the law. The horses were animated very well, 
 especially when compared to the horses in Oblivion. I wish Bethesda stold Gun's horses, that would 
 have been awesome. Anyway, I digress. This game really is just a bunch of fun. I've never played 
 a game where I can be a cowboy before. You get to shoot bandits, fight off the indians.... err Native 
 Americans, hunt some killer animals, russle up the cattle and take um into town, mine gold, and 
 race parcels across the badlands for the Pony Express. If you've ever enjoyed an old Spaghetti 
 Western, you'll have a blast with this game to. I don't think I would buy this game again at full 
 price, but since the price is dropping, I'de run out and grab a copy if you're looking for something 
 new to rid the boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  It is a fun game with lot of potential. It is a game based in the wild west with a Grand theft 
 auto based gameplay. it has side missions and completely freerome and a huge map. RECOMENDATIONS-The 
 gameplay is great. like I said great potential but it lacks some things. The graphics are nothing 
 for xbox360. It has xbox graphics and does nothing to show of xbox360. The sound is good nad great 
 quality. The value is great especially if you like GTA. my overall rating is very good. I would 
 recommend this to someone 15 and older. Negative things in it are the language and some suggestive 
 content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tina661
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, the only reason I played this game was for the acheivement points. The graphics are 
 very disappointing for being on the 360. The jaggies are awful. The story was ok but not very compelling. 
 By the end of the game I really didnt care wheather or not the lead character had his revenge. 
 Gameplay was very uninspiring and short. I cant bear to play through this game three more times 
 to get the rest of the acheivement points. Nice try on the "open world" but come on for an "open 
 world" it is VERY small. If you have a few hours and want to score some tredious points, rent this 
 game and get the acheivement points. Other than that... dont even waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  FIrst off the graphics in this game are AWFUL. They really really suck. THe player models look 
 like **** THe game does have a really good story. THe voice acting is very good. The gameplay is 
 a blast. Shooting guys off horses and blasting heads off with rifles is awesome. THe best part 
 has to be taking 2-3 guys down with one shotgunblast. THe game isnt nearly as free roaming as GTA. 
 You can do side missions (poker, hunting, bounty hunting etc) in between missions but they dont 
 add a whole lot. The main story has a lot of really intense shootouts that are a lot of fun. THe 
 achievments for this game are easy but do take a little bit of time. Especially beating the game 
 on all 4 difficulty levels. THe game is definatley worth a rent but not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66550
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you like open ended, simple shooters, just rent Gun, don't bother buying it as 
 you'll just finish it within a few hours. I beet the game is ~12 hours and I have got over 500 
 achievement points. The whole game is so easy, you'll just want more. The only bit of difficulty 
 is figuring out the end mission.
  
  Like I started out with, the game play is seriously lacking. Poor mission quality and quantity 
 leave a lot to be desired, especially from the first of the next gen systems. You'll spend most 
 of your time picking off waves of bandits, Indians, and the occasional lawman.
  
  Gun was also released on the PS2, XBOX, and PC at the same time. And, sadly, made no attempt to 
 push the 360 any further than it did on the PS2. Graphics were pathetic, missions simple and short, 
 and few of them. The world at the beginning seems large but half way through the game you can get 
 from once side to the other blindfolded, as the missions often require.
  
  Because the game is completely mission based, there is practically no replay value. If you want 
 all the achievements, you'll have to complete the game on all 4 difficulties. All of which are 
 relatively easy.
  
  Overall, don't buy it, just rent it and get the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Glad I just borrowed this game from my neighbor for about four or five, since that's all the time 
 it takes to beat this game. This seriously feels like a game that could have been a blast... but 
 it posed no challenge and was WAY TOO SHORT. The gameplay is pretty fun, but it seems very lacking 
 at the same time. Shooting people on horseback is fun and all, and the side missions and main storyline 
 missions are entertaining, but the game's overall presentation is awful. The cutscene's even look 
 terrible, and the in-game graphics almost look better than them... now THAT is sad. The first person 
 view of your guns make the guns look the equivalent of PS1 graphics... yuck. Thankfully, the background 
 music is well done and the voice acting on the cutscenes is very good, even though the lips don't 
 synch up with the words half the time. This game will take about four hours to beat the main storyline 
 and an additional two to three to beat all the side missions. The missions are fun and pretty varying 
 (ie hunting, poker, deputy, even ranching) but they're just way too easy. Overall, if you're looking 
 for a quick game to beat and mindless fun, definitely check Gun out. Don't come in with great expectations, 
 however. At first, it may seem like the game is gonna be great, but it just drags itself down after 
 the first hour. Thank god, for the side missions, or I wouldn't have given this game even a glance. 
 Hopefully Gun 2's graphics and length are increased, so that the game will actually be motivating 
 to play. Please, don't buy this game, though... it's just 50-60 bucks wasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman_919
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  A good game, expecially for a western, it is a good fun game to play but it is too short and the 
 graphics need work but besides that the game is great , hopfully in the future they will make another 
 gun game and fix all the problems the first one had. The bosses are chanallaging to some degree, 
 the real fun is shooting in quickdraw mode, this game is good but stilll needs alot of work, if 
 you think this game looks good rent it first before you decide to buy it, You will either love 
 it or hate it, so if it looks like a good game to you give it a try, even though it got a semi-bad 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Gun to some people isnt worth playing at all. I just wanted some gamerscore and a feeling about 
 what it's like. It's an alright game it reminds me of GTA but no where close to as good. The graphics 
 are at least 2 maybe 3 years behind the game is short not very realplayable has alot of side missions. 
 But I will say that the gameplay can be very fun sometimes. It may be very cheesy killing 3-5 people 
 at a time with your horse but it is entertaining in it's own way. Using quickdraw can make the 
 game fun but a little to easy. I thought the game could have been a lot better and a lot more next 
 gen and had better A. I but there is something about the game that makes it fun in it's own way 
 and I thought it was an alright game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Gun is actually a fun game, but there is one thing about it that makes it kind of bad. It is too 
 short. When I first played it I played it on the normal setting. And I still beat it in 12 hours, 
 ( almost no time at all) . But, if you like to collect achivements then this is the game for you. 
 After every level there is a new achivement after every level and there are a lot of levels. And 
 even with all the side missions you need to do to get your skill up and get all the money you need 
 it is still fairly short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  This is not an Oblivion. It's not a lot of things. What it is though, a great way to spend a couple 
 of afternoons when it's raining. Its a lot of weird fun, not so difficult that the casual gamer 
 will get tired and quit. In my opinion, there needs to be games like this also. Its fun, doesn't 
 try and exploit the graphics, doesn't exploit your patience, but has some challenges as well. I 
 am glad I waited and didn't pay full price. In fact, this may be a better rental title than purchase. 
 But, If you're not a FPS run and gunner but want to do some shooting, I think you should check 
 it out. I would say that some of the gore and language is a certainly not for the little kids but, 
 it's not a GTA either.. By todays prime-time TV standards, this is no big deal from that standpoint. 
 I hope you can appreciate my review... I'm not a career pro-gamer and don't intend to be. I think 
 there may be a few more out there like me than the pro's... Bottom line, it is FUN and a good title 
 to play with a friend and switch back and forth with the missions... Isn't that fun also? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  When i saw this game on the store shelf i thought with would be good. And it almost was. The gameplay 
 it self it ok, it's just not quite long enough, but when you are done with the actual campaign 
 type thing, you have side missions you can do and their are a ton of them. That is about the only 
 ok part about the game. The sound is ok and it's cool how it is a free roam, but the graphics have 
 a lot to be desired. I really think they could have done better.
  
  I would recomend this game if you can get past the bad graphics, i mean they aren't that bad but 
 for next gen they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  This impressive Western shooter offers intense fun and freedom for ... about 6 hours.
  Here's my log:
  In 2hrs - completed story
  In 3hrs - completed hunter and pony express missions
 
  In 4hrs - completed poka, gold and federal marshall missions
  In 5hrs - bought all upgrades and items
  In 6hrs - completed all Wanted Poster missions and got 
 all the acheivements.
  
  After the first day, I sold the game and made a cool 35!
  
  I so wish this game was better than it is. It had an opputunity to make the best (if not 3rd) Western 
 game ever, and they blew it! F**k you Neversoft! The game is great for the time it lasts. So just 
 try it again on the hardest difficulty and curse the world to hel, like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  GUN is really fun. Though there are some things that need to be fixed. The graphics are not the 
 best. Its the worst graphics for a 360 game. Also, the story was good but needs to be a tad bit 
 longer. There are some really cool weapons in it, like THE DYNOMITE BOW! Shoot it, wait, and watch 
 it explode! And the Cannon Nock gun, but you have to have 100% missions to accquire it so you cant 
 use it to help you in story mode. 
  
  Some thing funny about it is Its kinda like a cowboy western 1800's version of GTA. Highjacking 
 horses, killing random people and buying weapons. Pretty much GTA. And there are hookers in Empire 
 city (sorta lol) .
  
  Anyway, overall its a really fun game. Even if you dont like western cowboy stuff, you should buy 
 it or atleast rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 20, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problems with this game are that its basically a clone console port from other last 
 gen consoles that runs you 60 dollars rather than 20-30 dollars like the other ports for Xbox and 
 PS2. Also with no ONLINE play it leaves nothing really to do after you beat the game other than 
 beat it again on a harder difficulty.
  
  This game can be a bunch of fun with semi innovative missions and some good gory action. This game 
 to me felt like a Old West Grand Theft Auto where instead of stealing cars you could score some 
 horses and go killing at free will. Though killing at free will is really not what your supposed 
 to do and it does not have the same freedoms as GTA so its only somewhat a GTA experience. With 
 additions of mini games such as Poker to add some variety to the mix of things.
  
  This game lets you ride horseback blasting away with Shotguns, Arrows, and a bunch of Old West 
 weapons such as mounted Cannons and such making the gameplay pretty cool and fun. Adult themed 
 story line that makes pretty good sense and worth watching the cut scenes making this game a pretty 
 fun single player experience however not a well rounded next gen gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 18, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  gun is an ugly game. and .... damn i dont have time to write this review cause im going to work 
 in 4 minutes. so anways,
  
  gun gets a 7.2 because it brough me back to the old 3rd person games i used to play all the time 
 on ps1. i just wish that gun didn't have ps1 graphics.
  
  the story is way to short. i beat gun, most of the extras, simed 30 years of madden 06 and beat 
 half of kameo in one day. so yeah, way too short. (5 hours) 
  
  if the game was a little more open then it could've made up for its visual blemishes. (think grand 
 theft auto) 
  
  the shootouts are fun though. i reccomend shooting someones head off. it's fun.
  
  the sound 
 is repetitive but it works well with the enviroment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoth0use
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  goog but nothing to do when u hav finished. I completed it on hard, insane, esy and normal sheesh 
 talk about boring after the third time u redo the whole game but it still is fun. ye ye ye ye ye 
 ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye yeye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye ye yey e yeye yeye 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gjn j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game wasnt too bad, but it was way too short. i rented it and beat it in 4 days. the gameplay 
 is fairly fun. i kinda like the old western thing, but its just not next gen. the graphics look 
 like something that should just be on Xbox or Ps2. not 360. This game is definitely not worth buying. 
 Its worth playing it, but dont buy it. Just go rent it for a few day, get the achievements, and 
 bring it back. i expected a lot better from this game. the best part of the game though is when 
 the indians scream when they get shot. If you've played the game you know what i'm talking about. 
 Anyway its just a below average game and that's why it deserves a 6.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magc_82
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, our first X360 review also brings with it another dubious award; this is going to be the 
 my first double game review... meaning that this game is the first game that I've reviewed on multiple 
 consoles. 
  
  Sadly, this game, outside the Achievement points, is the exact same as its GCN brethern. Sure, 
 the graphics are a bit sharper, and the load times are a bit better, but strangely, I encounted 
 more lag on this game, over the GCN version. I'm going to assume thats because this is a port to 
 the X360 and thereby not optimised for it.
  
  I mentioned the achievement points earlier, and this game can net you an easy 800 by playing through 
 the game on normal and collecting everything, then running back through the game on easy. The other 
 200 points come from beating it on Hard and Insane, but that's something I was unable to complete 
 in a rental's timespan. Plus, it seems to me, at least, that you'll not be able to run through 
 it on either of those two difficulties, as on Hard, you die in 3 shots, while on Insane, you die 
 in 2.
  
  So, if you still haven't tried Gun, and are looking for a decent Western on your X360, give this 
 one a spin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savage161
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a short but great game. It has an excellent story line and the graphics and not too bad 
 i actually like how its presented. The game is definatally worth a rental but if you can get it 
 on the cheap then buy it. I paid $40 for mine and it also came with Th Wasteland. If they make 
 Gun 2 with better graphics and a longer story line which possbaly take weeks to finish then this 
 could be one of the sought after games if it comes out.
  
  Summary
  
  great while it lasts but when you finish it their is little to no replay value but it worth a renatl 
 and if you can get it on the cheap buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  GUN! What is thet mean? A Boring Piece of Plastic what looks like a CD??!!
  This Game is absolutely terrible!
  Looks like the Playstation 2 Version, the People who translated 
 this CRAP have to be ashamed about the Result!!!
  Who wants to Play an OLD Western Game on a Next Generation Console!!!???
  Useless, is not worth 
 talk about, but i have to write a minimum of 100 Words, so lets find more FAULTS.
  GTA Style, my God, all Magazines talking about a GTA Style Game!!??
  Incredible, when this Game 
 is GTA like, then is Metal Gear Solid?? STAR WARS like?????
  I dont know what they are talking about, but i know 1 thing:
  
  THIS CRAP IS NOT WORTH THE MONEY ----10 
 Bucks more then the other Versions, for what Please!!??
  
  PROBABLY the WORST GAME FOR XBOX 360!!!!!
  
  Sorry for the Grammar, im learning English!!!
 
  Thanxxx
  T-troniC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigothemanny
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is violent. I don't mean, guts coming out someone's mouth grotesque, but rather 
 stylized violence in the cut-scenes. The intensity doesn't come in what they show you, there's 
 worse in other games, it comes in the cinematic way its presented. For a more mature player, the 
 scenes have a thrilling sense to them, not because there's murder, but rather it's done with style. 
 Think Kill Bill: varying degrees of overdoing violence, so its not as believable. You have people 
 get killed in the cut-scenes, and some of it is brutal, but it's the idea of a throat getting slashed 
 that makes it intense, not actually showing it because the graphics engine isn't really that good.
 
  
  I know I dwelt a lot on the cut-scenes, and that's because I find them the best part of the game. 
 They're brilliantly written with an excellent cast. The dialog is natural, and feels natural coming 
 out of the actors' mouths.
  
  The plot, unfortunately, is very thin. Without giving anything away, the story could have been 
 fleshed out much more. The first "twist" in the story isn't much of one because it happens within 
 the first hour. By then, you're already 14% into the game. The game moves very VERY fast. It operates 
 in the free roaming/mission manner made popular by Grand Theft Auto. It progresses the story along 
 really quickly, a little too quickly in my opinion, but quickly nonetheless.
  
  Along with the root story missions, you have several side quests you take to improve the character's 
 stats and to make money to buy upgrades. These themselves are what make up a bulk of the game, 
 and what bring it down. These side quests become repetitive after a while since you're doing the 
 same thing over and over again: Find something and kill the bad guys; Get on a horse, kill someone; 
 escort someone, kill everyone else. You pretty much become a murderous errand boy. Yeah, that's 
 fun and all for the first hour, but the game play's shallowness becomes apparent.
  
  In short, there's too much story that this game can hold. The characters are all interesting, the 
 story is deep, there're twists and turns, and stuff shown at the beginning reappears later on for 
 an "Ahhh, I see" moment for the player. Unfortunately, the game is just too short. It could have 
 been a great epic with a little more polish. It felt like it needed a few more months in developing 
 to really feel finished.
  
  Despite it's hitches, it would make a good transfer over to a movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Gun - A more mature way to revisit the Wild Wild West and supress your urge to play Cowboys and 
 Indians.
  
  With the advent of 3-D there became less and less wild west themed adventures than there were before 
 when I was growing up. It seemed when games were 2-D that the wild west genre was emulated a dozen 
 times over. Most arcades or pizza parlors had some run and gun shoot 'em up featuring the lonesome 
 cowboy with a haunted past and when Gun came out I was hoping for the same lighthearted experience 
 from memory. Most were filled with over the top humor or many cliche's that I have grown to expect 
 in my westerns. Gun for the Xbox 360 takes the genre and the standard in a darker direction which 
 I am thankful for.
  
  You play the role of Cotton White, a young man starting off his adventure learning the ropes from 
 Ned who is your typical renegade "Davey Crockett" type tracker from old western stereotypes who 
 lives off the land and hunts for his food. About 15 minutes into the game a steamboat you both 
 are riding on gets raided by a group of bandits and eventually sets off a story having Cotten going 
 from one side of world of Gun to the other trying to find out to the truth to this attack and leaving 
 a horrible trail of blood behind him.
  
  I do mean bloody by every sense of the word. This is a very graphic game in terms of the ideas 
 that are present. Hangings, beheadings, and scalpings are just some of the features this game has 
 to it's name. They do not feel out of place but are definitely more suggestive than your average 
 70's style western. There is also a lot of cursing (although some of these are considered mainstream 
 these days) amongst the characters and random enounters you come across. So be expected to all 
 kinds of violence when you play this game but also expect to enjoy the violence none-the-less. 
 Other than the random curses here or there the voice acting is wonderful and really drives the 
 story. Some of the violent acts helps speed things up too and give you a sense of justice and satisfaction.
 
  
  Graphically, especially for an Xbox 360 title, is where this game does lack and is clearly a port 
 of an xbox game with minor improvements. The only clear indications of improvements have to do 
 with textures in the water and on some of the landscapes and that is about it. I haven't really 
 compared the two as there is no reason to play the xbox version if I have the 360 version but without 
 the niceities of a wireless controller, custom soundtrack, and achievement points to unlock I probably 
 wouldn't have noticed the differences at all.
  
  For a game I was only playing for it's gamerpoints I was actually suprised with the adult and graphic 
 nature of both the story and the gameplay. The story kept me entertained long enough to move from 
 plot point to plot point while the action kept the game alive. Constantly throughout this game 
 you are learning about your character, how to play, getting upgrades, and increasing stats with 
 an extremely fitting and fast paced story. On top of these nicely done features the gameplay is 
 overly simple with a lot of variety. Even though you are constantly using different weapons and 
 moving onto different styles of play it all feels right and is easy for anyone to pick up.
  
  The world of Gun starts off very linear but becomes openended like a Grand Theft Auto game. 
 The land details, especially of the two main western locales, really aren't THAT inventive or descriptive 
 and no where near on par with what you will find in San Andreas or even lesser games like the Getaway 
 and True Crime. In fact, there are a lot of areas that you feel they could have built a better 
 world but for the quickness and pace for the game that is ok. There is enough to explore and enough 
 sidequests and mini-games to keep you occupied to keep the game for getting old and I feel this 
 was more of a design choice rather than anything else.
  
  Side missions usually have you doing various things such as acting as a deputy and displacing random 
 acts of crime here or there such as your classic bank robbery or a random hostage situation. Other 
 and more entertaining side missions have you playing in Texas Hold-Em tournaments (where you can 
 cheat which is a really cool feature) , mining for gold, herding cows, or even going after people 
 on wanted posters either dead or alive. Most of these missions will increase your bank role and/or 
 increase some of your stats.
  
  The game is not perfect however no matter how entertaining a game it may be. There are a lot of 
 glitches and a lot of repetative missions and or scenerios. Towards the end of the game you want 
 to just finish as they throw in filler missions that seem to not fit between boss battles. My biggest 
 annoyance for this game is how the gamerpoints works with the difficulties. You get points for 
 beating the game on each level of difficulty - Normal, Easy, Hard, etc... but if you beat the game 
 on Hard you do not get the points for normal or easy so playing through over on a lesser difficulty 
 seems very redundant and only for completionists or anyone who starts off at a lower difficulty. 
 Other than these minor downers the overall game is a solid experience for anyone looking to cowboy 
 up on the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  While this game was decent on the XBOX, the 360 version is merely a direct port that boasts only 
 resolution upgrades. The game tried very hard to be something special.... and almost achieved it. 
 
  
  This game was almost like a "Gun-Theft Horsuto". I appreciate the attempt at a sandbox style environent 
 but I just couldnt help but feel that the game put me on a very tight set of rails. While the horseback 
 riding was utterly enjoyable there wasnt enough vairety in the horses or their riding styles. The 
 shooting and action were fun if very cliche'. The voice acting was as good as it gets outside of 
 the Legacy of Kain games and lent a very good feel to the story. I enjoyed this game on the 360, 
 but mostly because I was waiting on Fight Night Round 3, G. R. A. W. and Oblivion.
  
  This game was pretty good on the XBOX but only standard on the high powered XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comet13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Gun is a very entertaining and well rounded game. I loved the look and feel of the "Old West" that 
 the game permeated. The voice acting was astounding as well. Since there really needs to be more 
 western themed games out there, especially one with an open story like Gun, I hope they make a 
 sequel. Of course the game could have been longer, but I say that of all games I really enjoy. 
 With Gun I found myself just wandering around on horseback enjoying the scenery and watching the 
 glorious sunsets. The side missions were a great way to add to the experience and to take away 
 from the monotony od a linear based game. The music was very cinematic as well... I swore I heard 
 the same music playing in he background while watching Tombstone the other night on DVD. $60 is 
 a bit to shell out, but if you can wait until the price does the inevitable drop, the game is great 
 especially for a fan of the western style to own and pop in anytime to ride into the sunset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunrire
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  When you get your Xbox 360 you should be jumping for joy with the next gen in your dirty little 
 hands. But it be short lived if you get Gun
  
  It's the old west and your name is Colton White. You start off with a hunting trip with "Daddy". 
 After snaging a bear you get you kepp to a boat.. which gets hi jacked and destroyed with your father 
 dead. Gamer logic screams that you have to find out who your father really was and who killed him.
 
  
  Now a big problem with this game is lifespan or lack of it. The game last 6 hour tops if you do 
 the side missons and and stuff which isnt really that thirlling
  
  It looks like PS2 game for the Xbox 360 so this won't brake your Xbox but the glitches will
  
 
  It's so bad that l was falling through the level without stoping. But it only frezzed on me once 
 so that's cool
  
  Next gen is not here but lokking for a cowboy shooter game that last the time you read this rewiew 
 then get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Gun is the latest from Neversoft, best known for the Tony Hawk franchise, and automatically shoots 
 itself in the foot with expectations about any game other than that series... However, Gun does 
 manage to be different enough but still have some familiarity, despite the new setting. It never 
 "wowed me" but I was never let down either. It's a great romp that is over all too quickly... But 
 hey, you had fun getting there, right?
  
  The story in Gun is actually pretty cool. You start off with your father and end up on a steamboat 
 where some mysterious stuff happens and then the boat is attacked. Then some other stuff happens 
 and it turns out you're on a quest to find an artifact... but so is this big bad Magruder fella. 
 That about sums it up quickly, but there is more to it than that. Aside from the main quest there 
 are a TON of little side missions to do, which vary from bounty hunting, law enforcing, pony express, 
 hunting, gold digging and gambling. All are great distractions from the main story and do help 
 lengthen the experience if you decide to do all of them.
  
  The world of Gun is pretty large, but not so large that you'll be lost most of the time. There 
 are distinct parts of the world and you can travel through most of them by following the train 
 tracks. Horseback riding is a must in this game since your character walks like he's on a skating 
 rink.... in slow motion... especially if he's drawn a weapon. But the side missions will have you 
 traveling all over the place and you get familiar pretty quickly.
  
  The weapons are standard; rifle, pistol, shotgun, bow and sniper. Nothing spectacular, even when 
 you upgrade. The main differences are in how much ammo each stores before you have to reload, with 
 the exception of the bows, which each pack a different punch. You can also buy upgraded stats for 
 your guns from the storekeeps. The best addition to Gun is it's version of "bullet time" which 
 slows time down and allows you to take out everyone in a super quick fashion. It works quite well 
 with a flick-to enemy sight and you can still fine tune the aim to get the glorious headshots. 
 It isn't solely a gimmick, either, it is necessary to advance in certain situations and it certainly 
 helps out a lot in others.
  
  Controls are kinda not so great, especially when you're amid action. The L and RB buttons are used 
 a lot, but I would accidently hit them instead of the triggers and vice versa, which doesn't help 
 things much. Camera can get kinda jumpy too in certain situations, but you never have to do any 
 platforming, so it isn't a huge distraction.
  
  Sound is one of the best things about the game. There are great cutscenes with some great dialogue. 
 The guns, environments, etc all sound pretty great too. I found myself skipping most of the side 
 mission dialogue because it was unecessary, but it was still nice to have, even if I didn't hear 
 it.
  
  The story is branched out through very cinematic cutscenes that do a terrific job of captivating 
 your attention. If Gun was a movie, it would be a great one... and about the right length, too... The 
 game is solely a rental, as you could probably be 100% done with it in under 10 hours... And then 
 there's no real reason to keep coming back.
  
  It's fun while it lasts, but there are some trial and error to the missions and the last boss is 
 staggeringly difficult, especially considering the game itself is pretty easy. Overall, Gun is 
 not the videogame equivalent of Deadwood by any means, but it doesn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  A fair attempt, but it doesn't quite live up to the hype. The graphics are fair for a launch game, 
 but the game is way too short. Gun is a game that can be beaten in a day or two of serious play. 
 Pony express, US Marshall, gold digger, hunting, law man, bounty-hunter and law man side missions 
 allow for a few extra hours of play. The best part of this game is riding a horse in the west. 
 The game is worth an eBay buy for $30 or so. Don't pay the $60. There are not enough western-themed 
 games, so in a pinch this will have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbeamsrv
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Although I have not played GUN on other systems, I think it looks great on the XBOX 360. The story 
 is intriguing and the voices are excellent. It would make a really good Western. The variety in 
 the gameplay is good because it keeps you on your toes. The quick draw ability is great but seems 
 to make some parts too easy. In the game, you can dig for gold or even hunt down wanted fugitives. 
 The story is linear for the most part, but you can take on side missions to make extra gold. This 
 is a fun game and I would recommend it, especially since if you shott someone in the head, it will 
 blow off! How cool is that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  gun is a good 3 pursin shooter and will ceap you on you xbox 360 for houres on end youl be amased 
 by how life like the old west is like thers prostution shooting and you work along sid of the indions 
 and you get to stoo ther brans out the guns are a thearty of refolvers lots of rivels 2 sharpshoters 
 and 3 bow and arrows and you can even cut peopls heads of with daggers and soweds you can evan 
 ride you houres but be cafut you cude kill it if you ride to hard saddly you do get to join up 
 wiht enny of thr proseys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Even though this is a game for the 360, it still doesnt fell like its next gen. The gameplay is 
 alright but the graphics can use a lot of work, especially on the cut scenes. In the cut scenes 
 the game just looks teribble, especially when people are supposed to be holding something it just 
 looks like its flowting in the air. The sound is alright, and the sound of the guns is not that 
 bad. The game gets a little wierd especially when u save the game when your ammo is low, then load 
 the game and the ammo is full. I think that this game should have been worked on a lot more before 
 it was released for the Xbox 360, kind of like Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I will mention from the get go, gun is indeed a good game and anyone who likes shoot-um-up type 
 of games will love it. Now that I have said that, there are a few things that I must mention that 
 would have made the game better if they were done differently. First of all, even though the AI 
 in the game is pretty good, and by that I mean that the enemy does not just stand there and allow 
 you to shoot them down. However, all of there actions and verbal comments all seem very much scripted 
 and therefore unimpressive. On the other hand, they are all very good shoots and their overwhelming 
 numbers quickly become a problem during a mission. Luckily you are also a very good shoot and you 
 arsenal which includes shotguns, rifles, and pistils all of which are replaced with better versions 
 of the same type. You can also buy items from the shopkeeper in the one of the two large towns 
 that will improve the performance of you weapons, things like faster reload, and larger ammo capacity 
 and the damage potential of your knife and your health capacity. I recommend that you upgrade you 
 equipment as soon as possible as the game progresses the enemies become more and more difficult. 
 The storyline is well done and each successful completion of missions the plot would unfold with 
 the aid of cinematic cut seines. The animation and sound affects are very well done but most enjoyable 
 were being able to ride any horse that you came across and the sound of the hooves pounding on 
 the various surfaces is very realistic. All in all Gun is an enjoyable game however, there is one 
 outstanding point that may just spoil the experience for you and here it is. Even though there 
 are people in the towns there are not enough to create the illusion of real life in the west, all 
 of the towns people and even the bad guys look the same in each town. Oh, and there are only two 
 towns in the game the rest of it is rocks and a farm and a few caves. Last and far from being least, 
 the game is far too short, however, seeing the lack of effort in regards to NPCs and overall more 
 things to do, being a short game may be a good thing. Again I will say that the game is enjoyable 
 even with all of it faults, and it is very satisfying watching the bad guys die a painful and loud 
 death. I am recommending this game for a rental and who knows it may become a collectors item 
 for some, it has potential and I doubt that this is the last that we are going to see from this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  To start with, parents: Very mature game; in ideas presented, violence, and profanity.
  
  I loved this game, and I knew I would when it was announced. I'm also glad that I didn't buy it.
 
  
  The story was interesting and fasted paced (great and sad) . The characters were engaging and you 
 feel no remorse on taking out an enemy. Unfortunitly the game is short, after getting 100% on Normal 
 (minus 3 freakin gold that I cannot find) I fired it up on Easy, just for kicks, and beat it in 
 a little over 2 hours (skipping cut scenes) . That being said, it wouldn't have disappointed so 
 much (they story was just the right length) if there was more to do once the campaign was beaten. 
 There just isn't. Not to dwell on it, but even as a casual gamer, it was too short for me, with 
 nothing left in this "open" world to do when the main bad guys were dead.
  
  Shooting is a lot of funny with a very forgiving targetting system. And the insane mode is just 
 that. (I suppose this could be considered a game-life-extender.)
  
  I'm an Xbox360-ho, so while I still have it rented, I'm going to try and crack Hard and inch my 
 way into Insane (no doubt to be continued at a later rental) .
  
  Excellent renter (top notch weekend fun) for a mature audience, but not what I would spend money 
 on to own.
  
  Pony up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt-commander
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  i liked this game alot even though people around me said it wasnt that great GUN offers the player 
 freedom to do what ever you want after 4 missions you can go anywhere you want lets say you want 
 to herd cattle then u can do that and get payed for it.
  and there also is everyone's funneist card game Texas hold em, how much better can it get , well 
 i'll just scratch the surface of some of the things you can do. In the game while playing you'll 
 encounter bosses which you cant kill with your regular pistol so throughout the game you'll need 
 to buy better upgrades for your guns such as faster reloading, more powerful shots, and faster 
 shooting and aswell there is a total of 31 achivements which are most of the part very easy to 
 get. And in the game you are able to buy a pickaxe at any shopkeeper and throughout the map is 
 hidden gold which you mine for money. This game you can call it a Cowboy vs Indian although you 
 join them for part of the game. But for the most part i dont think anyone should totally trust 
 games buy reviews i think you should rent this game if your not sure or trade Call of Duty 2 with 
 a friend for a week and he gives you GUN. Then it'll all works out well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunstar7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Though a highly anticipated game, Gun apparently left some people feeling rather robbed. It is 
 true the story is short and graphically it doesn't use nearly the potential of the 360. However, 
 Gun is action packed and fun filled thorought its storyline and anyone who ever had a slight interest 
 in the old west is certainly not going to be dissapointed. The character of Colton White is interesting 
 and his adventures are quite gripping, and let's face it, shooting a guy off his horse by putting 
 the bullet from your winchester through his forehead is more fun than it should be. All in all, 
 Gun is a fun game worthy of at least a good rent, it won't take a serious gamer more time than 
 that to get through, but those who like to ride towards the sunset from time to time will not be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugbygod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Gun will appeal to fanboys of the Deus Ex series. It has a good, somewhat predictable story, however 
 very well acted and extremely well paced. Sure, the graphics are current gen, but gameplay is strong 
 and weapons feel powerful and are easy to master.
  I was pleasantly surprised by this game and how "fun" it is and how much you WILL care about the 
 outcome of your key character. Cutscenes are good and add to the immersive feel.
  Shortcomings are as follows:
  -Too short
  -Current Gen Graphics
  -Side missions can be too 
 distracting from the story line.
  -Boss fights don't take long to figure out.
  Strengths:
  -Great story.
  -Great weapons.
  -Good flow and very immersive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately since this game was a port and there were no changes made, except higher textures 
 and player models, this game has not received high reviews. But, I still enjoyed this game even 
 after I had already played the Xbox version. I liked the updated graphical changes alot. If the 
 developers would have added some extra missions, new items, or perhaps online play (would have 
 been sweet) than this game would have excelled alot more than it did. Overall, if you havent played 
 GUN yet, or you really enjoy the intese shooting, than I suggest you rent this game and have some 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Gun, western adventure with a butt load of side missions. If you like westerns, BUY IT, 
 if they aren't your fancy, rent it.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Plays well. I like the slow motion quickdraw feature. Riding horses doesn't get mush 
 easier. I like the story but its to SHORT. If you skipped the side quests you could beat the game 
 in a couple of hours. SO IF YOU GET IT, DO THE SIDEQUESTS! The sidequests also up the stats of 
 your character so they are kind of a good thing to pursue.
  
  GRAPHICS: Not the 360 standard but better than the older console games.
  
  SOUND: Music gives 
 a grander scale of what the gun world really is. Voice acting is great by the way.
  
  VALUE: The only game on the 360 that I traded in!
  
  MY CHANGES: Bigger world with more towns, 
 more missions, more choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Gamespot says 6.4.... WHAT! Obviously this is wrong. Me and a couple of friends thought this was 
 going to be a bad game because of the hype. We rented it one night though because there were no 
 other 360 games in at our video store. (out of a huge 6) . We played it for a while and then couldnt 
 stop. Its a fun game beleive it or not. One thing I like about it is that its kind of funny. When 
 you kill the Indians they make this weird screaming noise that sounds like a 12 year old girl going 
 through puberty. We played it on Normal (the second easiest) and it was still not to easy. We played 
 a couple of missions over and over until finally we got done with them. It has an intresting story 
 line, but its not that long. Its probably about the same size as Halo 2. You get weapon upgrades 
 and everything. I dont know what the xbox version of this was like because I didnt rent it. A close 
 friend of myne did though and he said that he had to rent it twice because he wanted to see the 
 ending. This ins't that horrible of a game, the only let down is probably the graphics and they 
 arent even that bad. If you like shooters you should buy this game. Dont beleive Gamespot on this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Gun has one major problem with it. You can beat the game in an afternoon. It has a good story, 
 but it is very short. It is exactly the same as the XBox and Playstation 2 versions. 
  It has good gameplay and decent graphics, (not as good as other 360 games.) The story is enjoyable 
 while it lasts. Missions and bosses are redundant and very easy on normal. These missions become 
 extremely difficult on hard and insane. You will find yourself inching through the level checkpoint 
 to checkpoint dying many times in between. There are some sidemissions but they add very little 
 length to the game. Poker Games, capturing wanted people, pony express missions, and sheriff missions 
 are the same thing over and over again. There is also no multiplayer at all.
  I recommend that you rent this game or borrow it from a friend. It is worth playing but it has 
 no replay value and will not last you longer than a few days. Not worth the $60 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoofMich
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was really fun. the storyline was really short though. but there were sum fun 
 side missions. some side missions include bounties, hunting, gold mining, and riding horses.
  
  there was a lot of weapons for you to get, and a lot of upgrades too. it was neat having basic 
 weapons and then getting really awesome versions of the guns as you progress through the game. 
 it was really cool how you could scalp people and if your close enough you blow off chunks of peoples 
 heads.
  
  the game has a big open enviroment and your able to go through the game at your own pace. there 
 is two towns in the area and some other places to explore also.
  
  overall, this is a good game. if you have $60 go buy it, if not you can rent it and still beat 
 the game before it is due back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I don't like to give an ambitious game bad representation, but this game earned it. There is not 
 much here, besides the clssic revenge (and ultimately, conspiracy) story here. The character is 
 a man whose father is killed, only to learn that the man who raised him isn't his daddy. From the 
 beginning level, you can tell that the game is heading down hill fast. The ony reason to deviate 
 from the main story is to get some mulau, but the money you get isn't put to good use. The graphics 
 could use more developement (the XBOX version looks exactly the same) , and the fighting becomes 
 annoying in its simple motto; shoot anything. Plus, parents beware; there's enough sexual material 
 and violence here to drive kids over the edge. Unless you're really into western games, look for 
 something else. If you still need a western, I recomend the less sexual, much more interesting 
 Red Dead Revolver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is so not worth the money. If you want to play it, buy the regular Xbox version and then 
 play it and take back to your nearest gamestop/ebgames. This game's gameplay totally sucked. Not 
 as good as everyone thought it would be. Definately cannot compare this game with Grand Theft Auto 
 series at all. All this game is, is just a port from the Xbox to the 360. Terrible gameplay. The 
 only thing that was good about this game is nothing. Absolutely horrible. Ugly. Terrible. I don't 
 know what else to say because I totally hated this game. Though it did give me a lot of gamerscore 
 points. Oh well, some games are just made to be rented and this one proves it the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigH123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  How about a version of Grand Theft Auto set in the Old West? Great, it's called Gun and if that 
 sounds interesting to you you'll like this game. 
  
  In Gun you are Colton White. You begin the game by hunting with your friend Ned, who teaches you 
 the basics of the game. Pretty soon you are plunged into the action when the steamboat you take 
 gets ambushed. The story continues with well voiced characters, towns that actually exist in real 
 life, and an interesting plot.
  
  The gameplay is fun and introduces some things like your "Quickdraw" that's is just plain fun to 
 use to do slow motion killing of multiple enemies with your six shooter. You'll use it if you want 
 to do well and enjoy the accuracy of the deadliness it brings with it. 
  
  Don't forget to do the side missions, not only do they improve your stats a little, they keep the 
 game from being too quick. It would be a little short if you just rushed through the main quests 
 and skipped the side quests but why would you? 
  
  The graphics in this game are good, but not much better than they are on the original xbox and 
 certainly not as good as you would think it should be as an xbox 360 game to make it worth the 
 extra $10. But then again how are you going to get the achievements? ;) If you're addicted to them 
 as everybody else is you'll probably play this game, although maybe you'll just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is so much better than it's given credit for. 
  I really think that this game is underated, except for the graphics. The story is really well done, 
 the voice acting is great and the whole game is just very refreshing. There are no zombies, undead 
 of any sort, no super-human powers, nothing. It's all just Old West stuff. Even herding cattle. 
 It was a blast.
  
  The graphics are good, but not for the 360. They would have looked really good on the XBox.
  
 
  Sound is very good, but the music is almost too spares. A little more would have been good.
  
 
  The gameplay was great, but too short. I finished it in a weekend.
  
  I know that there are a lot of people who dismissed this game, but it is worth a look. Rent if 
 you have to, but there is some replayability here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  First of all I was never going to buy this game but thanks to the lovely bundle that I was forced 
 to purches I got it anyway.
  
  After beating the game I came away very surprised at how well the game kept me entertained and 
 interested. Gun was short as my review will be. 
  
  GRAPHICS - The Presentation is top notch but the visuals do not put to use the 360's power if you 
 look at the current gen version of the game you will see the only thing that has changes is that 
 the environments have higher resolution textures and that the character models are much more detailed. 
 I can forgive most of these shortcomings because the gameplay is solid.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Not much to say here but that the game is FUN. Its a third person shooter and its controls 
 are really good and are easy to learn. The adventures you go on are nicley varied and never get 
 to repiticious. I would go more into this but there is really no need.
  
  SOUND - The overall sound design in GUN is top notch. The voice acting is dead on and the music 
 really adds depth to the old west feel. The game did really feel like a movie at some points.
 
  
  OVERALL - GUN has to be the best western themed game I have ever played. I do hope for a sequel 
 and if the do make one I hope it will use the power of its intended system to its full potential.
 
  
  P. s. Since the game is short and has no online, unless you are really into westerns rent it do 
 not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game would be a knockout punch to any wildwest game if it was longer. The story is great but 
 short and if u dont do any side missions u can finish the game is several hours. Although some 
 boss battles take a while for example when u fight REED he can run away and heal himself and his 
 horse cannot be killed. I liked Jenny she is the whore in the story. But dont get to attached lemme 
 just say that blades and necks dont react well when combined. 
  THE GOOD: Quickdraw aka. bullettime was the main feature here allowing u to slow down time and 
 waste 5-10 guys in 10 sec. or so. Good story. Good physics.
  THE BAD: Short story and crude cutscenes that featured mediocre graphics even on the 360 version. 
 No multiplayer.
  
  I would suggest renting this great but short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I really think that this game is underated, except for the graphics. The story is really well done, 
 the voice acting is great and the whole game is just very refreshing. There are no zombies, undead 
 of any sort, no super-human powers, nothing. It's all just Old West stuff. Even herding cattle. 
 It was a blast.
  
  The graphics are good, but not for the 360. They would have looked really good on the XBox.
  
 
  Sound is very good, but the music is almost too spares. A little more would have been good.
  
 
  The gameplay was great, but too short. I finished it in a weekend.
  
  I know that there are a lot of people who dismissed this game, but it is worth a look. Rent if 
 you have to, but there is some replayability here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  Gun is a good game if your looking for the whole cowboy indian thing. The side missions are fun 
 and are what really keep the game interesting. The stroy; s plot has a good foundation which keeps 
 you wanting to finsih it. The basic stroy is quick and to the pont and can be done in about three 
 to four hours, which to me is a small part of the game. The downside to this game is no live capabillities, 
 not even a single player leaderboard. The control in this game are impecibe though as well as the 
 camera, the sound effects also are realistic and brings that much more to the game. The graphics 
 on the other hand look just like regular xbox, but the cut scenes aren't. The game gets bad reviews 
 to this, but the game is an all around good one, but if u think u can do it all in a rental period 
 then go for it. The achievements also are handed out as u go through the game and are relativly 
 easy. I give it a 7/10 just for the fun factor in the short amount of time.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Gun for the Xbox 360 is fun game and shows that great graphics don't make a game great. Gun for 
 the Xbox 360 looks better than the xbox and Ps2 versions but is not that big of an inprovement 
 over the PS2 and Xbox versions. The sound is very western like and makes you feel like your in the 
 old wild west. Now gameplay is where Gun really shines. Gun has a mix of action and rpg elements. You 
 can do side missions to improve your stat's such as gunhand, quickdraw, melee, and horse. As you progress 
 in the game you get more powerfull weapons and more side mssions will become avaliable so you can 
 become even more powerfull and your health will increase so you can take more damage. With the Xbox 
 360 version of Gun you can earn achivements to improve your gamerscore and gun has a good amount 
 of achivements to unlock like doing all the hunting., peace keeping, ranching, pony express, poker, 
 rescue side mission's and also mining every piece of gold. You also earn achievement's by compeleting 
 each difficulty level of gun. Overall Gun may not be the pretest game on Xbox 360 but it is a lot 
 of fun to play and great graphics don't make a game great, great gameplay is what makes a game great 
 and Gun delievers on that part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  GTA w/ Horses....
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Grand Theft Auto style playing, fun upgrades crashing horses*best part of the whole game* 
 Quickdraw mode is cool 
  Bad: repetitive missions, boring sidequests, bad plot.
  
  Graphics
  Good: ... this part was left intentionally blank
  Bad: I've seen Ps1 graphics better 
 and this is not acceptable with a next gen console.... goldeneyes guns look better
  
  Sound
  Good: good voice acting
  Bad: repetitive, too common
  
  Value
  A pretty good value 
 game for the 360, story and sidequests will give you something to do on your spare time, I'd rather 
 play GTA. No reason for the price jump on 360
  
  Overall
  Gun is a good game if your playing it for the xbox or ps2, but there is not much of a difference 
 for the 360 verison. Stray away from the 360 ver.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I liked this game much more than I thought but they sure did a quick job on it. Multiplayer would 
 have made this much more fun and the graphics are seriously weak! I loved all the cool stuff you 
 could do like scalp people and smack anyone around but it got old fast and it just seemed like 
 too primitve a game for Xbox 360. Especially when you have games like COD2. I enjoyed the game 
 but part way through the game froze and wouldn't get past the part I was at. Very sucky! Not a 
 bad try for a western though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place during the 1800's in Montana. You are Colton White, Your father, Ned white 
 is a hunter that looks to be in his early 50's. The story starts off as a hunting mission, Hunting 
 quail with your quickdraw which is like a slow-motion shooting FPS style play. After you kill a 
 humoungus Grizzly bear who nearly killed Ned, you get on a steam boat, and it is soon taken over 
 by out-laws. They kill your father... his last words wereTake this coin, Go to the Alhambra 
 in Dodge, ask for Jenny.". The only thing on Colton's mind now is. revenge. when you wash your body 
 on a river and man named "Honest Tom" will give you a horse and train you how to use it, He later 
 turns against you when you win a race to get one of his horses. When you end up at the Alhambra, 
 a brother of "Honest Tom" shows up and his "Red Hand Gang" Take over the city of Dodge, and you 
 must take it back. This is a basic over-view of the story of GUN. In my Humble opinion, This game 
 is kind of a Dissapointment, It's Short, but it's chuck loaded with Goodies, and story. I suggest 
 not spending $59.99 on this game and spending $4.99 on it renting it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  GUN was one game I was definately gonna get for my 360 and I am happy i did. While the game didn't 
 last as long as I had hoped, it was good enough for me.
  
  This long overdue western shooter is gritty as hell and should be considered when look for a good 
 rental game. The music is awesome but it lost a point for not enough variety (there is like 5 songs) . 
 I also didn't like that there was a very few amount of side missions and that this game can be 
 completed 100% within 20 hours. The gameplay is awesome and i love scalping enemies. 
  
  Pros:
  -Gameplay is smooth
  -It's GRITTY 
  -Riding horseback is way too much fun
  -Music 
 is good....
  
  Cons: 
  -.... for the first 1 hour then you put your custom soundtracks on.
  -cost $60 for no reason.
 
  -WAY too short
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a really good game and deserves more than a 6.4. It was a slightly better-graphically than 
 its Xbox game but the increased cost also doesn't really convince you to buy the game.
  
  Graphically, it's a minor, the texture in the game is nothing next-gen, but I guess with better 
 graphic card and anti-aliasing, everything looks that much better. Though graphic is not the strong 
 point of Gun, it also doesn't look as bad as Gamespot described it.
  
  I think the things you'll always remember about Gun is Quickdraw move, it practically make everything 
 slo-mo, giving a good look at the enemies for a headshot. It's the most addicting part of Gun and 
 the from the first time you unleash Quickdraw, you'll be hooked.
  
  Everyone raves about the story in Gun, but I really can't see what was so special about, there 
 was no plot twist or anything, but it was solid indeed, it kept me playing. The game is also one 
 of the bloodiest and most violent game out there, pushing that M rating to the extreme.
  
  The game is really short and doesn't hav any multiplayer mode, but when you run out of Xbox 360 
 games to play or never played the game on Xbox, I definately encourage any FPS fan to rent this 
 game. It fills the bill since it's short but a overall great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game a great story-line and honestly I dont know that many cowboy games that are 
 actually fun to play, but this game just isnt that good as I thought it would be. This game looks 
 exactly the same as the damn PC version the PS2/Xbox version also. This game is a waste of money 
 in my opinion just rent it for two days I gaurantee you will finish it then be bored of it by then. 
 Other than that the game gets boring so fast its just you end up shooting animals and raiding towns 
 non-stop eventually you complete all quests and theres no fun in the game it ends up as another 
 GTA 3-5 still sitting in your rack of unplayed games for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is acually a very fun game!!!!! Probally the best western game out there... But to this is 
 has many many setbacks!!!! Terrible graphics when the people are talking and stuff!!!! Way too 
 short esecially b/c there is no online play!!!! Do not waste your money on this game!! Rent it 
 if your looking for a fun western game!!! Pretty much the same as the xbox version!!! so spend 
 20$ istead of 60$ if you wanna buy it!!! But im gonna say No on Gun!!!!!! MY gamertag is bball3pthotshot 
 is you have any questions or if ya just wanna play send me a friend request. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Explore the Brutality that was the West. Those famous words clearly describe GUN, the latest game 
 from Tony Hawk developer Neversoft. Admittedly, I was skeptical about the fact that the skateboarding 
 genius will be venturing into an entirely different world, and genre for that matter to make a 
 new type of game. The outcome however is one of pure brilliance and remarkable storytelling of 
 the brutality that was the West.
  
  GUN starts out with a young hunter named Colton White, who goes out on a hunting trip with his 
 supposed father Ned, who is voiced brilliant by Kris Kristofferson. While learning the basics 
 during your hunting campaign, Colton soon finds himself aboard a steamboat being bombarded by dozens 
 of vicious Indians trying to kill him to locate a hidden treasure aboard the ship. While on the 
 ship Ned unwillingly tells Colton that he isnt his real father right before he plunges into the 
 deep.
  
  From that point on the story follows Colton as he ventures through the Wild West in search of answers 
 to his past, all the while exacting revenge on the people responsible for Neds death. After learning 
 how to ride a horse, and even trample enemies while on the horse, you can than venture almost anyone 
 you want in the huge world. Although there are only two towns within the game, Dodge and Empire 
 City, the world is full of other explorable places such as caves, Indian forts, trading camps, 
 and more. Empire City, the larger of the two definitely has more to look at than Dodge, which consists 
 on only around ten different buildings. It is kind of a letdown to see that the massive world of 
 GUN is only limited to about 30% actual places where you can visit and interact. But I digress.
 
  
  After finding your way to Dodge City, Colton learns how to master his gun by using a skill called 
 Quickdraw, which essentially slows down time for you to get that perfect shot on your opponent. 
 Next to your health bar, there is a Quickdraw bar, which depletes when in use, but will recharge 
 when you hit or kill an enemy. Quickdraw is basically the main combat mechanic in the game, as 
 when you are using it, it is nearly impossible to get hit, and it can be used in tight spots to 
 avoid heavy damage. 
  
  Besides your gun however, Colton has a bevy of weapons at his disposal. Throughout the story Colton 
 will achieve these weapons by completing missions. Swords, Sniper Rifles, Shotgun, Pistols, and 
 even Bows will all be added to your inventory. These weapons come fast, and by the end of the game 
 Colton could have amassed nearly twenty different weapons to choose from. However despite the fact 
 Colton has that much weapons, the chance to use over half of them rarely come. Once you receive 
 your first rifle, two missions later you will get a brand new one, which of course is more enhanced 
 than the last one. Thus, this makes your other rifle inferior, yet you can still choose it in the 
 inventory menu, which boggles my mind. If you dont feel like going gung-ho with your guns into 
 the thick of battle, than there is always your trusty hatchet, sword or whatever melee weapon you 
 have at that point, which can be used in a gruesome, yet satisfying matter.
  
  The missions in the game are very spread out. They will range from protecting Chinamen working 
 on a bridge from savages, to taking out bandits causing havoc in the city. Each mission has its 
 own little reward, and no two missions are ever alike. The main story however is very short, completion 
 could take only around 7-20 hours, depending on how long it takes to complete certain missions. 
 Some missions are as easy as going to a certain place and finding a guy, while some have you taking 
 out every guy in the area. They are fun and disperse but they seem too short to actually continue 
 on the breathtaking pace of the story. If you want to get more out of the game, there are plenty 
 of side missions to ease your hunger pains throughout GUN. Wanted missions, which have you track 
 down criminals for cash, hunting missions, which has you kill a certain type of animal, and even 
 Poker Tournament, which has you competing in Texas Hold Em against heavily trained AI opponents, 
 are all available and at your disposal for easy money making and time consuming fun.
  
  The graphics seems to take a downward spiral however in the game. Although they look good for todays 
 standards, being on a next-gen system with blurry locales and buggy and choppy cutscenes just almost 
 wont cut it. With some more axel grease I bet the game could have looked spectacular.
  
  The story is definitely one of the highlights of the game. Although admittingly short, the game 
 showcases just how lawless and brutal the West truly was. Almost everyone Colton runs into has 
 a dislike to him, and well in order to not reveal any of the story, nothing else will be said. 
 The story finds Colton doing various missions and visiting different places in order to find truth 
 to the basis behind Neds death. What treasure was on that boat? Did they kill Ned for that treasure? 
 All of these questions are answered throughout the campaign. 
  
  Besides the heavily toted story, the sound stands out as the main point in GUN. Kris Kristofferson 
 and Tom Jane are definitely the standouts as main characters Ned and Colton White. Both portray 
 their characters with expert finesse and seriousness. Every weapon also had an accurate sound and 
 never has a game had such outstanding achievements In the sound effects department. Even the music 
 in the game is top notch, speeding up for those intense gun battles, and slowing down for those 
 nice strolls through the town of Empire.
  
  Everything about GUN places together so beautifully and completely engages the player in one well 
 oiled game. Although the game itself is rather short, it is a thrilling ride while it lasts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Despite what the critics say, this game was awesome!! I had a lot of fun beating it. There are 
 many achievments to keep you busy. The side missions are a whole other game in itself. If you stick 
 to the story line and dont play any of the side missions, then it can be over in a few hours. If 
 you get bored with the story line and you want to get some achievments and money and stats, then 
 the side missions are the way to go. My personal favorite was the hunting side mission, where you 
 get to hunt all over the map to find one particular animal then shoot it in the head with a bow 
 and arrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  In this game called "GUN" you play as Colton white and when you father is killed on a steam boat 
 by a bunch of bandits you go out to find out who had killed him. 
  
  Gameplay: It's very neat I really liked about this game was the quick draw action but it's kind 
 of strange that you don't have to reload but i liked it anyways. I found that some of the missions 
 in the game is really short and could of had a deeper story to it or haveing more to do to accompish 
 that mission. The side quest do not make the game any long you can easly go them in 5-10 minutes 
 tops. There is horse back ride which is pretty cool because you get to trample people and i found 
 it easy to shoot people on horse back. Also there is alot of blood when you shoot your opponet 
 or slash them with your Bowie knife or tamahawk. There are different level of difficulty so you 
 can try your skills a few time. Other then this the gameplay is quite enjoyable and satisfaying.
 
  
  Graphics: They are not the Greatest but they are still very detialed. The Cinamatics coulld of 
 been a little better but it was still nice to watch.
  
  Value: Once you played it though once you may want to play it though again though the different 
 difficalty settings.
  
  In the end this is a great game but it's a little short. I hope that the company will make a second 
 one with a longer story more blood and gore and different strory. I give this game 8.5 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kageha
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Gun is an open-ended mission-based third person shooter set in the wild west. The term 'Grand Theft 
 Equine' springs to mind but that statement would do a bit if disservice to some of the interesting 
 mechanics brought to the table by Gun.
  
  You are Colton White. You have spent the bulk of your life living off the land under the guide 
 of your father, Ned. However, that would be a rather uninteresting story so it isn't long before 
 you've boarded an ill-fated steamboat, met a secretive prostitute, bumped into a less-than-virtuous 
 preacher, and learned that Ned 'ain't your father'. Things just go downhill from there.
  
  Gameplay:
  I'm not going to sugar-coat it. Gun is short. The main story missions can be blown 
 through in one sitting on the lower difficulties. Luckily, there are a number of side-missions 
 that can be completed. These add a nice extra layer to the gameplay at times given you chances 
 to rescue hostages, hunt down criminals, and learn to wrangle cattle to name a few. The benefit 
 of these missions is that they increase your stats such as gunslinging, horse riding, etc. and 
 also get you some extra scratch to spend on weapon upgrades.
  
  The controls are spot-on and responsive. It is particularly easy to pick up and play. The early 
 stages do an outstanding job of getting you acclimated to the control scheme, though sadly you 
 need to complete them every time you start a new game. Before long you will be a deadeye even on 
 horseback, switching weapons quickly and effectively, and dropping 10 baddies before they even 
 fire a single bullet thanks to you slow-motion 'quickdraw' ability. All-in-all the gameplay itself 
 is very satisfying.
  
  Visuals:
  Ouch. This is where the ball is dropped. It's almost as if the developers didn't even try to make 
 use of the hardware. While I can understand that a compete revamp would take more time and money 
 than I'm sure they felt like giving up, it still would have been nice to give the visuals some 
 attention.
  
  That said, the characters themselves look quite good. Their textures are sharp and exhibit decent 
 normal mapping to add some extra depth. Where they truly shine, however, is in their in-game cutscene 
 animation.
  
  The environments don't get so much love. Muddy textures adorn the landscape. Thankfully there is 
 very little draw-in despite being able to see for great distances.
  
  Audio:
  The audio here is certainly a strong point. The voice-acting is phenominal. Thomas Jane voices 
 our protagonist with the likes of Kris Kristofferson as the grizzly Ned and Lance Henrikson as 
 the dastardly McGruder. Inspired choices.
  
  Other sounds aren't as noteworthy but certainly get the job done just fine. Most of the weapons 
 of the same classifications sound essentially the same. Music you won't even notice.
  
  Bottom Line:
  There are a number of side missions and difficulty settings that can pad out the 
 play time but no matter what you do this game is short. There was a great deal of potential here 
 to create somethig truly amazing but it ultimately falters.
  
  The game is, non the less, very enjoyable and I would strongly recommend you play through it. Much 
 satisfaction can come from beating all four difficulties (Insane... is) and getting all the achievements. 
 But, even still, rent it and save the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdesign
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm currently playing the game Gun on my 360 and I'm having a very hard time wanting to keep playing 
 it and/or finishing it to say the least.
  So much more detail could have been put into this game to make it 360 worthy... but at last.... it 
 fell short.
  1) I'm not really sure why this game was released as a 360 game.... regular xbox, okay fine.... but 
 360.... WHY!!! 
  2) Let me start off with the graphics of this game. The mountains and cliffs look boxy, ridged, 
 and somewhat amateur night when it comes to modeling and textures. Next comes the water.... what 
 happened here??? There appears to be water in this game, but with little movement with character 
 interaction, unless it's a waterfall (which isn't great by any means either) .... there appears to 
 be water in this game, but it doesn't splash (it has very small ripples) or have any reflections 
 to it. So why in the world even put it in the game... all looks no substance.... come on!
  3) Lastly... I thought the Ol' West was supposed to be gritty, dirty, and even somewhat very dark 
 in nature... but Gun doesn't seem to reach that. It has blood, violence, and cursing.... but where 
 is the detail with that as well. The viewer can see blood, but it doesn't get that gruesome. The 
 viewer can hear fowl language... but it's not as fowl as I thought it would have been.
  
  All in all I say this game should be a game to play when you have nothing else in front of you 
 to do.... I know that's why I'm playing it right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  In order to get an idea of where I'm coming from, I'll let you know that I bought GUN about a week 
 before the 360 launch. I anticipated being able to get a 360 on launch day (I know, I know) , but 
 I ended up staring at the box for well over a month ... just eager to play it. It is not a genre 
 that is touched upon very often in gaming, and I had high hopes for this game.
  
  My first impressions were good, however, we all know that first impressions don't count for everything 
 in the gaming world.
  
  The Good:
  - I thought aiming with the analog controller would prove annoying, but it was suprisingly well 
 tuned. The quickdraw mode was a good addition.
  - I like western movies and scenery, and the game is able to add nice backgrounds to add to the 
 overall effect (however, see below) .
  - You have a horse to get you around, and they can be fun as well (also see below) .
  
  The 
 Bad: 
  -There were about three different character models for the typical enemy, and after the 100th kill, 
 you feel like you're killing resurrected zombies of the same person. 
  - The music was promising ... but it loops about every five minutes ... and it dramatically detracts 
 from the drama of it. 
  - Annoying messages that won't go away telling you to go do a certain mission, even though there 
 are quite a few side missions.
  
  The Downright Ugly:
  - I got 100% completion of the game in under a week with normal gameplay time.
  - The game has 
 almost 0 replay value. I ended up entertaining myself by blowing up horses (Best Part of the Game!) 
 :-p
  - Empty environment. As pretty as the backgrounds are, it is nowhere close to being the "wide open 
 country" it appears to be. There are boundaries and it is indeed a small map. 
  
  I think the game just had bursting potential. It was unable to capture the desired feel of a true 
 western. RENT IT! You will be satisfied, as it can be beaten in a week's time and you will pat 
 yourself on the back for not investing $60 into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowpet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  A fine storie. But i'm not shure yet, about the game. First i find the graphic "not so good" and 
 thats a shame, because of the power 360 have.
  But its a good game to play, when you have a little exstra time for your self
  and relax to. 
 First i played the hyped "Dark Zero" and get dissapointet, well i guess i get it "2" now. So i 
 get my Ferrari, Porche etc. in Gotham Racing and wait for another shot in the future. I wait wait 
 wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait waitwait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait 
 venter bventer venter venter venter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Gun has an amazing story. If you are big on that, this game will intrigue you. However, if you 
 purchased the game for your 360 thinking it was going to be a great western for the next-gen, you 
 would be wrong.
  
  While the game itself is alot of fun, it doesn't hold up to the standards of the 360. It is clearly 
 a direct port of the xbox version, and nothing looks different. Maybe in HD it looks a little better, 
 but generally, nothing was changed.
  
  Game play is fairly simple, and the intro tutorial story walks you through most of the controls 
 (though is somewhat annoying) . There were a few things that weren't explained perfectly, but after 
 a little bit of practice I was able to figure them out (Spurring the horse comes to mind. If you 
 hit the button to spur the horse, it gives you a speed boost as explained. But if you don't hold 
 down the button, the speed boost goes away immediately and is wasted) .
  
  The controls are a little awkward, mainly on horseback, but all in all it was a decent job. 
 
  
  The game is short. I spent a few days playing it and within that time was able to beat the game 
 on normal difficulty, finish all of the side quests, purchase every upgrade, and find every gold 
 rock. I had alot of fun doing it, but it was short lived and once finished there isn't any real 
 reason to go back and do it again.
  
  The side quests are more a waste of time than anything else. The bonuses they offer are nice, but 
 they are repetitive and after a couple of them you get sick of it. 
  
  The world is pretty big, and there are some interesting things to it, but overall there's a very 
 empty feeling to it. The towns are populated, but with very overused models and there isn't much 
 uniqueness to the life of the town.
  
  For the style of game, it's just too empty and too restrictive to allow it to be a great game. 
 For the genre, it was well done, with a great story, good actors, and a decent sense of the wild 
 west. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the gameplay is sweet gun slinging heaven. Don't let all the critics take that away from Gun. 
 The only problem is that you may have a bit TOO much freedom. As we all know.. too much gameplay 
 freedom can make for a game that is way too easy. The shooting is smooth and fun. I swear you could 
 handle as many enemies as can fit on the screen. I have to admit... I thought I was just a freaking 
 awesome gamer after playing this. I mean, I schooled this game.. then I came online and found out 
 that everybody beat this game in a day .. so it wasn't a feat or anything. Looking back on it there 
 were only 2 bosses that will give you any trouble at all.
  The minigames like hunting, poker, and herding cattle could have been SO MUCH MORE!! If you could 
 have owned a ranch.. played cards anytime you want.. (instead of just for missions) and if the 
 outcome meant something.. that would have helped the replay value alot! The world was absolutely 
 tiny too. You could literally run from one side of the world to the other in a matter of a few 
 minutes. In fact, you will do this a few times in the game for missions.
  Graphics aren't as bad as people say. They definately don't blow you away.. and after forking over 
 $400 for a 360 .. you just expect more. The sound in the game isn't anything to write home about. 
 The expected western music. I did like the voice acting though.
  The game basically has no value because it is so short. RENT IT! I'm telling you. I felt like a 
 genius sending this game back to gamefly. Once you beat it it has nothing to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervlahovic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Man this game was great it took some time and the games buget had one yeah no crappy voice overs 
 and bishop from aliens !!!!!! yeah so anyways im a native american and i belive that this game 
 was great does it really offened me no cause its a game many people dont play a game but attack 
 quicky likey FOR EXAMPLE the movie neoplion dynimte you know i was hesitent to see it cause it 
 thought it was going to be stupid and guess what it was worst it was the crappyist movie ever and 
 now i can say that with pride it was like watch made and bevis and butthead soooooooooo boring 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  This is the latest 360 game that I have acquired for my shiny new console and I have to say, it 
 is the most disappointing game I have played yet on the 360.
  
  To be honest, it looks more like a standard Xbox game and not a next-gen game for the best console 
 on the market right now.
  
  I wonder if the game was rushed out so that it was available at launch as the visuals look a little 
 rough around the edges and sometimes even blurry and the gameplay swings from 'great' to 'what 
 happened there.'
  
  On a positive side, the voice acting is fantastic and adds to the games atmosphere. Riding a horse 
 is fun, once you have mastered it and the shoot outs are fast and furious.
  
  There is way too much swearing in the game, more than is needed I think and I did not know that 
 so much blood in a body.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is a short game and I completed it in about 10 hours. The story is not too bad 
 although it does seem to go all over the place but comes together in the end.
  
  As this is the only game of it's type out at the moment for the 360, there is nothing for it to 
 compete against but I would probably be tempted not to buy it but to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  It's true that Gun for Xbox 360 may be a crappy Xbox port, it's still worth at least renting. I 
 played the Xbox version and bought this, and (not considering my TV isn't HD... yet) there is nothing 
 different. For a 360 game the graphics are actually pretty medicore. I do enjoy the blood effects 
 though, especially head-shots.
  
  The story is short, but like any GTA veteran, I like to get my skills up as high as I can before 
 I move on. The side missions are pretty interesting, although I think there should have been more. 
 The hunting levels were fun but it seemed impossible to kill something with a bow and arrow like 
 you were supposed to.
  
  The sound is pretty good, considering I'm playing it on a 19" Sharp made in 1999. 
  
  Gameplay 
 is where the heart of the game is. From horseback shootouts to becoming Sherrif to outlaw, this 
 game has everything you want in a western shoot-em-dead game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The western Genre is perhaps the most underused in gaming. Only a handful of western games have 
 seen the light of day. Gun is the latest attempt to cash in on this market. Gun tells the story 
 of Colton White, a young game hunter who finds himself caught in a steamboat ambush. During the 
 ambush Colton's father is ambushed and sets in motion a plot of revenge.
  
  Make no mistake Gun is a very fun game to play. the shooting action is very satisfying and the 
 side mission are fun in thier own right. The story missions are quite short and the entire game 
 could be completed quite quickly if you ignored the side missions. Fortunatly the side missions 
 reward you well enough and are fun enough to make them well worth doing. Side mission include Texas-Hold'em 
 tournaments, pony express delivery missions, bounty hunting, and even ranching. Completing these 
 side missions upgrades your characters stats and gives you cash to spend on other upgrades.
  
  The second problem with the XBox 360 version is the graphics. This game looks exactly like 
 a XBox game, perhaps worse. It is really a shame that more care wasn't taking in creating the 360 
 port, it really had potential to be a beatiful game.
  
  While I really enjoyed my time with it I really don't see how you can justify $60 for this game. 
 But if you are looking for a excellent rental, look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higgins195
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game was very short it only took me about 8 hours to 100% complete it. During those 8 
 hours though the game was pretty fun. If they would have added more things to do after you beat 
 the game like maybe some "random" events like your riding your horse from dodge to Empire and your 
 run into a Wagon convoy that is under attack by bandits or Indians. If there is gonna be a sequel 
 they should make it longer but overall the game was alright. It was fun riding horses and getting 
 into gunfights but the campaign was to easy and short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FergieCR123
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and I'm ready to give my review after only a few missions. The game's story 
 line is great. However, that being said, the game play isn't that great. The horse riding mechanics 
 aren't that great, the gun mechanics are okay. The game feels clunky and awkward. That graphics 
 are nice and give a good western feel, so does the sound. If you are really looking for a good 
 western game, get Red Dead Revolver. That game is pretty solid. This game isnt bad but it isnt 
 a next gen game, and it isnt extremely fun.
  
  I am also appalled by the way the portrayed the natives in this game. They make them out to be 
 yelling, dumb, savages which is bad. All in all, dont buy this game but it is worth a rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I think this game is definately worth playing as it is Grand Theft Auto meets the Wild West. The 
 gameplay is pretty open, allowing you to do pretty much whatever you want. There are plenty of 
 missions and things to do to keep you busy, however to finish the game does not require all that 
 much time. Horseback riding has never been cooler, and the quickdraw mode is pretty sweet as he 
 can kill several enemies within seconds... There are a range of weapons at your disposal and since 
 the game is adult themed, that adds a little crazy action to it. I would definately recommend this 
 game to anyone who enjoys free roam games with plenty of additional missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutux1x
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is one of those "This was fun but just too short" type of games. I would of rather just bought 
 it for the ps2 for the graphics don't even show off any of 360's true power. The graphics are barely 
 better than xbox or ps2, but the gameplay does save it, even though this game is pretty easy and 
 quick to beat they do give you a good amount of mini games to try and complete as well which are 
 fun in themselves. The mini-games consist of poker games, hunting challenges, and wanted poster 
 challeneges if I remember right. But the story mode is kind of rushed too much to really get into 
 it, for if you wanted to just complete the game straight on it wouldn't take too much time to do 
 that. This is at best a renter for it just lacks any real depth to keep you playing again and again, 
 but I would recomend that you at least rent it for either the 360, ps2, or even xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  How should Istart.... this game is... good. This is the best western/ cowboy game I ever played.
 
  
  Gameplay- third person shooter with nice enviroment. Shoot em up game. 8/10
  
  Graphics- not good. this is actually a port of the xbox version. Doesn't show the power of the 
 360. But the most incredible thing of this game is the voice acting. Every character has a great 
 voice. 7/10
  
  Sound- well not much to say here. Uses old western music.
  
  Singleplayer- this game takes place after the Civi War. I ex-Condederation general is looking are 
 rare artifact. I havent finished the game yet but quite fun.
  
  Overall- fun game, average graphics, normal sound. Its worth renting game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. A bit like Red Dead Revolver but with better graphics/gameplay/storyline. 
 I would recommend renting this game rather than buying it because it does not have much replay 
 value. This game is on the short end of the clock if you only do a few side missions. However, 
 I would consider the game length just right if you do all the side missions. I think this game 
 deserves better than a 6.4. That rating is a bit harsh. I would say 8-8.5. The stat tracker is 
 pretty nice and adds a new feature that I have not seen before for this type of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Gun is great game in many ways, Though it's very short. In the game you can see how many procents 
 of the game you have done. First it felt pretty good, but when I come to a little bit over 50% 
 the game was over! that's not good! But you can still play the side missions after you have finished 
 the game story. So almost 50% of the game is side missions. But the gameplay was the best I ever 
 played! The feature of riding a horse is very good. It's very fun to just ride around in one of 
 the cities. Many say this is a easy game. I finished the game after like 4 days but you don't think 
 about how easy it is when you play. Only if it weren't so short! You really don't care much about 
 the grafics either. At least I didn't... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a game that succeeds its standards and turned out to be a very enthralling action/adventure 
 western.... It's just too bad that the Xbox 360 got the short end of the stick..... It's nothing 
 more than a port, and an old-gen game, making the Xbox 360 feel like its an Xbox all over again.... Don't 
 get me wrong, Gun is an amazing game... it's just better to be played on the original Xbox rather 
 than on the 360 for 2 major reasons....
  
  1) The graphical quality is dated for the 360, with it being simply a port.
  
  2) The high 
 price tag will have you kicking yourself in the cohones in the long run. 
  
  Graphics
  Sorry to say that this is the worst part of being a port. The graphics are dated and old-generation 
 Xbox graphics. If this were being reviewed for the Xbox, then I would be more leniant, but this 
 is the Xbox 360 we're talkin about here... The BIG guns.... But yea, the character models are mediocre, 
 and the environments as a whole are decent, considering the game is a port. Other variables, such 
 as weapons feel solid, and the lighting is nicely done. Other than that, the game pretty much satisfies, 
 if you can overlook it being a port, and the 60 bucks on the pricetag.
  
  Sound
  Simply western style music.... Especially the voice acting.... Praise the producer who casted Thomas 
 Jane as Colton.... He is definitely the new age badass in games and film... Also there is other great 
 voice overs and cameos by Ron Perlman, and Kris Kristofferson as well. Other than the sound, what 
 is also a nice little feat for this game being a port, is having you own custom soundtracks to 
 listen to.... Nothing quite satisfies more than playing the Good, Bad and the Ugly theme in the 
 backround while youre riding into the sunset on your trusty steed.
  
  Control
  Pretty tight and solid. The quick draw feature will have you hooked and aiming for those one hit 
 kills.... Also riding on a horse has never been more fun since the controls are pretty responsive 
 as a whole.... Believe me, the horse is way easier to control than that freakin' stubborn bastard 
 horse from Shadow of the Collossus..... Jesus, you need a fookin' bulldozer to steer that thing.... But 
 yea, overall the control scheme is pretty well done, and will leave with no problems in the long 
 run.
  
  Replay Value
  The one complaint I have other than this game being a port, is the length of this title.... I mean 
 the story is kick ass... The characters are likeable, and the immersion of a GTA style western world 
 is amazing..... But the game is barely 10 hours long.... The story will have you hooked, but craving 
 for more in the end.... Sorry Activision, but you'll just have to add more onto the story next time 
 to ensure replay value.... But don't get me wrong, there are tons of unlockables, and a lot to go 
 back for in the end.
  
  Overall
  If this were an Xbox review of Gun, I would of given it a nearly perfect score... But being a port, 
 it does have its flaws, but overall I enjoyed this game... The length will have you yearning for 
 more, and the graphics are sub par, and the price tag might have you clenching your genetalia in 
 agony, but besides that Gun is a game that delivers a fast-paced, free roaming kick ass action/adventure 
 that anybody could enjoy with a sense of style and craving for a short, but sweet journey into 
 the old west. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about this game? It just is. Lets gat the normal format going.
  
  First the good. Well, the game play on this game was ok. I think one of the best parts of the game 
 was the knife attack. Im not saying that the guns were not cool, but there was nothing new about 
 them. Dark watch had a better assortment of guns and features. The graphics were ok. The voiceovers 
 were a nice touch I must say. A good known cast always make things a lot better in any game. I 
 really liked the quick draw. This gave it a few more points in my book. It was just fun to mess 
 around with. Finally, the story wasnt too bad either.
  
  Now for the bad. I thought the graphics could have been a whole lot better for being a next gen 
 game. It looked better on the xbox1. The game control could have been a lot tighter and smooth. 
 The story was good but as short as a drinking night in jail. I also wasnt impressed with the character 
 make up either. They didnt have smooth movement. I dont really want to jump on the band wagon 
 and say this game is bad, but it isnt number one on my list.
  
  Over all I say give it a good rent then a good bye.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Clocking in at around ten hours, GUN is the perfect rental. An interesting storyline with varied 
 and entertaining missions and a healthy amount of side quests, GUN will keep you busy and entertained 
 until you reach 100% completion, which takes around ten to twelve hours. Past that, theres very 
 little replay value, so I wouldnt be surprised if people who dropped $60 feel a little swindled.
 
  
  The games story is flushed out with the help of some top-notch voice acting, provided by the likes 
 of Kris Kristofferson, Lance Henriksen, and Tom Viper Skerritt. There are the plot twists youd 
 expect from any good Western, as well as a healthy amount of violence in the game.
  
  The side missions are a meaty addition, featuring Pony Express rider, federal marshal, and bounty 
 hunter missions (think tracking down people from wanted posters) , and even a Texas Hold Em tournament. 
 
  
  Accomplishment points on the 360 version steer you in the right direction by giving a handful of 
 points for completing every stage in the game, and more points for completing each series of side 
 missions.
  
  Its remarkable that the wealth of Old West information has gone largely untouched recently by 
 game developers, but GUN is definitely a step in the right direction. I hope with the apparent 
 cancellation of a sequel, other developers will take up the torch and make an entertaining, open-ended 
 and lengthy Western adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical about trying this game due to the lackluster review that gamespot gave it. I must 
 say that I think GS missed the mark on this one. I found GUN to be one of the most fun games I've 
 played on the 360 so far. I'm having a blast with it. It's a little short and the graphics aren't 
 really an improvement over the xbox but the gameplay and story are still great. They did a great 
 job with the voice talent too.
  
  Don't miss this game because of the review you see here. It's worth a try on any system but you 
 may be a bit dissapointed in the graphics on the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakalou
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I first started playing it, I knew the game Gun would excellent fun for me. It 
 was such a fun game for me that I didn't put it down for about a week in which I beat. And that's 
 me being serious. Finding any other game as good for me on the 360 would be a complete challenge 
 for me (including the other four I have right now, too) as I fell totally in love with this game 
 almost on my contact with it. Playing this one should be fun for anyone would likes FPS's or the 
 whole Western genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, the western genre is really lacking. I really enjoy western titles, such as Red 
 Dead Revolver. The bad thing is the few western games that come out are not too hot. This holds 
 true with GUN. For one, GUN has absolutley horrible graphics for the Xbox 360. The graphics could 
 have easily been done on the PS2. There is nothing next-gen about the game, early Xbox if anything. 
 The sound in the game is pretty good, although nothing special. Not much to say about the sound 
 except its there and pretty standered. Voice acting isn't bad, isn't good. As for the gameplay, 
 its pretty good. The horseback riding is fun and the shooting is pretty solid. Overall, the gameplay 
 is standard. The actual storyline in the game is really short and isn't anything special. If it 
 weren't for the side missions, you could probably finish this game in about an hour. There are 
 a decent amount of side missions, such as a postal service (Pony Express) or just keeping the peace, 
 but that being said they don't do anything special. But you can have fun with this game, its consist 
 of a decent size world that you can roam around and its really fun to spur your horse to death. 
 In all, I'd rent this game at most. Looks like were going to have to wait for Red Dead Revolver 
 2 and see if they can get a western game right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKrewforlifexX
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  
  Story- Gun is game that is in the time era of the expanding West. Your character Colton White Uncovers 
 his past threw out the game. The Story begins with you hunting animals with your "Father" Ned. 
 Until Ned and yourself are trapped on a hijacked boat of these Naval guys.
  
  Graphics- This game does not take advantage of the Xbox 360. The graphics almost exactly look like 
 the xbox. So in the end they arent exactly next-Generation.
  
  Overall- don't get me wrong this game has it's goods and bads. the intense gun fighting is incredbly 
 fun. The game also has a side quests, weapons, objectives and a great Free roaming enviorment. 
 In the end this came could or would've been great and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkerson12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  i thought the game was a cool exciting game. The gameplay was awsome but the graphics weren't. 
 I felt that they could have been much better. The side missions were cool but at times you fet 
 that you should ear more money. Also there should have been more side missions cause you would 
 go through them pretty fast. I thought the map for Gun was awsome it had the same feeling as grand 
 theft auto cause you could go where ever you wanted on the map. I would still recommend buying 
 this game though it had ok graphic the gameplay makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  To say that I am a fan of the old west is an understatement. Some of my favorite films, directors, 
 and TV shows have to do with that period of Americas history. It was a time when men and women 
 forged themselves in the heat and challenge that was the westward expansion of our great nation. 
 So needless to say every time there is a game out about the old west I get real excited. I am here 
 to say that Gun is the first game that really captures the sprit of this genre that we have seen 
 from Hollywood for so long.
  
  Story
  
  You are Colton White and you have the adventure of a lifetime ahead of you. As the story begins, 
 you and your father (played by the great Kris Kristofferson) are on a riverboat. This wild eyed 
 preacher shows up, and causes the destruction of the boat and the death of your dad. From there 
 it is a wild tale of revenge that grabs on and does not let go. You spend the rest of the game 
 going after the villains that played a part in Neds death, and also finding out the truth of your 
 past. I have to say that this game has one of the best storylines of anything I have played in 
 quite sometime.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game is very simple to pick-up, but impossible to put down. There are so many aspects to this 
 game I am really not sure where to start. You have so many elements that evolve at the same time 
 it really adds to the depth of gameplay. The controls are very intuitive to learn. Whether you 
 are running around and shooting or riding you horse across the badlands, you have a real sense 
 of the expanse that early cowboys and settlers saw everyday. I hate to make generalized or clich 
 statements but the best way to explain this game is The Good The Bad and The Ugly meets Grand Theft 
 Auto. After making your way through a decent legenth single player story, you have loads and loads 
 of side missions and jobs you can do to keep the game going, but I will have more on that later. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  This game really reminded me of the kind of sights you would see in a classic Sergio Leone movie 
 from the 1970s. That kind of western landscape that we only know of in legend that made up why 
 we love this part of our history. As you progress in the game you find yourself traveling between 
 Doge City and Empire. On your way from Empire back to Dodge you come across this fence line overlooking 
 this amazing river view. I found myself coming back to this scene a lot because I was just stunned 
 at the beauty of this scene. The wide-open expanses of this game just make this beautiful and unparallel 
 of anything I have ever scene. It is stunning and you will really do yourself wrong not to pick 
 this game up if not for the graphics alone.
  
  Audio
  
  Like all 360 games, you can add your own music to any game. There was something just great about 
 playing this game while listening to some old Johnny Cash and Waylon Jennings albums. Riding through 
 the mountains and listening to that classic kind of western music was great. The effects in this 
 game are great as well. The echoes of gunfire that bounce off the red rock canyon are of Hollywood 
 caliber. The cut scenes of the game have a great cinematic quality and the audio really adds to 
 these. 
  
  
  
  Depth and Fun Factor
  
  It has been a very long time since I have played a game that really made me want to finish all 
 side missions and jobs. Ask anyone who knows me, and they know I am a huge fan of the GTA series. 
 But even those, I have never been compelled to finish 100% of the game. Gun was the first game 
 in a long time that made me want to finish a game to full completion. The fun of this game is bar 
 none. This was a perfect choice for a 360 launch title. This game has a depth that is off the charts. 
 To the point that for me, it almost became a compulsion. I was driven to keep finishing all the 
 missions and side games just to keep this going. The only thing that would make this game one of 
 the best ever would have been an online component. This would have been an amazing title to develop 
 and expand with an online experience. I can only hope that we a sequel to this game and it adds 
 in the online factor.
  
  Overall Comment
  
  If Sam Peckinpah and Sergio Leone could have made a video game, they would have made Gun. This 
 is a game that captures the spirit and fun of the old west like nothing I have ever seen in this 
 genre. I would recommend this game to anyone, and on any platform. It really shines graphically 
 on the Xbox 360, but the story exists across all of them. My only gripe is the lack of the online 
 experience. I only hope that Activison makes a sequel to this game. The have an amazing franchise 
 on their hands, and it could go on for quite sometime.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay GUN comes to us courtesy of Neversoft.... most famous for the Tony Hawk games. Now I know what 
 your'e thinking "how can Neversoft make a good action game when all they know about is skating?" 
 well..... I'm about to answer that as best I can. You play as Colton White... a young man who gets 
 caught in something so big it hit him like an exploding ferry.
  
  Gameplay: This is gonna get a little rough so bear with me. GUN is really a standard 3rd person 
 action/adventure game. It combines shooter aspects with a hint of melee, and grabbing. There is 
 an all popular feature called gunslinger mode where you go into 1st person and everything slooows 
 on down so you can pick off enemies one by one...... (like we all didn't see the bullettime thing 
 coming yeah right) . Your given all sorts of weapons from a standard six shooter, to a long range 
 rifle, to a bow and arrows. The inventory system is easy to manage, and choosing what firearm you 
 want in heated situations is a breeze. The aiming of weapons can get really tedious, especially 
 when foes are on horseback. Riding horses is really fun, and makes you feel like you just stepped 
 into the the Good the Bad and the Ugly. The fact that you can kill your horse by spuring him too 
 much is kind of retarded though.... I mean the last time I checked it took more than a light tap 
 to the midsection to take a strong animal like a horse down. AI is honestly.... horrible... I remember 
 the mission where you had to protect the chinamen from the attacking Apaches, when the Apaches 
 would reach the chinamen..... they would just stand there instead of running for their lives. Also 
 your allies will just stand in the middle of a battle instead of getting to cover.
  
  Graphics: There Really is no difference between the Xbox360 version... and the other 1st generation 
 consoles, they all have the same textures, models, even framerate. Character models look great 
 and are well animated in cutscenes. However when it comes to in game, they're all kind of stiff. 
 Animation in game is seriously ugly.... with hella' glitches. There are occasions where you or the 
 people around you can run right through various world objects..... I once saw a horse fuse right 
 into another horse.
  
  Audio: This is the true highlight of GUN. The Audio is beautiful. Neversoft gathered a grade A 
 cast, with Thomas Jane as Colton, Kris Kristofferson, and Lance Henrikson, just to name a few. 
 There is an Orchestrated score and it sounds beautiful, like music (literally) to your ears.
  
  Overall: It's not the best..... but it's far from bad. Definitely better than 50cents Bulletproof 
 (I'm sorry but that is just the worst game I have ever played besides rascal) . If you like the 
 old west, and you like open ended action/adventure games, give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanamaJack445
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Gun is definitely worth renting but not worth buying (at least not brand new) . Gun, being Neversoft's 
 first serious release in some time, left me a bit taken with anticipation for the title however, 
 after having played it I must say Neversoft is certainly capable of better. Perhaps too many Tony 
 Hawk games has left their dev team with creative mental blockage.
  
  Now I hate to read reviews for this game where the reviewer states that the game play is "repetitive" 
 when this game is most definitely a shooter. In my opinion any game classified as a "shooter" is 
 destined to contain repetitive game play on some level or another. However what makes a shooter 
 interesting and worth playing is the action, the non-stop intensity, and the storyline. As far 
 as action is concerned Neversoft did an excellent job of making sure that the game is filled with 
 enemies for you to eviscerate or in some cases vice versa. But as far as non-stop intensity is 
 concerned, this game certainly contains its fair share of slow points. The storyline is where Gun 
 suffers the most. A rather generic plot with an average climax at best.
  
  Here's where I'll level with you folks, the last paragraph aside I'll say that this game does provide 
 a few good hours of entertainment if nothing else. The horseback riding is well done as well as 
 the gun-fighting while on horseback or on foot. The side missions are usually short and very simplistic, 
 but what really gets me is how Neversoft worked a skill system into a shooter. A very Tony Hawkesque 
 skill system to boot! Personally I feel a classic shooter should never include a skill system. 
 A player's skill in a shooter is measured by his ability to combat his foes, not a stat bar that 
 can be viewed from the start menu. But in any case, Gun is certainly worth renting however, I wouldn't 
 recommend dropping sixty bucks for a new copy if you're heart is set on purchasing your games.
 
  
  Overall Gun provides a few good hours of entertainment mixed in with mediocre graphics and somewhat 
 challenge gun-fights. However the storyline is rather poor in many aspects and game has it's slow 
 points (like doing side missions for stat points and cash) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 4
Date: May 7, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Yeah when I first seen this games previews, I thought it would be like free roaming robbing banks, 
 saving people and do what ever the hell you wanted. Boy was I ever wrong, the story is short and 
 the game is hard at some moments, plus this chick named Jenny which I found an intresting character. 
 But when you make it further in the game, she get's her neck slit (sorry to ruin the moment if you 
 never played it before) but your not missing out on anything if you wanted to play this game. I 
 wish I had four hands, I would give this game four thumbs down, it's not really addictive I found 
 it lame on free roaming, once you finish the game yeah you get sweet weapons but, it gets boring 
 after awhile because you completed everything and the only thing you can do is run around on a 
 horse shooting people that's it. And it gets boring after awhile. So if your going to get this 
 game I reccomend renting it first because if ya want a western game rent "Red Dead Revolver" that 
 game is pretty kool plus I think there is a second one coming out im not sure but im very positive 
 this game will borr you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepoopsicle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I had great fun playing this game. Its very fulfilling to gallop on horseback, enter a slow motion 
 adrenaline mode, the cap some fools, while still galloping on horseback. For some reason, i found 
 the ranch hand side missions (mostly herding cattle) really fun. The fact that this game had texas 
 hold 'em poker just plain made my day. I won every tourney and kicked ass. That was really fun. 
 Colton White (the character you play as) is a hard ass kick ass mofo that is really awesome and 
 practically unstoppable. He drinks liquor when his health gets low to rejuvinate it. haha
  Although the story mode is somewhat short, you can keep yourself entertained being a bounty hunter, 
 playing poker, helping out the sheriff, helping out the rancher, or delivering goods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gun would have been a really great game if the graphics were truly next-gen. Every part of the 
 game is good except for the graphics.
  
  As the short titles implies, theres gonna be lots of shooting, but its more fun than just aiming 
 and clicking a button. First off, there are different weapons for different things, use your rifles 
 in medium ranged combat, your pistols as a well-rounded weapon, or a shotgun as your close-range 
 weapon. Second, Quickdraw mode, this allows you to slow down time, and quickly switch between targets 
 to blast. Third, there are TONS of guns, there are rifles, pistols, shotguns, bow and arrows, long 
 range rifles, melee weapons, and thrown weapons, and for each of those categories there are about 
 3 different choices, you do the math, there's a ton of firepower.
  The missions are varied, ranging from fighting alone, to fighting with some allies, to horseback 
 missions, to boss-battles. There are also side-missions, while, not amazingly engaging can hold 
 your interest for a little bit after you beat the story anyway.
  
  This is the worst aspect of the game. The visuals look like a PS2 game, not an Xbox 360 game, the 
 textures are low res, the enviornment looks terrible, and the animations are bad. But, in HD the 
 models for characters are pretty good, so thats why the score isn't very bad.
  
  The sound is great. All of the voice-overs are great, some movie stars even lend their talents, 
 and the music really makes you feel like you're in the old west.
  
  The story shouldn't last you a whole lot of time, but there are tons of side-missions to keep your 
 interest.
  
  This was a great attempt at a different kind of game by Neversoft, but next time it has to take 
 full advantage of all the systems' graphical power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the Xbox 360 version of Gun, and I'd like to start by saying that I had a lot of 
 fun playing this game. If you're looking for violence, blood, gore, and (obviously) guns in an 
 environment you've probably never played in before, stop reading and go get Gun right now. Oh yeah, 
 just make sure you don't get the 360 version. Seriously, the only difference between the Xbox 1 
 and Xbox 360 versions is the control scheme (bumpers instead of black and white buttons) , and slightly 
 higher visual and sound quality. I was able to see a slight difference in the graphics, but nothing 
 to warrant an extra 10 bucks. That's right... in case you missed it on the game summary screen, 
 Gun for the 360 is $59.99. In short, if you sold your Xbox and PS2 to get a 360 or you can find 
 Gun for $50 or less, go ahead and get the 360 version, but otherwise, don't bother.
  
  But back to the game - after all, there has to be a reason why I gave it an 8.1. If you're not 
 aware already, Gun is the story of Colton White taking revenge for the death of his father in the 
 1880s Old West. First of all, the game is definitely not realistic, at least in terms of the area 
 you can explore. Gun claims to be "free-roaming", and it basically is, but there isn't much roaming 
 to do since there are only 2 major towns and a few other places to visit on the map. As for the 
 realism factor I just mentioned, the game claims to start in Montana. After the opening two levels, 
 you wash up on a shore in the main area of the game. From there, you head over to a town nearby 
 that can be reached in 2 or 3 minutes on horseback. A little while later, you leave that town for 
 Empire City, which is said to be in New Mexico. Since it takes about 5 or 6 minutes on horseback 
 to get there, how is it possible that Montana and New Mexico could be so close together? I'm not 
 a stickler for realism most of the time, but that seems a little too stretched for me. 
  
  The gameplay is what makes Gun a great game. There aren't a lot of guns to use - there are pistols, 
 rifles, and shotguns, along with thrown weapons, melee weapons, and bows. There are several weapons 
 of each type, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. What I had fun with was Gun's Quickdraw 
 Mode, which is sort of like bullet-time from Enter the Matrix, except it doesn't suck. When you 
 enter Quickdraw, the perspective changes to first person, everything slows down, and your shots 
 do a lot more damage. Unfortunately, you can only use Quickdraw with pistols. However, the other 
 weapons are powerful enough on their own. The controls in general were simple and easy to pick 
 up right away, and combat on horseback was fun, frequent, and also easy to master.
  
  As I mentioned before, the Old West setting and storyline is another big part of Gun's appeal (to 
 me, anyway) . Seeing Neversoft make a game that has absolutely nothing to do with skateboarding, 
 and actually make that game well, really impressed me. Gun was a short game (about 13 hours, although 
 I took the time to do all the side missions and stuff) , but not an experience to be missed. If 
 you own a 360 and are itching to play as many games on it as possible, go out and rent Gun. If 
 not, buy it for the Xbox or PS2. I look forward to a sequel, assuming Neversoft finally decides 
 that enough is enough with Tony Hawk and works on something different for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LachdaRanja
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game through 100% twice I realized that this is one of the most fantastic games 
 I've ever played. If it wasn't for the length of the game, I'd go the full extent in saying it 
 is the best game I've ever played. The characters were some amazing it almost made me feel as if 
 I've known them for my entire life. The storyline was thoroughly thought out, and threw a few twists 
 so that it would keep you guessing. I recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a decent 
 3rd person shooter who enjoys old western movies. I was half way fond of Red Dead Revolver, but 
 when Gun was released all I could say is RDR who? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0dsd3vil
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Gun is one of the launch titles for the xbox 360. This game offers just single player, with no 
 offline or online multiplayer. If you are a fan of online-based games, you are wasting your time 
 with this game, and if you like single player games, then you are still wasting your money if you 
 bought it. 
  
  Gun offers some good gameplay, which includes many amounts of western-type action. However, that 
 being said, the gameplay does get repetitive and boring after the middle of the game, as you are 
 pretty much doing the same thing over and over. Again, fans of online play, will be highly disappointed 
 to notice that there is absolutely no multiplayer with this game. That being said, if you are a 
 western-based fan, then you ought to rent it first and see if you enjoy it. There are not that 
 many western games out there, and none of the ones are great. There is the regular story mission, 
 where you meet up with a particular person, something like GTA, as well as there is some side-missions 
 to attend to. Side missions, help your skills increase, but are boring and tedious. They include: 
 wanted posters, pony express delivery, poker, and working as a sheriff/deputy. Overall, gameplay 
 is good but can be highly improvable.
  
  The graphics in this game, are painful. The xbox 360 is a next-generation console that is capable 
 of much more than what we see from gun. In-fact, the xbox 360 version looks worse if anything, 
 than the regular xbox version or any of the other consoles. Even playing on HD, it still looks 
 rather fair. That being said, the animations in gun are as smooth as butter. Jumping on your horse, 
 and animations of shooting on your horse are solid and well done. 
  
  The sound in this game is the best thing going for it. The sound-effects of guns, horses and the 
 works are great. The voice-overs are well done with some great acting. However, the in-game voice 
 sounds are repetitive and dull and can get extremely annoying after a while
  
  Gun offers some good gameplay, tied with great sound effects, and fair graphics. If you are a fan 
 of good games, you may be disappointed at this title. If you have an extra xbox, you rather buy 
 it on that and save 10 dollars worth your money on something more enjoyable. If you are a big fan 
 of western games, go to your local video store and rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarfus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth a rental, and should be played by many 360 owners. It can be very gory at times, 
 so it's only for mature gamers.
  
  Gameplay: Innovative. I love the horseback fighting as it fits into the game, and is actually FUN! 
 The gameplay is also fun due to the fact that after you beat little missions, you get new weapons, 
 which keeps you going for more. My only gripe is that the environment is very large, but VERY empty.
 
  8/10
  
  Graphics: Horrendous. They look horrible for the 360.. they look like GTA graphics... Not much more 
 to say.
  6/10
  
  Sound: Good. This is exactly what life would sound like if you were in western gunfights with indians 
 and shotguns. 
  9/10
  
  Value: It took about 6 horus to beat, and the side-quests were just too boring to do, so it's worth 
 a rental. I wouldn't recommend buying this game, but definately rent it.
  7/10
  
  Tilt: FANTASTIC story! I haven't played a game like this... ever. The horseback riding, interesting 
 story, and other components just make this game a must play.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most underrated games out there. The gameplay is solid. The controls make sense. 
 There are always a variety of choices for what you'd like to do next, including the main storyline 
 along with a dizzying array of side missions to choose from (a la Grand Theft Auto, but allowing 
 for even more freedom!) . The storyline is well-written, interesting, and engaging. But most of 
 all, the atmosphere is incredible. True, the graphics don't fully utilize the ability of next-gen 
 here, however, that is very quickly forgotten as the many great things about the game, that hugely 
 outweigh this one disadvantage, become apparent. Within minutes, I forgot about the good, but not 
 "perfect" graphics and was awed by the beautiful, and more importantly accurate, scenery and music 
 that sounds like that on the old Wild Wild West TV show. This game will suck you into the great 
 Wild West like no game before it. This game is definitely better than Red Dead Revolver. Also, 
 the voice acting is provided by a very impressive lineup of actors including Lance Henricksen and 
 Tom Skerritt, and it comes across superbly. This game is a wonderful treat for fans of the Old 
 West. As addictive as it is, I wish it was a longer game, because I couldn't get enough, but there 
 are tons of interesting side missions to add to the gameplay time. This game is loaded with choices. 
 This game is way underrated. I would tell anyone with even a passing interest in either Westerns 
 or shooting games to definitely pick this one up. As for acheivements on the game, they are fair, 
 reasonable, and occur throughout the game and on various difficulty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fulltime_Killer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed gun. I liked the story of it, reminded me of indiana jones almost and plus the 
 voice acting was good. The sounds of people dieing is kind of strange but I can over look that. 
 The graphics are pretty good, nothing really strikes you though. The gameplay is just fun. You 
 just get a bunch of guns and go out and kill the bad guys. However your probly only enjoy gun 1 
 or maybe 2 through to its fullest. The world is big but there is not that much to do. Unless you 
 want 100% completion then it might take you a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  First of all gamespot was a little harsh on this review. It is a solid game with a great story 
 line. In my opinion it is better than red dead revolver. It has something for everyone in it. You 
 get to ride for the pony express, play as a bount hunter, act as a deputy, and of course stop the 
 bad guy. It has all aspects everyone loves about the wild west. 
  
  The graphics are not up to 360 standards, but it is a port up from the previous generation. The 
 graphics however are above the Xbox's, PS2's and gamecube's. If you own this for a previous gen, 
 dont get it, but if you dont have it . It is worth a try. 
  
  I had a good experience with this game, and you will probably too, if this is your kind of game. 
 Give it a try, you will be glad you did. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:19 am PT
Review:  the game itself was rather fun and easy to handle and the story was fun to follow but the game 
 was entirely too short. once you play the game you get hooked and the story couldnt go by any faster. 
 you can complete the game 100% in less than 10 hours. after that there is literaly nothing to do 
 except ride on ur horse and see the same people and continue to ride on your horse until u drive 
 your self into insanity, so you should definately rent this game, dont buy it unless you have 50 
 bucks burning a hole in ur pocket but it truly is a fun game. until the 100 percent completion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great Story. I found myself really excited with what will happen next. Voice acting is 
 ALL PRO!! Riding between towns was really cool. Missions were not frustrating. Lots of upgradable 
 things to do with your character, kinda like a role playing game with less Role.
  
  THE BAD: PS2 Graphics. The First 10 Min of the game I could not belive what I was playing. I started 
 to reminise my times playing Geometry Was on my 360. Forgot I was playing a next gen game! The 
 game is $49 on the current gen consoles...$59 for the 360... SAME EXACT GAME! Game is really short. 
 I beat the game in 4 1/2 hours. Side missions will take you 30 seconds to a whole minute each.
 
  
  BUY, RENT OR TRASH?: If you buy it you must really like western video games! You can use that extra 
 $10 on something more usefull like, ballons or bubbles. Nasty Port. Ok game..... I recomend RENTING 
 IT for a DAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This right here is the worst launch game for the 360. There is no doubt in my mind. The game is 
 so unrelistic that you have to ask the question.... was this game even supposed to be on the 360? 
 I mean come on.... the levels are ugly when you talk about next gen. The really cheesy quick draw 
 thing and the ugly hair helmet thing goin on. I couldnt understand why I was playing the game on 
 my 360... so I pulled that sucker out for ever and ever. On top of that it cost 60 dollars? get 
 the $&*# outta here. The only thing that keeps this game interesting is the pretty good acting 
 and nice story with some of the best bad guys ive seen in a while. One part of the game that was 
 really bad was when you first make it to dodge and you take the bouty to capture the wanted guy 
 George (forget his last name) as soon as you walk into the bar they start shooting you. Im like 
 come on... this game has the mentality of a Playstation 1 game. I dont think anybody should waste 
 their 60 dollars on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  Honestly, when I got this as a gift I wasn't expecting a whole lot for it. In my book the game 
 had a few barriers to overcome. First off as a rule I am not a fps person, and old westerns were 
 something I lost back in the 80's. But it was a gift and the person that bought it wanted to see 
 how it looked.
  I popped it in my 360 and my first thought was the graphics weren't bad. Not next gen quality (see 
 PDZ, King Kong, COD2) but solid. Everything looked a bit aged, but I think that was part of the 
 charm of the game.
  Gameplay controls were pretty simple, and I didn't need the twitch reaction to often during the 
 game. Most areas I could take my time during and explore a bit. The quickdraw was a nice addition 
 that made it easy to take out large numbers of enemies, particularly once you got some of the later 
 pistols.
  The plot was ok, typical old westernish and the voice acting was pretty good.
  Overall if this was a regular xbox title I probably would have given it a 9/10, as it is on a next 
 gen console though, a 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game! However, being Texan I have to admit that I generally like anything 
 western. ;)
  
  Yes, if all you do is stick to the main plot you will beat the game very fast. However, if you 
 work on the side missions as you go (as I did) , the game is not all that quick.
  
  Personally, I thought the graphics where great. I think the way they where done gives it a more 
 western feel. (I also really liked the graphics in Red Ded Revolver for that matter) There where 
 a few minor things here and there, but nothing that took away from the game for me.
  
  Riding a horse! That just outright rocked and really made the game and exploring it so enjoyable! 
 Also, doing things like herding cattle was a blast. I thought the overall immersiveness was great.
 
  
  All of the sound was just great, right down to the sound of your spurs as your rode or walked into 
 that saloon to fight some bad guys. The music was also good but I don't know if it was that prevalent 
 as I don't think I was "paying attention" to it so much. There where some nice touches with some 
 faint Indian music in certain areas, etc.
  
  Overall, I have really enjoyed the game and like RDR, I will be playing it a lot even after beating 
 it, just because it's downright fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ishiko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, probably my second favorite Xbox 360 game (Call of duty 2 being my favorite, 
 yes I have played just about every xbox 360 game out except the one with the frog) . A lot of people 
 give this a bad review but they probably stopped half-way through the game. If you have xbox live 
 you will want to play this game to at least get your gamer score up. The game is really challenging 
 on hard or insane mode. Riding the horses is really fun and all the upgrades and different attributes 
 you can raise give it a rpg element almost every gamer can enjoy. Rent it if nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthChristian
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a refreshing game by the shear fact that you get to play a real western game, not as a Samurai 
 in the west or any other silly gimmick. Just think back to when you were eight years old, and you 
 and your friends are in the backyard playing Cowboys and Indians. Essentially thats what this game 
 is. I enjoyed galloping though the old western towns like Dodge City and Empire, I really got that 
 feel as if I was in a very authentic world. You realy can't help but feel like a cowboy as you're 
 riding through the very dusty and crooked streets in these towns and walk into a Saloon with your 
 six shooter on your side, very cool. 
  The graphics aren't going to wow anyone, and this is the 360 version so I can't even imagine what 
 the PS2 version looks like. The character models are sorta generic, there's a little more definition 
 in the clothes and faces than you will see in a lot of other games out there, but your realy not 
 going to notice or care for the most part after about a minute into the game. The backgrounds are 
 pretty solid, nothing in the world is rendered so there's no pop up when ever you're traveling 
 around on horseback so thats pretty cool. 
  The sound is decent, the gunfire is reminescant of just about every Wild West movie you've ever 
 heard. The horses ring through accuratly. The hoves sound changes as you move onto diffrent surfaces, 
 that adds athentication to the environment. But were the sound realy stands out at is the voice 
 acting. Neversoft sparred no expense to bring in some very good Hollywood talent for this game. 
 The standout performences are Thomas Jane (the Punisher) who plays your lead protagonist Colton 
 White, and Kris Kristofferson (Whistler-Blade 3 and a ton of other movies) who plays Colton's father, 
 and a slew of other veterain actors who realy set the story off and brings you into the game better.
 
  Gameplay is fairly simple. My favorate feature is the quick draw mode that you have with your 
 regular pistol. This mode slows the game down while in fisrt person mode in order togive you a 
 more acurate shot. Basically it's like bullet time-just without the sumersaults. One thing that 
 realy hindered gameplay for me is it took two button pressess to switch between various weapons. 
 In intensce fire fights that got so fustrating. Riding the horses, well... if you've played just 
 about any other Neversoft game more specifically any Tony Hawk game it will become like second 
 nature to you very early on. The only exception being there's no ollies or kickflips but you get 
 the drift.
  I realy didn't have that much expectation for this game, but once I realy started to play this 
 I got cought up in how fun this is, especially if you like westerns. For anyone looking for a descent 
 rental should pick this up. But if you strap on your spurs and six shooter to get your herd some 
 grub and bittles at the General Store, before riding out over yonder, this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe Gamespot gave this game a 6.4. Gun is like a perfect reminder of one of my favorite 
 wild west games, Red Dead Revolver. The cool part is that it's not a first-person game. This game 
 is very fun and the people that don't like it are crazy. The graphics are incredible and so is 
 the gameplay. Sure, the game is kind of short but you can always find mysteries online. Yeah the 
 game is online but only on the XBOX 360. I know it should of been online on the Xbox and PS2 but 
 I guess they didn't think of doing that. Anyway this game is loads of fun. The perfect shooter. 
 It is probably is one of the best games on the 360. Try and see how it is. Don't listen to errbody. 
 They might be wrong. Take my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Gun was definately a fun game with a rather interesting story. The "gun fights" were like no other 
 Old Western game. The abillity to totally own someone with your horse is very amusing, and comes 
 handy when your out
  of ammo, thats if you are playing it on the Hardest difficulty. I enjoyed some of the "Side Missions" 
 in the game, plus the old west feelin to every part of the missions. There are some interesting 
 twists to the post Civil War Era, and the tie between (through the games story.) Graphics, well 
 were really just horrible for a Next Gen console game and were really disappointing. I think they 
 really should have taken a bit more time for the Xbox 360 version. 
  I rented this game and i would possibly buy it when it drops at least $25, i would definately suggest 
 renting it, the game was rather fun but short, and a bit too easy for me. People also put too much 
 hype saying, "this will be like Grand Theft Auto but in the West" well i don't think and they were 
 way off.
  Graphically, yeah it was Grand Theft Auto thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawsnbc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I had the opportunity to play Gun on the Xbox 360 back in September at my company's sales conference. 
 I must say that I was impressed with how clean it looked and the quality of the storyline. Unfortunately, 
 it seems that the developers spent too much time perfecting the main story and completely forgot 
 about the side quests. The game was pitched to us as a vast environment covering the terrain from 
 Kansas to Montana. Having played the game, I felt that it was more of a trek from San Francisco 
 to Oakland. There just was not that much to see or do in the game. That being said, the controls 
 were well done, although at times I found them to be a little bit too precise. The script and voice 
 acting were superb along with decent motion capture. The visuals were clean but did not show off 
 the real power of the system (Gears of War will in '06) . In fact, at times the PS2 version seemed 
 to have a crisper picture than the 360 version. 
  
  All in all, the game did not, along with every other port on the 360, deserve a $10 price hike. 
 You want to charge me $60 for a game, it had better be original. Anyway, save your money and just 
 rent the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  In a genre that is sadly underrepresented in the gaming industry, it is nice to see a great effort 
 made to produce a game that attempts to capture the feel of the Old West. It is strange that this 
 resource remains largely untapped by the video game industry, as it was a period of history that 
 was brutal, violent, and full of opportunities for "heroes" to arrise.
  Gun is only one of the few titles that explore this gritty angle of American history. Unfortunately, 
 the only other title that is generally known is Red Dead Revolver, a game produced by Rockstar, 
 which is obviously well-known for its' Grand Theft Auto series. Funny how many other reviewers 
 have called this game Grand Theft Cowboy and similiar nicknames, yet Rockstar had nothing to do 
 with this title. Just an observation.
  Unfortunately, a lot of comparison will be made between these two games, but they aren't similiar 
 in anything but general time line, meaning the Old West. Whereas Red Dead was completely linear 
 (and suffered for it) , Gun is open-ended. Exploring Gun's lush world is quite interesting, and 
 you can tell a lot of thought went into the presentation of each section of the "world". One section 
 features a bubbling pool of "Texas Tea", complete with mineral deposits and a heat haze effect 
 that is quite good. I have read other reviewers complaints on graphics, as compared to other systems, 
 however, I have only played this game on the 360, so I will not be able to make those comparisons.
 
  As to the gamplay itself: I did not start this game from the beginning, so I missed the training 
 stages that are usually the first thing that you go through in a game of this type. The learning 
 curve is quite short, as I was able to pick up the controls quite easily. Soon, I was galloping 
 and shooting my way through hordes of enemies. And yes, there are hordes. Expect a rather large 
 body count in this game, and expect to do most of your fighting alone. One complaint in this aspect 
 is that the enemies look pretty much the same, with the same clothing, faces, etc. A little variety 
 would have been nice. The animations of the enemies are quite well done, with point-specific animations 
 for things like headshots, legshots, etc. Also, the game has a neat system for multiple kills, 
 giving a nice bell-ring noise when a fancier kill or string of kills occurs. Unfortunately, these 
 combos and nifty shots don't seem to give you any reward, so they must be more for stat purposes.
 
  The main story line is regrettably short. This seems to becoming a large problem with 360 games. 
 I have yet to play a game that takes more than one day of average gaming to complete. Also, many 
 components of the story line just don't seem fair. For example, you spend an entire section defending 
 a stagecoach from attack, only to have the person inside the stagecoach get killed within the next 
 few minutes. It feels like I just wasted the last 20 minutes on this section. In one part, you 
 have to sneak out of a fort with several Native Americans and another noncombatant, and must remain 
 undetected by the local militia. This part was laughably easy, as the game told you what to do, 
 when, and to whom. The toughest part of this game so far is learning how to kill the "boss" characters, 
 which do have their own particular style of fighting. Word to the wise: Using melee weapons against 
 a boss will get you killed rather quickly!
  The side missions seem to be where the depth of the game comes out. I personally enjoyed the Bounty 
 missions, which are generated by the multiple Wanted Posters around the world. I took it as a personal 
 challenge to take every criminal alive. Not only does this net you more cash, but it makes for 
 more of a challenge. Some Bounty missions don't give you a choice, however. My favorite was the 
 bounty on a female criminal that read "Dead $20.00, Alive Not Interested." Kind of funny. The other 
 missions I found to be of interest, were the Hunting missions. Using a preset set of conditions 
 and your trusty bow and arrow, you must hunt specific animals for cash. The first mission was to 
 hunt Grey Wolf, and I sure messed that up. Killing the animal with a gun will get you some cash, 
 but will ruin the pelt. What's neat is that you can still complete the mission, but just get far 
 less financial gain from it.
  Unfortunately, there are some series issues with the game beyond the length of main story problem. 
 This game is extremely vulgar in language. Granted, the people of that time were not politically 
 correct by any stretch of the imagination, but was this a necessary addition to this game? In one 
 part, the main villian mentions that a part of this town was only for "the dirty Mexicans," I was 
 pretty offended. Granted, I am not Spanish in nationality, but I was offended just the same. Could 
 they have used a different term here? Certainly. Should they have? Definetely. A "M" rating on 
 a game is no excuse for blatantly racist language like this.
  Another issue, at least for me, was the transportation. The horses in the game are well modeled, 
 and the animation is great. Unfortunately, there is no sense of "ownership" for these poor beasts 
 of burden. Feel free to whip these poor animals to death, as you can always just get another one. 
 It would have been nice to have a specific mount that you could lavish care and attention on (and 
 cash!) . I don't mean to say that the game should be named Gun: Animal Husbandry, but since they 
 offer upgrades for horses (that affect any you mount) , what if you treated a specific beast, or 
 family of horses, to breed a superior strain? Just a thought. Think Chocobo Ranching from Final 
 Fantasy 7.
  All in all, I enjoyed the game. Some of the visuals, as you are moseying about the lush countryside, 
 are quite stunning. The action can get quite intense, and the side missions are interesting. I 
 recommend rental status, simply because spending $60 on a one-day game is just silly to me.
  
  Oh, and one final gripe: How does a pile of gold larger than than the character only equal 
 $10? Taxes are a mother..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghost69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  I think it was a prettty good game.... i beat it for PS2, but i think it was to short and not big 
 enough terrain.. I like the ending when you get the cannon shotgun, and the armored horse.... i 
 just font like that there arnt enough missions, i liked doing the missions with great Villans, 
 but for the most part i think it was a good game, just to short. i really liked all of the wepons.
 
  
  I think they should make a Gun2,,,, because if they did i know that they could do alot more stuff 
 on it and make it alot better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Gun has awsome gameplay for about 10 hours then the game is over. btw I did EVERYTHING in the game 
 get all upgrades, do all the side missoins, and poker tournemts etc. i didnt try to rush through 
 the game but it jsut happened all a sudden. If this game was as long as other games (Like GTA then 
 this game would be one of the best 360 launch titles. Now for grapichs. THESE ARE NOT 360 GRAPHICS. 
 If it was then i would give this game a much higher rate but compared to other 360 games this is 
 just like the xbox version. Sound- great voice acting and great story for this game. Value- aint 
 really gettin much value outa this rent it and you will beat it and then u can take it back. over 
 all jsut rent the game and you will like it but its shortness will make many people mad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmellycat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  If you don't like this game. Then there is something serously wrong with you. What are you desensitized 
 or something?
  
  The PLOT keeps you involved.... REALLY involved. I felt literally pissed off during some of it.
 
  
  Not many games have the ability to get people emotionally involved.
  
  Also the scenery ROCKS.
  
  The attention to detail.... when riding the horse even..... they 
 went as far as to really detail the horse's and other animals muscles tones and everything.
  
  I think anyone who gave this a bad rating did NOT give it a real try and did NOT look at it 
 very thorughly as I did.
  
  This includes you, Gamespot. You are way off this time and I am disappointed as you are usually 
 at least really really close.
  
  BUY IT AND PLAY IT.
  
  IF YOU HAVE ANY KIND OF LOVE FOR GAMING, OR EVEN A PULSE..... YOU SHOULD ENJOY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all gamespot was a little harsh on this review. It is a solid game with a great story 
 line. In my opinion it is better than red dead revolver. It has something for everyone in it. You 
 get to ride for the pony express, play as a bount hunter, act as a deputy, and of course stop the 
 bad guy. It has all aspects everyone loves about the wild west. 
  
  The graphics are not up to 360 standards, but it is a port up from the previous generation. The 
 graphics however are above the Xbox's, PS2's and gamecube's. If you own this for a previous gen, 
 dont get it, but if you dont have it . It is worth a try. 
  
  I had a good experience with this game, and you will probably too, if this is your kind of game. 
 Give it a try, you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a game that caught me by suprise. Forced to buy it with my X360 bundle, I really didn't 
 know what to expect. Sure it looked fairly cool in the previews and video reviews I had seen, but 
 almost every review I read was mediocre to good at best. Let me say, I don't know what the heck 
 Gamespot was thinking by giving this a 6.4. Gun is a great game, that is fun. Technically it's 
 not that great, but it's loads of fun.
  
  Graphically this appears to just be a hi-res version of the PS2, GCN, and XBOX game. The draw distance 
 is improved, as is the LOD settings. Overall Gun is a good looking game, but there are a few bumps 
 in the road, most notably the character models, and the animations, which look almost comical.
 
  
  Gameplay wise Gun plays out similar to GTA in that it's a open-ended mission based game, but on 
 a much smaller scale. The game world is much smaller, but feels big enough. The missions are varied 
 and well thought out. There are plenty of side missions to keep the game fun and add to the longevity. 
 Overall the game clocks in at about 10 hours or so, but there is plenty of reason to want to replay.
 
  
  The sound is well done if nothing remarkable. Voice acting is pretty well done, and adds a good 
 amount of character to the story.
  
  Overall Gun is nothing flashy, which is the only reason I can see that it's been given such middle 
 of the road reviews, but it's got it where it counts. A great story, and a FUN game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan6978
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The game-play is incredible, and will keep you occupied for hours. The story line is very good, 
 and is incredibly easy to get into. This game is basically GTA: Wild Wild West, as you can kill 
 anyone you want (however people will come after you if you do so) , get on a horse and ride at any 
 time, and you have a massive map that you can ride around. Also similar to GTA, there are many 
 side missions that you can do for extra money in addition to the main missions. The only problem 
 with this Next Gen version is that the graphics are not a whole lot better than they are on the 
 original X-Box. The story mode is long, however it is not too long. The game-play is easy to get 
 acquainted with, and the overall feel of the game is very similar to that of a Speghetti Western. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game is not the best xbox 360 game out there, that being said it's just a good 3rd person 
 shooter.
  
  Pros- Big name hollywood actors. Tons of blood. Wide veriaty of weapons that are fun to use. Large 
 open maps. GTA style free roam. Tons of side quests. Many have commented that the game is very 
 short. The game is as short as you make it. You could blow through the main missions in one sitting. 
 But, you could do all the side quests and wander around exploring. Which opens up hours and hours 
 of extra game play. Quick draw slow motion is fun. 1st person view is helpful. And you drink whiskey 
 for health.
  I would also like to say that the game controls very well
  
  Cons- Main missions can be completed in one sick day off from work. Graphics are not up to 360 
 standard. Some bosses are just plain rediculous and frustraiting (the priest dude on horse back 
 who constantly heals himself) . Game seems like a Red Dead Revolver rip off at times. I hate Chris 
 Christopherson (a. k. a. Ned)
  
  Final Word- All and all, this is a very fun violent game. The graphics are not as good as they 
 should be, so you have to over look that. Greg from gamespot always gives great reviews, I just 
 think he could have been alittle easier on this game cause it really is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The whole time your playing this game it has the feel of a great game, but it somehow seems to 
 always let you down. There are clearly aspects of the game that a lot of effort was put into. The 
 cinematic scenes and the actual characters look great. However, there are a ton of graphical quarks 
 in this game. Horses standing in rocks, there is a moonwalk affect where character and horse just 
 slide out of the way or into a particular position, and there seems to be no rhyme or reason to 
 who is attacking you just to name a few. One minute you will be fighting with the Indian's, then 
 saving them, than back to fighting? In the free roaming area the surroundings track pretty well, 
 but when your in towns you get the sense that you are moving a lot faster than you actually are. 
 It makes it very difficult to go from one target to the next.
  
  The first thing I noticed playing the main story line is that it is extremely short. Besides needing 
 some of the side missions for stat increases you can finish this game in less than two hours. The 
 main story line is interesting, but there is not much to it. You can't really ever get side tracked 
 and you don't have to play any of the side missions to complete the game. At the end of the story 
 mode it allows you to keep playing and complete the missions, this only serves to add a few more 
 hours of play time to the game. 
  
  I gave the game a low value not just because of how short the game is, but this would not be a 
 very fun game to play again. There were no choices to make and nothing to create a different outcome 
 in future plays. Also being such a short game it makes it very easy to remember so when playing 
 it a second time you will complete it even faster because you will just go where you need to go. 
 The only thing that you search for in this game is the gold that you mine with a pick axe you purchase 
 at the beginning of the game. I found 38 of 44 without doing anything other than completing the 
 story line and side missions.
  
  The one saving point to this game is that it is kind of fun. I like the western theme and it does 
 have an interesting short story. Again, I don't think the fun justifies the cost. This would certainly 
 be an awesome rental, but if you are up in the air between this and another game you might want 
 to really look hard at the other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnowCrash711
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  i rented gun and played it twice and still found it fun and am recomending it to all my friends 
 because while the main story is short yet interesting, the side story is awesome.... the bountys, 
 the texas holdem games, the deputy missions, the indian hunter and more... they kept the game interesting 
 and i wish more games had strong side missions such as gun... definatly worth renting, especially 
 from blockbuster since it could win you a trip, but if i had more money i would have bought gun... the 
 game is diverse with buffalo roaming the land, bandits harrasing trips and missions, even have 
 chineese building railroads, this is american history and i appreciate the game... it is NOT as 
 revolutionary as read dead revolver but if i could combine the two games, i would never leave the 
 house... what is missing in both can be found in the other... RENT OR BUY THE GAME, that is basically 
 what i am trying to explain... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Bone
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  Ok guys this game is an ok one but the dame thing was to short. I played it for X-box and passed 
 the game in two days. There should have been more to it. The game play was ok, the graphics can 
 use a little help. For example, when some of the caracters say something, the mouth moves but it 
 just gose up an down, that is the only bad thing of it, but other than that it a fair game. the 
 quick shoot was helpful if there are like 7 guys on your ass. For all those people who like shooting 
 games, this is the game for you. I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Gun is a very voilent version of the old west that is controlled like a 3rd person shooter. The 
 action and control itself is actually done quite good but it suffers a lot from the lack of variety. 
 Most missions in the game are very similiar to each other and not very in depth. Also, even though 
 it is an open ended game that encourages you to explore, theres really not much to find when you 
 do. The combat and the horseback riding (which is probebly the horseback done in a game yet) is 
 very good and can keep you entertained for a bit but it suffers a lot from repetitivness. Another 
 flaw is that the game allows you to purchase upgrades with the money you earn from side missions 
 and stuff, but you really dont need them, so theres no real motivation to do any of the extra features 
 the game has to offer. The story is also very basic and unoriginal as well.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Gun are good....... for a current gen system. For the 360 they fall very flat. I 
 admit some of the charecter models and frame rate is better than the regular Xbox or PS2, but cmon. 
 This is Xbox 360, and I expect to see graphics that the Xbox would simply not be able to produce. 
 That is the definition of next generation graphics: graphics that would be impossible for current 
 gen systems to create. And Gun does not deliver.
  
  Sound
  One of the best aspects of Gun. The sound of the weapons are really good and Gun features not to 
 shabby voice acting as well (though there are a few cheesy lines in the dialogue) . As for the music, 
 it gets the job done. Its exactly what you would expect from an old west soundtrack but it fits 
 the mood well. 
  
  Value
  This definately hurts the game. The story mode (if played straight through) can be completed in 
 6 or less hours, and if you want to do the games small variety of side missions you might get about 
 12 hours. Thats it. Thats not enough to buy the game, but it makes for a very good rental. 
  
  Tilt
  Gun is not a bad game. It does have its moments, but its just too short and falls technologically. 
 Another probeblem is that the game promotes how there is no law and that there is extreme violence 
 but it doesnt really give the chance to cause as much mayham as you would expect and your charecter, 
 Cotton White, is too good for a game that promotes being gritty and bad.
  
  Conclusion
  Gun is a fun game. It has the idea and the presentation down, but it seems like the developers 
 got lazy. With a little more attention to detail and some added depth (and graphical improvements) 
 Gun could have been a great game. Sadly though that is not the case and all i can say is to rent 
 it once, have your giggles, and move on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraidboss
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it is very edictive and fun. The problem I think is the graphics It dosint look 
 like a next gen game. I know that It is on the other sistems too but look at king kong. It looks 
 amazing and it is on the other sistems too. Aside from that the game is amazing whith a great story 
 and it is incredibly gore wich most people will injoy. The game play is good whith some fun horse 
 riding but it has some problems like when you have a bow and a rifle you have to take your thum 
 of the right sick and swich to anothe wepon. Its not that bad if your not around alot of enimys 
 but when you are in a big gun fight it can get you killed. I love the RPG eliments in the game. You 
 levle up by doing the side missions which ar mostly fun. The game is like a GTA western because 
 you can go eny where and do enything. It is very adictive because of the replay ability. Over all 
 it is a good game that hopfuly will get a sequil and will fix some of the problems and up the graphics 
 for the 360.
  
  by Kraidboss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I must say I have almost completed this game. Throughout this entire game, sure, it has very current 
 gen graphics, and it probably isn't the best length, it is one of the most fun games I have ever 
 played. It's better than GTA and its in the Wild West... what more camn I say? This game was purely 
 fun. It doesnt matter that it has bad graphics for the 360, or the sound isnt the greatest, and 
 it's short... IT"S FUN! I think some developers and creators have lost track of what gaming is 
 really about *cough*EA*cough* Its not all about graphics and sounds.. look at Geometry Wars! That 
 game is so much fun that I played it for more than an hour. GUN is a perfect example of what should 
 be a game... maybe not in power but in Fun. I think this game deserves some good recognition, and 
 thats why I give it and 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I've seen several low-rated reviews of the XBox 360 version of Gun and I have to admit that I'm 
 a bit curious as to the low scores. On launch day, this one of my first owned titles and it is 
 a lot of fun. 
  
  I guess I'm a sucker for the games that allow for character growth if you do side tasks/quests. 
 You don't have to and still continue the storyline along, but I like to do these tasks in order 
 to "grow". I also enjoy simply exploring the country side looking for gold to mine. 
  
  The "quickdraw" feature (ALA Max Payne "bullet time") still is a blast, especially when you can 
 get that one shot off that drops an enemy off his horse just as he tries to trample you. 
  
  Graphically, it's not the best 360 game out there, but it's still nice to look at. The 5.1 
 audio though, is amazing. The video game dogs barking in the streets still makes my own dog leap 
 out of his bed wondering what dog is in the house. Gunfights also sound incredible.
  
  I give Gun the "Almost, but not quite" rating. It's still a heck load of fun, but has a few flaws 
 and needs a little polish to buff it up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronprill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is cool and action packed, the fact that you can scalf someone is pure wild wild west. 
 But the best game i have played yet is Condemned Criminal Origins i give that a 10.0 perfect. But 
 anyway the gameplay is nice and the storyline is like Red Dead Revolver. That was a good game Red 
 Dead Revolver i liked that but Gun has better ganeplay and the things you can do I love Gun and 
 it was so cool. The gun zooming, scalping, horse riding, shooting, action fights are awsome the game 
 just completely rocked my mind but in the end, the game is too short if it was longer it would be 
 great. I loved Gun and it was great and i think if you rent or buy it it will satisfy your violence 
 if you love violent action games (me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  a solid choice for rental. Fun to play - cool story - but too short to purchase. Like a scaled 
 down GTA - set in the wild west. Would like to see a new version for the next gens - that is deeper 
 and longer. Great story elements and good list of weapons - but I would have like to seen a bigger 
 system for buying what you want - instead of getting what is available. In the way of horses - 
 it would have been nice to have a system for upgrading your horse, saddles etc, which would have 
 added to the emersion and depth of the game. Good voice actors and compeling story, just too short. 
 GREAT side quest system - which at times was more fuin then the game. A good start for a series 
 if this one sells well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fury111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:34 am PT
Review:  Remember Red Dead Revolver? Being a wild west tycoon I found great pleasure (and near loss a girlfriend.... just 
 kidding bout that cowpokes lol) with it.. now with Gun... all the stuff I wanted in Red Dead is right 
 here.. defending my sorry hide from those city slickin bandits in the badlands.. dodging apache arrows 
 and blastin a couple a outlaws just to grab a quick buck. Lust, violence all the wild west represented.. isnt 
 a crime... if theres now law... its the way of the west. okay the good parts of Gun... fun storyline 
 and nice level of difficulty with enemies that just keep getting tougher to kill. Boss fights that 
 leave you drained even the very first boss is harder to handle than a greased up hog. Graphics 
 are good I dont think they take advantage of the X360 when compared to like.. Call of Duty 2. Controls 
 are nice and fluid and voice acting is right with the era... bumpkins talk like typical everyday 
 Wal-mart shoppers and it just feels like The Good the Bad and the Ugly (great movie! lol) Gameplay 
 is solid and this game should keep you entertained.. good level of depth too. The bad is.. just doesnt 
 look next-gen to me not saying the graphics aint stunning cause lets face it... the landscape is 
 beautiful. I think the most graphically stunning 360 game so far is PGR3 looked incredible cant 
 wait to play that. And finally the Ugly.......... not enough shotgun bullets!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I have been following the development of GUN for over 6-months now. Anything that tries to utilize 
 the gameplay from GTA in a western theme has me interested. Unfortunately, GUN turned out to fall 
 a little short of what GTA is to free roaming game play. There are several enjoyable parts of gun. 
 The quick draw is fun. The combat is fast and furious. The dialouge is mature and very funny at 
 times. The story flows very well through out.
  
  The downside of the 360 version is that it looks exactly the same as the XBOX 1 version. Why am 
 I paying $10 more for the same game? Obviously Activision just ripped the data over to the 360 
 programming language and published it as a fresh game with a $60 price tag. I will be turning my 
 game in within in a week of owning it because it gets old quickly, so GUN on 360 is only worth 
 a rental, at best.
  
  (On a side note: The launch of the 360 is very dissappointing. Too many games have been forced 
 out before they were ready and all the games come with a $60 price tag. The price is not because 
 it spent a year longer to develope, it is because studious know THEY CAN charge $60 and people 
 will pay it. The Perfect Dark Zero studio deserves the extra $10 for all the time they put in to 
 make the game wonderful, but for games like GUN and Madden 06, there was no additional programming 
 time. There was no additional gameplay features that took 3-times longer to develop. A game was 
 thrown together for a lauch day title and slapped with a higher price tag. Hopefully we become 
 smart consumers and teach these development studios that as a consumer, we demand a higher quality 
 product for a higher price. Play smart and read reivew before you purchase! Microsoft better do 
 a better job at Quality checking their 3rd party software, otherwise their player base is bound 
 to check out.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinremah
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  For the first game really of its kind that ive touched this game is pretty good. Very intresting, 
 fun, adventures, and very diffrent. Youll love this game if your into the whole western thingy. 
 On missions unlike some games you can die at just about the last part of the mission, and not have 
 to redo the whole mission. I personlly like that. It has several side missions that makes it like 
 a GTA western. Alot of shooting in this one, it makes you feel like your back in time in the lawless 
 west. I think youll be pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomfreak123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  THE last boss is hard as hell all i want to say is they should make em harder and theres not one 
 but like 10 bosses to kill a baby could beat one boss like THAT okay i mean im sittin there playin 
 and theres gold all around you should be able to come back i mean come on that sucked and the boss 
 i beat when i was half awake i mean GOD!!!!!! make a game that never ends not like just to wwhat 
 ever you want a real game like fable thats the good stuff make im not saying this game sucked ime...... oh 
 i am arent i oh DAMN STRAIGHT AND thats it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgfhgfhgfhgf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  I thought Gun was a very well done game. I wish it was much longer than it was. Having been all 
 over the west, the scenery itself was worth it. This game is very nice to play. It can actually 
 be enjoyably finished in normal mode without cheat codes, unlike many other games. Another feature 
 that is a relief , is being able to continue your missions from checkpoints, as most of us know 
 how irritating (and sometimes expensive) a game can be when you have to restart the whole mission 
 over and over when you die. I think the only major disappointment that I found was at the end of 
 the game. Once you acquire all the upgraded weapons, and can roam freely, there's nothing left 
 to do with the cool horse and gun you get except shoot a bunch of buffalos and horses milling around, 
 but then again I only completed it in normal mode. I dont know if it's different upon completing 
 all modes. If you liked Red Dead Revolver You'll like Gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travman0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  Let's be totally frank, this is an average game. From the graphics to the gameplay nothing screams 
 "Revolutionary" at you. You play a cowboy named Colton White (excellently voiced by Tom Jane of 
 The Punisher fame) . You start of in an open fielded area with your father and this serves as a 
 training level and sets the story going. 
  
  About an hour into it, the story gets quite interesting and the game runs at a good pace, but by 
 the time you're 4 hours into it, you get the feeling that it seems to be rushing the story along.
 
  
  Instead of pacing so called "boss" battles every so often after say 10 missions, you seem to have 
 1 or 2 simple missions, then a main bad guy to kill and this continues to the end of the game (around 
 4-5 hours time)
  
  This is where the problem is. Although there is plenty for you to go back and see such as bounty 
 missions and ranch missions, the game just isn't long enough and feels rushed towards the end.
 
  
  That said it is a good game while it lasts, but it will leave you felling a little dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Gun takes you to the days of the wild west., where the man with the biggest man is king. I have 
 found this game to be quite enoyable, good storyline excellent game play but unfortunatly the graphics 
 arnt quite up todays standard. Theres plenty of missions to keep yourself occupied when visiting 
 a town. You have your main quests which follow the game story line, and side quests which help 
 you gain extra cash for weapons and upgrades. Some side quests include bounty hunting, protecting 
 the innocent and cattle driving. If your into the old west then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  The game GUN is a very cool western it just gets very boring through all the game. The story is 
 very good but then in the middle of the game it dies completely. They drag you into a crazy western 
 shoot-em-up and then leave you hanging and never return. This was a complete disaster to bring 
 on the xbox 360 it is kind of insulting to the new console. The slightly changed the graphics for 
 the 360 the game is completely the same short and boring. So if you had intentions on buying GUN 
 I think you will be out $60 and very disappointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
