-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Halo Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/halowars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb selection of UNSC and Covenant forces.
 Easy to play once you grasp the controls.
 Engaging storyline and cutscenes.
 Good mission variety through campaign mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Covenant not playable in campaign mode, Flood not playable at all.
 Small unit counts and map limit the scale of battles.
 Very few multiplayer options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,885 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Ensemble Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Halo Wars is a fun strategy outing for fans of the universe, but it feels simplistic and short alongside 
 other games in the genre. 

  UK REVIEW -- After shooting through scores of Covenant and Flood soldiers in three Halo first-person 
 shooters, the United Nations Space Command's story rewinds a few decades in Halo Wars. The game 
 grants you command of both the human UNSC forces and their archenemy, the theocratic alliance of 
 the Covenant. Halo Wars offers quality cinematic presentation and a simple control scheme that 
 makes the game easy to pick up and play, but the limited amount of units, short campaign, and dearth 
 of multiplayer modes make it ultimately feel stripped. Halo Wars is a fun playthrough for casual 
 real-time strategy and Halo fans, but there's not enough depth to win over hardcore strategy buffs. 

           Halo Wars takes you from Forerunner installations to snow-covered tundra, jungles, and 
 even Flood-infested wastelands.      

  Halo Wars' believeable story is presented through some great cutscenes, with high-quality cinematics 
 and decent voice acting. Combined with authentic-looking units and environments, it goes a long 
 way toward making Halo Wars look and feel like part of the series. The storyline is slightly confusing 
 at first but eventually pieces together to make a satisfying ending, though it's certainly not 
 long and should take most players around five hours to play through. Your adventure gets underway 
 on a colonised world called Harvest, where the UNSC battleship Spirit of Fire's away-team leader 
 Sgt. John Forge is investigating Covenant activity. Along with scientist Professor Anders and the 
 Fire's holographic AI construct Serina, they uncover a plot in which an Arbiter, in charge of the 
 Covenant forces on the planet, gets his hands on a mysterious superweapon left by the long-extinct 
 Forerunners.  

  Halo Wars' gameplay and control scheme are introduced through two simple tutorials, and though 
 a few more lessons would've helped to flesh out all of the unit types, it's not difficult to figure 
 out the roles of the different UNSC and Covenant forces. The controls function adequately, but 
 you're quite limited as to what you can actually do with them. For example, you can select all 
 units, all units onscreen, all units of a specific type, or all units within a small radius, but 
 you can't assign units to custom groups. This makes it difficult to manage units when you're trying 
 to fight a battle on two fronts. Combat is streamlined to just two buttons, so you can easily point 
 out the enemy you want vanquished, send your soldiers after them, and use special attacks where 
 applicable.  

  In terms of churning out an army, you need to actually click on a building to access its build 
 menu. You can return to your base with a tap of the D pad, but even that can be frustrating in 
 the heat of battle. Although you can set up global and base-specific rally points, you can't create 
 them for different unit types. Setting them too close to your bases also creates a gridlock that 
 some units have trouble manoeuvering through. It would've worked better if you could access the 
 build menu at any point, but for the most part the controls work well in a variety of situations. 
 The camera can also be frustrating; though you can zoom right in, you can't pull the camera out 
 far enough to get anything resembling a bird's-eye view of the action.  

  One of the best things about Halo Wars is controlling the iconic units from the series. Leading 
 a barrage of marines, Spartans, Warthogs, and Scorpion tanks is great, and all-new units are a 
 welcome addition to the UNSC forces. Flamethrowers, mechlike Cyclopes, and the Cobras and Wolverine 
 vehicles work well against infantry, structures, vehicles, and aircraft respectively. You can also 
 control up to three of the series' iconic Spartan soldiers at a time. The Spartans are not only 
 a lot tougher than regular UNSC infantry, but they can also hijack enemy vehicles, or pilot a friendly 
 vehicle to boost its effectiveness. Although there may not be a great variety of units at your 
 command, each has a number of upgrades that offer significantly better firepower or defences.  
 

  The Covenant forces also have powerful infantry at their disposal, including energy-sword-equipped 
 Elites, Brutes, and Hunters, which are particularly useful against vehicles. Wraith battle tanks, 
 powerful Locusts, and the gargantuan Scarabs pack a serious punch against the UNSC forces, and 
 the rock-paper-scissors dynamic between aircraft, vehicles, and infantry ensures a relatively equal 
 footing between the teams. Given that the Covenant units are just as much fun to play with as the 
 UNSC's it's a real shame that the faction didn't get its own playable campaign. The same could 
 also be said of the Flood race, which you'll encounter in the campaign but don't even get to use 
 in multiplayer skirmishes.  

           The battles in Halo Wars look best when viewed up close and personal.      

  Halo 
 Wars requires you to produce quite a lot of resources at the beginning of each level before you 
 can muster a sizable army. Given the limited amount of building sites on each base, you have to 
 choose carefully to build another supply pad or use that site to unlock more-advanced units. The 
 UNSC and Covenant structures work in similar ways, and produce resources, infantry, vehicles and 
 aircraft, or research more-powerful units. Resources typically aren't something that you'll have 
 to spend too much time concerning yourself with once your base is up and running, which is good 
 because you're free to concentrate on more compelling areas of the battlefield.  

  The campaign mode in Halo Wars focuses less on building bases and more on using your limited forces 
 to complete objectives specific to the story. There is a good mix of escort missions, recapturing 
 lost bases, defending while waiting for rescue, and building your forces for an all-out assault. 
 Seasoned strategy fans will find the campaign quite easy to finish because the missions are short 
 and the enemy -- at least on the default difficulty setting -- isn't too smart. The option to play 
 campaign missions cooperatively with a second player is a neat addition, because you can call in 
 a friend to help play through the entire career or just to co-command a particular mission if you're 
 stuck on it. You share all resources with your buddy, rather than split them 50/50, but you have 
 direct control of specific units and can hand over command to your partner if you wish. Considering 
 that both of you have access to build structures and units, you need to make sure to stay in constant 
 communication to ensure that you have enough resources to get the job done.     

  Halo Wars' campaign mode has some replay value and completionists will want to play through to 
 find all of the game's achievements and hidden skulls. Like those in Halo 3, skulls unlock options 
 that can be used to change settings in skirmishes, such as doubling each unit's hit-points. Unlocking 
 every secret aside, multiplayer should keep Halo fans occupied for much longer. The only problem 
 is that there isn't a lot of variety in this mode, with skirmishes being the only game type available. 
 There's support for up to six players at a time via Xbox Live or system link, but the maximum number 
 of teams is two, so in a six-player game you're forced to have two teams of three factions. While 
 it's fun to play as both the UNSC and Covenant, Halo Wars is desperately lacking more factions 
 to choose from, and the Flood seems like an obvious choice. If you find the pace of the resource-heavy 
 standard matches slow, then the Deathmatch option accelerates things to offer advanced units and 
 more-significant resources early on. Despite its limitations, multiplayer is fun to play, and you 
 can help allies by sending them resources, which lets them build more than their current budget 
 might allow.  

           Halo Wars' storyline is both cinematic and entertaining.      

  Each leader also has access to one special power, which can be used in both solo and multiplayer 
 games. On the UNSC side, Cutter can use a magnetic accelerator cannon, Forge has carpet bombs, 
 and Anders can drop a cryo bomb that freezes units in a small radius for a short period. On the 
 Covenant side, there's the Arbiter's rage special attack and the Brute Chieftain's vortex damage 
 field, both of which seem weak in comparison to the Prophet of Regret's cleansing power -- an orbital 
 laser beam that you can steer around the battlefield with devastating effect. All units and leaders, 
 as well as most structures, can be upgraded, and if you have the time and resources, upgrades result 
 in a significantly increased arsenal at your disposal.  

  The visual highpoints of Halo Wars are the stunningly rendered cutscenes that do a great job of 
 keeping the story moving between missions. The in-game visuals aren't as consistently impressive; 
 structures and units are nicely detailed, but the environments they're situated in are drab by 
 comparison. You can zoom in and see the bases mechanically churning away, and the explosive destruction 
 of the enemy outposts looks great up close. The Covenant's energy-based weapons look particularly 
 good and make a nice counterpoint to the UNSC's more traditional weapons. At times you might experience 
 a bit of slowdown when the screen is swarming with units, but overall the frame rate holds up well. 

           The firepower that Scarabs unleash is absolutely devastating.      

  No Halo game would be complete without an epic, orchestral soundtrack, and Halo Wars is no exception. 
 Inspired by the franchise's predecessors, the music reinforces the authenticity of the game within 
 the Halo universe. The sound effects also live up to the heritage, with recognisable audio for 
 the weapons, structures, and key characters. Voices are sometimes out of sync during the video 
 updates in battles, but otherwise it's all of a high standard.  

  Although Halo Wars can be rewarding and fun to play for a time, the short length of the single-player 
 campaign and the lack of variety in the multiplayer ultimately leaves the game feeling unfinished 
 and threadbare. It looks and sounds great, and it captures the essence of the series well, but 
 there's not much else to keep you coming back once you've finished the short campaign and grown 
 tired of playing multiplayer skirmishes between the two sides. It's good while it lasts, but it 
 will appeal more to fans of Halo and casual RTS players than anyone looking for a deeply engrossing 
 strategy game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (123 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bunyip94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Ensemble studios did a great job in fitting Halo Wars to the Halo world, the units look amazing, 
 Halo Wars has one of the best cut scenes I have ever seen in any game or platform.
  
  The People at Gamespot really dont know how to rate games, they stuffed up on GTA4 and now this.
 
  
  Campaign: Campaign is farely average is got alot to offer, but there isnt really anything great 
 about and still fun.
  
  Online: Simple and really fun at the same time, playing with mates or just randoms online is great 
 fun. There isnt really that many options but there doesnt have to be that many because its just 
 so fun with like 3v3 or 2v2. 
  
  
  ggggfff f fg fn gdg dfg dfgfdghdfh fdh dfg b,. jnkj; h; kjhnlknl kfnfd b, fd sv, fs g, f vbf gj hbkjkkj 
 nlknclkg fh kj sd cv vdgcxcg cvh cvh cv gfds sfd fsdfd gs ds gds gm gfj g hdf gsdfsg bh v xvfb 
 xcv fdxcf hhgfjg h dgmh fd hgf bjg fjh d gfsgsd sd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDarthHec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  For an RTS, it's a great start, but Ensemble Studios missed a few details, such as:
  1. The campaign should either have more levels or longer levels, many people think that; I think 
 that too. There should also be a Covenant campaign for Covenant lovers. (Like me; because I'm a 
 fan of Grunts!)
  
  2. The other thing is that it should be able to have is something that is customizable because 
 last time I played, it didn't have anything customizable, other than the Flaming Warthog and the 
 Honor Guard Wraith. In the other Halo games, there were customizable characters. Maybe Robot Entertainment 
 (the new company owning Halo Wars by former Ensemble Studios members since the company was shut 
 down by Microsoft) could add updates for that on the Xbox Live Marketplace.
  
  3. Even though I think that the skirmish heroes and abilities are very good, maybe Anders's "half 
 price for unit upgrades" isn't very good because it doesn't reduce all the prices. I think the 
 Flood should be playable too.
  
  Other than those and a few other things, it's a fun game for RTS players, just needs a few improvements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvspartan36
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  It is unfortunate that Ensemble Studios is gone. At the end of their life, they gave us an excellent 
 addition into the Halo series and made a game that is easy to pick up and stay with.
  The game's story picks up several years before the original Halo. The Covenant have invaded the 
 planet Harvest for unknown reasons. You play as Captain James Cutter, controlling the UNSC from 
 the ship Spirit of Fire. The campaign is not extremely hard or lengthy, but Halo fans will enjoy 
 the story nonetheless. The graphics are very good, and the art style stays true to the Halo universe
 
  The most interesting part of this game is the combination of genre and system: an RTS on a console. 
 Usually, RTS games don't fare well on controllers, but Ensemble has done it. Halo Wars' controls 
 are easy to pick up and flow smoothly. Units and bases are easy to interact with, and assigning 
 a task is never a problem.
  Multiplayer is the crown jewel of the game. Players can choose from 3 UNSC and 3 Covenant leaders 
 to play as, each with their own special units and abilities. Unfortunately, this is where multiplayer 
 stumbles a little bit. While both sides are fun to play, it feels as though the Covenant is slightly 
 overpowered. Covenant units, though weaker than their UNSC counterparts, use less resources and 
 less time to build. The population cap for the covenant is also 10 units higher than the UNSC. 
 The unit that makes the Covenant seem all powerful is the Scarab. While they weren't entirely difficult 
 to take out in the Halo trilogy, in Halo Wars, they are near unkillable without a full army and 
 leader powers. If the enemy gets one or more Scarabs out, you're done, unless you've got some good 
 tricks up your sleeve.
  Online multiplayer is just as fun as offline- when it has good intentions, that is. I am referring 
 to all those people out there whose strategy relies on a single word: RUSH. I will not explain 
 how to rush here, but leave it by saying that it is catching the enemy off guard early in the game. 
 While this strategy is by no means cheating, it is unfair, as it is an easy way to move up the 
 leaderboards with no skill.
  Perhaps, with wht remains of the Halo Wars team, a Halo Wars 2 can be made that addresses some 
 of its few issues. For now, I am content to enjoy the wonderful game put before me, as we send 
 a final thank-you to Ensemble Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak7
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars. There was such a huge fuss about it. I classified it as overrated. For all of the excitement 
 and hype that came with it, I found that it fell short of amazing. Of course, that may just be 
 because I thought it was going to be amazing. But either way, the game just... wasn't that great. 
 It was probably one of the best games I had ever played for the first few days. But after a while, 
 it just gets boring, a little difficult, and just repetitive. Yes, it was a good game, but it flat-out 
 did not live up to its expectations. For all of the excitement I had about it, it was disapointing. 
 I am disapointed to give it a seven for its rating. I knew that the first few missions were just 
 sort of tutorials, but I enjoyed them more than the challenging ones. Okay, call me a n00b. But 
 I don't care. I thought it got a little too hard after the "tutorial" levels. I just really couldn't 
 "get into it". For thrifty buyers, I reccomend that you try before you buy. I love both RTSs and 
 Halo, and I was happy to see them together. The truth is, they really don't mix well. The control 
 was solid, though. That is one good thing about it. It is very simplistic and easy to learn. That 
 might be the only reason I didn't rate it a six. In the end, it just wasnt great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rippletonz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  What a disrespectful send-off for the last game of an RTS legend like Ensemble. Gamespot, you should 
 be ashamed of yourselves. If you want to review this game solely based on its depth (like the Gamespot 
 a$$h0le) , a 6.5 might be correct. However, if you consider the FACT that this is the best and only 
 RTS to work well on a console; and if you consider the fact that it was tailored for XBOX Live, 
 you will begin to see how great of a game this is. I rate it a 10 to balance idiots who review 
 based only on the campaign, which is short but replay-able (nobody complained about the short, 
 replay-able campaign in RE5) .
  
  No Covenant campaign, no playable Flood - boo hoo. Play online. I would be just as happy with this 
 game if it had no campaign. As simplistic as halo wars is, there is a complex balance between leaders, 
 their powers, unit types, and strategies. The best analogy I can give, is that it's like playing 
 rock paper scissors, but each person has about 8 hands. I've spent nearly 100 hours playing, most 
 of it online. I've done plenty of 1v1, 2v2, and 3v3 (never with random people... must be able to 
 strategize) . Dynamic is the word that comes to mind. If people know what they're doing, any number 
 of strategies can be successful, and any strategy can be countered. 
  
  All those things considered, this would have been a successful RTS for the PC. What really makes 
 it for the XBOX is that the controls work fluidly. It is exactly the opposite of every previous 
 console RTS: selecting, narrowing, and controlling units is easy and intuitive, and the same goes 
 for controlling your point of view on the battle. You can scroll around normally, at quadruple 
 speed, or you can instantly jump to your leader, army, or bases by just pushing the D-pad. The 
 result is that multi-tasking becomes easy. 
  
  So like I said, Halo Wars may deserve a 6.5 in terms of its depth. However, depth is not a factor 
 with such an endlessly entertaining and well-balanced online title. Screw your 6.5, get fired. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldar_Avatar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a Real-Time strategy set in the expansive and popular Halo Universe and made by Ensemble 
 Studios, a company known for its Age of Empires series. The game itself may come as a shock to 
 hardcore Halo players because of the change to a RTS system but this change is welcomed and enables 
 players to experience the war with the Convenant on a much larger scale.
  
  Halo Wars is set twenty years before the original Halo and follows the story of the crew of the 
 Spirit of Fire and its many encounters with the Prophet of Regret's Convenant forces. I admit to 
 being quite sceptical as I'm not exactly a huge Halo fan but I was pleasantly surprised when the 
 game actually worked and didn't suffer the same frame-rate issues that plague other console strategy 
 games. Halo Wars also works quite well as a game to introduce RTS fans in the Halo Universe. 
 
  
  The game has a great albeit a short campaign, a thoroughly enjoyable multiplayer game and is really 
 the only console RTS that works well on what it's got. It doesn't add anything that special to 
 the RTS formula but it does use the tried and tested formula to its best. It is definitely a must 
 play for Halo fans and for people looking for a strategy game that actually works on console.
 
  
  
  Graphics: 09/10
  Graphically the game looks really good for a console RTS and doesn't suffer any frame-rate problems.
 
  
  Achievements: 08/10
  The achievement list is quite well done except for huge asking to get to the general rank in multiplayer. 
 Asking a player to get 3.2 million exp. points when you only receive roughly about three to four 
 thousand points for an hour long match seems like just way too much to the casual gamer.
  
  Story: 09/10
  A great story and a great introduction into the Halo Universe for those new and 
 it shows some more to those already into Halo.
  
  Overall: 09/10
  The game makes a great addition to any gamers collection with its interesting story, compelling 
 game-play and even its options for re-playability. I highly recommend this game to any Console 
 gamer looking for a RTS that actually works well on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahtoast26
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing! its an RTS game, it has some of the best graphics i have ever seen but only 
 in the cutscenes. it is only for the xbox 360, but for those halo funs who have a 360, game on! 
 another great thing about it is its a HALO game! yay! the gameplay is great, its the perfect dificulty 
 and it has online co-op, standard match, and deathmatch. the online also has a good ranking system 
 from recuit to general. there are 15 missions in the campaign. an amazing thing about it is there 
 is a halo timeline! the limited edition halo wars comes with 6 leader cards, sargeant forge, professer 
 anders, captain cutter, the prophet of regret, the arbiter, and a brute chieftain. it comes with 
 a halo wars comic book, and 3 new halo 3 maps! assembly, orbital, and sandbox. the halo wars limited 
 edition comes with much more. so you can see, halo wars is a game worth buying!
  gamertag -- yeahtoast26 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnrm21
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Halo's franchise has taken a turn downhill with Halo Wars. It seems that they threw together a 
 quick RTS game to please the mass of kids out there. Some of the more recognizable games that Ive 
 played from this genre have double the content and playable caracters/types. I was very excited 
 to play this game and when I began, it was the same thing over and over again. Your only able to 
 build a limited amount of units/buildings. I returned it after the first day because of being bored. 
 Age of Empires I has more replay value than this game. Definately just a renter game..
  
  Overall bad: lack of units, only a 40 max unit cap, lack of playable species, lack of upgrades, 
 repetitive mission types while playing campaign, and not able to play other species on campaign.
 
  
  If your into any real RTS game, then this would be a total let down and a general waste of time 
 unless your going achievment hunting like me. If your just so into Halo that you don't care what 
 your playing, then by all means go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crykiechef
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Alright now for the meaty stuff......
  
  Now first off i must say that given this genre which can only be called Halo has been a first-person 
 shooter only and has never ventured outside of that boundry until now. Halo wars. Taking place 
 prior to all three Halo games presenting an oportunity for great potential that for some reason 
 we missed. The gameplay is great and its fun but nothing more, while the graphics are as good as 
 any other RTS and I might even go as far as to say a little better.... maybe, the controls are easy 
 and quite frankly too simple. The addition of the ability to group all your soldiers and vehicles 
 in your viewing screen without adding your entire lot of soldiers is definately a plus, but the 
 lack of an open building world makes for things too be far too structured for an RTS of this calibur. 
 Playing as the UNSC and sending spartans into battle was the single ability that first drew my 
 attention to this game. But i must say that after playing i was extremely dissapointed with the 
 lack of Spartans in the story as well as the gameplay. having to upgrade fully in order to use 
 them was not a problem but the fact that only 3 were ever available to play outside of the campaign 
 and even during the campaign there is never really the option of building your own. again i will 
 say that i did and do still enjoy destroying the covenant with my spartans and bombing the s*** 
 out of enemy bases and scarabs haha but overall i dont feel a score higher than a 7.5 is worthy 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcken2013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I understand that this game got mixed reviews, but it really does deserve a great rating. The only 
 problem I see is some of the story. At some points it seems like you missed something, but once 
 it gets to the last couple of cut scenes, you find that the story doesn't even have to matter. 
 But the story also offers very well made cut scenes and has a history on the Halo universe. This 
 game also shows how great the Spartans truly are. The maps are also made with great care and it 
 has great graphic design. Some examples are that some bases are controlled by rebels or fore runner 
 sentinels. This game really lets you use the environment to your advantage. Not to mention how 
 creative all the new units are. It even explains why the new units aren't found in the future games. 
 Talking about the wide variety of units, there are so many strategies to pick from using different 
 units and taking the upgrades you can get them to your advantage. Leader powers are also something 
 in the game that can really change the tide of the battle. So I would think of this as a magnificent 
 new standard for the RTS standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edzea
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I will admit i was hesitant to buy this game at first, only because i really enjoy my PC strategy 
 games, but there hasnt been any good ones out in awhile. I did not want to make my decision based 
 onthis is a good game for a console RTS", so i finally decided to give it a shot since it was 
 used, and all i can say is WOW, what an impressive game! Think of Starcraft, only newer, and on 
 a console, the interface is simple, making it all about the game, the controls are a breeze, again 
 making it all about the game with no struggle over what is where. And im not speaking as a fanboy 
 either, i could give a rip about the halo franchise, although i am a fan of Ensemble Studios. So 
 all in all, this is a great game, especially if you are looking for something new and improved 
 as far as console RTS go, and as well as RTS's in general! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cainetao11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Wel as a Halo fan, meaning books, games, comics,, and collectibles, I had to try this game. I've 
 never been to big on the RTS genre, and the only other one I've played somewhat is LOTR BFME2. 
 As a LOTR fan, I thoght yeah.... but when it came to game time it turned to NO. Halo Wars changed 
 that for me. With a control scheme that I could learn quickly, and the merciful sparing of a lot 
 of micro managing, this turned out to be one of the best buys of a new genre ever for me. The story 
 takes place 20 years before the events of Halo: CE. Told through beautiful cutscenes, and fitting 
 in well with the game universe that has been established by previous titles and novels, the story 
 contains 15 missions that escalate well in difficulty. Now the difficulty to RTS vets may seem 
 a joke, but that's where I feel this game serves the purpose it was striving for. Going after a 
 fanbase that is used to hands on, fast paced shooter action, and luring them into the slower paced 
 RTS gameplay is accomplished well, imo. Building bases is easy enough, and collecting supplies 
 with ground troops or a warthog is a breeze. Then placing supply depots on your base increases 
 the spending ability. Supply depots as well as Reactors for military upgrades can be upgraded in 
 order to maximize base efficiency. 
  
  Combat is a breeze as is choosing all units with the RB or just the local units on screen with 
 the LB. Cycling through them to narrow down your choice is done with a trigger button. Or just 
 move the cursor over a unit and press A to select it directly. Move the cursor to a spot on screen 
 and press X to move to said spot. Most units have their basic attack as well as a secondary attack. 
 The warthog can ram targets as a second option. Seeing the prophet of Regret and who I can only 
 assume is the Arbiter that comes before the one known in Halo 2 and 3 is pretty cool. The characters 
 are well done and the voice acting is excellent. Calling in Mac blasts from an orbiting ship is 
 a lot of destructive fun, but needs to be chosen wisely as the cool down time must be planned for. 
 As an RTS, this title may not wow veterans of the genre. As a noob and not a huge fan of the drawbacks 
 that turn me off to RTS' this game won me over with it's streamlined style and rich story that 
 fits in well with everything Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apequest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw this game i thought it would suck. i changed my mind after i played the demo. 
 my friend told me the game was the same as the demo but i did not care. it ended up being really 
 good. the video graphics where really good. if your planing on getting the game i am telling you 
 start it on legendary because after you bet it it just gets boring doing it again. the one thing 
 that makes the skirmish fun is the leader ability's and special units. there is a lot of areas 
 in it on skirmish and story. a couple of thing that i think should have been in was: mongoose and 
 a little bit more upgrades for the units. things that i think where stupid was the amount of units 
 you could hold i mean if you get the supplies to build it they should let you build it that was 
 a big mistake they made. how come you can not be the covenant during story those are some bad mistakes 
 they made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomGames
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  BUENAS GRAFICAS, BUENOS EFECTOS, HISTORIA MANEJADA DE MANERA REGULAR, TENIAN TODOS LOS ELEMENTOS 
 PARA UN EXCELENTE RTS Y NO LO SUPIERON MANEJAR.
  
  CON CONCEPTOS SIMILARES A STARCRAFT Y WARHAMMER 40K DAWN OF WAR, NOS LLEGO ESTE RTS, MUY BIEN CONTRUIDO, 
 PERO DEMASIADO CORTO EN SU DESARROLLO Y UNA ESTRUCTURA MUY LINEAL, ME HUBIERA GUSTADO ALGO MAS 
 SOFISTICADO, CON BATALLAS MAS ESPECTACULARES Y MISIONES ALTERNAS, LO DE LAS CALAVERAS Y CAJAS NEGRAS 
 ESTA FATAL, EL NO PODER JUGAR CON EL PACTO EN CAMPANA SOLO ES FRUSTRANTE, SE ME HIZO QUE HAY UNA 
 DESPROPORCION EN EL PODER DE LAS UNIDADES QUE CON UNOS CUANTOS TANQUES PUEDES BARRER TODO UN EJERCITO 
 DEL PACTO, CUANDO DEBIRIA SER AL REVES DADA LA SUPERIORIDAD TECNOLOGICA.
  
  NO SE PUEDEN SELECCIONAR GRUPOS DE UNIDADES DIFERENTES PARA EFECTUAR FLANCOS Y ATAQUES CON TACTICAS 
 HIT AND RUN, SE COPIARON MUCHOS ELEMENTOS DE STARCRAFT, PERO DISTA MUCHO DE SERLO. POR ULTIMO, 
 ALGUIEN ME DIJO QUE LOS JUEGOS DE RTS, NO ERAN PARA CONSOLAS Y SISTEMAS SOLO PC, CREO QUE TIENE 
 RAZON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnDarkKnight
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars sounded like a great game on the boards, but when it came out and was but to the test 
 it failed to deliver what it should have. The game has too many down sides starting with the fact 
 that the population cap was awfully small and didn't give it that feeling of "war". On top of that 
 the game didn't allow for the use of any other factions just the UNSC, not the Covenant in the 
 campaign, and the Flood were not able to be used at all. On the upside it had stunning graphics 
 and enough variety of forces to make you feel like you were actually fighting the battle. The campaign 
 was also interesting and varied, along with the great cut scenes, it made the the storyline very 
 captivating. If your a hardcore Halo fan or are interested in the Halo universe this game might 
 be worth the few hick ups. But i wouldn't consider buying this game at full price maybe only renting 
 the game would be a sound idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagamedudeguy13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is about your average RTS, but what can you expect from a console? There are about 9 
 to 10 different troops for every character, and only one resource to gather. The maps are small, 
 and the battles generally quick and decisive. The campaign is short and uninteresting, but Xbox 
 Live skirmishes are fun, especially with a friend. Unfortunatley, most players are extremely good, 
 making it difficult to win. It has all the elements of a good RTS, but lacks a lot of content and 
 depth. Despite all of it's flaws, there is a certain enthralling quality about the game that makes 
 you continuously come back for more. I think it is worth the money to get for people who like the 
 series, but if you don't like the Halo series even a little bit, then do not bother buying the 
 game, go pick up Age of Empires 3 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiruler47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  From the view of a halo fan who has never played a RTS, this game is simple and very fun. But that's 
 the thing. I wouldn't know what to expect from other RTS's so my review might not be as accurate 
 as it could be. Anyway the bottom line is that this game is amazing! When I first heard about this 
 game I was thinking, these people are going to completely screw up the good halo name and franchise. 
 I was wrong. The graphics for cut scenes in the campaign are gorgeous. Though the campaign can 
 be a bit tedious, it just warms you up for the real knock out: the multiplayer. There are so many 
 ways to play halo wars multiplayer. First off before I get into this, if you don't have Xbox Live 
 the game has an A. I. feature, but it's not as fun as live and can get a little boring.
  
  Okay, there are so many tactics to online it's not funny. You can rush, upgrade a single unit, 
 upgrade multiple units, focus on base construction, etc. Every game is different. And the music 
 in game is spectacular.
  
  Overall: I will play this game for many more hours to come it's so great. I hope this review helped 
 you form an opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenris1124
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a disappointing RTS, but there are two ways to look at it. First is from the perspective 
 of a RTS fan and the second is a Halo fan. Any real-time strategy fan will take this game back 
 to the store after several hours. The game lacks so much substance it barely qualifies as a RTS. 
 The first major problem is that it only has two playable factions which will make battles very 
 boring and repetitive. Also on that line the flood are featured in the campaign but not available 
 for play in multiplayer. The way you get money in Halo Wars is dull and simple along with unit 
 population. Now an avid Halo fan will like this game simple because it features their favorite 
 vehicles and people. Also the majority of Halo fans have probably not played an RTS since most 
 only play first person shooters so they will think it is great when they really don't know what 
 makes a good RTS. Halo Wars does have some good features such as visuals and graphics, but it is 
 not enough to save this sinking ship. Overall I think this game was made to introduce Halo fans 
 to a new genre, and not so much as a respectable real-time strategy game. But if you are still 
 looking or wanting a good sci-fi RTS then I would highly recommend Starcraft for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathlyglow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I'd just like to mention I finished the game when not even a week passed by.
  I thought it would've been a good game, but I just don't know what to say about this game. I found 
 out that it wasn't made by Bungie but Ensemble studios.
  The campaign is very easy and the fact that it takes a long time to make or train a single unit 
 can be annoying and frustrating.
  I'd also like to point that this game doesn't take that much strategy to win.
  All you have to 
 do is make strong units, vehicles or aircrafts to blow up stuff and kill your enemies.
  
  The Graphics:
  I'd just like to say that the best graphics are in the movie scenes.
  The units 
 and vehicles in the game are all simply designed but are much better in the movie scenes.
  Environments are well detailed which can be very satisfying although some parts can look too fake.
 
  There's also not much colours.
  UNSC or S. O. F troops and units all have olive as there colour.
  The Covenant all have purple, 
 especially the vehicles.
  This can make the game look boring and too simple.
  
  The Sounds:
  Each unit you select says there own phrase, when you either select them to move 
 or attack or make them use their special attack.
  
  New features:
  There are new units, vehicles and aircrafts added to the game.
  Vultures and scarabs are the 
 most destructive.
  
  Controls:
  The controls of the UNSC or S. O. F are slightly different to the controls of the covenant.
  
 
  Overall,
  I still recommend you buy this game and I give it a 9/10 for graphics.
  7/10 for sound.
  8/10 for the new features.
  7/10 for the controls. (There kind of confusing 
 at first.)
  ) Overall, I give it a 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars will cast a spell on you. The controls are simple and efficient, making you feel like 
 you were playing a PC strategy game. You'll easily manage to control your bases and your armies, 
 but why? because it was made by one of the best RTS companies out there, and because this RTS was 
 made for the Xbox 360 console, and wasn't, as most console RTS, an adaptation of a PC game. The 
 game is mainly based over Age Of Empires, but it have some needed modifications to save this game 
 from the somewhat failure Age Of Empires became after the 3rd game. First of all, its based on 
 Halo universe, adding much more possibilities, such as air, armored and spartan units. The game 
 add some new features such as the importance of the very creative leader powers. Those powers can 
 change the fate of a battle, when you bring your Arbiter, or Brute Chieftain to the battle, while 
 on the human side, you can crush the enemy armies with Carpet Bombings and MAC blasts, and reinforce 
 your army with ODST and much more. The single resource system is somewhat unreal, but the way the 
 factions develop their technologies is very creative, altough it gives some advantage to the aliens. 
 Well, talking about factions, the game features only two, the United Nations Space Command (UNSC) 
 and the Covenant Alliance, but you'll never have the feeling of repetition, because each faction 
 have 3 leaders, and all of them change their faction alot. 
  
  Halo Wars has only one substantial problem, the lack of a Covenant campaign/story mode. Altough 
 the UNSC campaign features a great story, especially for Halo fans, and very different places, 
 and you'll take some time searching for the skulls and for the timeline, a new feature that Halo 
 fans will love, the complete lack of the Covenant campaign makes the game too short. Some people 
 complained about the impossibility to play with the flood, but the flood is made to be the worst 
 thing in Halo, much worse then the Covenant, and you simply can't have his feeling with: '' Player 
 1 : Flood Red Team Vs Player 2 : Flood Blue Team.'', and besides that, it would be too easy for 
 players to win when controlling the flood.
  
  This game features one of the best graphics you have ever seen in strategy games, and the units 
 are beatiful to look, listen and everything. The sound effects are just amazing. The tanks advancing, 
 the weapons firing, the buildings collapsing... Now, my last words are a tribute:
  
  '' Thank you Emsemble Studios, you made a revolution in what is, unfortunately, your last game. 
 I and all gamers will miss you and your great work. Congratulations. ''
  
  - gll25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  ---Visuals ---
  
  Graphically, the game looks decent, but not a lot of things a represented on the screen, though 
 an RTS on console is already a touchy subject beyond the idea of doing it there in the first place, 
 but still, that's marks already lost. No technical graphics issues that would be major so there's 
 no marks lost.
  Gloss and glam may make a game for looking Spacy for Sci-Fi fanatics, though it is substance over 
 appearance anyday.
  
  ----Audio ----
  
  Voices plays its part and so does the sound, funny, since most games don't actually bother or do 
 a really dodgy job at it, but at least this series was good for a reason and at least this major 
 thing will stand the test of time. I wonder if I would say the same if this game was in a different 
 language... Don't answer that one...
  Music doesn't eclipse the gameplay and is a subtle thing, making sure not the tick off the gamer 
 like an over-clingy partner, buggy you 24/7. One major question here... Halo made the Elites go 
 Wort-wort and this game is supposedly set before that time... anyone see the problem there?
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  
  Believing that RTS on the console to begin with, was a flawed idea from 
 the start, I couldn't be bothered getting this game, why I got it, don't ask. The attempt didn't 
 at it wasn't a bad one with maybe a logical button layout though unit and group selections the 
 major standing points along with not being able to hit from point to point quickly.
  Sure, there were quick keys for base selection, group unit selections, single/local/map units selection 
 and whatever else... There's just too many buttons to remember.
  Before starting off, I assumed it may be a good idea to learn everything in the game before hitting 
 the yardstick of the game... Boy was I wrong... What if people played this game before? 10 minutes 
 learning the basics once and become optional would be a better idea. Address that!
  Besides that... I'd need to change the prodding stick to a cricket bat since RTS on consoles creates 
 more problems than solves for the RTS genre.
  One mission which really annoyed me was that weird Flood clearing stage, not because of the already 
 complicated unit pumping system, but the miscommunication of hiding units. I was told to send units 
 into an airlock and whatever else, but here's the catch, I wasn't able to hide my air units no 
 matter how hard I tried... I smell a bug...
  Most of the time when playing campaign... I stuck to using 2 different units most of the time... 
 Not because they were really powerful, but because the other units weren't as good, though, when 
 I amassed a horde of vehicles, their turning were so horrible that they should of just resorted 
 to doing burn-outs as that reduces turnings to nearly nothing what-so-ever, but no... they were 
 so scared about denting their precious vehicles that nudging was not an option... but then there's 
 a war... crash, dash, hit & run is the shout of the era... mainly because receiving damaging is 
 a part of the war that a shiny new car from the start of war lasting to the end of war is comparable 
 to denting a car with a baseball bat, fat chance it is going to still remain shiny and new.
  
  ---Longevity ---
  
  It is fun to a point, but I don't see it being played for more than... 
 oh... I don't know... not too long...
  
  ---Stab Time ---
  
  Woo!
  
  For Halo fans?
  Half decent jobs at an RTS for consoles?
  Fairly simple for an RTS...
  Spartans 
 can highjack vehicles?!?
  
  Boo!
  
  Hype kills a game, this one doesn't make me do a 180
  My cousin annoyed me about this game... 
 Might smash his dreams now
  I forgot all about the powers... wait... meh... too many buttons...
  RTS on console confusing!
 
  Borderline no for RTS lovers
  If you are going to ram someone, it doesn't take 10 minutes to worry about a bumper, you just RAM!
 
  Some upgrades quite **** (borderline useless)
  Balance? What Balance?
  Can't really say I was immersed
  
  
  I'm sorry, but if you're not a fan of Halo, this ain't 
 gonna rock your boat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krockalock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  In Halo Wars' campain you mainly play as Sargent Forge with the help of Captin Cutter leader of 
 the Spirit Of Fire. The graphics in game are not exceptional but the movie graphics are just jaw 
 droping. The controls are easy to learn and use. The ability to revive fallen heros just be moving 
 next to them in the campain but not in the skirmmish unfortunatly. The story is amazing but ends 
 with a great cliff hanger. The hero abilities for the UNSC leaders are useful while the Covenat 
 leaders are on the battle field and still have powers. The campain is long enuf between 10-20 hours. 
 while you can change the difficulty to any Halo difficulty and also an automatic difficulty that 
 addaps to you. Over all I would recomend this game to any Halo or RTS fan. Got to fill in space 
 abcdef ghijklmnop qrstuv wxyz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashietaka
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, people seem to have mixed opinions on this game, download the demo and see for yourself. 
 I tried the demo and really liked it. My friend got the game and it made me want to get it even 
 more because of course, Multiplayer is where it's at. Not a whole lot of single player missions, 
 but you'll really be spending your time on multiplayer because that's where the meats at. This 
 game is built simply but doesn't mean it's really simple. People think just because it doesn't 
 have a confusing interface that it's just too simple and missing things. No it's not! It's actually 
 deeper then you think and with all RTS's you need to know what works with what so you can strategies 
 for offense and defense. 
  My opinion, I like this game and if you want an RTS that's fast, fun, simple to play, yet still 
 deep enough to satisfy your cravings this is your game. Plus it's set in the Halo universe and 
 it's just FUN! All the rest of you haters, just wait with nothing good until Star Craft 2 comes 
 out I guess, but trust me, you're missing out and could be having fun with this game in the mean 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camirish
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I love Halo Wars but I can see why other RTS fans can hate this game. It lacks real resource gathering, 
 there is a small variety of units, and games are intended to be less then 30 minutes. And this 
 is why I love this game, ironically. Other RTS's like Warcraft 3 (only other RTS i played) required 
 so much micromanagement and extreme knowledge of every faction that it made the game more of a 
 chore then anything fun. 
  
  I know people will disagree that a RTS should be easy to pick up or on a console, but Halo Wars 
 does a great job of integrating the limited 360 controls into an intuitive control scheme. My one 
 complaint is the lack of micromanagement options available to the player which makes precise actions, 
 like throwing grenades at multiple targets, hard and unreliable. 
  
  However, Halo Wars is an excellent RTS and I am hoping that the "reborn" Ensemble small studios 
 that are popping up will continue great games that they did in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaphone27
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  this game was a complete let down i like strategy games but this one sucked you know why because 
 the is no strategy all i had to do in this game was through troops at enemys and id win. I tryed 
 to play it with tactics but when i put my men into position and told the to kill a enemy they would 
 charge them. the graphics sucked too I wanted to get empire total war but my stupid computer doesn't 
 have enought GHz to support it so in a split second decision i pucked up this game. I am so luck 
 i found the receipt if you want a game that is called a strategy but has no strategy buy this game. 
 The only good thing about this game is the graphics in the cut seance and the story line now if 
 your a die hard halo fan i dont care i love playin' halo but this is trash. PLEASE don't make another 
 halo strategy game. now this week end i have to go get farcry 2. I feel very dumb about gettin' 
 this game. i pray that halo ODST or recon what ever they call it is war better its got a lot to 
 make up for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ycheez
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ah, halo. One of the greatest FPS shooters of all time, totally ruined into a tactical game. Sure, 
 its cool to command warthogs and spartans and all those other really cool things in halo 1, 2, 
 and 3. But really, its just a really bad "game". The game kicks off 20 years before the halo event. 
 You are sent to invesigate conveant activity. I really think this can be a good game, but it lacks 
 obvious potential. The storyline feels bleak, and unfiinshed. Almost like someone just tried making 
 this game in, what? 2 months? I swear, when I asked my dad to get me halo wars for my birthday, 
 I thought I was gonna get the action-shooter I missed all these long years. Now what did i get 
 for my troubles? A game fit for an idiot. You know, theres an achievment on halo wars called "ready 
 for the sequel". Well, I don't think think theres gonna be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kg1212
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is definateley worth the 60 dollars. Many people are turned off by the idea of a Halo 
 RTS, however those people should play the game first. Not only is this one of my favorite RTS games 
 that i've played, but for the past few weeks it has been my favorite game period. The enemy A. I 
 is tough at times but only if the difficulty is turned way up. The achievements are fun and not 
 too hard to get, and there are achievements for each individual campaign mission as well as each 
 act. The most impressive things about Halo Wars are definitely the soundtracks and the cutscenes. 
 For the soundtracks it sounded like they blended new Halo music with elements of the music in the 
 other three games. Then there are the cutscenes. There is only one word to describe the quality 
 of them, amazing. I found myself playing the cutscenes multiple times from beginning to end. They 
 look great, sound great and, if you pay attention, have a great story (minus the one were the star 
 is inside the planet) . Overall there are only a couple of bugs that are worth mentioning and they 
 are the fact that after a while gameplay can get a little repetitive without XBOX Live, and sometimes 
 when moving the units they get stuck on things and each other but it only takes a few seconds for 
 them to align themselves properly and then you are all set. In the end this game is definitely 
 worth the purchase as long as you like both RTS games and the rest of the Halo series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Halo wars is really really great. Now in case you don't like halo. Halo 1 Was originally gonna 
 be an RTS on the MAC but Microsoft bought Bungie. And well it was turned into a FPS. But now it's 
 back to it's roots in this great RTS that is just a bunch of hours of fun.
  PROS:
  A great alternitive to Halo 3
  You actually have to think.
  Commanding Spartans is fun.
  
 from the creators of Age of empires.
  The story actually is interesting.
  Multiplayer is fun.
  The Halo timeline mode is really cool.
  CONS:
  Too short.
  Some of 
 the missions are frustration.
  
  Well those are the only shortcomings of Halo Wars. Well anyways you will have a blast with this 
 game. Halo wars get's a check in my book. So if you don't like Halo 3 and want a game that doesn't 
 suck.
  halo wars is calling your name! Trust me it's a good game. Now go buy it. Seriously. I'm not joking. 
 Why are you still here. Go buy it! Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars isn't a game that is going to reshape the RTS formula into a cool unique Halo way, in 
 no respect is it that. But in many respects it is an incredibly addicting, old fashioned RTS that 
 is a welcome addition to the Halo collection. Unfortunately if you are a veteran in RTS department 
 this really isn't going to impress you, unless your a major Halo fan.
  
  The gameplay is thoroughly addictive and can be played for well over 24 hours (over a spaced time 
 of course) and still be enjoyed. In the single player campaign you play as the UNSC and a new "hero" 
 called Seargent Forge who plays a big role in the battle against the vicsous Covenant. The game 
 starts somthing like 20 years before the original Halo event in the first Halo game on the Xbox, 
 and interlocks a lot with the Halo books. 
  There are 15 missions, all of witch contain a skull wich is unlocked after completing a certain 
 target in the level, and a black box wich unlocks Halo timeline events for- if you wish- to read 
 and find out. As well as this each mission has a highly detailed beautifully graphiced cutscene 
 that explains the goings on between the missions, and overall keeps you interested. Unfortunately 
 those graphics are a long way infront of the bland graphics that are used on the scenery and units 
 which is disapointing and is just plain lazy as the graphics really are nothing to the Halo games.
 
  
  However you may wonder why i believe this game is good, well after playing this game (and trust 
 me give it a chance) it will virtually grow on you and you will begin to look past the bland graphics 
 and see that this can be enjoyed. It uses some great ideas like the Covenant Scarab wich is so 
 much fun to unleash on your enemies in an online or private skirmish game, a Vulture for the UNSC 
 wich is like a pelican but incredibly powerful, at least 3 upgrades for each unit like the Grizzly 
 tank for the scorpion and the Hawk unit for the hornet, both of which are incredibly powerfull. 
 For Halo fans who can relate to plowing through little Warthogs with a monstrous Scarab this is 
 trully a gem that really can be enjoyed. The online gameplay is addictive and great to play with 
 3 other people vs 3 more it makes for some awsome battles and explosions left right and centre. 
 The single player is immersive and has a nice story that if played properly is longer than it should 
 be and a load of little extras make this a great underappreciated game, wich is sad.
  
  I truly recommend this to anyone especially newcomers to the RTS genre as this is really friendly 
 welcome to the genre and will have you feeling like a veteran in no time, or if you a Halo fan 
 still play this it's got so much Halo in it you can't not like it. But if you are a hardcore RTS 
 fan i would avoid this as it's nothing new and quite shallow in terms of Warhammer and Command 
 and Conquer. I hoped you liked my review and found it helpful, give Halo Wars a chance!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars will make fans of Halo's mythos and lore salivate with the sheer detail and appearance 
 with the game. The Master Chief is hardly missed as the Spartans displayed in Wars are just as 
 capable as well as the character of Sgt. John Forge.
  
  He's almost as good as Sgt. Johnson. Almost...
  
  For those new to playing real-time strategy 
 games, Halo Wars is a good first step to get acclimated. However, those who strictly play RTS' 
 will be quite dissapointed as the game is very simplistic in its gameplay and overall customisation.
 
  
  Well, there isn't anything to customize. At least i haven't seen anything yet. Maybe there'll be 
 some kind of download in later dates eventhough Ensemble isn't around anymore. They changed their 
 name, I know that...
  
  While the game is simplistic, it works, especially for a console game, omitting cumbersome control 
 schemes that killed other RTS incarnations on console platforms. 
  
  Where the game really shines is it's display, particularly its cutscenes and soundtrack. The cinematics 
 are top notch, making not only the Spartans and other human forces, but the Covenant, even the 
 Flood, look amazing. And while Marty O'Donnell didn't do the soundtrack for Halo Wars, Stephen 
 Rippy (Thank You WikiPedia) does a killer job with the in-game music, staying faithful to Halo's 
 general theme while maintaining a sound that allows the game's soundtrack to stand alone.
  
  Yeah, the Flood is in this game. I dunno about the rest of you, but I'm getting kinda tired 
 of facing the Flood. It was nice once... but now it's ridiculous.
  
  To sum it all up, Halo Wars is a good recommendation for people who are fans of Halo-lore. RTS 
 players looking for complexity, however, I would suggest looking elsewhere. And to be perfectly 
 honest, I would suggest trading in games you're done playing to knock off some of the price tag 
 or renting it first. Until some downloadable content comes around, Halo Wars can get boring.
  
  It's still fun though.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Back in the mid 1990's when Bungie was owned by Macintosh, they came up with an idea for a new 
 RTS. Well, that RTS eventually turned into the popular game known as Halo (which became a huge 
 success) . It was pretty ironic to see that a Halo RTS was in production but everyone was skeptical 
 to see that it was a console RTS (which have a poor reputation) . However, Ensemble studios, creators 
 of the Age of Empires series, actually did a pretty good job at making one of the few RTS' that 
 are enjoyable with the controller.
  
  The story takes place 20 years before the events of the Halo trilogy on the planet Harvest. The 
 Covenant are looking for something that will help them start their "Great Journey". The humans 
 have won back Harvest after it was taken over years ago (read the book "Contact Harvest") but must 
 stop the Covenant. The campaign is 15 missions long and about 20 minutes each on average. During 
 the campaign, you can earn medals depending on your stats (gold, silver, bronze, or tin) and you 
 can collect skulls in which each skull has a different function (like in Halo 3) .
  
  There are only two playable factions in the whole game but there are six leaders (3 for each side) 
 which are, of course, the UNSC and the Covenant. The Flood would have been nice too but one step 
 at a time. There are a ton of units to build in Halo Wars such as the vehicles that you may know 
 like warthogs, scorpions, hornets, ghosts, wraiths, banshees, etc. and newer vehicles like vampires 
 (aircraft) , wolverines (anti air) , etc. There are also infantry like marines, grunts, elites, spartans 
 (only 3 but they have shields and they can hi-jack enemy vehicles) , etc. which may also help you. 
 Bases only have 7 slots that you can build in but you can take over other base areas in the field 
 should you run out. For the most part, both sides build a little differently but they seem pretty 
 well balanced.
  
  You get to choose one hero before you go into a skirmish match. For the UNSC, you can choose Captain 
 Cutter (MAC Blast, fires cannon from above) , Sergeant Forge (carpet bomb, works like an air strike) 
 or Professor Anders (cryo bomb, freezes your opponents) . For the Covenant, you use the heroes on 
 the field and each has his own power such as the Prophet of Regret (shoots some laser down from 
 the sky) , the Arbiter (Rage mode, where his attacks become faster and more powerful) , and a Brute 
 Chieftan (some orb appears and kills everything around it) . Each leader not only comes with an 
 etra power but special units and other advantages as well.
  
  Skirmish and multiplayer is fun but there aren't very many options. There is a good selection of 
 maps but there are only two game modes; standard and death match. Standard is just a normal RTS 
 game (eliminate your oponent) but in Deathmatch, you start out with everything upgraded to maximum 
 and you start out with a lot more supplies. You can only do 1vs1, 2vs2, or 3vs3 as well. It's not 
 bad or anything but I do wish they gave a few more multiplayer options. Oh well, there's always 
 DLC.
  
  Making an RTS enjoyable on the console is pretty hard to do but Ensemble nailed it. The controls 
 are very simple and easy to pick up and play for anyone, whether you've played RTS' before or not, 
 and it's just all around fun. I'm glad to see that Ensemble worked hard enough to make sure their 
 last game counted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertbyronz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  Being a Halo fan, I'm quite satisfied with Halo Wars. Being an Ensemble Studios Fan, I'm less than 
 satisfied. I love deep RTS and would normally expect this from Ensemble. I can imagine being developed 
 for the console, the thinking was to make it accessible for everyone (despite the 360s demographic) .
 
  
  But this is definately a good start. I greatly hope that there will be more to come. I have always 
 felt the Halo franchise would lend itself very well to RTS games, and it certainly has. 
  
  Graphics aren't the best, but like with Halo 3, they are good. They are functional. Personally, 
 if the game is good enough, I won't notice the graphics. Sound is very good, down to the same sound 
 from each unit, and the same sound when the shield is depleating.. which I felt is a nice touch. 
 
  
  Although I was disappointed with the lack of strategic depth, I was overall satisfied, and would 
 recommend it highly to Halo fans. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Vightfall
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Great Game really addictive campaign a little confusing couldve been better online multiplayer 
 slow to find match but well worth wait if no1 leaves. matches can be between 5min and 5hours and 
 3v3's can get real nasty real quick. multiplayer alone against AI is good but not as good as online. 
 all out still a great game well worth the buy, good gameplay as covenant and unsc (cov. leader 
 powers are great but are much rivaled by unsc superunits.) Cant use flood but dont know if i'd 
 want too no real powerunits all infantry mostly. Once you get the controls down and a strategy 
 set up you can dominate the online playlists. This game can have you hooked in an instant i cant 
 put it down. I promise if you like RTS's you will love Halo Wars. Hoping too see a sequel really 
 cant tell with the end of campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  I love Halo and I love RTS games so when a game with the two combined came out I had to give it 
 a shot. I absolutely love the game. The gameplay graphics are as good as any RTS I've played and 
 the cut scene graphics are nothing short of beautiful. I like that the creators of the game left 
 out the aspect of chopping down trees for wood and mining ore for metal and blah blah blah like 
 in other RTS games. By leaving that out it allows you to concentrate on the beauty of the battle 
 and the your battle strategy. The single player is a blast but the co-op is outstanding. I wish 
 I could comment on the multiplayer skirmish but every time I by myself or with my friend attempted 
 to enter a mutliplayer skirmish it never found a game. It just kept saying searching for game FOREVER 
 and never found one. And trust me I tried multiple times on multiple days. Aside from that the 
 campaign was outstanding and has me really hyped up for Halo ODST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna say this game is the best rts of all time but I've actually had a fun time playing 
 this game. Its a lot more fun when you have a few friends playing on xbl but i had fun just playing 
 the AI too when i first got it. The graphics are really good for this game... to be honest it was 
 a shock to me cause i wasn't expecting too much out of that aspect of the game. The campaign was 
 good but it was kinda short for my taste. I also would have liked to have saw a covenant campaign 
 as well but who knows... maybe with the miracle of xbl marketplace that could still happen. The 
 online play is a major selling point for the game in my opinion and its online its really fun. 
 Its always got the excitement of "what are they gonna do?" and "uh oh.. they still haven't sent 
 an attack yet, i think I'm gonna die" X_X . One of a few major online things i didn't like was 
 the few maps they had for 3v3, another thing was the craziness of the odst drops in the game. It 
 gets a little overboard at how early you can get those then suddenly drop 10 out of nowhere on 
 your opponent. I realize that the flaws of the game are making ppl say "oh this game is boring 
 and sucks", but if you like halo and/or like strategy games id say give it at least a rental if 
 nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenceslivn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  RTS games are not my forte. I dont own any others besides Wars. However I am a fan of Turn Based 
 Strategy Games, like Heroes of MIght and Magic. So saying that I cannot compare how this game ranks 
 against the best of the best RTS games on the PC, but I can comapre it to how it plays on the 360 
 and how enjoyable it is.
  
  Halo Wars offers exactly what it was trying to. A great Halo story for the Halo fans with a fun 
 online system to battle your friends or enemies.
  
  I had a good time with the solo campaign, although the cinematics and story were the highlight 
 here. It was a little short and is more fun with a friend, but I had no complaints there.
  
  Where I feel this game has lasting value is the multiplayer. It plays great on xbox live and 
 the ability to have 1v1, 2v2, 3v3 is great and adds to the depth. With live more maps and other 
 additions can extend the life of this game even further, but since ensemble is no longer with us, 
 who knows. However I will continue to enjoy this game.
  
  Not perfect, but very enjoyable. An 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VileTom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is simple, but thats what the creators were aiming for, they wanted it so that anyone 
 could pick it up and figure controlls out quick, without alot of fancy do-daads. I love that the 
 sounds and styles of enemies and friends have stayed the same as the other games, I believe that 
 this is a great idea on expanding the halo universe. And on that note, I'm happy to see how much 
 the graphics have improved for the cinematics. Individual unit abilities and tech upgrades make 
 a character favorable situation, witch leads to great multiplayer action. Altogeather this game 
 is not one to be picked apart on trivial bullshirt, just pick it up, play and enjoy. Thats all 
 there is to it, i find that people are becoming more and more critical on certain aspects of a 
 game that don't need alot of criticism. If you saw a brand new mustang sitting on the road, but 
 it was rusty and old looking, but you knew it ran like stink (fast) , would you call it crap? I wouldn't. 
 So like I said, just let it grow on you and dont be to critical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  The only thing Halo Wars has going for it is, well heck nothing really. I been a long time RTS 
 player. I guess some might call me a veteran at them, and I'd have to say after playing Halo Wars 
 the game is pretty god awfull. The positives are so out weighed by the cons to this game I'm not 
 even going to bother listing them as there is really no point.
  
  1. Troop Selection
  
  You have to either select troops on your current screen or all of them at once. Making it god awful 
 to plan out hits while keeping certain areas with a little extra fire power.
  
  2. Base Building
  
  I mean seriously wth is with the base building in this game? You have to 
 build in little squares where it tells u too. No room for expansion unless your going to go out 
 and capture a free spot for a new HQ. However if your doing this online one person/team will always 
 make sure the other person/team can not expand.
  
  3. Gathering Resources
  
  There is no unit to go gather resources in like any other RTS. I guess they tried something new 
 with the warehouses but imo its god awful. In order to get any decent amount of income coming in 
 you have to waste your grand spanking total of what it is seven building slots per base, with at 
 least 4 warehouses. Upgrade them then, and then your still going to need a second base which can 
 be ungoddly hard to keep multiply bases going.
  
  4. Rigged Factions
  
  I don't think I ever seen the Covenant not loose a single online multiplayer battle. They are just 
 like all around superior. That and instead of getting MAC blasts, or carpet bombs (Which aren't 
 bad) you get heroes that when used right can tear apart an entire army. Heroes can be really gay 
 too when your enemy rushes your Spartan asses with them and you have no hero yourself to defend 
 yourself with. Or you can rush to capturing a new outpost, tower up your first base asap, build 
 a scarab, then a second one, and you win. Duel Scarabs annihilate all in their path pretty much.
 
  
  5. Food Cap
  
  The max food cap is 40 in this game, all I can say is wtf! Talk about raising the smallest damn 
 army in an RTS game ever to conquer your enemies with. Especially since any decent units take up 
 at least 2 if not 3 food. Do the math it isn't much.
  
  6. Map Variant 
  
  There are basically no maps to play in this game. They give you like twenty (Might be over guessing 
 there...) of them when most RTS game you will play like Command & Conquer or War Craft 3, offer 
 like three to four times that amount.
  
  7. Isn't This Halo?
  
  Seriously where the hell are the flood in the game, and why is there no campaign for the Covenant? 
 Oh I'm sure we will get to "download" that stuff later for another nice little price after you 
 spent sixty bucks on the game already. Makes no sense why one would make a Halo RTS game and not 
 offer you this stuff...
  
  I'm sure I could probably think about more negatives to this game, but I'm tired and want to do 
 something else other then write a two hour review on this game. So I will leave you all with this 
 to ponder before making the mistake of buying this game. If you want a good RTS for the 360, I 
 would suggest a Command & Conquer game (C&C3 Kane's Wrath is one of my favs at this time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeyWestSniper
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  All hype and no play makes Halo Wars a dull game. While the cutscenes in between have stunning 
 graphics, that still doesn't make up for the horrible controls. Making an RTS for a console is 
 a risky task, but with the right control scheme it can be pulled off. This game however did not 
 pull it off. On top of the control scheme, another problem I found is the limit on how many units 
 you can make. Not only are some of the units overpriced or oversized (taking up unit space) , they 
 also take to long to create. Any RTS has a limit of things you create, but that's a limit you make 
 yourself. If you have the resources to make 1,000 units, you should be able to make 1,000 units. 
 I understand it adds to the strategy of the game, but it's an unnecessary add. Overall this game 
 is entertaining for the first 10 hours, but loses its kick after then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobaker15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Halo wars is a RTS game of the massively popular FPS Halo. The game is good and fun, however it 
 has added little new to the genre and is similar to many other RTS games.
  
  For an RTS on a console it is very easy to play and the controls are well made.
  
  First off, 
 the campaign is a fun campaign that is challenging, yet still beatable. The story line is pretty 
 interesting and the missions are all pretty unique, espescially for an RTS game. However, it is 
 a pretty short campaign as there are only 15 levels but each can be beaten in less then an hour, 
 and some are extremely short.
  
  The gameplay of Halo wars is like any other RTS, create a base, gather resources, and then build 
 an army and take out the enemy. The gameplay reminded me much of a PC game, Battle for Middle Earth 
 1. In both games they have bases where you can build limited number of building and areas for towers/turrets. 
 You can go around the map and take over other bases too which vary in size from 3 - 7 building 
 spots. Halo wars in that regard is not at all creative and keeps itself similar to other RTS games.
 
  
  One thing I was dissappointed about in Halo Wars was the lack of different teams you can choose 
 from. You can only play as the covenant or UNSC. Although each has 3 leaders which offer unique 
 abilities, I would have liked to see another couple more teams to choose from.
  
  The multiplayer of Halo Wars is very good and offers a fun experience. There are a variety of maps 
 to be played and you can play in games from 1 vs 1 to 3 vs 3. There is two different modes which 
 are standard and deathmatch, standard being a regular game and deathmatch you start with tons of 
 resources.
  
  In final, Halo wars is a fun and good game. However it it doesn't take its gameplay to the next 
 level, and that's why I gave it a 7.5. For a RTS fan, this game should give you a fun time and 
 works well on a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  Who hasn't played a Halo game? Halo CE, 2, and 3 are some of the best shooters to date, but can 
 Halo survive in another genre. The answer, quite simply, is yes. Halo Wars is a solid, fun RTS 
 that offers a new take on the genre, one that shifts focus off economy management and puts it on 
 quicker combat and more intense battles. 
  Halo Wars has a very fun campaign where you play as the UNSC. Most fans, including myself feel 
 that a covenant campaign would have been an amazing addition. The campaign is relatively short 
 on a single play through but it has a very high replay value if you hunt for black boxes, skulls, 
 or achievements. It also has a well-working co-op mode in which you and a partner share a base 
 and must work together. Since you share a single base, much strategy is required in managing both 
 your base and army. 
  The multiplayer is the main selling point for this game. It's an amazing experience. You can play 
 skirmish or over Xbox Live in 1v1, 2v2, or 3v3 matches. Multiplayer matches require more strategy 
 than most people realize. If, for example, in a 3v3 match, one person on your team isn't cooperating, 
 chances are you will loose. And this is a major drawback of multiplayer, most people don't understand 
 how to properly coordinate, therefore, it is extremely difficult to find a good team. 
  The graphics for Halo Wars are top notch for a console RTS. It feels exactly like a Halo game. 
 The details on each of the units match those in the other Halo games, giving it a very authentic 
 feel. The Audio for Halo Wars is also top notch. The soundtrack is very appropriate and goes well 
 with the mood of the game. The Sound FX further the authenticity of the game. Warthogs sound the 
 way they should, Marines make their quirky comments, etc. The gameplay sounds are that of a Halo 
 game.
  
  Halo Wars, overall is a very fun game. Multiplayer can be frustrating, but if it gets too annoying, 
 Skirmish mode is just as fun with difficulty adjustments. Both Single Player and Skirmish mode 
 offer five difficulty settings. As in every other Halo game, you have Easy, Normal, Heroic, and 
 Legendary. the fifth new difficulty, Automatic, adjusts to your personal skill level based on the 
 outcomes of matches. This new difficulty played in Skirmish offers hours of continuous gameplay 
 that just never gets boring.
  Halo Wars is one of the best console RTSs to date. Hardcore PC RTS fans will most likely not enjoy 
 this game as much as more casual players. I would recommend this game to anyone who is looking 
 for a fun, simple RTS game with a short learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeley92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Ive never been a real fan of the halo series, but HALO WARS is my favourite of the franchise.
 
  Great level design and gameplay that really makes you feel like overlooking commander fighting 
 off hundreds of covenant and flood units really shows off this game.
  
  STORY: Halo wars is set 20 or so years before halo: combat evolved, and starts off with the covenant 
 digging something up on one of your planets. So the UNSC ship the Spirit Of Fire under the command 
 of Captain Cutter goes to investigate. Along with Professor Anders and Sergeant Forge, you uncover 
 a plan that the covenant have to gain control of hundreds of ancient ships that will destroy the 
 human race. Apart from this, there isnt much of a story, but the graphics and gameplay easily make 
 up for this.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay for Halo wars is quick to learn and very effective in combat. Building you 
 base is quick to, just gain resources through supply pads and start teching up and begin making 
 your units. You can control both air and land units, all with unique upgrades and abilities which 
 can give you a unique advantage over your enemy. Also, the best part of the gameplay is the fact 
 you can control up to 3 SPARTANS, which kick ass when upgraded with their ever impressive spartan 
 laser.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics of Halo wars are the best of any RTS there is for the 360, and the cinematics 
 are so real its like a movie. Up close, the graphics can become quite flat but doesnt degrade the 
 gameplay or the all round satisfaction of the game. 
  
  This is probably the best RTS for the 360 to date, and definitely beats other more common RTS games 
 such as C&C Red Alert 3 and Universe At War for the intense combat and beauty of the graphics. 
 Halo Wars is a must have for all fans of real time strategy gaming, whether your a fan of Halo 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer40k_1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Single Player Story:
  This game has a great story, the cut scenes have some really good graphics. The story is very in 
 depth, and conclusive. The one hint that i knew this game was going to tie up some loose ends was 
 the Time Line; included in the game that you have to complete certain things in order to unlock 
 more events within it.
  The only thing that annoyed me about the game is that the Spartans arent wearing Mark V armour 
 (it isnt even out yet at this point in the story) but they still have active shields while in game. 
 Although i did notice that they didnt include them in the Cut scenes and Cinematic, so that tells 
 me that they did it for game play reasons to even out the Covenent side, which still needs to be 
 strengthened in my opinion. (I will do get to that below)
  
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay:
  There are only really two different types of games you can play online. Standard and Deathmatch. 
 Standard mode is pretty obvious you have to build up your resources and manage your army more strictly 
 because it limits your army to 30 initially and has a 40pop max once you have gotten upgrades from 
 the field armory.
  
  
  Deathmatch mode which is my personal favorite is an accelerated form of gameplay, you are automatically 
 upgrading your tech's in the background from the beginning of the game. There arent many points 
 that you have to worry about resources in this game mode you have to move and grab bases as fast 
 as possaible because every base that you have functional you get an additional 10 population points 
 added to your max on 1vs1 I've had a pop max of 85. 
  The major downside to 1vs1 is that on smaller symmetrical maps you can end up in almost an infinate 
 draw with your opponent where you can not advance or it bounces back and forth. This definetly 
 happens often on the levels that only have 4 base positions and each player is playing the same 
 commander.
  
  I would give the multiplayer experiance a 8.5 out of 10. It loses 1.5 points for this 2 facts:
 
  
  1) the Covenant are extremely underpowered, they weakened the individual soldier on the covenent 
 side and in Liu made the commanders extremely powerful, but as the humans all you need to do is 
 call in a bomb run that will block all leader abilities for what seems to be about 1M.
  
  2) There needs to be a way to solve the draw problem like put a time limit on the matches so that 
 once exceded it will run off of points instead of someone needing to be decimated, or adding a 
 "Suggest Draw" option in the pause menu that can allow a mutual draw. The only problem i forsee 
 with that choice is people being rude and not excepting what should be a draw and trying to force 
 there oponent to surrender instead of drawing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gttahavstarbuck
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  ok so i thought this game is really good with graphics and how your strategy has to change for 
 almost every single person you play but overall they made the covenant way too powerful i was playing 
 one today and my ultra carpet bomb did a quater of what that brute cheiftan did in 15 seconds. 
 so i will give this game a 10 just because i know the updates and map packs will make it better 
 and plus its really not that once u get used to it. so everyone who wants to buy it then buy it 
 but be ready to get pissed of easily. i love the single player to this game too how they also added 
 the option of doing it co-op is very smart. plus if this was on the computer there would be hacks 
 like starcraft so lukily the 360 rocks for it to be on it. its a must have for all of the halo 
 fans it will help you understand what marines have to go through to be odst. it is a really fadcinating 
 game its a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrotherFluffy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a groundbreaking game in that it builds an RTS for the console from the ground up 
 and succeeds beautifully. Set 20 years before the events of Halo, you lead the crew of the Spirit 
 of Fire as they attempt to thwart the Covenant's plans to wipe out mankind. 
  
  The controls are really what set this game apart from other console RTS ports, with a fluid, intuitive 
 system that is far and away the new gold standard for RTS games on a console. Instead of attempting 
 to shoehorn 60 different commands onto a 8-button controller, Halo Wars simplifies the way you 
 select units and abilities by placing most of them onto one-button commands that bring up a wheel 
 display, allowing you to choose the action or unit you need. Selecting individual units is also 
 easy, with the ability to select certain units from your total army or just the units on-camera. 
 
  
  The campaign consists of 15 missions, all with varying objectives and locales ranging from snow-covered 
 mountains to flood-infested wastelands. Ensemble does a good job of keeping objectives fresh and 
 fun and the campaign never feels like it's dragging. At only 8-12 hours to beat, however, I would 
 like to have seen an extra mission or two. 
  
  The two other game modes, Skirmish and Multiplayer are the standard base-building slugfests same 
 as any other RTS, console or otherwise. Both offer the unique choice of playing as one of six UNSC 
 or Covenant leaders, each with exclusive units and abilities. The maps are varied, with hidden 
 bonuses on each one to help you build your armies faster.
  
  The graphics are comparable to Command and Conquer Red Alert 3, and each unit fits seemlessly within 
 the Halo universe. Even new units still "feel" like they belong in Halo.
  
  A word of warning, however to die-hard RTS fans, is that Halo Wars isn't as deep or complex as 
 other, non-console RTS games. If you're looking for the next Warcraft 3, just keep waiting for 
 Starcraft 2. 
  
  Overall, Halo Wars is a great game that gives a solid performance all-around, with plenty of unlockables, 
 skirmish modes, skulls, and multi-player to keep you busy after the campaign is done. If you're 
 a fan of Halo, a casual RTS player, or one who's never played one but wants to, this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cielzion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios releases yet another good game... Easy/fast learning curve, lot of explosions... 
 Adding the flood as a completly seperate playable race would be an even greater bonus.. Right now 
 with the two (2) playable races and three (3) commanders per race it gives a greater depth to the 
 game/gameplay the people might have anticipated... Campaign also is worth its time, taking you 
 through numerous planets, fighting to defend humanity... Fight for the covenant or UNSC... The 
 choice is yours... Start the fight... Albeit said star craft two (2) is coming out... Will Halo 
 Wars survive the release of that? All we can do is wait... This game definitely deserves more then 
 a 6.5 score and should be tried by all Halo fans... Might I add it has one of the easier user interfaces 
 for an RTS that i've seen so far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdwpp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  For a console RTS halo wars does it right especially the control scheme.
  While it is simplified compared to a pc rts it's also nice that you can get an RTS fix in a 20-40 
 minute burst instead of some pc rts's that can take hours which is great if you have nothing else 
 to do. But this rts is perfect for someone who likes rts games but has to slide gaming in between 
 work, family, and everything else taking up 150 hours of your 178 hour week.
  
  
  The gamespot review disappointed me I know the economy is bad but please stop outsourcing game 
 reviews. Especially to some brit who was only allowed to review third rate karaoke and tennis games 
 in the past.
  
  The game is worth at least a rental if you've played the other halo games.
  Multiplayer is fun 
 but the limitation to army size can all but assure you will lose if your playing 3 vs 3 and your 
 teammates drop off you then don't have enough to defend against a coordinated attack from 3 players.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  The game is a really good game, It deserves more than a 6.5, the campaign can be completed in a 
 day if u are fast and yes they needed to included a covenant and flood campaign, but they did not... 
 The graphics are alright, but I had a blast in the multiplayer in this game... It is fun and usually 
 30,000-60,000 people are online and u can have a general of the covenant or human armies online... 
 Overall it will please a halo fan and an rts fan and the fast pace of the game makes it more quick 
 and easier to access... I also reccommend lotr battle for middle earth 2, command and conquer 3 
 tiberium wars, and some others..... could have been supurb if the campaign was longer and the graphics 
 had more polish.... all well.. . .. . .whateveraa. a. aa. a. a. it is worth full price and is fast 
 paced and fun... one of the better games out right now... if u are a multiplayer fan or a fan of 
 alot of carnage then this game is right up your alley and the voice work is alright... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars takes the Halo universe into the RTS genre with an incredibly well made game. The story 
 follows the ship Spirit of Fire as it tries to get rid of the Covenant precense on the planet Harvest. 
 As the sotry progresses you will visit other planets, and that is definately one of Halo Wars high 
 points. The sotry is highly immersive, well written anddefinately keeps you enthralled throughout 
 the whole game. As an RTS Halo does very well. Its been well designed, it looks and sound exactly 
 as Halo should. The controls are very easy to master which is good for a console RTS, but some 
 would argue its probably too simplified. When you build a base you merely have a center base, with 
 several slots around it (the number of slots you start with depends on the mission) . These slots 
 you build other buildings that gve you upgrades and let you build units such as vehicles and flying 
 vehicles. You do have the option to increase the amount of slots around the base, and there are 
 missions where you can find locations to build several more bases to increase your output. For 
 hardcore RTS fans this will seem to simple, as you don't have the option to personalise the base 
 and place buildings where you like. However in the end even the most dedicated RTS fan can get 
 past it, and enjoy the Halo game underneath. Covenant are unfortunately only playable during multiplayer 
 skirmishes, but they are immensely fun to play as either way. In the end while it has a few flaws 
 here and there, Halo Wars comeof as a great console RTS all can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I knew from the start I would get this game, and sure enough, I picked up my Limited Edition copy 
 on launch, and having some time with the game, ill now give my opinion of it.
  
  Story: To start off, I found the campaign very worth the time, although it was short, it was well 
 spent. The cutscenes after the levels are absolutely breathtaking. If they made a film with that 
 CGI, I couldnt tell the difference. Also, all of the skulls/blackboxes give the game a huge amount 
 of replay value, including achievements for going back and getting a higher score on certain levels.
 
  
  Graphics: For an RTS (Real Time Strategy) this game truly has great graphics, especially the effects 
 of the weapons, and explosions, like the Scarab beam, or the explosion of a newly conquered base. 
 When you get close to ground level, you begin to see the downfall in the graphics, but with so 
 much happening, you really never notice. From the sky view during a battle, this game shines. 
 
  
  Sound: I crank up my sound system when Im playing this, from the sounds in the background of levels, 
 to hearing an ally blowing up an enemy base, it really sounds great. I particularly like the sound 
 of a Vultures Mega Barrage, and a Scarab beam, but thats just me. 
  
  Multiplayer: This is my FAVORITE part of this game. I spent hours, on hours, on hours on Age of 
 Empires, and being able to play with my friends on xbox LIVE is amazing. The 3v3 games are incredible 
 and very fun. Most games for me last on average about 50-80 minutes, and it gets frustrating at 
 times, but when you come out on top, it sure is fun. 
  
  Overall, Im pretty sure most people would enjoy this game, and previous AOE players will find themselves 
 at home with Halo Wars. It may not be as in depth as a PC RTS ( I want walls around my base Ensemble!) 
 but this game does require strategy despite what some say, and has INCREDIBLE replay value. If 
 you dont want to purchase it, at least borrow it or rent it, it truly is an amazing achievement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 184him
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a great game, and a fantastic addition to the Halo Universe, but if you do not have 
 Xbox Live, its appeal is limited.
  
  The campaign is very good. It provides a variety of missions, and a very good storyline supported 
 by great cutscenes. It does not do a great job of sucking you into the story, but for an RTS game, 
 it is better than adequate. The campaign is short, but it is supported by the addition of skulls 
 to find and very difficult upper difficulties.
  
  For single-player only players, there is also quite a robust skirmish mode, from 1v1 to 3v3 against 
 anywhere from the ridiculously easy, Easy level, to the ridiculous Legendary difficulty, plus skulls 
 to change things up, it is very good. However, because this is an RTS, there is no split-screen.
 
  
  This means that if you want multiplayer, you're going to need Xbox Live. This is where the true 
 meat of the game is. The entire campaign is playable in co-op on Live, but it is not the greatest 
 way of doing it. All funds are shared but troops aren't, which means that while communication is 
 important, it can get frustrating if you're waiting for an upgrade and you're friend builds 5 warthogs.
 
  
  There are also competitive modes, deathmatch and skirmish. Deathmatch gives you full techs and 
 tons of resources and is a fight to the death. Skirmish gives you few resources and no techs, and 
 you'll have to build your way up. The leader that you pick and your choice of units and tactics 
 are essential in skirmish. And playing 2v2 and 3v3 really requires communication and tactics. This 
 is where the true meat of the game is, and if you have XBL, its absolutely fantastic.
  
  The control scheme works quite well, as long as you don't micromanage. It is incredibly difficult 
 to use the special attack (which most units have and is quite cool) of several of the same units 
 on different enemy units. It is very easy to select large groups of units, and the individual unit 
 types out of that, but anything beyond that is difficult.
  
  Overall, Halo Wars is fantastic, if you take it for what it is, a console RTS. The campaign is 
 quite good, with good variety of missions but it's quite short. The skirmish and online are where 
 the real meat of the game is, and it's fantastic with buddies or even alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Pretty short game cuz it ended just when the game was getting good. I had played through all the 
 Act 1 missions in Heroic mode without any major problems. But the Act II missions in Heroic were 
 pretty hard. I decided to give up and dial it back down to Normal so I can finish the campaign 
 and enjoy the story.
  
  The game was enjoyable although quite simple for a RTS veteran like myself. The controls were incredibly 
 easy to work with and I kinda liked them. I wish choosing a small portion of your units were easier 
 but it wasn't too annoying. The missions had a few varieties but I really hated the timed missions. 
 There were just a tad too many of them which was annoying. Not only were you pressured to build 
 quickly, but the enemies constantly attacked your base which made building up your tech increasingly 
 frustrating. This is especially bad in Heroic mode. It's kind of a shame because there were some 
 really fun unit types and upgrades if you can manage to tech yourself up all the way. But most 
 people who rush through the missions with the regular units might not even see some of the cool 
 ones like the Vulture. Hmm..
  
  Graphics are clean and very colorful. The animation for the various units look really good. I wish 
 I could zoom in more because I wanted to see more of the action close-up. The levels look very 
 close to the Halo FPS games and Ensemble did a great job capturing the visual style of the original 
 games. The music is another winner. It's nice to hear various songs from the original games remixed 
 with its own original score. I really liked the soundtrack and it made the game feel like a Halo 
 game. The sound is also excellent because the 5.1 surround sound mix is excellent. The bass is 
 used quite often for explosions which made heavier attacks have a bit more weight.
  
  The really interesting part of the game is the story. It's nice to see what happened before the 
 regular Halo games. The cutscenes look really nice and were well directed. There were some nice 
 epic action sequences. But the story doesn't explain everything and it certainly leaves a lot of 
 questions out there for fans to ponder over. And the characters were pretty flat. You don't learn 
 much about them which is unfortunate. Forge is your typical soldier-type along with the captain 
 and scientist playing their typical roles. AND even with a British accent, the AI Serina ain't 
 quite as charming or feisty as Cortana. But the story is decent and adds to the Halo lore. Kudos 
 to the devs for allowing us to rewatch the cutscenes whenever we want. 
  
  The overall game is still enjoyable if you like RTS games. This is a good game to check out if 
 you're a Halo fan. If you're only interested because it's a RTS, then you might want to rent it. 
 It was pretty short. Hardcore fans can probably get the most out of it by playing the coop mode 
 in the higher difficulty settings. Personally, I'm not interested in playing a RTS game in multi 
 unless it's with a mouse and keyboard. Not my thing. Anyways, recommended for Halo fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This was a awesome idea. Even when i found out this was a strategy i was hoping it would be fun. 
 I'm sorry to say i was wrong. This game is very different from the first three. Now if this was 
 a better strategy then what it turned out to be it may have got a 7 from me. Instead this game 
 was a failure and I'm sorry but if it was a shooter god knows how good it could have been and how 
 bad it actually turned out. hopefully Halo 3 ODST will be A LOT better. Otherwise I'm sorry but 
 im done with Halo after this dissapointment. Now I know all you Halo fanboys will give me a low 
 rating but some may think that this is true. This game completely made me have second doubts at 
 not only the next Halo but the creators of halo itself. Nice try and good game. But no storyline 
 the shortness and the easieness of the game just made this game horrible. Halo 1-3 was good but 
 Halo wars was a massive collapse for the series, espicially for the reputation of the game. But 
 nice job with the game but a fail since the first 3 were shooters were harder and were longer. 
 This was a easy strategy game which took me less than a day to beat and i was trying to conserve 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I can't argue that the halo universe has been milked too much. If you're someone who hasn't played 
 all of the halos for hour on in, then you could learn to appreciate this game. Most of all this 
 game doesn't even come close to tiberium war! There are certainly some flaws. Hey for being the 
 last production of a dying video game producer, they did deceent for what they had. The animated 
 cinematics are the best I have seen for the 360. The gameplay graphic is another story. If you 
 are like someone like me who does not go insane over some average graphic and couldn't care less, 
 then you have gotten through one of the game's barriars. You will find this game riddled with low 
 grade textures and model animation. If you are new to rts's well then you would do fine on this 
 game. For some rts veterens like me, you might be dissappointed!
  
  You can't make your dream armies that lagg the game, I know, I know, big frowney! = ( You need to 
 understand they didn't want some big time turtles sending over 10 scarabs after half an hour into 
 the game. The balance of the infanrty and viechles is descent, compared to tiberium wars. Big thumbs 
 up! The in depth tech tree is not as rewarding as I standardized it to be. The execution of stratagy 
 in this game could have been much better. You're pretty limited by the two main defense turrets 
 that never help when you are being rushed. Rushing tends to overpower turtling by long shot. The 
 reason being the tech tree can't be fast enough, nor can you spam defenses. Mulitplayer doesn't 
 really pack the variety needed for being decent because of these flaws.
  
  Now for the story! It is very short, but if you might have too much time. Well you can collect 
 skulls! The characters could have been more freely expressed, personally. At least you had the 
 sense that almost every mission was important on your part. The biggest let down of the story most 
 of all... is no covenant campaign! Ohh yeah there is no flood campaign either, so if you wondering 
 why this game could be so short. Lets face it though, they didn't ruin the franchise like many 
 of us believed they would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colostome-Boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited for halo wars since about 2 , months ago when a friend showed me a cinematic 
 trailer for it. I got the collectors edition along with the mythic maps (more on those later) and 
 played the game for about 3 hours. I have to say that the campaign was not the hardest thing, but 
 it was still enjoyable to play. there are 15 missions and each should take between 10 to 30 minutes 
 depending on the difficulty. this is an RTS but it still has many of the things that i have come 
 to love from the FPS halo, such as spartans (yes more than one) and honor guards. I wont go into 
 the story too much, all ill say is that it takes place 20 years before halo combat evolved, so 
 there is no master chief.
  My experience with multiplayer has not been good. i didnt play until 3-4 days after the game came 
 out because i had been taking my time with the campaign. Multiplayer was not enjoyable.
  this is an rts, not a fps, but people still go really fast. warthog, ghost and banshee rushes are 
 used too frequently. this is a strategy game, take your time and build up your forces!
  I played a skirmish against a friend and i had more fun because i had researched a scarab and my 
 friend had an army of odsts, as well as scorpion tanks. what im trying to say is that it is fun 
 to build a strong army with fully researched powerful units, and have a big battle, not rush with 
 a lot of puny units and try to win in less than 5 minutes.
  In closing... if you like halo, you will probably like this game, it is very simple so if your 
 not into rts games you can get into easily, but if you like strategy, and long exciting battles, 
 you might want to stay clear of the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghandi_2005
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off disregard the whole gamespot review and the system wars fanboys who says it flopped. 
 The game is solid, it plays great, the controls are great, and the story is pretty good. So if 
 you like Halo and you want to see it from a different perspective then this is a definate pick-up. 
 So don't listen to the boards and read the gamespot review. It's way better than what they say. 
 Another cool thing is that this game will influence future console RTS developement. Luckily Ensemble 
 got things right when they decided to do it for console. This game will do what Halo did for console 
 FPS. It will set standards.
  
  By the way, the online is fantastic. It's great because there isn't very much lag, and you don't 
 have 5 year old screaming you POWNED. So if you get it try out the online feature.
  
  So go out to buy it !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_arya1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Being a part of the halo saga automatically raises everyones expectations.
  the fact that it was made by ensemble further raised the bar but halo wars didn't disappoint!!
 
  a brilliant game but with a few minor letdowns...
  
  The story was well set but it was a bit short.. but the ending is very exciting.. it keeps you on 
 the edge of your seat and helps understand the story behind the original trilogy better (that was 
 the whole purpose of halo wars!!)
  The campaign is Very short compared to other games in the rts genre but the halo experience in 
 the rts world makes up for it..
  The gameplay is simple but at the same time challenging as you have to balance out the needs of 
 your army and economy.. ( money and troops)
  every mission will start out slow with collecting funds but then it speeds up once you have got 
 a decent amount..
  
  the graphics in this game are a whole new level compared to other games like battle for middle 
 earth 2 on the 360.. its set a new standard for future rts games on the 360 just like halo 3 did 
 for shooters...
  The sound effects r very nicely done and its matches up to the halo music expectations!! another 
 classic music score!
  
  its not a very difficult game.
  on normal it proves a good challenge but once ur up n going with ur Spartans. ur almost unstoppable..
 
  One thing i really liked about the game was that it takes the spotlight off any one character,,,
 
  The spartans are like angles sent down to help you in tough missions n man o man do they HELP!! 
 i loved using my spartans...
  
  Some people also criticized the 30-40 population cap.. but in my opinion its just right. it makes 
 u think a little before senselessly building troops. eg. a scarab takes up 20 population!! so u 
 need to build ur army around it!! to complement it rather than just send it to battle with wtvr 
 the hell u have..
  
  its a game with a specific target audience so it wont be too popular with rts fans but should score 
 big for halo fans
  
  but definitely one my favorite strategy games (im a die hard halo fan!! :p )
  a solid 9/10
  
 GOOD
  Simple Controls
  Good Gameplay
  Amazing graphics and Sound
  SPARTANS!!!! man they are fun to have around!!
  
  BAD
  Short Campaign
  Not Much Strategy 
 involved (campaign, skirmish is always challenging against other players)
  Fairly Easy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Score: 9 out of 10
  
  The Plus: New units, weapons and 
 vehicles add to the lore of the Halo Universe. The fact that it also focuses on others than Master 
 Chief is also a plus.
  
  The Negative: Would have been nice to have played as the Rebels or the Flood, possibly maybe a 
 DLC will fix that also more maps would have been nice for skirmish mode.
  
  Well, the wait is over when Halo Wars was officially announced back in September of 2006 people 
 were curious because it was announced shortly after (I think it was shortly after can't remember 
 correctly) that Ensemble Studios would be heading this project so people were curious how a company 
 could craft a Halo game when it isn't Bungie that is producing it.
  
  Overall I hate to say it but I actually preferred Halo Wars to Halo 3 which is rare when a spin 
 off overtakes the final act in a trilogy. Many reasons I liked this game is because it does so 
 much to add to the lore that Halo has become, it isn't about one unstoppable person just blasting 
 his way through thousands and thousands of enemies. You actually feel that humanity is in trouble 
 when you play this game each map shows the need to keep going, every map from the first one where 
 your trying to rally alpha base to the final map where your escaping the world (I can't remember 
 the name of it right now) Overall it was just more fun to play this game than playing Halo 3.
 
  
  Halo Wars takes place 20 years before the Halo event. The first thing you see is a awesome cut 
 scene where the orbit of a planet which is revealed to be Harvest the orbit is littered with millions 
 of pieces of ship halls, odds are it's both UNSC and Covenant but the odds are it's probably more 
 UNSC than the other your order is to secure Harvest at all costs. When the game starts Alpha base 
 is in ruins and what remaining soldiers there are, are fleeing due to the numbers against them.
 
  
  This is where your introduced to the main character of the game Sergeant Forge he will be your 
 character for most of the game a couple levels you'll take control of another character named Anders 
 which turns out to be a Professor who is studying sites that the Covenant is interested in, in 
 hopes to try and figure out what is going on. At times she can be helpful but at other times she's 
 a pain. 
  
  There are other characters in this game but they aren't playable there's captain Cutter who is 
 the captain of the Spirit of Fire which is the ship that you'll be on during the game. There is 
 the Arbiter which isn't the same one from Halo 2 or 3 since Arbiter is more of a "Rank" or "Honor" 
 that a elite gets that basically makes them a independent solider outside the rule of the Hierarchs. 
 I've read a lot of post about this Arbiter and one thing seems to be very angry and it's clear 
 this guy is constantly pissed but it's never revealed why. It's a drastic change from the Arbiter 
 from Halo 2 and Halo 3. There is also only one Prophet which is the Prophet of Regret which is 
 odd why they would only use one of the Prophets when there was 3 of them in Halo 2. But we'll never 
 know because after this game was released the developers Ensemble closed down. 
  
  I won't get further into the storyline because I don't want to spoil it. But overall the game is 
 a great RTS for a console where many of them have fell flat on their faces. The controls are pretty 
 spot on for a RTS it isn't over complicated at all. The Visuals are perfect there are times when 
 I don't need big and flashy to make a point as long as they can get their means out than it'll 
 be ok. The sounds are perfect they have the sounds down perfectly.
  
  There is only a couple things that weigh this game down from getting a perfect 10 number one is 
 the fact that you couldn't play as the rebels or flood in the skirmish mode, they are there but 
 you can't play as them? I would really like to re enact some classic battles between the Rebels 
 and the UNSC or the Covenant vs. the Flood. The other issue I had was considering how short this 
 game was, I would have liked to see some more playable maps in skirmish mode, for 3v3 games there 
 are only 3 maps I would have like to see a lot more, hopefully since this game belongs to Microsoft 
 they will have one of their developers create some DLC because if they do I will buy it.
  
  I will say it again, I do like this game more than Halo 3 because I like the fact for a change 
 that you play as someone who isn't a unstoppable machine, and lets be honest Master Chief as much 
 as we love the guy is a unstoppable machine. Overall this game gets a 9 out of 10 if they fixed 
 what I talked about it would have been a perfect 10 out of 10 but still 9 out of 10 is a good way 
 for a company to go out if it's their last game. 
  
  Congrats on making a great Halo game Ensemble you deserved it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InTheArmsOfGod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  As an avid RTS player for the PC platform, this was my first purchase outside the norm and for 
 an actual console. It keeps true to the story of Halo, but I found the game to be simple and a 
 bit boring at times. It does provide for some entertainment as you get to control your troops which 
 is what RTS games is mostly about, but the graphics are in no way comparable to what you'll get 
 in a PC game. Having completed the advance tutorial before jumping into the game, I was disappointed 
 when I realized that you couldn't play as the Covenant, but only when you get to the Multiplayer 
 mode. I will say though, Multiplayer mode is probably the best thing about this game because of 
 the hours and hours of different gaming challenges this game will give you with other XBOX users. 
 Good game nonetheless and can only expect sequels to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  My only real complaints with Halo Wars are very few. I was very disappointed that there is no Covenant 
 Campaign, this made the game feel way too short, and could have help further the story and create 
 and understanding of how the Covenant really think. 
  There are a few minor issues I have with controlling my units that have caused me some grief. It 
 can be difficult at times to select a single unit or small group of units from a larger army, especially 
 during the heat of a battle. There are basically three ways to do select units within your army. 
 When your army is highlighted, you can use the right trigger to cycle between unit types. The problem 
 with this is that you must then select all the entire group of that unit type; you cannot issue 
 orders to a single unit with this method. You can select one unit by simply hovering the cursor 
 over that unit and pressing A (double clicking A will highlight all units of that type on the screen,) 
 but we all console RTS players know how difficult this can be, especially during a battle. Finally, 
 the player can hold down the A button and a circle will appear to highlight units in an area. You 
 can then move this circle to highlight more units by passing it over the top of them. This ends 
 up causing problems when you want to just command some units, like for example, all your marines, 
 and all of your scorpion tanks, or you want to grab a warthog and 2 marine units out of your army 
 to go off and scout. This is where the issues occur.
  The game does everything else fairly well though. The campaign, as short as it was, was fun. The 
 cut scenes were top notch, and don't worry, even though this is a prequel to Halo that still has 
 the Flood in the game, the story was not butchered. 
  The balance seems pretty up to par, as neither team seems to have a huge advantage. Halo fans will 
 especially enjoy controlling their favorite units in mass groups to fight an epic battle with their 
 mortal enemies. Fully upgraded Spartans are especially fun as they are nearly unstoppable with 
 a well balanced army behind them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  I think there are two ways to look at Halo Wars.
  
  First (and worst) - In comparison to other RTS games (PC games included) . When you look at Halo 
 Wars and compare it to games such as Age of Empires, Warhammer, or C&C its a solid game, but way 
 over simplified. The controller will really hurt the game as well when compared to a mouse and 
 keyboard.
  
  Second - In comparison to other RTS games on only consoles. When done this way, Halo Wars stands 
 head and shoulders above any other game out there. Truth be told, this game works really well. 
 To play a RTS on a console simplifying it is a must, it makes the game faster and there is less 
 strain on micro-managing your attack and defense. 
  
  All-in-all Halo Wars is an extremely solid game. The Halo universe translates really well into 
 a RTS and Ensemble (who made the Age of Empires RTS on PC) know there trade. You are going to get 
 a modified experience from PC RTS games, because that is just the nature of the beast. If you were 
 to take Halo Wars and drop it to PC, as is, I would rate it at a 6.5. When looking at Halo Wars 
 and only comparing it to other console RTS games I give it a 9.0. In the end I gave it an 8 because 
 Ensemble knows and understands the RTS genre and makes Halo Wars a great game that is the best 
 it can be for consoles.
  
  The Good - Graphics, Sound, Movies all are fantastic. Not having to deal with workers / peons gathering 
 resources. The Halo universe works really well as a RTS
  
  The Bad - Short campaign, can't play the Covenant in single player, controller as best as possible 
 (but still weak)
  
  The Ugly - Anybody remember in Warcraft 2 when you could continually click on characters and make 
 them angry? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtReviews
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  If the Command and Conquer series is any indicator, RTS games have always leaned to accomadate 
 PC players, who are the main RTS players. So it's great to see that Halo Wars has made an RTS that 
 plays great on the 360.
  
  Gameplay 8.0: Definitely made for ease of use. However, ease of use, such as the simple tech trees, 
 does not take away at all from the strategy (suprisingly) . How fast you climb that tech tree is 
 less important than managing battles, and knowing when to attack and defend. Since they make it 
 relatively easy to make new bases, many times you'll be attacking and defending at the same time, 
 so you'll have to split your time micromanaging each battle. Fortunately, unit selection is laid 
 out, that in seconds, you can order your anti-infantry to attack infantry, your tanks to attack 
 the other tanks, you anti air to shoot down those dam banshees, etc. It's a rock-paper-scissors 
 formula, that units are specially made to defeat other units, but as simple as it seems, its loads 
 of fun to manage these battles, and watch all the familiar faces from halo fight it out.
  Gameplay in a nutshell :Simple but fun, and evenly paced.
  
  Graphics: Cutscenes make the otherwise 
 underwhelming campaign, more interesting, since it's been a while since we've seen spartans in 
 actions; it's a great treat to see them winning wars again. Graphics during gameplay aren't particularly 
 detailed, so some different units may look deceivingly similiar. You'll be using your toolbar-unit 
 selection to root out the exact units you want. On the upside, lag is completely non-existant in 
 most cases, up to the maximum amount of players with the maximum amount of units all attacking 
 at once. During multiplayer battles, you'll appreciate the overall effects and feel of the graphics 
 over the details. The scale is actually quite large when playing with multiple players, and you'll 
 really get the feeling your a battlefield general.
  Graphics in a nutshell :Solid
  
  Sound: Definitely a very positive aspect of this game. They didn't stray too far from the sounds 
 the Halo weapons make. From needlers to warthogs, assault rifles, plasma rifles and grenades. The 
 sound mixes quite well, and large battles have the chaotic sound of explosions, shells bursting, 
 and all the other elements that give it that "epic scale" feeling, even though attacks will usually 
 be short bursts of power.
  Sound in a nutshell :True to the franchise, and the epic scale we've come to expect from Halo games
 
  
  Overall: There are large amounts of strategies despite the relatively common unit variety. It's 
 obvious that map design is the largest component in making strategy a key element. Flanks, chokepoints, 
 extra bases, are at your disposal to use to your advantage. To really get the epic feel, you'll 
 want to do 2vs2 and 3vs3 instead of 1vs1. Most games will last till all players have built up their 
 entire tech tree, so to win you'll have to outsmart them, and cannot rely on a rush-strategy alone. 
 While seasoned RTS vets my find this game underwhelming for all these reasons, those looking for 
 a smooth-polished experience with good controlls for the xbox, and that Halo feeling of epic scaled 
 battles will overlook it's shortcomings almost completely without notice, and have a great time.
 
  
  My Verdict: Great Game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Hippo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The essentials:
  
  Halo Wars is the final game from acclaimed real-time strategy developer, Ensemble Studios. Built 
 from the ground-up for the Xbox 360, it attempts to streamline the strategy experience into a slick, 
 functional and entertaining package for console owners, with the added twist of the rich Halo universe 
 as a backdrop.
  
  This review is intended to discuss whether or not the game is worth playing, rather than going 
 into great detail about exactly what the game entails. For a more detailed breakdown of the game, 
 check out the official website here.
  
  So how does it play?
  
  In a nutshell; very well! Real time strategy, as a genre, has found itself attached to such standard 
 forms of gameplay that it's become more and more difficult to develop a truly exceptional addition 
 to the genre. What we see much more often therefore, are solid and worthwhile examples of it, showcasing 
 the core essentials of what makes strategy games popular in the first place.
  
  Halo Wars fits into this description quite comfortably. While you're not going to see the genre 
 reinvented, you will see it executed with flair and precision thanks a slick, functional control 
 scheme, some excellent units, a swift and consistant pace to the gameplay as well as an engaging 
 story to wrap it all up in.
  
  For the die-hard Halo fans out there, consider it an essential purchase, as the Halo universe is 
 on display in all its glory, lovingly recreated from a top-down perspective, and the new characters 
 and back-story to the three FPS installments has been implemented with great care and respect for 
 the subject matter.
  
  It's probably worth mentioning that hardcore strategy buffs used to commanding vast forces in Total 
 War games probably wont find that much on offer in Halo Wars, but the very fact that the game is 
 so obviously not aimed at hardcore strategy buffs makes that comment slightly redundant.
  
  If you enjoy standard strategy outings like Age of Empires, Command and Conquer or even Dawn of 
 War, there's absolutely no reason why you shouldn't find Halo Wars extremely entertaining from 
 start to finish, and with a standard but welcome online offering, there's plenty of room to perfect 
 your strategies online against multiplayer opponants, or through the campaign with a friend.
  
  The campaign isn't especially long, but doesn't fall into the trap of being too short either. 
 If you power through on the easiest difficulty setting you could best it in five hours, but then 
 again; what sense does it make to demerit a game for being short when deliberately trying to shorten 
 the experience? 
  
  Completing bonus objectives, unlocking achievements, finding the hidden skulls on each level as 
 well as gaining gold medals for their completion should give serious players plenty of reasons 
 to revisit the campaign, as well as the aforementioned co-op option, allowing for a number of different 
 approaches to each objective depending on whether you choose to play alone or with a friend.
  
  Overall it's a solid game, well worth the asking price and well worth your time as either a 
 Halo fan or an RTS fan, or better yet, both. If that sounds like you, definately give it a try, 
 or at least a rental, and you could find yourself having a great experience with one of the first 
 quality Xbox 360 titles of 2009. If you have no interest in either strategy or the Halo universe, 
 or if you consider yourself a master of the deeper, more complex strategy offerings, you'd more 
 than likely find your time better spent elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way now; this is not a game for strategy enthusiasts. It's more for Halo 
 fans and people that may be turned off by the vast amount of content in a typical RTS game. Going 
 in knowing this, there is plenty of fun to be had.
  
  Halo Wars takes its cues from other popular RTS games like Starcraft and Command and Conquer but 
 streamlines the process to make the action more newbie friendly. There is base building, but it 
 can only be done on a limited number of squares around your main structure. There are also a very 
 small number of structures: 6 plus the main building. A small number of structures also means a 
 small number of units. There are 3 infantry units, 4 vehicles, and 2 air units. Each can be upgraded 
 a decent amount of times and the changes from one step to the next are far more noticeable than 
 in typical RTS games. The maximum army size is also very limiting. It starts at 30 but can be increased 
 to 40 (or sometimes 50) through an upgrade. This may seem like a good number, but when larger units 
 start taking anywhere from two to six points, this number decreases quickly (the Scarab when playing 
 as the Covenant takes 20 population points) . The lower number of units and buildings help get you 
 into the battles quicker, but it also means that most fights will play out the same way with the 
 same participants. The resource management is handled well. Instead of needing to hunt for supplies 
 around the map and keep your workers protected, you simple build a supply pad and resources are 
 automatically flown in regularly. These pads can also be upgraded to get supplies faster. Since 
 you can build as many supply pads as you have room for, it's a fun balancing act to try and decide 
 between more resources or other structures when empty building pads start running low. I didn't 
 mind most of the typical RTS ideas that were removed in an effort to streamline the action, but 
 one did bother me. You cannot make groups of units. You can only select all units, all onscreen 
 units, or any units in the center of the screen. This sometimes made it difficult to make sure 
 I had the right units going up against a specific enemy. Other than this one omission, the rest 
 of the game is very accessible and fun to play.
  
  The mission variety is impressive. Each new level is very different than the last and even the 
 basic base-building missions are spiced up by interesting objectives. One gripe I have is that 
 there is only one campaign: the USNC. Nearly every other RTS game has a minimum of two factions. 
 The Covenant is played in the skirmish mode and online, but has no campaign (I am willing to bet 
 we will soon see a downloadable campaign on Xbox Live before too long) . The Flood are in the game 
 (though not called by name; only referred to as an alien race) and have their own specific buildings 
 and units, but are not playable at all. The campaign can be completed in around eight hours, so 
 I don't think it is unreasonable for us to expect a second one. The appearance of the Flood and 
 the mechanical enemies from the original games is strange since their appearance isn't explained 
 and the Halo itself makes no appearance here. There is a ton of replay value to be found in the 
 game, though. Every map has a Black Box hidden somewhere and there are also secondary objectives 
 that, when completed, make a skull appear somewhere on the map. These skulls, like the ones in 
 the original games, give you unique advantages and disadvantages that change the gameplay and affect 
 your final score for the level. The higher you score in a level, the higher ranking you get: tin, 
 bronze, silver, or gold. Adding in four difficulty levels, skirmish modes, and online play will 
 give you plenty to keep coming back.
  
  The story is decent, if somewhat generic. It doesn't tie into the other games much and acts as 
 a stand-alone plot. The game takes place twenty years before the original Halo, so there is no 
 Master Chief, but three other Spartans follow you through the campaign (no, you never se their 
 faces either) . Each person is a generic stereotype of their character. The ship captain is the 
 typical no nonsense, by-the-book leader. The female scientist is the smart but tough girl that 
 feels like she needs to prove herself. The last main character is the staple of a generic action 
 story; a loose cannon that is allowed to do whatever he likes because he's just that damn good. 
 Even the ending wasn't as dramatic as it was supposed to be because it was just so predictable. 
 But even a dull story can be entertaining if it is presented well, and that is the case here. The 
 cutscenes are top quality and the voice acting is spot on. I also need to say that I think the 
 second to last cutscene in the game is the most entertaining movie from any game in recent history.
 
  
  Graphically it gets the job done. Nothing blew me away, but it all looks good. Many of the smaller 
 units were hard to see and the camera didn't zoom in far enough to get a good look at them. The 
 camera also doesn't go out as far as I would have liked, especially in levels where the terrain 
 varies greatly. On the other hand, the explosions look great and the color throughout the game 
 is as vibrant as would be expected from the Halo universe.
  
  This game doesn't rewrite the RTS book; nor does it try. It succeeds at what it set out to do; 
 be an entertaining spin-off for fans of the Halo series. Gamers wanting a deep RTS experience should 
 look elsewhere. If you are looking for a good game to get you into the RTS genre, this is the perfect 
 place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Back before it's debut on the original Xbox, the original HALO was intended to be an PC exclusive 
 RTS, however over time it grew into a FPS, and has since gone on to become Xbox's Flagship series, 
 and like every flagship series, spinoffs are always going to happen. 
  
  HALO Wars is the fourth game in the HALO Series cannon, and returns to the HALO series RTS roots, 
 while serving as a prequel to the events of the original HALO game. 
  
  The game is set in the early days of the Human-Covenant War, and chornicles the adventures of the 
 Spirit of Fire as they attempt to stop the Covenant, lead by the predecessor to the Arbiter from 
 HALO 2, from gaining control of Forerunner technology that could turn the tide of the war. 
  
  Over all the game is farily well balenced in terms of controls, unlike most Console RTSs, HALO 
 Wars controls are fairly easy to master, without the need for a massive instruction booklet or 
 stratagy guide spread across your lap. However, the big problem with the controls though is the 
 camera, which doesn't allow you to zoom in close enough to make out who or what you're controling. 
 
  
  Graphics wise, HALO Wars is a mixed bag. It's cut scenes are on par with the cut scenes from HALO 
 3 and the Gears of War Games, and help add depth and epic feel the HALO Series is known for. However 
 in combat, the game's graphics take a nose dive, and resemble the small sprits found in games like 
 Command and Conquer and Age of Empires. 
  
  Like all HALO Games, Wars is built around it's multiplayer, and because of this the campaign suffers, 
 which is one of HALO Wars' biggest draw backs, which is only hampered by the lack of a Covenant 
 or Flood Campaign. The campaign also suffers from the lack of base design, where most RTS games 
 allow you to build huge bases, HALO Wars gives very little in the way of base construction. 
  
  All in all, HALO Wars is a welcomed addition to the HALO Series, and the change in gameplay 
 is a nice break from HALO's FPS style, even if it's just to kill time for the release of the next 
 HALO FPS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyr2k6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has its flaws... There, that's out of the way. Yeah, if you have ever played Starcraft, 
 then this game could almost pass off as a major ripoff. Aliens that infect other races, Aliens 
 that are hellbent on Human destruction. Technology gone wrong. Humans or Aliens save the day... 
 Very similar formula. But this isn't Starcraft at all, nor is it in competition with it. It's Halo, 
 done in the universe it first sewn it's roots... RTS.
  
  Yes, it doesn't take more than a small YouTube or WikiPedia search to learn that Halo DID in fact 
 start out as an RTS, but was destined first to be on PC before console was even a possible destination. 
 Ensemble's efforts are realised when playing this game almost immediately. From the moment you 
 complete the tutorial til the credits roll, it just feels right for consoles. While it wouldn't 
 be right to say that this game couldn't be played on PC, suffice to say that there is a mountain 
 of potential for this game if it were ever produced for PC. 
  
  The gameplay was very well done, the graphics were very true to the original source material, music 
 was incredibly engaging (almost more than the actual FPS version of the Halo games) and the story 
 line was very well executed. Beings as the story as created by none other than the great Eric Nylund 
 who wrote a few of the Halo Novels. 
  
  While the game's storyline is short, it offers alot of replay value with Skirmish mode and Multiplayer 
 over XBox Live. I was kind of hoping for more of a tie-in to the beginning of Halo: Combat Evolved, 
 but beings as one of the achievements is called "Ready for the sequel", I can only hope that Ensemble 
 can satisfy my cravings with the (currently) fictitious Halo Wars 2. 
  
  With the action that was present in one of the cinematics, I can only drool over what a potential 
 silver-screen iteration of the game could yield... As long as director Uwe Boll keeps is grimy 
 hands off it. It makes me shutter to think of how badly butchered it would be if he did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FightinFinnigan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  A great game don't get me wrong but for Microsoft a kind of a let down in a way. I think the campaign 
 is ok but could maybe different in some occasions because most of the time you are doing the same 
 type of mission 4 out of 5 times. A good game to play for anyone who isn't the greatest at strategies 
 and is just learning to play them. For anyone that really likes strategies and plays them a lot, 
 maybe not your game. One thing that could use some work would be the colors, for example the Covenant 
 vehicles are to purple and the UNSC to green. On the contrary they help when distinguishing them 
 during combat when there are lots of explosions going on. I think it's kinda of cool how you get 
 to use new and different vehicles for example, the UNSC you get to use Vultures and Cobras. A loss 
 that I noticed was that you can't use mongooses though. Overall a ok game and one that you play 
 every so often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenium1516
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  halo wars has know meaning to it at all. It is all about strategy but is good only on xbox live. 
 That is if you like playing a game that is from top view and is boring as hell. Xbox live on this 
 game is fun, if you like strategy games, but the story line on it is not the good at all. when 
 you are in the story mode playing the game it get's boring after a while. The only thing that is 
 basically keeping you to play the game is the little movie clips it show's in between the chapters. 
 The graphics during the movie clips is phenomone. It is incredible it will make you play more, 
 so you can know what happens next. If this game didnt have movie clips like that then i would have 
 rated it a 4.0. My opinion is dont by this game it is a waste of money. If you like strategy games 
 though then go ahead and by it. I am just saying all you do is just fight the covenent, or the 
 flood the same way on every chapter that it ends up getting boring. HALO 3 RECON is going to be 
 awsome. Well better then Halo wars of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroLukeDX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  The campaign was very disappointing because most levels were pointless and boring. Online as fair 
 as can be 10 stars for the online, 4 star for the campaign.
  This game is worth a try as it is a halo game; you just might take a liking to it
  Who doesn't 
 like rampaging through the campaigns on co-op, if you're not an RTS fan do give it a try because 
 getting the hang of the game takes minutes
  Also you still collect skulls and you collect blackboxes
  Blackboxes unlock more information 
 on the halo timeline.
  I was very disappointed that there wasn't a covenant- campaign seen as you could play as the covenant 
 online. I was even more disappointed when you couldn't play as the flood online. The 3 leader idea 
 for the two teams I thought was very interesting and I love it, the rank system is on halo wars 
 but it takes far too long to level up. 
  
  Thank you for reading if you want to talk to me, my Xbox gamer tag is Nitro Luke DX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't really know where to start or whatever, but this game is a Halo RTS game, but the problem 
 is this isn't done by Bungie; it's by a RTS game company, Ensemble with License from Microsoft 
 Game Studios.
  
  For a Strategy game on a console; the controls aren't too bad considering it's pretty limited without 
 a mouse and keyboard, but it is more or less optimized for a controller. 
  
  The graphics, while good; are nowhere near as spectacular or big-scale epic as shown in concept 
 arts. You control faceless spartans and drive plastic toys around a huge map. 
  
  The cutscenes however, personally are better than the Cutscenes in Halo 3 and the story was Hollywood-gripping. 
 From over-the-top Spartan stunts to classic slug fests between Human and Elite, the storyline and 
 cutscenes are epic. 
  
  So bottom line, if you're a Halo fan who wants to explore the storyline, go for it. 
  RTS fans 
 who also enjoy halo may find this entertaining and worth a buy.. 
  
  However if you're a casual gamer; there ARE better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustXilo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Overall: 6.7
  The game is good, but it isn't great. The story is short and at only 15 missions you're going to 
 be done quick. Unless you're a big fan of online-RTS, this is a rent-only. Ensemble has been closed 
 down by MicroSoft so don't expect a sequel to the partial cliff-hanger they left.
  
  Presentation: 8
  Halo Wars, as I mentioned in my first look, is stunningly beautiful. Even on 
 SDTV the cinematics are beautiful and most of the explosions and weapons look amazing. The major 
 issue here is that the minimap is useless if you're on SDTV. Aside from that, it looks great. There 
 is one specific scene just before the last mission that is awesome. Basically a huge battle between 
 several Spartans and several Covenant Elites. I'd say the game is worth a playthrough just for 
 some of the action in that clip alone.
  
  Sound and voices were well done. I saw no sync issues and the game rarely had lag of any kind. 
 Even when it did, it only lasted a split second so there was really no issue there. I have found 
 that as you log more hours into the game the reports that are constantly being shouted out become 
 more and more annoying. Remember back to the days of StarCraft, "Build more pylons" and "not enough 
 resources." They really could have mixed it up a bit but it's not a huge deal.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  I found that you can use the d-pad for special attacks, quick navigation to your 
 bases, and some other fun stuff. Also, if you hold the left trigger you can scroll around the map 
 much quicker. There are still some major flaws, like the inability to deselect just one unit in 
 an entire group, and some things that other games have included that this one left out, such as 
 waypoints. Overall, I can't say that I've played a better RTS on the console, though, and I'm sticking 
 with my original thoughts on this. The gameplay is intuitive, easy to use, and doesn't take much 
 away from the game. One thing that I did notice is that they really tried to get you away from 
 the "hold back, defend, and build up" style of play. Almost every mission had a count down timer 
 that you had to beat, moving objectives, capture and hold, or something where your original base 
 would eventually become disconnected and useless. This is especially true in the final mission 
 where you have 30 minutes to defeat 6 strategic points. You don't even have enough time to upgrade 
 all of your tech high enough to destroy all the bases on that level. The way you choose to fight 
 your battles will make a huge difference on how well you do. Camping almost always gives poor results.
 
  
  Replayability: 6
  Multiplayer is where the action is going to be on this one. Aside from attempting to 100% the game 
 (collect all the skulls, do all the mini-quests, beat the game on legendary) , there's no reason 
 to go back to play. The story doesn't change and the miniature intros at the start of every level 
 quickly become annoying as you can't skip them. You can, however, skip the movies in between every 
 mission. Thank God.
  
  Story: 4
  This really, really fell short for me. The story started out strong and it quickly turned into 
 a dash to the end. The main antagonist is a brooding, self-absorbed egomaniac and the main characters 
 are the classic heroes. Oh, I had such hopes and the movies were still very pleasing, but the story 
 just wasn't as rich as it had started.
  
  In the story, you start out on Harvest but move to this planet called Arcadia and eventually to 
 a planet without a name. Each jump leaves the previous place behind as if it no longer exists. 
 The continuous jumping around when there were only 15 missions really shortened what could have 
 been a great story.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  Typical RTS. I played a skirmish but didn't get a chance to play online. I'm not going to rate 
 this, because how much you like RTS will define how much you enjoy MP on this game. There is also 
 co-op, so love for all. I do recommend playing through the campaign before playing MP though, just 
 so you understand the commands.
  
  (Contents of this review are my work also hosted on of http://dirtytruth. wordpress. com - Real Reviews 
 by Real Gamers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenmon666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game shows that console RTS is viable and that is its greatest accomplishment. It combines 
 the nail-biting strategy of RTS with the fast paced iconic combat of the Halo Saga. 
  
  The game has a fantastic atmosphere, it makes you feel like your playing halo, but retains the 
 traditional RTS feel at the same time. The two playable factions, the UNSC and the Covenant boast 
 a host of varied units, which operate under the Rock/Paper/Scissors mechanic, with special abilites 
 and units that break the rules to spice things up. 
  
  Building and teching up is streamlined, with limited build locations, and simple upgrades. There 
 are also three "commanders" for each faction that add some extra strategy in the mix, with each 
 one giving you unique units, upgrades and powers.
  
  The Campaign is well done, with a host of a well done missions and an acceptable story. The in-between 
 mission cutscenes look amazing.
  
  Co-op is implemented rather poorly, with both you and your friend sharing your base/units and resources, 
 but it still remains fun nonetheless.
  
  Skirmish mode is also available, with you facing off against friends or A. I (who perform admirably) . 
 There are also a host of other traditional halo extras, such as collectable skulls and Legendary 
 difficulty.
  
  The best thing this game does though is it makes it fun. Although it may seem simple to hardened 
 RTS veterans, it is a perfect introduction for RTS beginners, or people who in general enjoy the 
 halo franchise.
  
  
  The graphics are quite mixed in their quality, some units and textures may seem a bit bland, but 
 the effects such as explosions and weapon fire look fantastic.
  
  Although all this is good, there are some rough edges. The campaign for starters features a couple 
 of dud missions that really break up the fun, and there are a couple slight issues with balancing. 
 Unit pathing sometimes spazzes out and things will just simply refuse to do what you tell them 
 to. 
  
  However overall it is a fantastic game, with enough to keep you entertained for a long time, a 
 solid campaign, excellent multiplayer, and the promise of free DLC, it is an easy buy for people 
 new to the genre of halo fans.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars got me really excited when I first heard about it, I couldn't wait to get my hands on 
 it. But then I find out one day it got a 6.5, well that does make me wonder if it would be any 
 good. And yes it is good I'm really enjoying it so far, especially since I'm a Halo fan anyway.
 
  
  The story well this is mainly what I got it for anyway, the story in the Halo games is something 
 that I've always liked and have enjoyed. The one in this one is not different, it isn't as good 
 but it's up there with the other games in the Halo universe.
  
  The Gameplay isn't something you'd expect from a RTS, it's really simple and easy to use which 
 isn't a bad thing at all. It being like this could make more people get interested into RTS games 
 of all kind. With it being so simple you want get frustrated with it.
  
  The cut scenes are just beautiful, they look great really great that's something that I really 
 enjoyed throughout the game. Also the voice acting is another thing that's greatly done everyone 
 just sounds great, it makes the game better.
  
  I've played a little multiplayer at a friends house, and it makes the game even more fun, the hours 
 just pass by before you know it.
  
  Overall Halo Wars is a fantastic game a very good RTS, If you don't like these kind of games maybe 
 you'll want to check it out for the story. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  My impressions so far on Halo Wars is mixed. On the one hand I love Halo and they could sucker 
 me in on just about anything with that name on it and I will give it a try. I have played thru 
 about 6 of the missions so far and my favorite parts are the cut scenes which add to the earlier 
 Halo story.
  
  As for the bad I think I have confirmed to myself I just really don't like RTS very much. Oh I 
 get a kick out of seeing the UNSC units, especially the Spartans, running around beating on tanks 
 and warthogs running over troops. But even with the slimmed down RTS experience I just don't have 
 my attention held like other games and often will play a couple missions and then put it down. 
 Then later on I seem to always find a excuse not to pick it up again, heck I had more fun finishing 
 50 Cent Blood in the Sand!
  
  I can't see myself purchasing this, even renting it was kinda meh. I thought it was funny the other 
 day I eavesdropped on a conversation between a Gamestop employee and a customer where the employee 
 was making sure that the customer knew that this was not a first person shooter and a RTS. Wonder 
 if they had any disappointed kids come back to complain?
  
  I hope this isn't a trend of whoring out the Halo series after the Bungie days, yeah I'll pick 
 up ODST but after that I wonder... What next Halo Cart Racing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D636A6D
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Halo Wars is really great. Really fast pased and just plain fun. Multiplayer and co-op are extremely 
 addictive and Ensemble did a great job. Resource gathering is simple, but still strategic enough 
 that you won't forget about it. The base building is simple and doesnt take long at all, and building 
 an army is loads of fun, especially seeing your troops in action. I think ensemble did a really 
 good job in making each faction and leader unique. For example, the UNSC use the Spirit of Fire 
 to call in support, and the Covenant use actual heroes such as the Arbiter. Even though it is so 
 super fun, it could boring after playing it for a long time in one sitting. You get tired of building 
 bases, gathering resources and just feel like you wanna play something else. I myself played Prince 
 of Persia for a few hours after a long day of Halo Wars. Another great thing Ensemble did was adding 
 in more units. The Halo Universe did not have enough units and vehicles to make a full blown RTS, 
 so Ensemble gave you some new toys like the Grizzly, or the almighty Locust. Just brilliant.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  I cannot describe the graphics, for they are too great. great texture, great 
 detail, and the cutscenes just blow me away. Although during gameplay, if you zoom in you can see 
 a few pixels here and there but overall the graphics are great.
  
  STORY:
  
  The main story isn't really what i expected it to be. I thought it was gonna be some huge awesome 
 thing about uncovering Halo, but really, its mainly rescuing one of the main characters' Proffeser 
 Anders. Here's how it goes down: In the beginning of the game you are uncovering the Covenants 
 secrets, like i expected, and then Anders gets kidnapped and it changes a bit. Also, some of the 
 missions are super short and don't give as much depth as i had hoped, and some of the longer missions 
 are really annoying and difficult.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  What can I say? I spent hours on end playing with my friends. Whether in skirmish or campaign, 
 playing with a friend can be very addictive, even though there is no split screen play, and you 
 cannot play 3 or 4 player co-op. Playing in co-op also requires a lot of teamwork, which makes 
 things interesting and fun, but at times annoying. It can be fun because you can transfer units 
 from one player to another, which is useful especially if one player is in trouble, but it is annoying 
 because you share resources and bases. Your teammate could drain all your resources on Marines 
 and Spartans when you wanted Scorpions and Elephants. Or your teammate can build a barracks when 
 you wanted to build another supply pad. It is just plain annoying.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Now as you know, in past console RTS games the controls were very complicated and wore out easily. 
 With Halo Wars, it is a lot different. Halo Wars created a great system called the "8 menu" which 
 is a circular menu that you make units or buildings from, other then having the sidebar at the 
 bottom. The Controls are super simple and easy to master, and just make the core gameplay great.
 
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  To answer my quiestion, yes. Ensemble really made this a good RTS with a lot of originality and 
 it is very unique, fun, addictive gameplay. The game really makes you forget that it is a Halo 
 game, and I garuntee you will be playing this game for a long, long time.
  
  
  RATING: 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScIFiNerd83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Game plays well and is very visually pleasing. Controls are simple and become reflexive. Story 
 is fun to follow along with. I've played a lot of FPS and RPGs and Rhythm games, but this is the 
 first one I've played that was RTS. I had always heard bad things about them being on a console 
 and I was at first timid due to my previous experience on a PC. Since this was exclusively for 
 360 I tried the demo and loved it right away. 
  
  I do find myself getting frustrated quickly, due to my OCD of getting all the achievements. The 
 game really makes you work for it and some are quite difficult.
  
  It is a bit short but I think that their will be follow up campaign additions (hint, hint... Covenant) . 
 And possibly some new units over time. This game appears to be a good base and foundation to what 
 could be a good growth Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars is not for everyone. I know alot of people who are huge Halo fans, who arent even going 
 to consider touching this one. I myself am a Huge fan of the Halo trilogy. Like any fan out there 
 I shelled out $85. bucks for the special edition. To be honest as a consumer and a fan I felt like 
 the price tag was alittle to high for what I paid for. (but then thats another story) .
  The very first thing I did when I got home was input the codes for the mythich map pack. I played 
 that four a couple hours, and then ran in head first into the campaign mode. With some Mcdonald 
 Chicken Nuggets, and some Hot mustard I could'nt wait to see the s0-called spectacular story unfold 
 before my eyes.
  The Story right off the bat failed to capture my undevided attention. Thats not to say that I didn't 
 like some of the moments in Halo wars. Albeit the moments I longed for as a fan were to far and 
 too few to get to excited about. The story takes place about 20 years from what we all now know 
 as Halo 1, 2, and 3. The introduction of a new hero is kinda tough to get used to, but since you 
 don't play as Forge you really won't get too attatched to him. Theres a new Arbiter as well who 
 for the most part seems really vicious, but cool all in all. Before I forget, Katrina. the A. I. 
 (artificial intelligence) in the Pillar fo Fire is a long waaaays back from what we all know as 
 Cortana. I know both of them are different A. I.'s, but they only seemed to use Katrina for comic 
 relief..... 
  I guess for me just being able to watch 3 spartans fight on the battlefield in one of the cinemas 
 was too cool. There was a reason the Covenant refered to them as demons. Lol! that was just too 
 cool. Well for me that was the only gem worth watching in the game, but then thats just me.
  Game Play? Well if you played the demo, you pretty muched played the Halo Wars in its entirety. 
 To be completely honest I found it rather mundane and monotonous at the same time. Even the online 
 component is some what tidius.... If you don't know what you're doing you can lose alot of hours 
 trying to set up your base and have the opposing team rush you and take you out.... 
  The music? O. m. g.!!! Thank the good LORD that thers customs soundtracks on the x-box 360..... because 
 it gets rather old, rather fast....
  While Halo Wars pales in comparison to the FIrst Person Juggernaut shooter that Halo is, its some 
 what rewarding being able to crush your opponent in battle.... This game is not for everyone, but 
 if your'e a hard core halo fan then pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slyphidius
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:55 am PT
Review:  I've just recently gotten into the whole Halo hype and I have to say I quite liked Halo 3, now 
 when halo wars came out I was excited yet cautious since everyone around me was saying the same 
 thing over and over again: "They're just milking Halo's popularity to it's limit" drummed into 
 my head over and over again by countless acquaintances. But still the demo seemed to be ok and 
 so I decided buying it (mainly because I wanted to play the halo 3 sandbox map included with the 
 game) : and I have to say that the game's campaign came as kind of a disappointment to me: the cinematics 
 were pretty good (I love the scene where loads of Elites fight three Spartans: Spartans Elites 
 but we all know that) and the objectives were pretty diverse, but the campaign was so piss short! 
 I've never seen anything like this 3 hours of gameplay that's all it is! Lucky for Bungie/Ensemble 
 studios/Captain Picard (whoever made the game) that Halo wars has a really solid Muliplayer it's 
 hours of fun! The matchmaking is efficient as ever and Halo's popularity guarantees an endless 
 stream of Gamers online at any time, also there's nothing like imagining the guy on the other side 
 of the screen swearing his head off when he discovers that you've just sent three scarabs towards 
 his base.
  On the whole Halo wars is a pretty decent RTS but what makes it superior to other console RTS's 
 (in my humble opinion) is not only the fact that it was made for the xbox and not simply ported 
 over from the Pc but also mainly for its Rock solid Multiplayer.
  
  Halo wars: 8/10 (if you have live)
  Halo wars: 5/10 (if you don't) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewwy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  As I was getting ready to write this review I suddenly remembered a little Warcraft 3 mod called 
 Defense of the Ancients (DOTA) . This mod has taken on a life on its own with official tournaments 
 and a rabid fan-base even as Warcraft 3 approaches it's 7th anniversary. For those who aren't familiar 
 with this mod, there are two teams who seek to destroy the other team's "Ancient". Each player 
 controls 1 hero, and you kill waves of generated monsters and other heros to gain experience. The 
 game is very simple and straightforward yet after playing it myself I can say that it is almost 
 a reason in itself just to purchase Warcraft 3.
  
  The point of me bringing this up is that the same thing applied to Halo Wars. It's not a deep strategy 
 game. For anyone who's played their share of RTS games you'll find out quickly that there aren't 
 tons of research trees, you don't progress through any kind of age/era, there aren't a large amount 
 of types of resources, there aren't many different factions, and your bases are confined with only 
 a few types of buildings. Despite it's simplicity though, the game continues to be fun because 
 of similar design choices implemented in Halo 3.
  
  The campaign has high replay value (at least compared to other RTS') due to the scoring system, 
 collectibles, and unlockables. The cut scenes are gorgeous with a decent underlying story and good 
 voice acting. The campaign missions themselves are varied and fun, but a few are much more difficult 
 than the rest providing either a nice challenge or an agonizing spike in difficulty depending how 
 you look at it. If you want a break from the campaign you can play skirmishes which are enjoyable, 
 yet the small selection of maps means that you'll be replaying a lot of them if you intend to play 
 skirmish/multiplayer a lot. The multiplayer offers both co-op and adversarial game play with a 
 party system that is very reminiscent of Halo 3's.
  
  Gameplay wise Halo Wars has several things going for it. The combat is fast, the animations are 
 excellent, the controls are easy to pick up, the base construction is simplified. The biggest problem, 
 however, is that you can only play as UNSC or Covenant. A small amount of variety comes from the 
 commander you choose, but not nearly as much as the designers had hoped. Still, it wouldn't be 
 the first RTS to only have 2 factions and won't be the last, and this fact is quickly forgotten 
 when your squad of Spartans and Scorpion tanks go up against a squat of Elites and Wraiths.
  
  All in all the game is very solid and a fitting final game for Ensemble Studios. Perfect for 
 anyone like myself who's a long time RTS player and a Halo fan. While a deeper strategy game could 
 have been crafted from the Halo universe cloth, the console lends itself to simpler controls than 
 a PC RTS would allow. One can hope that the future will hold another Halo RTS for the PC with deeper 
 game play mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  After taking a unique twist in terms of gameplay and presentation, the halo series never seems 
 to disappoint me. Despite a mix of opinions aimed at this game, I'd have to say that this is by 
 far the best halo in the entire series. For a strategy game, it's quick to get you right in the 
 heat of battle, especially in the campaign from beginning to end. I'm not going to say this is 
 the best RTS of all time, but what I can tell you is that this game justifies it's purpose enough 
 to appeal to any casual gamer and even the most hardcore halo and strategy fans. Halo Wars does 
 it's job with excellent quality cinematics, good graphics and a refreshingly easy approach to simple 
 control schemes for an RTS on a console. This game is packed with military action, great multiplayer 
 elements, and overall polished appeal. What more could you want from an RTS ?....... but hey, don't 
 let me influence you into thinking it's the greatest game, try it for yourself. As for me I'll 
 be playing full scale UNSC vs Covenant battles for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonCarnotaur3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The hype and media of Halo Wars has been a roller coaster ride for fans. E3 2007. Everyone remembers 
 the Halo Wars that was shown there. The Halo Wars that has since been simplified, and seemingly 
 had features removed. It was a big disappointment to many; including me.
  
  Halo Wars seemingly went under a revamp; Bases were simplified the the Fire Base, units and colour 
 identification were heavily modified. 
  
  What once had the colours of the Halo universe was changed into basic colour identification. Green 
 vs Purple. Marines are green, ODSTS are green, Spartans are green.. They all start too look a little 
 less original. That is a flaw in this game. Units colour identification should have been a little 
 less obvious, even from a RTS the colours of Humans and Covenant are different enough that it doesn't 
 need to be so obvious. And that does take away from the game a bit. Hopefully it will be changed 
 if a sequel does come.
  
  So far, so negative right? Not really. Try playing the game. Once you do so, the game really begins 
 to shine. The story missions have a very nice variety. The games presentation is top notch; From 
 the good looking in game graphics to the amazing CG cutscens, this game really shines. Everything 
 compliments each other, the sound, chatter, etc.
  
  The story is very interesting, and is enticing enough to keep you playing and wanting more. The 
 multiplayer is top notch. The unlockables and various other features are enough to keep you playing.
 
  
  This game is great for Halo fans and fans of RTS games. It may not be groundbreaking, it may not 
 have the most depth, but it is an extremely solid game. Ensemble really showed what they are capable 
 of with their final game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaz1894
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  To begin with I must say that Game Spot have seriously underrated this brilliant game. In my opinion 
 ,taking everything into account, this is a brilliant RTS game. With a solid campaign and a great 
 multiplayer mode Halo Wars will keep a lot of gamers and Halo Fans everywhere coming back for more. 
 
  
  First off the mark, the single player campaign mode is just the right length and incorporates good 
 strategic gameplay with different objectives that can also aid you in some missions. The story 
 to the campaign is really good and the cut scenes in between levels are beautiful to watch and 
 has great voice acting from the entire cast. Also, Halo Wars has skulls in each mission just like 
 Halo 3. Some of these skulls ,like Halo 3, when turned on can be a burden or just add some fun 
 to the game such as the skull which turn the scarabs laser beam into a rainbow of love!
  
  Now onto the multiplayer side of the game. One of the great things about Halo Wars is that you 
 can play a skirmish with a computer AI if you don't have Xbox live or even if your just getting 
 frustrated with playing against people who are better than you. The AI isn't stupid either it can 
 put up a good challenge depending on the difficulty. The Xbox Live multiplayer mode is very fun. 
 It has two game modes you can play and different party sizes for each game mode. The game modes 
 are standard , where you have to play like a proper RTS, and deathmatch ,where you gain resources 
 over time and your population limit grows as you acquire bases. Both of these game modes are fun 
 whether you are playing a one v one or a three v three with your friends. 
  
  Overall, Halo Wars is a great game that entertains for a long time and is fun even for people who 
 aren't fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZMatt410
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  I can't believe gamespot reviewed this at a 6.5! Its deserves much higher, I think the reviewer 
 is bios of the Halo franchise! Be fair is all I ask Gamespot or your credibility may go out the 
 door.. This is a great RTS considering its a console version. Its a fun RTS, and the online play 
 is a good way to kill a considerable amount of time.. Good visual and smooth game play make this 
 a must have for any RTS fans or fans of the Halo franchise! If your new to RTS its a great place 
 to start because of Halo War simplistic control schemes! The story line has much to offer it takes 
 you back before the other Halo games, even though you wont get to play as Master Chief you will 
 be taking on the covenant and even see the pesky flood! The game has a considerable amount of replay 
 value and you may find yourself coming back time and time again to challenge the powers that be 
 in the online battles. Have fun all and game hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeblon123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  Halo wars is a great game for halo fans and rts beginers. it has one of the best interfaces for 
 the xbox 360 and is relatively easy to pick up and play, especially after the tutorial. First here 
 is the good. It is pretty fun. their is a wide variety of usnc and covenant types to play around 
 with. also scarabs are a blast to mess stuff up with. The multiplayer is interesting, however co-op 
 is a mess. i would advise against it. skirmishes are a nice touch too. ok thats about it with the 
 bad. This game like i said is good for rts beginners but dosn't offer much strategy to experienced 
 players. It starts out with just the first thing in the game. base placement. The bases are automatically 
 set so you can't position them for a strategy and all resources are flown in so you dont have to 
 try to be near a resource area. The bases are all the same with 4 turrents and 6 pads. Next the 
 limit count. there is only a 40 and 50 count, usnc and covenant respectfully, and that is after 
 an upgrade. You will never have a huge army after you. The game had a good and not confusing interface 
 but in doing so took out a lot of aspects of real rts like a lot of upgrades and micromanagement. 
 The end esult is you will never go into an enemys base and ne suprised by their cleverness or be 
 satisfied from stratigically defending a base or eliminating your opponet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iangray
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  After a sad history of console rts games halo wars reinventes the genre by making a playable game 
 that is fun and looks great gamespot was very wrong to rate it a 6.5 and should look at gameinformer's 
 review they gave it a 9 out of 10 and obviously have an intelligent staff. This game is a wonderful 
 final product of ensemble and lives up to all the hype. with a great campaign, music, and an addictive 
 multiplayer this game is a musy have. gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your review gamespot reconsider your 
 review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fact: I have never played an RTS game before. 
  
  Fact: I didn't care a lick about Halo Wars until I decided to one day download the demo and give 
 it a try.
  
  Fact: I enjoyed it!
  
  I never intended to buy this game, mainly due to my disinterest in RTS', but playing the demo version 
 for 10+ hours actually made me re-think the genre, and to realize how good this game actually was 
 . Granted, my knowledge in this genre is relatively non-existent, but from my very limited understanding 
 this game can hold it's own.
  
  Halo Wars is a type of prequel to the main trilogy of games, in the way that it explores certain 
 events of the Human/Covenant conflict before master Chief discovered the first Halo. 
  Set 20 years prior, the story follows the Captain and crew of 'The Spirit of Fire', and their discovery 
 and halting of the Covenant trying amass a vast Forerunner Fleet. In being part of the Halo series, 
 the story fits into the epic Universe Budgie have laid out, with references to other materials 
 as well as the original games. 
  
  The campaign mode which will see you discover said story, is repetitively short, with only 15 missions. 
 Experienced RTS players, people who pick the game up easily or those playing it on lower difficulties 
 will be able to finish the story in roughly 10 or so hours. Each mission has a different objective, 
 surrounding the basic RTS formula. You'll have fight off enemy fire as you help evacuate a city, 
 defend a marked position and relocate a large explosive object. The missions feel well structured 
 and you can tell time and effort went into making each one feel 'Halo'
  
  As any Halo game before it would suggest, the real muscle behind this game is the multiplayer. 
 There are two modes, Standard (where you start from scratch, building up an army to tackle your 
 opponent) and Deathmatch (where you start with a large number of supplies, allowing you to start 
 blowing each other up) . There are a series of maps influenced by the games solo story, as well 
 as others inspired from the Halo trilogy. 
  The most interesting part to these multiplayer games is the inclusion of the Leaders and their 
 special powers. The Leaders for both sides are, Captain Cutter, Sergeant Forge, Professor Anders, 
 The Arbiter, Brute Chieftain and The Prophet of Regret Each Leader is given a super power, an ability 
 and a special unit of their own. For example, Captain Cutter can train ODST's, where as the other 
 Human leader Forge has Cyclops', a special mech armor unit. My personal favorites out of the special 
 units are Suicide Grunt, only available when playing as The Arbiter. 
  
  Much like any other RTS game, Halo Wars has a wealth of different units to command. There is everything 
 you could expect from the Halo Universe, Grunts, Elites, Spartans, Warthogs etc, as well as a few 
 new units made especially for the game. Units such as the Covenant anti-air aircraft vampire and 
 the humans uber unit vulture, are added to balance things up. Of course in my opinion, the Scarab 
 is the be all and end all in ways of Unit selection.
  
  The visual presentation of this game is impressive. Both online and off, there is no detectable 
 frame rate drop, only in the case of bad internet connections between players. There is a level 
 of detail to everything on screen, even on the smallest Marine and Spartan units.
  Soundtracks from other Halo games have made there way into HW, including all the little sounds 
 from energy swords, to Machine guns, to Warthog screeching over the terrain. Just everything about 
 this game oozes Halo.
  
  This game isn't perfect, as an RTS it isn't one of the best. As I said at the beginning of this 
 review, my knowledge of this genre is limited, but even I can see the shallow aspects of Halo Wars, 
 I personally believe the ability to 'rush' is evidence of this. 
  In terms of the Halo structure, this game fits in pretty good, certainly pleasing fans of the series.
 
  
  in closing, Halo Wars isn't for anyone. For avid fans of the series they will find a rewarding 
 and rich halo experience. For anyone else who doesn't really care either way, this game probably 
 won't be worth it. 
  Halo: Combat Evolved broke the FPS genre onto the console, ushering in a new way of approaching 
 game design. Halo Wars feels like the same sort of push in terms of RTS, but sadly just lacks that 
 little magic we all felt in 2002
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoon1138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been cautiously optimistic about this game since it was announced. While an RTS set in the 
 Halo universe sounded interesting - the fact that it would be for the 360 and not the pc was worry-some. 
 Thankfully the folks at Ensemble know what they are doing and delivered an RTS that plays well 
 on the 360 controller and is a good middle ground for RTS cherries and seasoned veterans.
  
  A word of warning - PLAY THE DEMO BEFORE YOU BUY. The controls take a little getting used to 
 and the lack of hot keys can make micro managing an issue. Which brings me to my only issue with 
 it. Without a keyboard and mouse micromanaging your units when the combat gets hectic is nearly 
 impossible. I would love to see a patch for keyboard/mouse interface. Because throughout the campaign 
 I was really missing my hot keys.
  
  It is what it is. It's not for everyone but worth giving a try and if you like it - great. See 
 you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbershop93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  dsssssssss hhhhh hhhhhhh hhhhhhhjjjjj jjjjjjj kkkkkkkl llllllll lllllll lllllllll lllllll ;;;;;;; 
 ;;;;;;;; ;;;;;;;;;; kkkkk jjjjjjj hhhhhhhh ggggggg ffffff ttttttt yyyyyyyyy iu oooooo mm b mn mi 
 hie ds dfe fe e e e f d f d s df d s s d f ds s s d f d fd d f d g d f d f d f d f d s d f d d 
 f d f sdkskks d ks kdjdkshd hshkdh skhdhksh hdskh dsk hkshdks hk shkdhsh hhksh hdkhs hdhk sh kdhs 
 kh dh kshdkshd dkshdkhs d hsh dhk sh dkh s hdhksh dhk shhd hh skh d h sh hdhk sh dh hs hd hksh 
 d hsk dhsh dk shk hd hshkdhs k hdshk hdhksh hh h hh hh hj jj k k hkh kh h hk h hk h k kh khh h 
 k h hu uh u hu h jhdj jhdjhfjd hdh fh dj hjdhfh jdh fj hd j f hjd hfj hdh fd h fj djh fh h fdh 
 hfhh dhfh hf h dh fhfhhfhhd hf hfhfhf hfhfhhf dhdhd fhdh fhdfh dhfh dhfh h dh h f hdhfh dh hf h 
 dh fh dh h dhfhh hdh hfh dhfhdhhfhdh hd fhh f hdh fh hd hf hd hf hd hh duuhfud u s hf uhfh udh 
 fuh du huh f uh uhd uhh fu uhf uhf uhd fuh hufhuf huf huf uhf uhf uh fuh uhfufh uhf uhf uhf uhfuhf 
 uhfuhf fuh fuh uhf huf uhf uh fuh fuh fuh fuh uhffuh uhf fuh fuh fuh uhf uhf uhf uhf uhfuhf uhf 
 fu uhf fuhu hf uhf uhfuhf uhf uhf uhfudfhud fhduhfhudhufuh d hf uhdh fhu dufhudhfudhuf hud fh du 
 hfh ud huf ud hfudhh f ggghghg hg g gh h g h g h g h ghgh hh hfdfuehgfue r e urgegrugefje uereuir 
 guieiu djjf hh hj hjj h kkshd h hhj djh hjh j h h hjh hj jhhj kh jhk hjj j jjhd jfj dhdhjshj hjjh 
 hjj h jhj h jhh j h jhhj h j h jh hjjjjjjj djjsjsjj j j jj jsj j js j jsj jsjjj jsjjsjsjsjjj sjjsjsjsjsjsj 
 j jj sjdhsjdhjfhjs dhfdjs hdsjdhhsdh hhjdh jhh sjh dhj hjh j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zemenawi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a game that deserves much more than a 6.5 and has been widely degraded by many people. 
 Although it lacks what most shooter/rts games have it is one of the best game i have played by 
 far, not just in 2009. I recommend giving this game another chance after all it maybe a war but 
 its still halo and everyone loves halo, or so they should. I would have given this game a 10 if 
 it had better gameplay and a better view of the game while playing. Overall I'd say Halo Wars is 
 a 9 out of 10. This game does not only apply to rts fans but to fans of multiple genres............. 
 to tell you the truth I did not entirely enjoy halo 3 and just it while I enjoyed halo 1 and 2 
 , Halo wars is a good refresher which means I can play this game and then start at halo 1 all over 
 again ....... who knows maybe this game will attract me to halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Therealgamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game was marvelous. I loved the Halo time line because it explains more about the mysterious 
 forerunners. The new vehicles are cool and the Mac blast is sheer power. The graphics were so amazing 
 I could see the freckles on a face and the veins in the eyes. Multiplayer was the greatest experience 
 for me because you have to work strategically with your partner. You can work out when to attack 
 and what to attack with. This game was literally mind blowing, oh and don't get me started on the 
 flood. But that's a little surprise I'll leave for you. The new skulls to collect are very cool. 
 I have the skull: bountiful harvest'. It gives you faster resources. The thing about the skulls 
 is you can make it harder (final score increases) or easier (final score decreases) . You can never 
 really put the controller down because you want to unlock all the stuff, like finishing the time 
 line, gathering skulls, etc. The skirmish is filled with maps including an old favorite of mine, 
 Blood Gulch. The covenent is my personal favorite because they have hunters and scarabs. I don't 
 really know the maximum population but the highest I've ever gotten it was 50. Then I built 2 scarabs 
 and 10 ground troops. They got pwned. This game was really fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Big surprise another great game gets a low review from gamespot. But I am glad I don't listen to 
 reviews. Halo Wars is the first RTS I've played on a console that was actually done right. Most 
 attempts to put a RTS on a console fail this didn't. Mostly due to the fact it was built from the 
 ground up for a console. Halo Wars gameplay is hard but easy to grasp. The story and voice acting 
 is superb as is the graphics. Highly recommend to any Halo fan. The only downside is it's not going 
 to interest a non halo fan and I was slightly disappointed that you don't get the chance to play 
 through the story as the covenant but other than that it's a great game. There is also plenty of 
 replay value. My first playthough clocked in at just over 10 hours but I didn't find any of the 
 hidden skulls the first time. There are many hidden features that will give you many playthroughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miaji
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say this is the first RTS Ive ever played and well, Halo Wars is the perfect game 
 for beginners. 
  
  There aren't many cut scenes in Halo Wars which is a shame because they have stunning visuals which 
 to me, seem better than those in games like Gears of War. Another good thing about the cut scenes 
 is that you can skip them. It gets so frustrating having to wait ages for cut scenes to end but 
 in Halo Wars you'd prefer to watch them.
  The story is a bit confusing, and having knowledge of the last Halo games doesn't seem to be of 
 any benefit. The actual game itself is fantastic. You could spend ages just looking at the detail 
 on buildings and soldiers. The maps aren't too big but big enough to be able to send units to every 
 corner and still not know where the enemy base is. 
  The controls are very easy to pick up. Basically, you only really need A and X to do anything so 
 your nan could probably play it with ease.
  One of the tiny downfalls in Halo Wars is that the campaign is quite short (people are just exaggerating 
 it now though) . Enough to last a few nights but if your a hardcore gamer, you'll breeze through 
 it. It's also quite disappointing that in the campaign you can only play as the UNSC and not the 
 Covenant or Flood. In the skirmish's however, you can choose from UNSC or the Covenant but a second 
 campaign mode would be the icing on the cake.
  The fact you get unlimited resources is hindered by the small unit and the feeble size of your 
 base. To start with you can only get around 40-50 units, vehicles can take 3 unit points per 1! 
 And unlike Command and Conquer you cannot expand your base where ever you want. You get a set amount 
 of building slots so build wisely!
  
  The small bases and unit sizes are probably, if not the, only downsides but Halo Wars i still a 
 complicated game with many upgrades and recognisable units from the previous games like Spartans 
 or the near invincible Scarab.
  
  A great game, under-rated & deserving of a 9 (:
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slaughtahouse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  For the longest time game developers have been trying to get real time strategy games onto a console. 
 Many have failed and some have come close. But finally someone did it right. Ensemble studious 
 the creators of the Age of Empires series, have finally taped into a control scheme that works. 
 With this simple control scheme, it allows the player to easily access there units. factories, 
 and manage their resources. Due to the fact that the controls are quite simple, it brings down 
 the depth of commands and micromanagement. And that is where most of the controversy is...
  
  The visuals in the game are quite outstanding for an RTS. When you are looking from the standerd 
 40ft birds-eye view, you get a great view of all the tropical jungles, the forerunner structures, 
 bases, and the detailed landscapes. Even when you zoom in to about 8-15ft, the quality of detail 
 is still there. Theres an overall gloss to the buildings. roads, and land that makes it worth while 
 to stare off into a forest while your units are getting scraped. lol. Beyond that are the cutscenes. 
 which are gratifying. These are proably the best cutscenes I have ever seen in a video game. Even 
 though i prefer games that use the in-game engine for cutscenes most of the time. I loved these 
 cinematic ones. The amount of detail on the Spirit of Fire (It's a spaceship) is insane. Visuals 
 9.5/10
  
  Another great aspect of Halo Wars is the audio and music. If you liked the music from anyother 
 Halo game, your going to like this. If you haven't played a Halo game, the music is mainly quick 
 pased opera. It works really well with the game as it did with the series. The sound effects are 
 top-noch. You'll here every bullet shearing metal casing and all the plasma cannons overheating 
 you could ever want in a game. Audio 9.8/10
  
  Finally the gameplay. Like I said earlier, the controls are crutial and Ensemple has got it down. 
 One button to select every one, everyone on screen, and specific unit types such as Scorpians or 
 hornets. There is also the "Wheel of eight" and that is a little menu that appears whenever you 
 select a building or unit. Its usefull but its not that amazing. Since you cant select specific 
 units like out of your 5 tanks you can choose two out of five to go attack and the other stay, 
 its not as strategic but you can manually do it so it still works but takes more time, and time 
 is very valuable in this game. The Main Story takes place 20 years before the Halo event and it 
 sets up the story where the UNSC (Thats you) begin to fight the Covenant. I havent finished the 
 campaign but so far its quite good. Its also quite difficult, im on normal and it has a bit of 
 a challenge, while Legendary is just crazy. Gameplay 9/10
  
  If you looking for a great RTS because you dont have a good computer or you love Halo, buy this 
 game. If you think that its a ripoff of the halo series, try the demo first, then you can saysome 
 thing. Its been given alot of bad credit due to its one bad review by gamespot. But look around, 
 try the demo, ask your friends. I highly reccomend anyone to try the game because this is the cradle 
 of RTS' for the console. As was Mesopotamia was the cradle of civilizations. Buy the game 
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up on March 3rd not knowing what to expect. I was releived to find out that 
 this is a great RTS title, and a great addition to the Halo series. I'll make this quick because 
 i've got work to do.
  
  
  Gameplay: Great, easy to control, but it's way too simplistic. There's no real upgrades like in 
 most RTS titles. You can only control up to 30 units (40 if you get the reinforcements upgrade) 
 which can be very limiting. Upgrades only last the level, while I think it would be better to make 
 them harder to get and they last the campaign. Why in the heck can I get all major upgrades within 
 the first five minutes of the level? On the positive side, it's controls are easy to learn, there's 
 a good amount of different units, it's fun to call in a MAC Strike from the Spirit of Fire, and 
 much more.
  
  Graphics: Great. Enviroments are detailed, animations are smooth, and there's absolutely no pop-up. 
 I love the graphics.
  
  Sound: Not much to say, but they're ok.
  
  Story: I can't say much without ruining the story, but the story pulls you in to play more and 
 is very immersive. It's a great addition to the Halo Universe.
  
  I'm giving Halo Wars a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kealoha808
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  i knew this game was coming out ever since halo 3 came out but i didnt expect it to be a rts i 
 thout it would be like starwars battle front but i still think it rocks as a rts. I think it should 
 get the game of the year award because the dificulty was just right and the online multiplayer 
 is great but needs work. they should make map and expansion packs for the multiplayer and they 
 should have made it to where they could play multiplayer without xbox live or a system link. i 
 will not tell you what the story is because i think it is worth the money to buy it. i also think 
 they should make a wide range of new vehicels and make it to wher you could customize the whole 
 army like what weapons they use how the speake, how they react to certin things, and how they look.
 
  basicaly the storyboard takes place years before halo 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salaczar45
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game about a year ago, i thought it was going to be a stupid halo game that 
 would do good but i deffinately would never buy. Well i was wrong. This game is definately superb 
 in my standards. Campaign is really fun even though it is quite short. Co-op campaign splits the 
 units and command in half where both of you command it at once. Fun! Multiplayer= OUTSTANDING!!! 
 A 3v3 is just incredible where you must work together to win, from transfering money to combining 
 units is just Fun. This game never gets old and it will stay that way for as long as i play it
 
  
  Better than Cod4 or Cod5; well i dont know but sure is better than Halo 3
  
  I would buy this game over any coming out soon except Rainbow six Vegas 2, very big fan of this 
 franchise; GO UBISOFT!
  Just a excellent legenadary game
  Will last you about 40 hrs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  After seeing the 6.5 review from Gamespot I was reluctant to buy this game, even though I like 
 RTS games. I thought it would be another over hyped flop trying to cash in on a famous brand.
 
  
  Luckily it turns out the game is in fact an excellent RTS on many levels, and I was pleasantly 
 surprised. Most importantly you can play it using the xbox and feel like it is more and not less 
 convenient to play than your standard mouse controlled PC RTS, which is an achievement in itself.
 
  
  Ensemble Studios really nailed the controls perfectly, the only issue left is your TV set. At first 
 I played the game on a standard 26 inch TV, which just does not work well with a game full of so 
 many details. The tiny text was nearly unreadable, and the units blurry and unclear. Forgivable 
 other genres like racing games, but not in a game that requires micromanagement of tiny units in 
 real time. I was quite disappointed at the time, and lost all interest in it for a while.
  
  Later I hooked the game up to my new 46 inch HDTV via HDMI, and that's a completely different 
 experience. It works perfectly, and the polish and attention to details truly shines in the game. 
 I would say a high definition TV is almost required to enjoy the game though.
  
  I never play games online as I have a busy life and prefer games that have a clear start and end, 
 so I cannot vouch for the online experience. But the campaign mode is very entertaining and I enjoyed 
 it quite a bit.
  
  Like many other RTS games these days, it is more focus on action than real strategy though. There 
 is no resource gathering, resources will be delivered automatically depending on how many resource 
 stations you built, and some elements like setting up buildings is simplified. You just unpack 
 various modules on your pre-built base to unlock various functionality like barracks, power generators 
 and so on. You only have a limited slots, so building them in the right order and upgrading smart 
 is important. 
  
  You also have a menu of special powers, like a satellite based cannon and a transportation and 
 healing ability. They usually cost money to invoke though, and also needs to be charged up first.
 
  
  In general you build vehicles, airborn units and troops. Many of chich has special abilities which 
 you unlock by attacking using the Y button rather than the regular X button. It adds an extra level 
 of strategy, however it truly feels more like an action RPG than RTS. Talking about RPG, one thing 
 I missed is leveling up of units. It would be cool if they can actually gain levels and experience, 
 a feature which is quite common in these kind of games nowadays.
  
  I did like that the units are quite tough. They do take a LOT of beating before they die, and this 
 also includes the enemy, so you can build a couple of super units and they may last you the whole 
 level if you play smart. This is most likely to compensate for the fact you can only have quite 
 few units at any given time as the population cap is small. Its a good thing though, as otherwise 
 it may be hard to control them all given the nature of the xbox controller which does not allow 
 you to configure groups of units to hotkeys.
  
  Although the game feels a bit shallow at times, and certainly wont give you any real challenge, 
 it is entertaining to plow through masses of covenants and the horde, getting your reward in form 
 of some great cut scenes which is spilling out a not as great story.
  
  The graphics is great, and you get a lot of that Halo feeling. However, none of the battles are 
 very epic in nature, and the game is really too easy for the serious RTS gamer. But that's the 
 trend anyway these days, as game developers figure we are getting more lazy and don't want to work 
 so hard to get entertained as before maybe.. 
  
  All in all I am very happy to invest in this game experience, after getting sick and tired of hundreds 
 of nearly identical FPS games, racing games and sports games pumped out by game developers on this 
 console. I'm sure an RTS game could be better, but as for now this game wins hands down as the 
 best xbox RTS game. And I hope they will make lots of money so we will see more games in this genre 
 from others. A fresh breeze, and a worthy game for the Halo brand.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edsdad
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  this game blow my mind the first day i picked it up. Why because the game 1 nice graphics 2 great 
 leaders they all have very good special units 3 really tells what how the war started. The covenant 
 can make more units but unsc comes back with better tech and more powerful units. one i heard maybe 
 dlc for flood. arbiter can be counter with grizzle or brute chieftain. Matchmaking is great but 
 could use a couple more modes why they added flood for online i dont know. for defending arbiter 
 just build turrets. easy win dont warthog rush its cheap play fair hacking is unfair but ensemble 
 studios fixed that. campaign is good sad they killed off some one awesome. but made for good ending. 
 bit lagged if there to many explosions at once big online battles in 10 20 minutes into game thats 
 when it lags but thats the only problem. some missions are hard in campaign but by the time you 
 get to that last mission you get your money worth have fun with halo wars and play fair gamertag 
 is wackobackoUt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a good game, just not a great game. It looks and sounds great, It feels like Halo, 
 it has a great human campaign, and the masses will lap it up.
  
  The problem comes in a couple areas Firstly there is no Covenant campaign. I get this sinking 
 feeling that we will be seeing said campaign in a future DLC. If this does happen then we will 
 all have been ripped off because it should have been there from the beginning (We are seeing this 
 happen way too much in our games these days) .
  
  The second problem is the multiplayer Halo wars has a nice selection of units, however due to 
 balancing issues it is broken (anyone who has been defeated by 50 warthogs will know what I mean) . 
 There is very little strategy in this game. I would go as far as say that it is a RTS game for 
 the FPS fans.
  
  
  I think Gamespot's 6.5 score is a little heavy but I can see where they are coming from.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJBlaney0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  When I boot up a Halo game I have very little doubt it's going to be an amazing and revolutionary 
 game that several steps above the bar and sets new standards as far as all aspects of gameplay. 
 Halo Wars was, at best, a bare minimum attempt at a strategy game. The one good feature is the 
 well done and compelling cinematics in between missions.
  
  The first major issue I have with Halo Wars is it's overly simplistic construction of bases. In 
 games such as Command and Conquer or almost any other strategy game that's any good, base building 
 at first is faced paced, expansive, and strategic. You find yourself asking; where should I concentrate 
 my defenses, if I build defenses now I may not have enough power to support this structure, should 
 I build a second base near the area where the resources are etc. In Halo Wars, you are only allows 
 to build one structure at a time and you have a limit to how many structures you can have. Simply 
 Boring. You can make the argument that "This allows you to focus on the fighting" but the fighting 
 is boring and simplistic too. Dawn of War 2 was a good example of not focusing on base building, 
 but they made the fighting much more complicated and interested.
  
  
  I'm getting bored writing this review, the game is boring, the graphics arn't too great, the jazz 
 music in the background sounds ridiculous, there's only 3 factions (most RTS games out now a day 
 have 3-4 factions) the flood seem an easy answer to this but the lack of having the flood just 
 shows how there was a lack of effort going into this game. There's no strategy beyond amassing 
 large armies and flinging them at someone else's base, base building is boring and simplistic, 
 multiplayer is a zerg fest, Co-Op campaign is done very poorly compared to other strategy games 
 that have co-op campaigns; i. e. Dawn of War 2 and Red Alert 3. AI is boring to play against. The 
 maps look very simple and don't have many interesting features. You can pretty much compare any 
 aspect of this game to any other good strategy game (Command and Conquer, Red Alert, Dawn of War) 
 and it will fall short in every aspect except for the cinematics.
  
  If this game had not carried the Halo title it would have been blasted by reviews and forgotten 
 2 days after it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar_eli01
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a well put together game. Although some graphics are disappointing the game holds 
 many positive points. The cut scenes between each level that you complete for example are very 
 detailed and have outstanding graphics. Only two things dissapoint me about this game. These are 
 that the covenant doesn't have a campain for itself because it would really be exciting to see 
 it from the covenant view in this game. Also that the flood is not even playable in this game at 
 all. I was hoping for the flood to be a playable character in this game like many others were. 
 Although what makes this game exciting is that it's RTS and Halo put together. If they wanted to 
 fix their mistakes what they should do is make a Halo Wars 2 with the covenant having its own campain 
 and letting players play as the flood. Then also fix a few graphic problems to complete it. Then 
 also if they made a second Halo Wars they could make it lead up to the halo event and show how 
 Master Cheif became the last spartan out of all of them. That is only if they made a Halo Wars 
 2 which I hope they will do really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcr3c0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Being a HUGE fan of the series and a gamer who started on Real time strategies. I really enjoy 
 this game, I personally believe there are a few things left to be desired but for being finished 
 because of Microsoft shutting down Ensemble it was amazing.
  I hope there will be some DLC's for it=) It was very awe inspiring to see the Spartans in their 
 prime. The lack of a Covenant Storyline was a setback as well as the Flood. I'd add the Flood as 
 a playable race, a Covenant campaign and maybe an Innie (insurrectionist/Rebel) mini campaign or 
 a game mode to fight them. 
  As per the multiplayer I enjoy the way they have the Co-Op set up. It ads a sense of teamwork more 
 than any other RTS I've played. you really have to work with your partner to get things done. this 
 sometimes makes it easier. It also makes it more of a challenge sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars takes a great universe and mixes it with real-time strategy game play. How does it pan 
 out? Surprisingly well!
  
  Not only are the controls very streamlined and easy to become accustomed to, they are very well 
 designed and allow the game to be played without fighting the controller or trying to figure out 
 how to get around to your units and such.
  
  I have played RTS games on PC and have enjoyed them very much. Playing Halo Wars has changed my 
 view on what is possible on consoles. This game plays great, looks great, and controls great. What 
 more could you want?
  
  The gameplay is very fun and simple, the units are very well balanced as far as what i have experienced 
 so far, and the campaign progression feels just right. I really love some of the effects and details 
 on the units and explosions. The audio is top notch and really adds to the atmoshere!
  
  Cheers to Ensemble! Shame what happened to them right when this game shipped. Wish them all the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is pretty, and you'll be very hyped when you start playing, unfortunatly you'll find 
 that the game is very simple at the end of the day, and will be quite boring over time. 
  
  The cutscense are amazing, and look great in high definition, and the story in the single player 
 campaign makes sense and is easy to follow. Sadly though, that's where the game is at it's best. 
 I had no framerate issues, but the simplicity and the cap at the type of toys you get is where 
 the game is lacking. 
  
  The first problem I had with the game was that you can't split groups up so that you have several 
 armies on the go. The only way to split your forces is if you have a whole bunch of Warthogs go 
 one way, and hornets go the other way. Otherwise you have to send your whole army to attack, and 
 those who are used to RTS games where you group bodies of army's together and enjoy multi tasking 
 may become frustrated. 
  
  It seems to take forever to collect enough supplies to get more goodies and rank up your levels. 
 The game could go a little faster if there were other options to collecting supplies, but once 
 you do, it is satisfying when your units become almost indestructible. Thing is, there are no huge 
 "tech trees", and once again becomes to simple compared to other games in the genre. 
  
  I also found that the population cap at 30, 40 with an added tech, is way to small, so there are 
 no huge army battles. Units also seem to get bogged down behind other units, and I often found 
 other units not attacking. 
  
  The campaign mode is very short, and I was very surprised when I could not play the Convenant, 
 which is very short sighted in my opinion. Also, the Flood is not playable at all, even in multiplayer, 
 which is a huge disappointment.
  
  I admit for the first little while I was sucked in, but it was based on the fact I thought more 
 techs would be unlocked, but after playing through, I was annoyed that this was not the case. The 
 campaign has no replay value, and the multiplayer will not stand the test of time.
  
  For so many promises and hype over Halo Wars, this is a definite rental or wait for it in your 
 bargain bin as Halo Wars doesn't hold a candle to any other game in the genre. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loccen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  This game is better than Halo 2 and 3 put together and dont let the gamespot score put you off, 
 the muppets only give something a good review if paid a half decent amount to big up the game (see 
 what happend to army of 2 and one of their staff members) . This is a great fun RTS for the console 
 market and it does a fantastic job on making the controls easy. All the units move as they should 
 from like the other halo games and the GFX are great, Also i would like to point out that the balance 
 in this game is the best iv seen in an RTS to date, all they need to do now is add the flood in 
 a later DC pack and this will be 11/10. Online is great with players fighting off in 1v1 2v2 and 
 3v3 skirmishes, there is a ranking system aswell as a trueskill system, your rank will go up when 
 you score points online and your trueskill will raise when you win online games.
  
  Overall this game is class! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uddermaddness
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  Halo wars is a console rts game made exclusively for xbox 360. Many have been wandering if this 
 game would live up to the hype. My answer is simply, yes. It isn't without its flaws but still 
 has an excellent online playing system and is a great rts game that works well for a console rts 
 game.
  
  First off, people have been wandering how the controls would be for this game. To me they are very 
 easy to use and handle. It is easy to jump back to your base when needed and move around the battle 
 field to move in your forces.
  
  Secondly, I'd like to comment on how well this game ties into the halo universe. It has a diverse 
 range of units, old and new, and the environments and music all seem very halo like. Spartans hijacking 
 enemy vehicles is a lot of fun and directly ties halo wars to other halo games.
  
  Laslty, I'll comment on the gameplay and multiplayer. The gameplay is phenomenal and extremely 
 addictive to play. It is fun coming up with new strategies to beat people and making humongous 
 armies of my favourite units (cobras) . The multiplayer is almost to addictive as I've always loved 
 playing rts games online. Its kinda hard to explain but its just plain fun playing online rts games. 
 The only bad thing here is the population limit being a bit to small.
  
  In conclusion, besides a short campaign and only 2 factions, halo wars is one of the all time greats 
 for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_kell411
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been a hardcore RTS gamer for years, and have by default been more inclined to favor PC games 
 than the console counterparts. This was primarily due to the ease in which units could be accessed. 
 However, Ensemble truly nailed it in terms of controls for this console based RTS. Make no mistake, 
 I still believe PC RTS is better than that on the console, but Ensemble got as close as they could 
 possibly get in terms of controls with the Xbox 360 controller. Controls aside, how does the game 
 compare to others of its genre, and is it worthy of being with the Halo trilogy?
  
  Gameplay was both fun and immersible. True tactics are required as you are forced to adapt to different 
 enemies and play types. Another interesting aspect of the difficulty level is the automatic level, 
 in which the skill of your enemies is based off your own skill. The more decisive your tactics 
 on the battlefield, the better your opponents will be. Though it is quite impossible to stop a 
 regiment of Grizzly super tanks from steamrolling the battlefield, there are other super units 
 available to each faction that can turn the tide of battle and stand up to any other units on the 
 battlefield.
  
  However, against some players, it is best to ignore super units and to use rushing tactics. With 
 the UNSC this is easier because you can mass infantry or warthogs and cause sheer chaos on your 
 enemy's front. However, you may encounter formidable defenses in which turrets, which can be modified 
 to be anti-infantry, vehicle or aircraft... will be poised against you. Online play has proven to 
 be some of the most difficult and tactical battles I have ever fought. However, computer AI is 
 rather easy in skirmish and it is not hard to defeat an AI on the hardest difficulty.
  
  In terms of graphics, Halo Wars has some of the most beautiful landscapes and unit models I have 
 ever seen. With the exception of a few missions, which appear rough and basic colored, Halo Wars 
 is sure to impress you visually. Another amazing addition to this is its well made cinematics, 
 helping you not only enjoy the storyline but also gasp at the realistic cutscenes in which you 
 see Captain Cutter and his crew up close and personal. 
  
  Skirmish and online play gives you the option of playing as one of six characters. On the UNSC 
 side you can play as Captain Cutter, who can drop ODST elite infantry about the battlefield or 
 deploy the Elephant mobile base. You can also play as Sgt. Forge, in which you can command your 
 Cyclops to repair your structures or destroy your enemies, and deploy the formidable dual-barreled 
 Grizzly battle tank. Lastly, you can play as Professor Anders, and gain access to cryogenic and 
 laser technologies and build the formidable Hawk, which will rule the skies. On the other side, 
 you can play as the Prophet of Regret, and train elite Honor Guards to stealthily tear apart enemy 
 infantry. You can also play as the Arbiter, who can train suicide grunts strapped and ready to 
 explode on impact. You can also choose to play as the Brute Chieftain, who can train choppers and 
 brutes to do his bidding. Each of these characters has a distinct style of play, some being more 
 adept to defensive tactics and others being better for aggressive ones.
  
  It would be unfair to review Halo Wars without mentioning the sounds and musical score that takes 
 place throughout the game. The musical score is astounding, both touching on the old Halo themes 
 and giving it a new, more war-like theme. It will both remind Halo fans of the old series and remind 
 them that they are playing an entirely different game that is placed in an entirely different time. 
 The sound effects are also outstanding, and every unit sounds and acts just like Halo fans would 
 expect them to.
  
  Now, for the bad news, which is minimal but should be touched upon nonetheless. The campaign is 
 quite short, and one could beat it within 5 hours with ease. Also, you will find computer opponents 
 to be excessively easy (unless you're new to the game, in which case the mass legions of Covenant 
 and UNSC infantry will tear you to pieces) . The automatic difficulty level will adjust computer 
 AI to better challenge you however, and with it you will never find the computer to be either outright 
 stupid or too smart to even compete against. Online play does lack variety, but the change from 
 computer opponents to human ones will both challenge and entertain you.
  
  All in all a great game, I would recommend it to anyone who has ever played a strategy game. For 
 example, I just got my sister to play it, and now she won't get off it. It really is an entertaining 
 game, but don't let my review tell you that. The best way to see whether or not you'd enjoy it 
 is to see for yourself. I would recommend the demo if you have not already played it. I'm giving 
 this game a 9/10... possibly the best console RTS game I have ever played and certainly one of my 
 favorite RTS games of all time.
  
  "In memory of Ensemble Studios." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaWebMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Great controll for a console RTS. Feels natural with the 360 controller. I actually bought this 
 for my girlfrend because she is a strategy fan. I started playing to check it out and i cant put 
 it down. If you want to give a good strategy game a whack, grab halo wars. I played other games 
 like universe at war, company of heros, and world in conflict just to give em a try and i never 
 played again, just for an hour or so. halo wars grabbed me, and im nit even a huge fan of the halo 
 franchise, sure i bought and beat and played countless online hours in the halo games but i never 
 really got into it as mutch as some others. If you are a fan of the halo universe it should make 
 halo wars all the better. i havent even played online yet and im happy with my purchase just from 
 the single player campaight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchef56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, Halo Wars is a great game for fans of the series. The biggest thing that I like this game 
 is the simplicity. The fun thing is, is you can give somebody a controller, and in five minutes, 
 they'll be able to play. It has very simple unit classes, and is just an overall fun game to relax 
 and have fun with your friends. But, with the simplicity, also has its negative points. The one 
 thing that I keep getting dissapointed over is the fact that it is really difficult to make any 
 plans, because you can't select groups of different units, which this game drastically needs. There's 
 been many times where I've thought to myself is that the way you win in this game is just throwing 
 a bulk of enemies into a base. But, this game, online, is absolutely incredible. Every match I've 
 played has been a blast, and when you achieve a win, you really feel a sense of accomplisment. 
 When you lose, you feel the pain. They also did a decent job at making the leaders. The one thing 
 is, is on each side, there's leaders that can completely over power people. A good example is Captain 
 Cutter. His ODST marines are nearly indestructible in a group of say about 40, because, if you're 
 near a base, you can just keep sky dropping them. It becomes cheap and aggrivating. Another unfair 
 leader in my opinion is the Brute Chieftan. His Gravity ball can literally wreck entire armies 
 if healed correctly. But, in the end, the leaders have their equal strengths and weaknesses, and 
 are all fun to play with. I think they could have done better with the bases. They are upgradeable 
 but I think, in my opinion, not enough. I think you should be able to upgrade the bases a lot more 
 than it lets. But, I like it as well, because it makes you capture more bases and expand, being 
 closer to the enemy, making it more fast-paced, rather than drawn out and tedious after both players 
 have gotten so much resources and their base is nearly indestructible. I would recommend Halo Wars 
 to any one who owns an Xbox360. It is a simple, fun RTS that is a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramix777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow I was so hyped for this game and I was kinda disappointed.
  But I think that Gamspot is really off on this one.
  Halo Wars is easyily not better than Halo 
 3 but not as bad as they said!
  SO theres not really much multiplayer but... It's still pretty good!
  First thing I agree that 
 it is short and disappointing Second thing how is it stripped???
  It to me feels the opposite!
  But one more complaint...
  Too Easy!
  On the other hand the 
 storyline is great! With beatiful cut-sences!
  And Special edition come s with some of the Mythic Map!!
  AWSOME!
  So although there was a 
 decent amount of hype...
  I think it deserves a decent rating 8.5!
  
  So here you have a game with Great Graphics
  Too Easy
  Short
  FUN
  Decent Online
  Awsome 
 story
  
  And a bunch of other things.
  
  And the whole "no covenant or flood I think theres coming DLC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capricorn376
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Before i pre-ordered the game i decided to read as many reviews as humanly possible, which i always 
 do before i go to but a game. Everybody was saying how the game would be a monumental disappointment, 
 but i decided, hell with it, ill give it a try anyways. I'd always liked the halo series, and i 
 figured this one couldn't be that much different. I was wrong. The game was far from the last 3 
 halo games, but it still managed to keep itself enjoyable and fun. Its a new twist on the whole 
 halo game... well i cant really call this a series as halo wars isnt even part of the halo series... 
 it branches off and you find yourself before the halo games even start, but still with the same 
 old enemy the covenant. Halo wars revolutionizes the RTS on the xbox 360, iv played others like 
 supreme commander, and the handling can be sometimes hard to control, and selecting units its a 
 hassle. Halo wars puts a new spin on it, makes it easy to keep control of your bases, to select 
 units, to give commands, and even destroying the enemy is a lot more fun. Watchin all of your marines, 
 scorpians, warthogs and up to three spartans just completely mow down an entire covenant base is 
 one of the funnest things i have ever done! Deciding to build halo wars from the ground up on an 
 idea to make it easy for xbox players was a magnificent idea, And even though i know well all miss 
 Bungie Studios (RIP =' [ ) I highly recommend getting this game! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete420630
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  this game rock the single player is kinda short but it has coop. for all you halo haters dont think 
 of it as halo think of it as a real fun rts gamestop thinks its simple it is but the multiplayer 
 is where its at already 5000 people online at a time thats a lot for the first day not including 
 the people still playin the campain. by the weekend probably over 10 thousand online. right now 
 354 players playin cnc for pc. we have to thank the halo name for selling so many copys and bringin 
 more players to the rts genre. i loved the old cncs only one problem noone online. THE GRAPHICS 
 ARE TOP NOTCH. COMPARED TO THE CARTOON GRAPHIC OF RED ALERT gamespots review of a 6.5 was the opinion 
 of one overworked employee rushed the review because hesnot a fan of console rts. probablylikes 
 the point and click. But for the console its the best out not i mean 3vs3 and matchin makin dead 
 on. the rest of the people that reviewed was an 8 or up with 1 little 6.5 boy he looks like a dooch. 
 thank u for reaing now im gonna own some noobs at halo wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnySJHS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars is a great game. The first reviews that came out were off of the demo. The demo was made 
 to be easy to let people get a feel of the controls first. Now that the actual game has came out 
 i think people are very surprised.
  
  The first thing that amazed me was the awesome cut scenes. They are perfect. The in-game graphics 
 are superb as well no problem with them. The music holds up strong with some halo classics and 
 some new pieces mixed int
  
  The controls are quite hard to grasp when you first start out. Now i find them quite simple and 
 and easy to use. 
  
  I find that the population cap and how the base is set up is quite reasonable considering we are 
 in the halo universe. They deploy onto a planet and work there supplies down that way, no need 
 for workers. The low population is a necessity because it would be really hard to keep up with 
 alot of units. As it is, its hard enough to keep up with 30 when u have units mixed in everywhere.
 
  
  All in all i think halo wars is a great game. I expect to see some expansions and upgrades that 
 will challenge true RTS players in the future. Maybe if bungie comes out with a PC version all 
 the speculations will be muted. But until then, like ensemble said Hard core gamers (RTS) will 
 just have to go suck it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Halo Wars is an entirely new breed of RTS, and anyone who says that it is too simple needs to be 
 shot. The whole point of Halo Wars is that it is incredibly simple, and that is what makes it so 
 damn much fun.
  
  Gameplay
  Literally perfect, minus a few minor gripes. For one, the controls are tough to get used to, though 
 they are very powerful once you get a hold on them. While there isn't that much depth to the gameplay 
 on the standard of RTS games, that is NOT a bad thing at all. The simplification of the core RTS 
 design is going to attract a ton of new players to the genre, and I seriously hope this isn't the 
 last Halo Wars, because I have not seen a better balanced RTS since Warcraft III.
  
  Graphics
  Good enough, enough said.
  
  Sound
  Ditto Graphics.
  
  Multiplayer
  Dead 
 on perfect. Ensemble has nailed multiplayer as well as Bungie had with Halo 3. The matchmaking 
 system shines, and honestly, this game is as good or better than ANY multiplayer RTS on the PC 
 in multiplayer. It may be too simple in single player, but that simplicity turns out to be an asset 
 in multiplayer.
  
  Way to go Ensemble, its a shame to see you guys go. I seriously hope Microsoft has the good sense 
 to continue the Halo Wars license, because this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elektrixxx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When Halo: Combat Evolved was in development it was originally a real-time strategy game for the 
 Mac before Microsoft acquired Bungie Studios. The game (and eventually the series) became a first-person 
 shooter but the original idea had remained dormant, until now. A more than competent developer 
 has taken the Halo reigns into new territory, and a more than competent addition to the Halo series 
 has emerged.
  
  The Halo Wars story follows Captain Cutter as he navigates his ship; the Spirit Of Fire and his 
 crew to stop The Covenant in their tracks. Progress on the whole is going well until a then unknown 
 alien life form (which in Halo: Combat Evolved is named as the Flood) is discovered on a planet 
 and complicates matters. It takes a few missions for the story to gain any substance but it's still 
 entertaining to watch all the way through with the use of high quality computer-generated cut scenes 
 which can be paused and skipped at any time. Introductory videos to every mission cover for loading 
 screens during the campaign for a fluent transition from cut scene to game play. Missions become 
 very intense as the game progresses and is fun to play. The game offers incentive to replay missions 
 with collectable skulls, black boxes and by playing on harder difficulties, but even so the campaign 
 ends much too soon.
  
  The game's font and graphical style in menus are quite similar to Halo 3 in particular. You will 
 hear familiar sound effects from guns, vehicles, enemies, and even the Spartan's shield as it recovers. 
 Orchestral music is familiar, but new. Music ramps up and concludes appropriately during battles 
 with excellent effect, even in multiplayer. Playing as The Covenant in online and Skirmish modes 
 changes the scenery a little after being limited to the UNSC throughout the campaign. Visually 
 everything has an original design, including your units, buildings and even the radial menus.
 
  
  Controls for this game will most likely be completely new to players. The face buttons control 
 unit selection and commands, and the left control stick and A to navigate easy to use radial menus 
 for building, upgrading as well as training more units. Triggers and bumpers offer more specific 
 controls for selecting units, but at times you won't have enough precise control when dealing with 
 groups in multiple areas. Controls take a little while to get fluent with, but an introduction 
 by the way of two tutorials and the first few levels which are essentially easy squash battles 
 help the player settle in. You could say it's in fact hard to learn, and easy to master.
  
  The amount of units you may have is always limited a certain amount (usually 30) , with cap raising 
 offered as you gain more resources and raise your technology level. This may be to cover for the 
 limits of the console and controller but in turn provides a more focused type of game play. You 
 can't just build anything anywhere; bases must be built on predetermined locations, with your other 
 structures surrounding it. You have to return to your base every time you want build units, and 
 while there are shortcuts to jump to vital areas of the map including your bases, this still wastes 
 time when you have other things to manage.
  
  Just about every piece of information during game play is given to you verbally. Among this, "All 
 Units" is spoken to you every time you select your entire force, and it becomes most annoying when 
 you're constantly re-selecting all of your units to go to a location. You can't have every unit 
 permanently selected as well because new units that were created since your last selection aren't 
 included, and unfortunately there's no option to remove these audio notes or change messages to 
 text.
  
  Halo Wars features online campaign co-op, as well as ranked and player matches for up to 6 players 
 for 3v3 action. The game also offer's matchmaking exclusively for parties, so that clans won't 
 be mixed with random players. Just like Halo 3, matchmaking is efficient, and you will generally 
 wait no longer than 20 seconds before finding another player in a 1v1 battle, and a little longer 
 for a 3v3 battle. If your opponent leaves your game you will rightfully get the win, and experience 
 is still gained for losing a match without leaving so either way your time is not wasted.
  
  Limited build options may be underwhelming for some, but this is currently the best way to 
 do an RTS on a console, and for those new to the genre it's easy to jump in to. If you're fresh 
 off the PC real-time strategy boat your mileage may vary. Otherwise, this is a big step for real 
 time strategy games on consoles as well as the Halo franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  Halo Wars is an RTS that gets the job done. It has a good story to it and plays well for a console 
 RTS. Fans of Halo will want to try this game out. It has a simple tutorial of the start to explain 
 how everything works such as: how to select some units, how to select all units, and how to build 
 up your base. For RTS fans looking for something new than this is a good game to play. It's visuals 
 are quite nice. The sounds and music are done well. The game play is good. There can be a bit of 
 a steep learning curve though for all beginners. This game can get quite hard at times but persistence 
 can lead to victory. This is a good game that all Halo fans will want to get and for RTS fans this 
 game is a good one to play for now. Overall this game is deserving of my 8.0 rating but I think 
 most people will generalize it into a normal not overwhelmingly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedPyro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:53 am PT
Review:  Good easy to get into strategy game with a short, but varied and engaging campaign.
  This game has a varied range of units buildings and upgrades to help you battle through the campaign 
 mode or crush your friends online, or against the AI offline, most of the units even have special 
 abilities for example; the warthog can be used to run infantry over and the UNSC Spartans can steal 
 enemy vehicles.
  Unfortunately there is only a campaign for the UNSC with only 15 missions, and you cannot play 
 as the flood even in skirmish mode, but once you get used to the game, whack on legendary and youve 
 got yourself a lot of hours gaming.
  Halo fan or not, this game is as good as the command and conquer games and should definatly be 
 tried, but i wouldnt say its worth more than 30 of anybodys money (and i spent 50 lol im a fool) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:44 am PT
Review:  Since I was in a hurry getting this review out, it can also be found in GiantBomb.
  
  ---
  
  Halo Wars is a benchmark in gaming: it finally brings a real time strategy game genre 
 to consoles in a successful way. Trade-off is that everything is simplified and streamlined. But 
 remember this: it's Halo and it works just as good as other Halo games before it.
  
  STORY AND SETTING
  
  Story takes place 20 years prior to first Halo game and 5 years after 
 the human-covenant war began. In a distant colony planet Harvest the Covenant has found an ancient 
 Forerunner technology and they are seeking some new weapon to turn the tide of the war once and 
 for all. The facility is actually a map that leads to "something". This starts a race between humans 
 and the Covenant as they wage war and search for that something. Of course we already know that 
 it's the first Halo they are searching for. Story is told through some impressive looking cutscenes, 
 great voice acting and while on a mission your commanders are giving insights about the broader 
 picture. Story is not THAT engaging though since we already know how it turns out in the end, but 
 still it's more than enough to bring Halo fans to the table.
  
  TAKE CONTROL EITHER ALONE OR WITH A FRIEND
  
  Up to this point the biggest issue in bringing 
 RTS games to consoles has undoubtedly been the controls. It indeed takes awhile (maybe 2 to 3 hours) 
 for you to really learn to use the controls effectively, but once you do it all comes together 
 real nicely. You can select a unit with A button and then give an order by pressing X button. A 
 special attack order is done by Y button. Selecting groups of units is done with either LB (whole 
 army) or RB (local units) and if necessary using RT to select a specific group of units (for example 
 Warthogs or Scorpion tanks) . You have also leader units at your service, which are the most powerful 
 units in the game. They also can't die: they just go down and in order to revive them you just 
 need to move close to them and wait for a while. Unfortunately you can't set specific waypoints 
 to your units, but this is something you'll learn to live with. Camera is controlled with right 
 analog stick and from the options menu you can choose how far from the units the default camera 
 angle is. I used almost the farthest option, because it allows me to see the widest view to the 
 battlefield.
  
  Obviously the controls are a trade-off between 1) quick selecting and creating different strategies 
 in multiple fronts and 2) making an RTS work at all on a console. It is here when the concept of 
 co-op comes into play: in tough missions it's very advisable to bring a friend along. This way 
 you can either attack from different sides to a same target or let player 1 to build and manage 
 the base while player 2 concentrates on waging war with his or her own troops somewhere else. This 
 type of gaming takes a lot of communication and may require some practice, but it's really satisfying 
 to see that "Mission Complete" when it all comes together. The whole campaign can be played with 
 a friend through Xbox Live or System Link, but there's no split-screen option.
  
  Leading troops is one thing and the other is building a base, upgrading it and building defences. 
 You can't build anywhere you wish, since there are specific places for you to do so. Your base 
 has also strict limits on how much you can build to it. Luckily you can upgrade your whole base 
 to make it bigger and also your individual buildings to make them more efficient. Money is collected 
 by building one or more Supply Pads, which then produce money at a steady pace. This means that 
 no more collecting ore from around the map and micromanaging your units while they do this collecting. 
 As a whole building is also trade-off, since your choices are very limited, but at the same time 
 it all works and it's easy to do it with the controller.
  
  PRESENTATION, STRUCTURE AND SAVE SYSTEM
  
  Graphics are done well. Gameplay view lacks details, 
 but at the same time animations are great and with the help of bright colors and familiar sound 
 effects it's easy to tell the difference between units. It looks and feels just like a Halo game 
 should and the frame rate stays solid almost at all times. Music is powerful and orchestrated just 
 like it was in previous Halo games. Sound effects bring the battlefield to your ears, since the 
 air fills with blasts and explosions constantly. Audio visual department has done a great fan service, 
 because everything looks and feels fresh and familiar at the same time. Cutscenes look a lot better 
 than they did in Halo 3 and the voice acting is also done with professionalism. Only bad thing 
 is that at times the lip sync can be off balance comparing to what's happening on screen.
  
  Campaign consists of 15 missions and they are all played as humans: no Covenant or Flood campaigns 
 here. Your objectives in these missions are closely matched on what's happening in the story. Luckily 
 there are more things to do than just "build a base and destroy everything", but in my opinion 
 those escort and protect missions are the hardest and most annoying. All of this makes Halo Wars 
 a lot more story-driven game than what Command & Conquer 3 was for example. Depending on your chosen 
 strategy most missions can be completed either in 15 minutes or 45 minutes. At times there are 
 some weird balancing issues in missions: one moment you feel like a master general moving swiftly 
 from mission to mission no matter the strategy, but in the next mission you feel like getting defeated 
 no matter the strategy. Luckily this doesn't happen very often and if everything else fails you 
 can always play in co-op or choose a lower difficulty level. Replay value of otherwise a short 
 campaign is raised by hiding lots of skulls and black boxes for you to find. Of course you'll get 
 extra achievement points for playing the game while specific skulls are switched on.
  
  You can save a game anywhere anytime, but if a "Mission Failed" text pops up you need to start 
 that mission from the start. This means that you need to think a little further and foresee an 
 oncoming defeat. After completing missions once you can play them in any order you wish, which 
 is a great thing when hunting down those skulls and black boxes.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  As I already said the whole campaign can be played with a friend either on Xbox Live or System 
 Link. Bringing a friend along makes the game more enjoyable and easy, if you both know what you're 
 doing and have good communication skills. This means that in order to fully enjoy co-op it's advisable 
 to first play the game alone at least for a few hours and then invite a friend to join you.
  
  The actual competitive multiplayer takes place in 14 different maps and up to 3 vs. 3. Skirmish 
 puts you against an AI player and it's a great way to familiarize yourself to a different faction 
 (the Covenant) and the abilities of different leader units. Of course you can't underestimate the 
 knowledge you gain by learning the layout of these multiplayer maps. Xbox Live is the best place 
 to play multiplayer matches and there's a familiar matchmaking system to find games. Also the skill 
 and ranking system from Halo 3 makes a return in Halo Wars. As a whole online play works just fine.
 
  
  Multiplayer options are limited to say the least. There's a Standard Mode, where you both start 
 with nothing and build your own army from there. Deathmatch gives everybody lots of resources and 
 this puts most of your efforts in just pure combat. And that's it: only 2 multiplayer modes are 
 available in Halo Wars.
  
  I'm certain that competitive multiplayer is not for everyone: I for one thing got really pissed 
 off after building a base for 30 minutes and then my opponent comes with 2 giant Scarabs and blows 
 it all to oblivion in just 30 seconds. Usually the best strategy is to upgrade your base until 
 you can build a couple of very strong units (like Scarabs or Vultures) and then smash your opponent's 
 base. Maybe someone thinks that this is interesting and fun, but I personally didn't like the competitive 
 multiplayer aspect in Halo Wars.
  
  BEST RTS ON CONSOLES
  
  Halo Wars as a whole is a trade-off while bringing RTS genre successfully to consoles: it's streamlined 
 and simplified, but at the same time it's just that in right places and the end result is just 
 great. It also feels that the developers ran out of time: there is clearly an open space for a 
 Covenant campaign and maybe even to a Flood campaign as well. Also the multiplayer options are 
 very limited, but still the 2 most important parts are done well: the prequel story to the first 
 Halo game and the controls. We can only hope that some future downloadable content or a sequel 
 will give us a truly full Halo RTS experience.
  
  Halo Wars is perfect choice for Halo fans and to people who have not played a ton of RTS games 
 already. Without a doubt it's also the best real time strategy game on a console platform ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan11223344
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  8.5/10 if i where an unbiased critic, but 10/10 for my personal love for this game! Although this 
 may not be the WORLDS greatest rts, this game is a LOT of fun. The online multiplayer is where 
 this game truly shines, so anyone with XBL should make the most out of this game. the game isnt 
 without its flaws however. 
  
  
  Drawbacks
  
  The campain can feel relatively short, although it is still fun and the CG cutscenes are far better 
 than anything halo3 was able to conjur up. But still... short. There is a 2 player co-op campain 
 which gives the campain some replay but most people will turn to the skirmishes after 1-2 playthroughs. 
 Also the campain is UNSC only.
  
  There are only 2 factions available, covenant and UNSC which can make the game seem restrictive 
 but the 6 different leaders (3 for each side) add a very noticable twist to each of the factions. 
 its also rumored that a DLC will be comming that will add the flood as a faction which im guessing 
 will cost about 300-500 GP which wouldnt be too bad.
  
  
  The Good
  
  Like i said earlier the online is what will squeeze the most play time from people. The games range 
 from small 1v1 games up to 3v3 which gives varied games that differ in their intensity. being limited 
 to 40-50 units you have to be tactical over what units you choose to build as a few extra aircraft 
 or tanks can sometimes be the deciding factor in a battle. This transfers well into the larger 
 2v2 and 3v3 matches as players have to communicate with thier allies to build different units to 
 both attack the enemy effectivelly in force and defend themselves and thier allies. this can lead 
 to very tense and long strung battles that have been known to last up to an hour when deadlocks 
 happen.
  
  The gamplay is different from other RTS games i have played and plays mutch like a BF conquest 
 mode at times. because of the unlimited resources (assuming you have resource pads) you have to 
 change tactics from destroying the enemy units and waiting for thier rescources to run thin untill 
 they cannot builtd anymore. instead you have to, in many cases, systematically take over the map 
 at special base building sites which will grant you more money and the enemy less aswell as moving 
 up your units further into the map. this ofcourse demmands alot of teamwork and strategising
  
  the maps are fun and large with plenty of choke points and ambush paths and look nicely detailed 
 (bar a few duff maps) and there are plenty to choose from. the controls are very easy to use but 
 allow flexibility to micro manage individual groups, types and single units to win you battles 
 which adds emphasis to micro combat management rather than resource managment and building a great 
 **** off army managment which could often ruin the game for new players in other rts'. not to say 
 this wont please the hardcore gamers but it has an emphasis on balanced armies with battles being 
 decided over who managed the battles best which i find a welcome change to the normal flow of an 
 rts.
  
  Overall i would reccomend this to anyone who liked the Halo 3 games as the combat and feel is very 
 much akin to HW. but also to anyone who fancies a fun online game which is perfect to be played 
 on your own and with your friends. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenBenBen93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  After the 6.5 review was released by gamespot i said to my self why has every other review gave 
 it around the 8.0 mark. hum yer because its worth about that.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Works great for a console. very streamlined. easy to pick up. Typical of your PC RTSs. if there's 
 a game to compare controls with its LOTR battle for middle earth, but a bit simpler witch is a 
 good thing. The missions are simple and Iver save people or destroy a base. 8.5/10
  
  Sound. 
  
  Not sure about surround sound. just to get that straight but. with normal its good: 
 very good you hear idle chit chat every so often from you troops which reminds you of halo days 
 and you can tell whats attacking you just by the sounds. 9/10
  
  Graphics. 
  
  There not spectacular but they capture the settings very well. you cannot some in very much or 
 zoom out very much witch can be annoyingish but you can easily look past this. nothing much to 
 talk about here o yer cinematics are amazing. 8/10
  
  Lasting Appeal.
  
  just like I've mentioned I'm still playing it. Iver re doing missions to get black boxes or skulls 
 and online as this is very good as well with lag issues dealt with extremely well. only very little 
 slow down with 3vs3 but again easy to look past. 8.5/10
  
  Presentation. 
  
  captures the halo universe perfectly shame the units aren't that detailed so you cannot really 
 see your Spartans extremely well. although this you can again looks past. 8.5/10 9just cos of graphics 
 really)
  
  Overall. 8.5/10
  
  Any issues with it can be looked past. units are ver good and balancing is very good well when 
 is say that most people chose I'ver 6 vultures or 2 scarbs. and is an extremely good RTS. if anyone 
 i giving this below 6.5 they truly don't understand RTSs ,are PS3 fan boys giving this stupid rating 
 or are addicted to First person shooter and have never played any other game ever 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davoski182
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  As with all other continuations within a series, this game has a few flaws to be questioned... 
 But straight to the point...
  
  THIS GAME IS AWESOME!
  The graphics are perfect, the zooming in ability is half-decent and the whole aspect of the game 
 is just brilliant!
  I love how you can create virtually any, and every, unit you've used in the previous 3 Halo games... 
 Plus MORE! Upgrade your units and make them more powerful then do some major pwnage as you want 
 it done.
  Also, the skirmish mode allows players who take breaks to get back into the game before continuing 
 the main missions.
  As expected, the difficulty levels stick to their names... But to be honest, they are even more 
 harder than you'd expect.
  
  As I've played this (already half way through) , I have noticed that controllers aren't the best 
 for RTS' but nevertheless, much faster for the menu functions.
  The circle menu (most obvious thing THERE) , is more quickly accessed from the controllers, whereas 
 the mouse on PC would have the definate speed advantage.
  
  But onto the downsides... The enemies ALWAYS have the upper-hand by tech. Shields and stuff makes 
 them harder to defeat so striking an enemy as quick as possible on skirmish is the key. Another 
 downside is the main missions... You'll notice this particularly on mission 3 : Arcadia. You have 
 to protect 3 transports that are to launch in 20 minutes... Yes, that's right... THREE. You can 
 allow two to be destroyed (number 3 does anyways, ignore it) , but one must survive.
  
  Other than that, to be honest, the whole game is brilliant!
  Character controls are quite complicated... 
 I'll tell you more about it if you want, but to make this review a little bit smaller for until 
 I finish the game, I will stop here. Have a good gaming day...
  
  Oh, by the way... For those who pre-ordered Halo Wars, you should have had it arrive on 27th Feb, 
 not 28th... A day early! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiidman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:30 am PT
Review:  When you first start up this game and the opening cinematic comes on, it looks amazing. The cut 
 scenes are beautifully rendered, sadly the game itself doesn't look as good. The game play is very 
 basic and limited to the fact that you only have a controller, not a mouse and keyboard. You start 
 off with a base, which is only one building that can add a limited number of other smaller buildings. 
 All up there are 6 building types, basic supply pads that can be upgraded along with buildings 
 that allow you to create infantry and vehicles. there are only a very limited number of units you 
 can create all with there own unique abilities. Most of the missions require you to destroy targets, 
 defend units and even rescue certain things. 
  
  One of the biggest problems is that you cannot allocate groups of units and usually end up selecting 
 all the units as a whole. This causes problems with your units secondary abilities because there 
 is no way to select which one you want to use. Meaning that you'll have your scorpions firing salvos, 
 while your warthogs ram the same buildings. Most of the time you can safely throw strategy out 
 the window and just get as many units together at once and flood the enemy winning on sheer numbers 
 pretty much every time.
  
  Halo wars is a decent RTS if you look at it purely from a console point of view. For those looking 
 for an in-depth and highly strategic RTS you would be better off looking else where. This game 
 is enjoyable while the campaign lasts and for a few games online, but lacks any real staying power. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkjjabs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  It's good while it lasts, but it will appeal more to fans of Halo and casual RTS players than anyone 
 looking for a deeply engrossing strategy game. (gamespot review)
  Its funny that it is halo wars so you would think it was mostly aimed at halo fans. 
  This game 
 has some great effects and sound as for the co-op play it is better than it looks at first insted 
 of all ways haveing to base's you both can select each others stange but once your in to it you 
 can use it well the only prob 
  is you and your partner have to comuncate well eg. one can handal base and 
  unit building then 
 tansfer units to partner pulled of it works well.
  
  As for the unit cap it was fustrateing at first but once you know what does what it does become 
 a game of stratage and the secondery fire helps with a very nice fill to the units takeing cover 
 and moveing.
  
  Why ppl want to focas on the bad things witch iam sure up dates and exspashion's and we all know 
 some thing like 1200 points for new story but who knows mabe free or 600 but time will tell.
  
  I would say this game for anyone who loves halo and co-op modes plus 3 new halo 3 maps exsclosve 
 to the limited ed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
