-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/harrypotterphoenix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hogwarts is re-created in all its glory for you to explore.
 Minigames are a pleasant diversion.
 Voice acting and music are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is little more than a virtual reality chore simulator.
 Endless backtracking makes the game even more dull.
 Cutscenes are glitchy and feel unfinished.
 Nearly everything about the game is tedious.
 Story is impossible to follow if you haven't read the book.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.9, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 630 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The video game version of Order of the Phoenix captures none of the magic in the  Harry Potter  
 books or films. 

  The  Harry Potter  series of books has captured both the minds of children and adults alike. The 
 movies haven't disappointed either and are amongst the highest grossing films of all time. For 
 some reason, the video games that have been released haven't been able to reach the same level 
 of quality that the movies and books have achieved. The latest game, Harry Potter and the Order 
 of the Phoenix, continues that trend. There's a faithful re-creation of the Hogwarts campus to 
 explore, but once you've seen the sights, there's not much else to do. Even the most diehard Potter 
 fans will grow tired of seeing the grand staircase as they return from their umpteenth fetch quest. 

  Order of the Phoenix follows the story of the book and the movie of the same name. After narrowly 
 avoiding expulsion for using magic in front of a muggle, Harry finds that Hogwarts' new defense 
 against the dark arts teacher seems to have it out for him. To make matters worse, Voldemort is 
 threatening to rear his ugly mug again, and Harry fears that the school will be unable to defend 
 itself. With the help of Ron and Hermione, Harry rallies the students together to form Dumbledore's 
 Army in an effort to ready them for a fight against the dark lord. This all makes perfect sense 
 if you've read the book, but the story's exceedingly difficult to follow if you haven't read it 
 because vast segments are told via brief rendered video cutscenes and newspaper clippings. It's 
 easy to understand how a three-hour movie might have to leave bits and pieces out, but it's puzzling 
 that an eight-hour game can't tell even the most basic aspect of the story.  

           Who knew that Harry's life was so boring?      

  Though the game's box says you'll 
 get to play as Sirius Black and Dumbledore, you do so for less than five minutes, so you'll spend 
 nearly the entire game controlling Harry. Ron and Hermione will be by your side the whole time 
 offering hints on where to go or what to do next. You'll also encounter every recognizable character 
 from the  Harry Potter  universe along your journey. The game starts off with a tutorial where 
 you'll learn basic spells like wingardium leviosa (levitation) , reparo (repair an object) , accio 
 (pull an object toward you) , and depulso (push an object away) by helping people fix broken dishes, 
 pack their suitcases, and move furniture -- not exactly riveting stuff. On the PC, PlayStation 2, 
 PlayStation, 3, and Xbox 360, you cast spells by pressing a button to point your wand and moving 
 the right analog stick in a specific pattern. Rotating the stick clockwise will cast reparo, pressing 
 down twice will cast accio, and pushing forward twice will cast depulso. You can also use the keyboard 
 and mouse on the PC and this works fine. On the Wii, you'll hold the remote vertically then tilt 
 it forward to cast depulso. To perform wingardium leviosa, you'll raise both the Wii Remote and 
 the Nunchuk to lift the object then move the controllers around to maneuver the object. This works 
 surprisingly well, and it makes it feel as if you are actually casting spells, which goes a long 
 way toward making the game more enjoyable. The PS3 does use the Sixaxis' motion controls, but tilting 
 and twisting the controller as you hold it in your lap doesn't add much to the experience.  

  Later in the game, you'll learn combat spells. These are cast in the same way as noncombat spells 
 and mostly use the same patterns. But there will only be a few instances where you'll need to perform 
 these combat spells because there's hardly any dueling in the game. This is probably a good thing 
 because the combat isn't very good, and it's tough to tell if you're actually hitting someone. 
 Even during the last fight, you just stand there casting the same spell over and over, waiting 
 for a cutscene to signify the end of the battle.  

  Once you've learned some basic spells, it's off to Hogwarts, which is faithfully re-created in 
 a game for the first time. The Hogwarts campus is absolutely huge, which is both a blessing and 
 a curse. Fans should really get a kick out of seeing the grand staircase in motion and candles 
 floating above the tables in the great hall, as well as sneaking into Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. 
 But traversing back and forth across such a large area quickly becomes tiresome. Once you find 
 the proper passwords, you can use the passages behind paintings as shortcuts, but they don't cut 
 that much time off the journey. Another problem is the in-game navigation system. You're given 
 a map that lists all of the different areas on campus, as well as the location of each person you 
 need to find. Once you've highlighted the person or place you're looking for, footprints will appear 
 on the ground to lead the way. Unfortunately, the footprints are black, so they're difficult to 
 see; they don't appear far enough in front of you, so you're constantly forced to stop to wait 
 for them to appear; and the camera will often switch angles midstride, so you don't know which 
 way you're facing.  

           Exploring Hogwarts is interestingfor a while.      

  You've got a huge campus 
 and healthy number of spells at your disposal, so you'll no doubt be doing all sorts of awesome 
 things in incredible, mystical places, right? No. You spend most of the game running around trying 
 to inform everyone as to the whereabouts of the room of requirement. You'll pick a character on 
 the map, follow the footprints, and then tell people about the meeting place. In almost every single 
 case, they'll have a reason for why they can't go. Of course, you've got to help them. This means 
 you'll run all over Hogwarts collecting items, moving benches, fixing things, and helping people 
 with their homework. This is how you spend the entire game. It's literally one fetch quest after 
 another. Being able to pick the quest you want gives the illusion that you've got the freedom to 
 do what you want, but the game is extremely linear in that there's only one way to accomplish any 
 given objective. And sometimes you'll be performing the same exact task over again, such as when 
 you're helping to disable the school's intercom by moving benches then pouring a potion into the 
 speakers. You do this, not once, not twice, but five or six times; each time in a different room. 

  Performing one menial task after another would be bad enough on its own, but other issues conspire 
 to make it worse. The game does a decent job of showing you where people and places are, but once 
 you've met with someone, you're quite often on your own when it comes to figuring out how to help 
 him or her. For example, at one point in the game, you must help a kid find five talking gargoyles. 
 Now, you've encountered several talking gargoyles to this point, but for some reason, you can't 
 tell the kid this and you must find the gargoyles again. Not only are you doing something you've 
 already done, but the map doesn't show you where these gargoyles are, so you're forced to scour 
 the entire campus in an effort to locate them.  

  When you're not playing the role of messenger boy, you'll spend much of your time cleaning up Hogwarts 
 by putting statues, paintings, and urns back together. You can also search behind curtains for 
 giant chess pieces, move blocks to find hidden plaques, light torches, and even sweep floors. These 
 tasks are actually pleasant diversions for a short while, and you can unlock extras by performing 
 them. But the tasks speak poorly for the game as a whole when sweeping the floor is a highlight. 
 Another way to pass the time is to play chess, exploding snap, and gobstones. Gobstones (think 
 marbles) and exploding snap (pick out matching pairs of cards) are simple but fun. Chess plays 
 similar to Battle Chess and is actually quite engaging -- if you've played chess before. The game 
 will show you the moves that each piece can make, but there's no tutorial mode, which may leave 
 many younger players clueless.  

           Even though EA scanned the actors' noggins, the characters still look a bit off.      
 

  Visually, Order of the Phoenix is all over the place. Many areas of Hogwarts, such as the grand 
 staircase or great hall, look spectacular and are very detailed. However, many of the hallways 
 look the same and are largely empty. Combat spells look really cool when you cast them, but there 
 are so few duels that you'll rarely get to enjoy seeing the spells in action. At first glance, 
 character models look just like their movie counterparts and are quite nice. But once you see them 
 in motion, you'll notice that they all look kind of like zombies. Things are even worse in the 
 cutscenes that utilize the in-game engine. Characters stare blankly off into the distance, they 
 face the wrong way, their mouths often don't move when they talk, and they'll appear then disappear 
 from view for no apparent reason. The PS3, 360, and PC versions look the best. Other than lower 
 quality in-game cutscenes and some nasty aliasing, the PS2 and Wii versions hold their own, though 
 the PS2's frame rate is pretty iffy at times. Having the actors from the films voice their characters 
 in the game goes a long way toward immersing you in the experience, even with the shoddy cutscenes 
 and script. The familiar musical score is here and suits the game perfectly, which kind of makes 
 you wonder why it was used so little.  

  It's hard to imagine that the video game version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix will 
 appeal to anyone. Older fans of Harry Potter will enjoy exploring Hogwarts for a while, but they'll 
 soon be bored to tears by the low level of difficulty and the tedious objectives. The younger set 
 will also get a kick out of seeing the sights and will appreciate the forgiving difficulty, as 
 well as the simplicity of the tasks at hand. But they'll quickly grow tired of using their favorite 
 character to perform a seemingly endless parade of chores. If being the most famous wizard in the 
 world were this boring, there wouldn't have been more than one book.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DantesGhost76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  From film three "The Prisoner of Azkaban" the films started to go downhill at a fast rate, and 
 after the atrocity that was "The Goblet of Fire." I thought the games were going the same way, 
 but EA have redeemed themselves. Admittedly the spell casting leaves a bit to be desired but the 
 gameplay is pretty darn cool. The graphics are great too and you can explore Hogwarts again, yay!!! 
 The mini games and side quests are fun what with Chess games and Gobstones and looking for passwords 
 to portraits that guard secret passages there is never really nothing to do. The game is also quite 
 true to the film with a few familiar scenes in it and there are also some cool extras to unlock 
 as you go along. The gameplay is not too easy but nor is it too hard which is always a good thing. 
 The one big disapointment is that not all the cast of the movies lended their voices to the game 
 most notably missing were Daniel Radcliffe, Alan Rickman and Michael Gambon. All in all, disapointments 
 aside, the game is pretty awesome, a true magical adventure. I look forward to the next installment.
 
  
  
  
  *edited spelling mistakes on 13/11/08 due to they were bugging me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeDaryl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok. Best when it came out, it has been downgraded since it has came out. Good graphicks 
 and good the way you can go anywear in the grounds of hogwarts. You should rent before bye, unless 
 you have all the other games. Like myself. If you like HP then you should get it. Or if you like 
 RP games, it is great.
  It is very interesting, the story line that is.
  Even thoe I have not completed it yet it is good the bit I have got up to. I say you should rent 
 it out if you dont like it dont buy it. As i said before it is a great RP game and a fun experence 
 of  
 does it have to be 800 words, I have done it on the PS2 but at the begging of it on the 360......... I 
 really should be there by know. D U D E Daryl Y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ312
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  like i said better than al the other harry potters and its not like the othersnits a little more 
 like runescape if you know what that is its preitty good it dosnt deserve a 5 it deserves a 7 or 
 6.5 its not horrible but its not awsome its playable and for the wii its evenn better cause you 
 can move the wand and cast spells but its not as good as the very first one for the playstation 
 1 its still good though rent it or buy it for the wii its like if u dont have anything else to 
 play or youve beaten every thing else you have so its not awesome but not boring. its got good 
 side quests and good points from acheivments and its nice graphics and good parts it almost excactly 
 matches all the parts from the movie  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  In the newest (and probably the worst) installment to the franchise, Harry Potter and the Order 
 of the Pheonix misses the mark on almost every level. The gameplay is virtually non-existent, the 
 mini-games are boring, the animation is tacky, the character's audio loops more than necessary, 
 the graphics are mediocre, and the entire game is very, very easy. Even on what they consider the 
 "Hardest" difficulty, it is still very simple.
  
  The game consists mostly on walking from point A to point B, with the occasional mini-game. This 
 gets very lame and repetitive really fast. In order to find your way around the campus, you select 
 the location or character you want to get to and then you can see little black footprints on the 
 ground that direct you to your target. This works for the most part, if the ground you are walking 
 on is illuminated. Otherwise, the footprints can be very hard to see. Also, it is very frustrating 
 when you are trying to get through a small corridor and there is another student in your way. They 
 will not move no matter how many times you push them.
  
  There are a few mini-games included in the gameplay, most of which are really easy and all of which 
 are lame. The battle sequences in the game can be fun, but they are over too quickly and there 
 are only a few of them in the entire game. All of the secrets you can find aren't that exciting 
 and aren't that hard to find either. The animations look choppy, especially during cut scenes, 
 and the graphics look poor as well.
  
  The one thing that the designers did do well is the environment. The school is so massive in this 
 game that you can go virtually anywhere on the campus. Although this open-world style is good, 
 it doesn't save the game from all of its faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Harry Potter & The Chamber of Secrets
  
  Review 147
  
  Released: June 25, 2007
  Publisher: EA Games
  Game Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
  ESRB 
 Rating: E10+ for Everyone 10+
  ESRB Description: Fantasy Violence
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (5/10)
  The problem with 99.9% 
 of all movie-based video games is that they skip around the events that occurred in the movie, 
 which in cases like Harry Potter, have butchered the scenes that occurred in the book. This results 
 in not only short gameplay, but a lame story that makes no sense. This is what happens in this 
 game. The real meat of the story does not occur until the end of the game. This is no joke. There 
 is about 30 minutes of gameplay that even deals with the events in the book. 90% of this game is 
 locating members of Dumbledore's army and doing quests for them.
  
  Gameplay (4/10)
  As it is with the storyline, so it is with the gameplay. Other than running around doing silly 
 little quests, there is perhaps an hour at the most in this game that you actually fight. The 'fights' 
 I speak of are just corny little duel in which you simply circle around the enemy you are fighting 
 and tap the right analog stick a few times to cast spells. 
  
  Graphics (5/10)
  The graphics are very bad compared to many other games that are on the Xbox 360. In fact, I don't 
 remember seeing a game with worse graphics.
  
  Durability (7/10)
  The only part of the game that can even be called mediocre is its length. It is a decently long 
 game, with many discoveries and mini-games that unlock things, plus many mini-quests of sorts that 
 unlock things as well, and some extra quests after you've won the game.
  
  Overall Score (4.8/10)
  Rounded Score (5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  A terrible waste of a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green_Chaos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  You've seen Harry Potter go through life as a orphan. You've seen Harry's adventures, from the fight 
 with Voldemort in Hogwarts, to a battle with a basilisk. From 100 dementors attacking him and his 
 god-father. You've also seen Harry go through dangerous task at the Triwizard Tournament. But, the 
 greatest adventure is here. Harry Potter and the Order Of The Phoenix is the next installment in 
 5 of 7 series of games.
  In this one, nothing is as it seems. Harry is found to be a danger to the community, as he fights 
 2 dementors in the neighborhood. Finding himself in trouble, Harry is rescued by members of the 
 Order, he is then taken to the Ministry of Magic, where he is trialed for using magic while under 
 17. Harry is cleared after hearing the evidence. But, school has taken a turn. Dolores Jane Umbridge, who 
 was at his hearing is placed as the Defense Against The Dark Arts teacher.
  
  But, for this class, learning spells will never be the same. With the ministry forbidding students 
 from learning defencive magic, everyone is on edge.
  
  Harry decides that enough is enough, forms the D. A. and starts teaching those that follow.
  
 
  In the game, you learn spells from Expelliarmus, Protego, the freezing charm, to levicorpes.
 
  
  This game has activities to challenge your mind and time.
  
  If your a chess player, then playing against some of the best players. One from each house.
  
 
  But, theirs the story line of the game of recruiting members for the D. A.
  
  After gathering your followers, you will rely on your fellow members for support as you battle 
 your way through tough situations.
  
  The toughest one is a huge battle at the Ministry of Magic. This battle allows you to play as Sirius 
 Black.
  The game has a tragic ending, but gaining and learning that evil hero in life has something that 
 their enemies don't have and that is something worth fighting for.
  
  If you have the kind of heart that would take you on adventures that would last, then Harry Potter 
 and the Order Of The Phoenix is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halowarrior_117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  You would only like it if you were either a fan of HP or if you enjoyed the third game. That's 
 pretty much it. I mean, come on the only fun was using the spells on the first person your eye 
 catchs. Otherwise you walk around, do a puzzle, watch a cut scene, rince and repeat. And if not 
 that your dueling someone or teaching and learning new spells (to use on everyone else) . I've seen 
 better visuals but I still manage to make out Rons face as well as Hermione. The physics are down 
 right awful when you try to kill some one with magic all they do is say "owch that hurt" over and 
 over again but in different phrases. And the combat system needs improvment. But all in all the 
 game is only fun if you haven't played the third one. Although the puzzles get more and more iteresting 
 the further you go. But what I think is the most stupid is the fact that you have to recruit the 
 entire DA! And sometimes when you finally get to them and solving a mind numbing puzzle they tell 
 you they already know. But the best thing about casting spells is when your playing HP on the nintendo 
 Wii. So, I suggest you buy it only on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonaldo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Harry potter is one of those series that ignores presentations: Everybody knows who is that tennage 
 wizard with an odd scar on his forehead. And you may also know that the new book-based videogame 
 brought some intersting innovations on the series. 
  
  Once you play the game, you will know what I mean, but I will try to make it clear here.
  
 
  The new Harry Potter game is, like before, an average game. It's worse flaws reside on the progressing 
 scheme, the weak controls and the missing pieces of the storyline.
  
  But lets make on thing clear: The gameplay is totally new and it's fun for the firts hours. Bassicly, 
 you will spend most time of the game chasing students on a gigantic castle and reparing things 
 in your way.
  
  And althought Hogwarts is fun to explore at first, that felling will quickly dissapear. The casting-spells 
 system is intersting: You press a button to draw your wand and move the right analog to cast any 
 spell you want. But there is a problem. 
  
  Despite casting being fun, the controls are a bit broken: You will find yourself casting the wrong 
 spell more than once.
  
  Hogwarts may look beautiful and the characters realistic enough, but Order of the Phoenix isnt 
 that much fun.
  
  But the truthis that this is the best game in the series of HP. Yougsters will apreciate the design 
 and combat and adults will enjoy the quality audio, but be advised: if your not a fan, stay away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Harry Potter video game series has seen its ups and downs. The 5th installment, "Harry Potter 
 and the Order of the Phoenix" is based on the movie of the same name, only second in the series 
 to do so (Goblet of Fire was based on its film but departed from the series's gameplay) . Now, "OotP" 
 isn't bad but it isn't amazing. For Harry Potter fans, it's great. Now, you get to explore Hogwarts 
 in a way that you never could before. Games like "Chamber of Secrets" and "Prisoner of Azkaban" 
 offered many places in the castle to visit but enough. This game, however, offers what seems like 
 endless rooms, staircases, and people to encounter. It feels like you're in Hogwarts. The look 
 and feel of the game is solely based on the movie. The graphics are simply stunning and the attention 
 to detail is superb. The game follows the plot of the film with plenty of side adventures along 
 the way. What's new to the series is the spell casting system. Here, you use the right thumb-stick 
 to cast spells by moving the stick in the specific directions for each spell. Sounds like fun, 
 and it is for awhile. After some time, it's gets annoying when you don't get it exactly right. 
 Other than great graphics, updated controls and a huge Hogwarts, the game is your standard movie 
 tie-in. All in all, it's a great game for Potter fans, especially those of the films. For real 
 Potter fans, I'd say it's a must buy just for the fact that you get to visit a real Hogwarts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and The Order of the Phoenix is one of the worst games I've ever played unless you 
 are a Harry Potter fan you will absolutely hate this game.
  
  The gameplay in this game basically consists of you running around getting stuff for people. The 
 game also breaks my number one rule of good games which is that in order for a game to be good 
 it has to do the small stuff well one of the small things is the camera angle and the camera angle 
 in this game SUCKS!!! In fact I have broken many controllers as a result of the camera going behind 
 a wall or targeting a person when I'm trying to target an object.
  
  The graphics in the game are great and to be able to walk around Hogwarts is great but with the 
 camera problems you can't really see that much of Hogwarts.
  
  The soundtrack is awesome it sounds just like the movie.
  
  I recommend this game to only the 
 most hardcore Harry Potter fans because unless you love Harry Potter you will hate this game and 
 the disc will end up as a coaster.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I cant see anyone who doesnt know anything about harry potter enjoying this game or even appreciating 
 it. The game has a childish element is mediocre on difficulty. Harry Potter Order Of The Phoenix 
 is way better compared to the others in the series, this game has a free roam system which doesnt 
 load everytime you go to a new area. The save system is pretty decent. The beginning of this game 
 could get real annoying and repetitive until you get the feel for the game. You get to see all 
 of your favorite characters so thats a neat part of the game. You also learn to cast spells amd 
 duel with magic, i like the way they incorparated the right stick as your wand. Different movements 
 create different spells. The game is mostly about collecting things and going on quests which retain 
 to unlocking collectibles. This game does a very good job recreating Hogwarts, very seamless, this 
 game also follows the way the movie was put together quite well. The achievements are pretty easy, 
 the only one i didnt get was fro beating it on hard. There is no online is this game either. Ive 
 read all of the harry potter books, some more than once, and i love the movies so i enjoyed this 
 game. I think i spent bout around 10 hours playing this because i was chasing achievements, Anyways 
 I give it a 7.5 just because im a fan. You might even b able to find this in a bargin bin somewhere. 
 Geared towards the younger generation, but im 19 and had a fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The Harry Potter games have an all around bad reputation. Most people say that the graphics are 
 good and the games are interesting to look at, but that's all there is to them. Well, Order of 
 the Phoenix really isn't any different.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, and the castle looks amazing. The spell casting is mediocre. 
  
 
  Overall, all it has you do is use the Marauder's Map to find people and then once you find them, 
 they have you do things for them... basically so you'll build your skills up and learn new spells.
 
  
  Throughout the castle there are all these hidden items to examine, and you'll often get points 
 for doing so. Those points add up quickly. There is a room where you can access a whole bunch of 
 things upon completing quests and whatnot.
  
  The game is visually quite great, but it's a very simple game. It basically tells you how to do 
 everything, and there really aren't many surprises. I've found that it follows the book a bit better 
 than the movie did, however, so that's kind of a nice added bonus.
  
  I don't mean to sound like I'm totally dissing the game, though, because I'm not. I'm a huge, huge, 
 HUGE Harry Potter fan, so I have enjoyed myself a lot while playing the game. I'm just saying that 
 it's really not very remarkable and it's quite easy, but I suppose that makes sense, as it seems 
 to be aimed at kids moreso than teens or young adults.
  
  I'd recommend renting it if you're into the whole Harry Potter saga. I bought it, but I knew I'd 
 enjoy it and play it for ages because that's how I've been with all of the other Potter games in 
 the past. If that's you, I'd say you ought to buy it sometime... but if you're just a casual fan 
 or looking to try something else, just rent it and enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolzane
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game just stinks, it has above average graphics and it follows the story but you have to do 
 all these quests and you feel like a slav e. it starts you off with a medioce prologue and then 
 you have to find hermione, find fred and george, go to myrtles bathroom and so on until you have 
 to find all 28 DA members but only one of the members doesnt make you do a quest, all the others 
 make you do extremely boring and dull quests, the battles are fun but ther arent alot of them.
 
  
  overall this is a boring game which has its moments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  If you have read the book, watched the film and are thinking about buying this game don't. Here 
 is the reason why: it is rubbish. The graphics in the game and good on the 360 as you can see the 
 characters like there are in the films, voice acting it good and the music is from the films. However 
 the gameplay is crap. Casting spells now is a pain as when you are in a duel you have to cast fast 
 or u will be getting hit with curses, apart from the controls for spell casting being rubbish the 
 duels are similar to a gun fight in Halo 3 as there are so many fights going on. The AI in this 
 game is wrose then pac man as u get trapped in gaps by the other characters. The story in the game 
 misses some major parts from the book and film and 1 of them is when Harry reads Snapes mind about 
 what his father did to him when there were at school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETTZ10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  ok so i enjoyed patrs of this game but mostly it was not very good!!
  the hogwarts castle looked fantastic the staircase was great it did give you the feling of really 
 being in that world and the spell where fun to cast...................... to start with................ 
 then half way through the game it just get far to repetitive!! whats more is the fact that you 
 know how the game ends!! nobody dieing or being attacked surprises you and to be honest by that 
 time you couldnt care, it just doesnt have the life span!!!
  having said all that, being a fan of the harry potter world i did enjoy most parts to the game 
 again just couldnt hold my attention through out it.
  THEN 3/4 of the way through the game i was ready to kill the paintings around the castle. 'paaassword' 
 al bloody password yi
  
  the games good to pick up for half an hour put it down for a week and then when your looking through 
 your game for something to play you see it and
  then playing it for half an hour and putting it back down.
  
  its a solid 6 out of 10 game 
 and if your young enough and love the hp world enough then its a solid 6.5 out of 10 game.
  not one of the best but def not one of the worst.
  
  i feel like i have been very harsh on 
 a game i thought was ok, so im going to to spend a little bit of time on its plus points 
 
  ........................ it looked 
  
  ah well i tried:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I like the harry potter books and the movies so when I saw the game I figured what the hell. It 
 was relatively cheap and if anything at least I can get some achievement points. When you first 
 start playing the game you see that the graphics are very good. The voices are very close to the 
 original actors with some of them actually being in the game. You play basically throughout hogwarts. 
 All of the characters are in the game and the castle looks wonderful. You have a bunch of combative 
 spells and a bunch of non-combative spells. All you do is walk throughout the castle doing various 
 tasks while using those spells. Another thing you will notice when you play the game is there is 
 NO HEALTH. Yes no health at all. As you do the missions you will be able to battle using your spells 
 but with no health I cannot see how you can lose. As you find things you get discovery points and 
 the more you get the stronger your spells become. I think walking around and searching the castle 
 is wonderful. The moving pictures and the floating ghosts are wonderful. Game play is good in this 
 game but there are some problems. Camera control in non-existant. You could be walking and with 
 the camera angle being bad cannot even see what is in front of you. You cannot change the camera 
 angles at all. This game also is pretty short. You can go thru this game in an afternoon of playing. 
 After awhile the tasks become monotonous. Its just walking to this person, talking to them and 
 then walking to another person. Sometimes you get to use a spell to get an item but thats about 
 it. The only real plus to this game is the graphics and the music. I cannot suggest this game unless 
 you can find it very cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  For some reason the Harry Potter video games just can't seem to be that fun. I love the books and 
 movies, and I thought I would try to play the game. Now I see why everybody says it's not a good 
 game. Most of the time you're just running around helping people, from one simple fecth quest to 
 another. Not only are there a ridiculous amount of boring fetch quests, but there also has to be 
 a ridiculous amount of backtracking. Now in some games backtracking works, because the game surprises 
 you, but in this game you just backtrack from hall way to hall way and floor to floor. When you're 
 not backtracking or fetching something for someone, you're helping someone do something that is 
 completly boring and uninteresting making this game feel like a virtual chore simulator. The only 
 other thing you'll be doing is occasionally dueling people in wand battles. This might sound like 
 a potetionally fun thing, but even those moments are done poorly. Since you don't even have to 
 win the fight you can just stand there until Harry falls down. If you want to fight all you do 
 is hit up on the joystick to cast protect and move the joystick twice to the right to cast Stupefy. 
 These moments never feel fun, but you can just see how they could be cool, if you could hit a button 
 at the right moment to avoid the spell or if your spells collide hit the buttons in the right order 
 to get your spell to hit them. Using spells also doesn't work very well as the targeting system 
 just doesn't work very well at all. You'll try to target something and then Harry well just suddenly 
 lock onto something else. Hermione is also so annoying that you might want to mute the sound on 
 your tv because she repeats things so much. Ron and Hermione also tend to get in your way when 
 you're playing as well. This game also follows the story-line of the book and movie really badly 
 and wouldn't make sense unless you already watched the movie or read the book. Since I've mentioned 
 so many things bad with this game I will say you will probably have some legitmate fun for a couple 
 of hours while you're exploring Hogwarts. It's a big area and an enjoyable distraction for a little 
 while. The game's graphics are pretty bad by 360 standards, and even by last gen standards aren't 
 especially good either. The game however does have well done voice acting and music. 
  Overall 5.0/10 Overall it's hard to imagine to many people getting a lot of enjoyment out of this 
 game. If you're not a fan don't even get near this game and even if you are only rent if you're 
 a really hardcore Harry Potter Fan definetly don't buy as it's also a very short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_carey
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was the worst game I have played this year. I rented it @ two PM and by four I had already 
 taken it back and rented something else. The gameplay was awful, the graphics looked better on 
 the N64, the controls were terrible, the voice-acting was horrible and the only good thing about 
 the game was hogwarts but it was not even fun to explore because of the awful controls. This game 
 is not worth $2.00 and I think I would turn down a free copy or break it in front of the person 
 giving it to me. If J. K. Rowling were to play this game I think she would beat the crap out of 
 the developer. This game deserves lower than a one but that is as low as I can give it. Absolutely 
 awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok when i read harry potter you read and imagine all these spells being used in the wizarding world.. 
 Heck the Unforgivable curses are used. But in this game The most used spell is Stupefy. I mean 
 going through a game stupefy, stupefy, etc. It gets VERY BORING. They need 30+ attack spells to 
 use. And the system to become stronger by discovering things.. what is that? Harry potter is about 
 learning how to work the spell and incantations.. not finding stupid things around hogwarts like.. 
 light not on fire, Plaques... Etc. The storyline is very dumb and very far off the book.. hardly 
 ANY fight scenes and even in the biggest fight in harry potter (up too the 5th book) all you do 
 is STUPEFY!!! UGHHHH DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, DO NOT RENT THIS GAME.. THE CLOSEST YOU SHOULD GET TO 
 THIS.. THING I CANT EVEN CALL IT A GAME..... IS THIS REVIEW!!.
  
  Good part of game -- Graphics -- (but it is a xbox 360 game so that does not count)
  
  ~Don't dream 
 it... Live it...~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_midas123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Hogwarts has been created to look just how it's meant to be. Amazing detail. It has little corridors 
 around every corner and it's a blast to explore. They missed a few key rooms to help it seem more 
 real and missed out on the dark places in hogwarts, but that doesn't really matter when it's like 
 it is. The spell casting is very good compared to the other games and looks great. The music is 
 phenomenal because there's all this great music that strikes at the right time. There's also lots 
 of secrets to discover which will keep you going for a little bit. They made the storyline as fun 
 as possible with what they were given from the book. This game is fun while it lasts, but lacks 
 that endless replay value. If this seems boring to you, it probably will be. But if this seems 
 great for you, you'll have a lot of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Regardless of what other people were saying about this game I love it I usually don't play Harry 
 Potter games but this one caught my attention after I played the demo. The graphics are by far 
 the best plus you get to explore the whole school. The only thing that I did not like was that 
 Harry really didn't get to fight he who we do not speak of I think they should of at least let 
 you do that I would of loved that a lot. I like the spell casting system it was a huge improvement 
 compared to placing certain spells to a particular button. My favorite part of the game was the 
 fighting it was highly addictive and the way the charaters look like the actual people is just 
 mind blowing. What I have to say is that everyone has their opinion but if you're a Harry Potter 
 fan then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Its once in a blue moon when movie to games actually end up being worth a play through. There 
 have been a diverse amount of these attempts and only a select few have been worth a play through. 
 But can EA pull it together and team up with Warner Brothers to put this game on the map? Well 
 read on to find out what exactly makes this game tick.
  
  This seller hit the shelves on 29th June 2007. A mere week before its counterpart movie hit the 
 box-office. It was one of the most anticipated movies of the year, so surely this would convince 
 people to go out and buy the game to feel the magic early; surely if the movies good the game 
 to be, right? Unfortunately this isnt the case with all games, and this game isnt an exception.
 
  
  The past Harry Potter games have been mediocre at best. But this was EAs time to make a fresh 
 start and really impress us as they took there series into the next generation; although it was 
 a some what wasted opportunity. The game has its strong points, but in this case it doesnt balance 
 out the bad points.
  
  This game takes the young hero Harry Potter into a new adventure thats darker and dreary than 
 ever. Now that the dark lord Voldermort is on the rise Harry is in more danger than ever, so much 
 in fact Dumbledore wont always be there to look over him. With Dumbledore stepping down as headmaster 
 of Hogwarts: School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and the Ministry not believing Harry about Lord 
 Voldermorts return, even Harrys peers are looking at his differently. This year Harrys friends 
 mean everything to him. You play as Harry as he watches the school go downhill rapidly. Just to 
 make it more inconvenient the Ministry forbid all students to practice magic. As they are convinced 
 they will not need it as Lord Voldermort is not on the rise. So Harry, Ron &amp; Hermione take 
 it upon themselves to make a secret underground organization to teach students how to protect themselves 
 from all things in the outside world that may endanger them. This organization is suitably called 
 Dumbledores Army. So it is your goal to recruit members into your club; this will take you around 
 the new world of Hogwarts trying to persuade your friends into attending your meetings. Persuading 
 them can include doing tasks for them, doing there homework, or simply helping them get there safely.
 
  
  After you have been your friends skivvy, and doing all there choirs you are ready for your meetings. 
 This is require you teaching your new students new spells which will also then be accessible to 
 you from then on. So theres a silver lining to you doing everyones homework, kind of
  
  But just as you feel comfortable with your meetings with the DA, and think you are sticking it 
 to the man (new headmaster Professor Umbridge) . You get buster in your hiding place by Draco Malfoy 
 who is now recruited by Umbridge. Does a months detention sound fun? No? Not even virtually? No? 
 Fine then!
  
  But seeing Umbridges outraged face in high definition is worth all the money I paid for this game. 
 She is one of the nastiest pieces of work in a long time. This brings me onto the graphical aspects 
 of the game. The school looks like it has been carved from a fine stone. The details around the 
 castle will easily make you impressed. Although it would seem the developers spent a little too 
 long working on this because the characters in the game dont look all that great. Maybe its harder 
 making a real life person into a character? Maybe its just Daniel Radcliffs face? Im not to sure. 
 But after looking at the graphical potential in this game its a bit of a disappointment when you 
 see your favorite characters for the first time.
  
  Unfortunately this story isnt all that great in the length department. It can be done in about 
 4-5 hours if one sitting if you know what to do. But if you aiming to do all the side objectives 
 such as chess champion, snap champion etc; this would add a considerably large about of time onto 
 this game, but still it doesnt make the $60 you paid for this game worth it. But there are still 
 all the discoveries around Hogwarts to discover. These help you unlock achievements (around 200gs 
 worth) . As you discover something new about Hogwarts (fix statues, hang portraits, mop up mess 
 on the floor, rake leaves etc) you get some discovery points (around 5-10 for each thing you discover) 
 at first you just need about 200 points to reach the next level, which wouldnt take that much 
 time. The highest level is level thirteen, which needs 15,000 points, so as you could imagine this 
 would take a lot of things to be discovered. So for that much discoveries you would need a large 
 area to search right? Well you got it, in this addition Hogwarts is a lot bigger and more open 
 ended that in the last games. So finding everything in every nook and cranny wont be an easy task 
 although no loading screens make things a little easier, so best keep a sharp eye on everything 
 all the time. Or you may just miss something important.
  
  But exploring cant all be bad, as you unveil and venture into a new environment the music can change 
 and shape itself into something more suitable to your surroundings; Which is great as the music 
 in this game is definitely one of its strong points. Say if you went strolling into the forbidden 
 forest or the dungeons the music will become slow and dense with a very atmospheric sensation. 
 Then as you enter the Great Hall where all your classmates are usually eating the music changes 
 to something cheers are you hear people chatting and practicing magic at there tables, a very 
 nice and warm feeling. This is the first game that used the original Harry Potter theme song (also 
 recognized as Hedwigs Snowy theme) . As odd as it may sound in the past the Harry potter franchise 
 didnt even have legal rights to the movies theme sound. But now its here, and you can hear it 
 as you escalate the castles revolving staircase. A great new ambitious addition to this game is 
 the new manual spell casting system. This allows you to have full control of Harrys right arm 
 at the push of a button (Y) . To do the spells you with to do you have to move Harrys arm in a 
 certain fashion, each spell requires s different movement of the arm. Some require a rotational 
 action, while some just need an up/down movement. But memorizing these sequences is the tricky 
 part. There are a total of 12 spells you need to learn and act out throughout the game. There are 
 6 defensive spells and 6 offensive spells. These are mainly used in dueling which trigger at certain 
 parts of the game. Also some spells can be used while roaming around the castle, spells such as 
 Reparo (which repairs things) and Incendio which sets things alight.
  
  The only major disappointment about this game is the abysmal thing they call cut scene's. It is 
 a huge let down when a game with such a huge potential suffers greatly by little things like this. 
 The cut scene's in this game are nothing short of 5-10 second clips of blotchy inaccurate movie 
 to video game character models. Its as though the game tries to keep you as far away from the characters 
 emotionally. It doesn't give you time to feel what Harry feels as he's exploring Hogwarts for getting 
 abuse shouted at him by the opposing house mates.
  
  If you are looking to finish this game to completion with all achievements unlocked you will be 
 forced the go through the game on the hardest difficulty, which isnt hard at all. Its pretty much 
 the same as all you need to do is do tasks, only thing that may cause concern are the duals but 
 with a bit of determination you will get through it. Also another thing you will be forced to do 
 is beat all the mini objectives (chess, bowls, snap challenges etc) . So you will need a slight 
 knowledge of the games and a quick hand. Good luck! (4/10  Pretty Easy to get all achievements)
 
  
  Overall this is a very enjoyable game, but isnt much if you wanting a game that will last you 
 for a while. This game could easily be completed and finished with all achievements in a single 
 day. But its very enjoyable while it lasts. But $60 for a game that will last a day isnt a very 
 good deal. So I would advise renting this game, but it worth a play through if you enjoy the Harry 
 Potter franchise and/or the game series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty0100397
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Harry potter undergoes his quest running along side the film. I found that there was parts missing 
 from the film which is dissappointing however there are segments from the books for example the 
 mentioning of Harmani and Ron being prefects. Gameplay
  There is lots to do in this game which makes it fun. You can Interact with surroundings casting 
 spells to undo umbridges doings such as reveille hidden idems, put paintings back on walls, talk 
 to any character in the game and even the portraits etc. These are what makes the game what it 
 is giving lots more to go on your way to your objectives. Fighting can be abit annoying as ron 
 kept casting spells on me as he was behind me causing you to loose a fight when on hard. Overall 
 the game play keeps you gripped bringing parts of the film and book to life.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics could be alot better concidering the power of the 360 however the creators have produced 
 a rather large scale hogwarts and surrounding area for you to explore. Everything is recognisable 
 as to what it is however at times the game feels a little tacky. The characters have enhanced faces 
 taken directly from the real characters and the creators managed to gain the rights to use the 
 music which would be dissappoining without it. Overall i'd say the graphics are bearable, they 
 are not the worst ive seen but could of been less kiddyish if thats a word.
  
  Controls
  The main contol through the game is the right stick, you use rotation movements or up down, left 
 right etc to cast different spells. The left stick is for moving around. Sometimes this causes 
 problems because the camera can get stuck or not turn where you want it to go which can be fustrating 
 at times however it doesnt spoil the game. Other contols are very simple and easy to use making 
 them exceptional for the target audiance.
  
  Extras
  You get to earn points which allow you to watch video clips about the making of the film from different 
 characters point of views which is quite cool.
  
  Good points
  Gameplay keeps you gripped to complete it.
  Lots to do and find
  Addictive at times.
  Repeated 
 comments from harmani are annoying. Would be better to just ask her yourself instead of her repeating 
 herself over and over.
  Massive area to explore.
  
  Bad points
  Ron and Harmani follow you everywhere and tend to get in the way
  graphics could be better.
 
  hard at times to change camera angle.
  Lots of running around
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrossFire245
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so it might not be perfect.
  
  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix takes place in Harry Potter's fifth year at hogwarts. In 
 the game, Harry faces problems when people don't believe him about Voldemort. To make things worse, 
 Hogwarts gets an new Defense against the Dark Arts teacher, Dolores Umbridge. Harry hates Umbridge 
 when he finds out she won't let the class practice spells, so Harry forms the DA (Dumbledore's Army) .
 
  
  Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay-7
  This game includes a new spell casting system, in which you use the right analog to cast spells. It's 
 cool in all, but can be annoying sometimes. An example is when you try to cast a spell, but it takes 
 a few tries or casts a different spell. Harry seems like an errand boy, as he runs around the castle 
 doing tasks for people. Some of these tasks are finding talking gargoyles, helping people with their 
 homework, and moving things. Duels in the game are pretty good.
  
  Graphics-8
  The graphics are pretty good, although some characters look just a bit off. Hogwarts looks so real 
 with moving stairs and all that.
  
  Sound-8
  You can hear a lot of people's conversations and the moving stairs sound real. Along with that, 
 it's easy to hear when someone casts a spell.
  
  Value-7
  The game is exciting the first couple times you play it, but gets boring after a while. It's more 
 like a $50 game (although you should enjoy it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gagzz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game so much remind me to Bully, great gameplay, big hogwarts makes you enjoying this game, 
 you can explore every little part of that school, even the place that Harry hasn't been there before 
 in the movie. Great graphics plus great voice acting make this game greater than any Harry Potter 
 game ever made before.
  The new style of control makes you have to swing the wand like the real one, spells like wingardium 
 leviosa, incendio, depulso, accio, and many more are fun!!!
  So, grab your money, go to the shop, and buy this game, I guarantee if you are the Harry Potter 
 Fan you don't want to miss this great game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  My tilt~ well i imagine i would have liked it more if i was a huge Potter fan, but as it is i enjoy 
 the story and the movie, but i wouldn't call myself a fan. I'm also more into first person shooters 
 or at least strategy based games, Gameplay. Kinda repetitive, If you want the gamerscore you will 
 find yourself retracing your steps MANY times over a very large area to make sure you fixed every 
 pot or lit every fire. And really.. thats what most of the game seems to be. Instead of having 
 you use the magic in potter by fighting all the time... because thats not at all how the movies 
 or books work, or instead of going more by the books, and having lots of gameplay being spent in 
 a boring class room, they integrated spell casting into the game by having random items all over 
 the castle that need a specific spells attention. This is kinda lame and uninspired and actually 
 playing the game in this way can quickly get old.
  
  Graphics. Really not that bad at all, nothing amazing but i had no big complaints, They did an 
 impressive job with the castle though ill admit, It really felt like the model from the films and/or 
 the books.
  
  Sound. Ok~ if you enjoyed the movies sound you will like this games sound. I myself am not to impressed 
 though.
  
  Value. I wouldn't play this game over after beating it, And thats really all there is too is, So 
 whatever hours you can manage to beat the game with very well might be all you will play the game.
 
  
  To finish, id just suggest you rent it if your that curious.
  
  Ink Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  It only cost about $2 for me to rent this game reluctantly at family video, and after the time 
 spent on it, I feel a little bit ripped off. Harry Potter's brand spanking new video game has the 
 astoundingly well built hogwarts, completely accurate to the way the book is written. The rest 
 of the game, however, is mostly fodder stretched over hours.
  
  Although there are a few enjoyable parts which involve key points from the original book, the majority 
 of your time will be running around having to do mindless tasks for all the dumbledore's army people. 
 The tasks are mostly boring and lacking in thought, although a few prince-of-persia moments were 
 slightly amusing.
  
  The new control aspect was somewhat interesting, but nothing revolutionary, even if you forget 
 some of the 8 or so moves, you can always do trial and error or just look in the menu. The fighting 
 was surprisingly uninteresting: Protego, stun, strafe, stun, and after about 20 seconds you win. 
 Voldemort's battle was the same thing as well, unfortunately. The gameplay simply has too bad of 
 pacing.
  
  The graphics look straight from the ps2 tony hawk games, dissapointing to the least for xbox 360 
 users. Although the castle itself looks crisp, just about every other environment and every other 
 person looks like old crap.
  
  The audio, however, is quite nice, most of the main voice actors do the ones for this game, and 
 the sounds, noises, etc are fantastic. That, unfortunately, doesn't make up for the 2+ hours of 
 just having to run around because of either getting lost of the ridiculous length of time to get 
 from one DA person to solve their idiotic problems, to another.
  
  The game takes 10 hours, if that. Do yourself a favor and just see the movie instead, so you don't 
 have to worry about trying to figure out how to read a confusingly-made map of hogwarts, or figure 
 out what some person needed because there's no given list in the menu to read back what an objective 
 was for said person.
  
  Avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of Harry Potter, or the guy that plays Potter on films, but I've always followed 
 the Potter stories, and without the shadow of a doubt, all Harry Potter games. However, I'd like 
 to be the last person on the world to think this, but the enormous change of play style adopted 
 by the developers this installment onwards is highly uncalled for. I miss the days I freely wandered 
 Hogwarts and completed tasks at my own will, the days of Philosopher's Stone, Chamber of Secrets 
 and Prisoner of Azkaban that is. This game under ccnsideration looks great, sounds good, but the 
 letdown is the gamplay. The game is vastly linear, Potter's Quidditch broomstick seems to be somewhere 
 lost, so lost it can't be found, and they talk about vast play-world, but the world seems highly 
 limited in Order of the Phoenix. In the end, sometimes you hit the bullseye, and many times you 
 miss it. This seems to be one of those many times for the developers of Harry Potter: Order of 
 the Phoenix. Dark days lie ahead for the Potter video-gaming franchise if something isn't done... 
 by the time we lay our hands on the Half Blood Prince..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  My review deck says it all. The game was a fun experience to a certain extent. All the unlockables 
 and stuff were fun to watch and look at. Their were a bunch of side missions and extra things you 
 could do like clean up hogwarts and find hidden packages and animals. The gameplay was kind of 
 chopy at times, the spells sometimes wouldn't work and towards the middle of the game you get overwhelmed 
 with missions. That gives you the attitude to put it away, but the achievements actually encourage 
 you to go find secrets and finish the missions. The game all in all had it's moments but their 
 wasn't much storyline based missions which is kind of cool because it doesn't give to much of the 
 movie, makes you want to see the movie it's self. I'm not i harry potter fan but this kind of got 
 me interested 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkybinkles
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed all of the Harry Potter books, most of the movies, and some of the games. This is 
 not one of them.
  
  There were a few things I liked about this game. There are certain discoveries you find, simply 
 by fixing a smashed suit of armor. As a reward, you are given occasional trophies or watch videos 
 featuring things like how the developers created the game. Another great thing about the game is 
 seeing Hogwarts almost exactly as it is in the movies, so it's fun to explore the school for some 
 time. But once you start doing chores , such as finding five gargoyles in the school, it gets really 
 dull and irritating having to run back and forth all over the place. There are only a few of these 
 that come close to fun .
  
  The audio is another thing that eventually gets really irritating. The music sounds great. The 
 voice acting is good, mostly because some of the actors from the movies were able to do the voices. 
 But after a while, you'll here the same people saying the same things over and over again. This 
 can be said when you pass by the minor characters who walk around the school, so in this case you 
 might here them say the same thing twice or three times in and hour. This can also be said for 
 certain scenes in the game. For example, when fighting Voldemort you'll hear him say something 
 about, you're feeble, Dumbledore five or six times. To make an even further mess out of what the 
 good voice actors have done, the cut-scenes have been shortened and changed so much from the book, 
 it's painful to watch. It makes the story very hard to follow.
  
  So if you're also a fan of the Harry Potter games, think twice before buying this game and perhaps 
 stick with the previous ones. I you're not a fan of Harry Potter, I don't know why you're still 
 reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of bully and other school free-roaming games and when i picked up this i thought 
 hey id be getting achivement points [yea im a whore, sue me] , a school free-roam game and id be 
 able to see a movie that i don't wanna spend 15 bucks to see but as soon as i put it in my 360 
 and saw the horridness of what is a basic loosely based licence game has to offer.
  
  OOTP begins with harry saving his fatass cousin from deatheaters and because he used magic under 
 the age of 17 [ESRB on magic] ; he ends up being a perriah in hogwarts and thus begins his quest 
 to clear his name and over throw their DATDA teacher [who is a royal b^%$#] . Gameplay has you casting 
 spells with the right analog stick [i hate over using them cause i get the feeling of them breaking] 
 and doing certain motions but spells tend to be clunky and during combat you can't really cast 
 the jinxes you want to. and the exploration is just a big favor running quest. Graphics look alright 
 but the PS3's screenshots of the NPCs look better. Sounds are alright music is well done but the 
 voice-acting is extremely forced and when you talk to other students they don't say diffrent things 
 like bully all they do is call harry names and there is no damn jinx to kick them in the nuts!
 
  
  If you pick up this game to get ether or all of these:
  
  1. achivements: what you have to do is just go around casting crap around hogwarts and i don't like 
 looking for crap if its a dull game.
  
  2. To get a interpritation of the movie: a LOOSE one which you have to have read the books to link 
 things along.
  
  3. something like bully: go to the PS2 section and pick up BULLY or wait until the 360 version comes 
 out.
  
  by all means RUN FROM THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  At the time I started playing the game I was about two thirds into reading the respective book.
 
  
  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix follows the book's events, although you don't see much 
 of a back story leading up to the start of the game. It all starts as Harry saves his cousin Dudley 
 from the Dementors and is then rushed to the Order's HQ. You learn your first spells from Sirius 
 there, a few charms to help around the house. The right analog stick is used to perform the wand's 
 movements, and each spell has a specific way to be cast. Later on you will realize that wand movements 
 repeat themselves but cast different things depending if you are in combat or not.
  
  But the stay is short, and soon Harry finds himself at Hogwarts for his fifth year of school, and 
 what a sight that is. The castle has been designed with the blueprints of the movie in mind, looking 
 extremely realistic - as much as a magic castle can possibly be. The Great Hall with the floating 
 candles, sunny courtyards, dark dungeons, confusing hallways and secret passages, moving staircases 
 and living paintings, Hagrid's hut, the lake everything is there and everything is amazing. Though 
 I expected the dormitories and the Griffindor common room to be a lot larger.
  
  The atmosphere of the game greatly encourages adventuring, and there is a lot to explore and many 
 things to do at Hogwarts. The game is non-linear, which is great but at times got me a little confused 
 since I kept on taking several tasks at the same time. Fortunately, you carry the Marauder's Map 
 with you, which not only guides you around through the intriguing castle layout, but also tells 
 you where everything and everyone is.
  
  Every time you find something that can be interacted with and cast the right spell on it, you gain 
 Discovery Points, which is basically your experience, and the way to level up and make your spells 
 more powerful. So if you see something broken, cast Reparo on it. If there's leaves on the ground, 
 levitate a broom to sweep them. If the suits of armor insist on taking on strange positions, a 
 few casts of Depulso will get them in the right position. You can also talk to several of the paintings 
 that guard secret passages, and even go on little quests to find their passwords to make your moving 
 around the castle easier.
  
  You can interact with students and teachers, doing quests and learning lessons in the form of mini-games. 
 Your first major task is gathering Dumbledore's Army, where you will teach each other Defense Against 
 the Dark Arts, since the new teacher won't. It's in these secret meetings that you will learn the 
 rest of your spells. In total, there are six charms and six other dueling spells (not counting 
 Harry's Patronus) . The dueling spells are to be used in combat, and yes, you can go around challenging 
 whoever you feel like. Some students will just run away from you, others will gladly accept the 
 duel. You will have Ron and Hermione in the duel with you, and sometimes those you challenge will 
 bring friends too. Duels are optional, but in some cases, you really have to fight.
  
  There are also a few mini-games to play along the way: Gobstones (it's like marbles) , Wizard Chess 
 and Exploding Snap (a memory game with cards) , but you must first find your opponents.
  
  The game is a visual feast, highly textured and detailed, from the backgrounds to the character's 
 faces. If it weren't for some awkward camera angles and the lack of camera control for looking 
 around, it would have been perfect. The sound is also great, with many of the characters from the 
 movies lending their voices to their videogame counterparts. Unfortunately, whoever Hermione was, 
 her voice was pretty bad.
  
  Order of the Phoenix is one of those games that keeps you busy for long periods of gaming time. 
 The first time I played it, I consumed me for the whole afternoon, evening and night. It was 1:30 
 AM and I was still playing, with 55% of the game completed.
  
  The downside? The game doesn't focus enough on the actual story, giving you only glimpses of what 
 actually happens, and sometimes not even in the order as the events should be.
  
  While I was so involved running from one end of the castle to the next, looking for someone for 
 a task, lighting torches or climbing to places you hadn't noticed before, I found myself getting 
 achievement after achievement. But I also felt like I wasn't doing it for the achievements, but 
 for the exploration, just to see what else I could find. But as I kept randomly casting spells 
 on anything I could, I ended up finding a lot more than just Discovery Points: a fun game that 
 gives you a great interactive Hogwarts experience. Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text 
 and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=orderofthephoenix360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casey_johnson92
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  With the next generation graphics on display, this is not what I have in mind for improvement on 
 graphics for the Harry Potter game series. If you like Harry Potter then you may be interested 
 in this game, but for the other 73.2% of the population of U. S. A don't be fooled this game is not 
 worth the next generation price. EA Games most have not had nothing today on the day this game 
 was thought of and while they was creating it lord knows what they was doing. Probably thinking 
 about ideas for NBA 08 or something, one things for sure this game wasn't on their mind while creating 
 it. Sorry Harry Potter fans and EA for telling the truth about this messed up game! = [ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM101
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game brings Harry Potter to a whole new level in the gaming industry. Hogwarts is bigger, 
 better and a lot more fun.
  
  Basically, the idea is to run around hogwarts doind quests for teachers and classmates, fixing 
 and tidying hogwarts and, obviously, finishing the story. You play as Harry Potter mainly throughout 
 the game but you do get chances to play as Fred and George Weasley and Professor Dumbledore. The 
 game takes you through the movie step-by-step and gives you a never ending day, once you've completed 
 the story, to collect all of the objects and orbs an stuff.
  
  The Acheivements for the fifth Harry Potter are both changelling yet simple. Some you get for completing 
 story mode, while others are a lot harder to get as you have to find all of the items which are 
 mentioned.
  
  The Graphics on the game are actually quite stunning when you first play because you dont expect 
 a movie game to have such good graphics. The characters move about with good authonticity. The 
 controls for the spells are not very well thought because you can cast the wrong spell by accident, 
 I did this a few times when I first played the game. The music is the same as I heard on the PS 
 version of HP1 , so it could use a bit of refreshing sounds, but the music does suit the game and 
 storyline incredibly well. The voices are a little off sometimes when you cast spells but that 
 doesnt matter much, as it doesnt ruin the game at all.
  
  Overall, I'll give this game a 8.4 because it is very entertaining and I love it. I am currently 
 trying to find all of the objects and orbs which need to be found. I have completed the story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the13slayers
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i thought it was dumb, but i like it now, i find it fun, and hard, 
 im at where you just got done changing the big clock tower so proffesor umbridge cant start her 
 class on time, but now i cant find the book of potions that i need for proffesor snipe, so im a 
 little stuck, but the graphics are the best, i like all the discvory points, im at lvl nine now... 
 i love the moving stairs and everything about the game! and i give it a ten! i will keep playing 
 it until the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMarelyLOL
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  This is really a bad use of the word 'pointless' so I decided to see if it really was, and yep 
 it is. The bland graphics and confusing control make this game, the most worst Harry Potter to 
 date, I hope you stay away from this backtracking and ugly game with a mimicking and diverse plot 
 that nearly comes close to a spin-off. The PSP version is actually the best version , I will post 
 a review in some time. Until then avoid this version completely!
  
  Pointless and extreamly bad, even the brilliant soundtrack doesn't make up for this game... Potter 
 becomes a Plopper in Harry Potter and the Order of The Pheonix for Xbox 360, SUMMARY : Avoid this 
 version completely, or you'll end up bored out of your head and really tired towards it's ending. 
 Just try the PSP version instead, if you want to be saved from boredom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolshot55
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good they did an awsemae job letting you discover all of hogwarts and all the 
 different kinds of people i nthe school. The cinema scenes do kidn of suck thoguh and their fast 
 paced and dont make sence if you dont already know what the story is about. I like how many acheivements 
 you get with the game and all the unlockables. Voice acting is good for a gae based on a movie. 
 Graphics could have been alot better on the 360 and the use of spells is great. This is by far 
 the best insrtallemnt in the harry potter series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game is very good and the characters of game is amazing and story is to good. This game is 
 too long but i like it too much.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The sound is amazing i give it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The graphics is too good i give 
 it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The story is great i give it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  
  The gameplay is amazing i give 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The magic system 
 is amazing i give 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game may be the perfect representation of what cleaning up a place is, but none-the-less, 
 I found it to be quite fun. I rented the game a day after I saw the movie, which I highly recommend 
 to people either see the movie or read the book before you play the game, because this game skips 
 a lot of parts, which is one negative. Now to the positives. The game, as the editors say, has 
 some of the best voice acting there can be in a game. Also, you get a clear view of how Hogwarts 
 is connected by the freebase play of the game. It's somewhat like the PlayStation 2 game Bully, 
 in a sense. Another positive thing about this game, that the editors pointed out were the minigames. 
 Although frustrating at times, it can be an enjoyable side time. When you're trying to get the 
 achievements though, and you can't beat the Gryffindor little ball game champion; that's where 
 it gets frustrating. Now to point out a few unmentioned things. For people who play Xbox 360 games 
 mainly for the achievements, this game is almost perfect. All but one achievement can be gotten 
 through playing through the easy mode, and the game basically let's you get away with losing most 
 of the battles, so the achievement for beating it on hard mode is a snap. It's an easy 1000 achievement 
 points in the bag if you use an internet walkthrough for all the minigames and quests like I did. 
 Now to the bad stuff. I personally found the graphics for the characters to be very close simulations 
 of the real ones, but still had much to be desired. The environments were okay, but could've been 
 improved. The game barely has any forced missions that has you actually using attack magic; the 
 only way to really get a lot of battles on this game is to pick on other kids. The cut scenes jump 
 around, and are quite glitchy at that. And even though that I said that this game is great for 
 achievement whores, it could've been a lot harder at some places. But other than that the game 
 is a pretty solid rent. I found that the game was fun at most parts, but were frustratingly repetitive. 
 All of that aside, who can complain about a game that gives the dream that every Harry Potter fan 
 has wanted to do: Explore Hogwarts in all its glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgateOblivion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome i think this is the best game i played in the harry potter series , it's just 
 too good to say the right words about the game , i hope the next one will be better . oh and put 
 the free roam in the next harry potter game too , because that's my favorite part . BBBBBEEEEESSSSSTTTTT 
 HARRY POTER GAME IN THE SERIES  
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiamondDust1556
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all... the graphics are not even close to what a 360 could do. Second most of the time 
 spent playing this game is running around doing chores for other characters just so they can go 
 to the DA meeting. This gets really boring after awhile. Third the navigation system is hideous. 
 You basically pick a spot on the marauders map and then walk there by following the footsteps. 
 Half the time the footsteps cant even make up its mind whether you are running or not. So basically 
 the footsteps could all of a sudden stop and then start gowing again or just be way ahead of you. 
 Since you can't control the camera, it gets hard to find where the footprints are leading to in 
 tight areas. There isn't much dueling in this game so dont expect to make to much use of the combat 
 spells. Also the most you will do with you spells is clean up broken stuff laying around. Doing 
 this you get rewards, mostly interviews in which most people could probably just wait for the movie 
 on DVD to come out to watch that. Despite all the repetiveness there one good aspect. The sound 
 and music of the game is very well done. Theyfinally put the hedwig theme in the game. If nobody 
 knows what that is it is the main theme that people call it for Harry Potter. The castle is really 
 big but gets to be a pain really quick.
  
  If any Harry Potter fan wishes to play this you might as well just rent it as the game is very 
 short, and not worth replaying.
  
  What happened to the good old days where you could mount your broom outside the castle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Only fans of the film and the book can enjoy this game with it's problems or mayble not hard to 
 say
  
  The graphics are poor i can not belive that actors of the film can look at this game it is just. 
 The only magic i want to see with this game is for it to dissaperear for good.
  
  If you are a true harry potter fan then this game is just what you are looking for for theose of 
 you just see the movie and miss the game.
  
  The game is just plain boring stupid and crap you will get nothing from this game!
  
  review 
 4.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  You can rent this game before buying it because you need to check if it's just right so if not 
 just trade it in if you its bad because this game should not be a bad game it deserves a good rating 
 because I think it's good and have a few graphic and role-play issues. Well the magic fights are 
 plain simple defeat your opponent with good magic and you won hurray! I hope the achievements are 
 hard not easy and if you want to buy it just tell your parents after you rented this game and great 
 enough to buy for your collection in Harry Potter games and movies, but I think this game is great 
 for kids, maybe teenagers I like the storyline and everything, this is not a waste of money. The 
 graphics are barley good but not best because Hogwarts may have some bad graphics, and this game 
 should be bought and enjoyed by fans of Harry Potter Phoenix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negimakun
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game gets on my nerves, its a game where everyone has already done it on something different. 
 Give us something different that i havn't done, i mean yeah. I love the books and the movies but 
 the game is dull and lame. Grannted it has new leves spells etc, but it isn't enough to want me 
 to keep on playing. Grannted, the game will sell because people are hardcore fans, hell me and 
 Harry have the same birthday! July 31st But other than that.. the game is a meh, rent it if anything 
 other wise dont even look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier354
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The good- Harry Potter and The Order of the Phoenix has many great qualities. Harry Potter's graphics 
 are amazing, and it is fun just to walk around the school exploring. It is hilarious to walk around 
 the school hexing students (with Levicorpus and petrificus totalus) , and discovering new things. 
 It is like you actually are there. The castle is huge. A nice change from the past harry potter 
 games is that you do not just press a button to cast a spell. The way you cast in this game takes 
 more skill and can be challenging until you master it. The bad- Some of the quests get repetitive, 
 like when you have to skid across the walls. Those quests are slow and boring and have no point. 
 The Story is short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moocow21
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix the video game is based on the fifth movie in the enormous 
 Harry Potter series set to arrive in theatres July 11th. Now every time there's a huge movie coming 
 out like this there's always a video game pumped out to milk the cash cow, and usually they are 
 disturbingly bad. But with Order of the Phoenix EA has crafted a good game that most Harry Potter 
 fans would appreciate. But the game does have its problems, and if you're not into Harry Potter, 
 it's really tough to recommend it to you.
  
  The story details the young wizard's fifth year at Hogwarts. Unfortunately for Harry, most of the 
 wizarding world has refused to believe his story that Lord Voldemort had returned. Instead, he 
 is viewed as an attention-seeking liar. The Ministry of Magic appoints Dolores Umbridge as a teacher 
 at Hogwarts to instill Ministry control at the school - as the Ministry is also distrustful of 
 headmaster Albus Dumbledore. Eventually Umbridge takes over the school and the story culminates 
 in Harry facing off yet again with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. But if you haven't read the book you 
 probably won't get the story, as it appears the developers have expected you to see the movie because 
 the game presents the story pitifully.
  
  With Order of the Phoenix EA has beautifully crafted the entire Hogwarts Castle and grounds for 
 you to explore. You can go almost anywhere in Hogwarts, and it is big - in fact it gets annoying 
 running from one end of the game to the other. You have about a dozen spells in total to use throughout 
 the game - half of which are combat and the other non-combat. Spells are casted using movements 
 of the right analog stick. Overall the controls work pretty well, although your thumb may get sore 
 at times. A large part of the gameplay is the Marauder's Map. Finding people and places in this 
 massive castle would be a nightmare without this map. You can select a person or place you want 
 to go on the map and it will lead you there with footprints on the ground - a pretty clever setup. 
 One big downside to this game is that you'll find that most of the tasks you get are fetch quests 
 and boring chores. Occasionally you'll have to solve some neat puzzles with spells, but there's 
 the overall gameplay experience isn't too remarkable. That being said, Harry Potter fans will still 
 love this game for being able to explore such a detailed Hogwarts and meet many familiar characters. 
 Although the castle and grounds are full of students, most of them look the same unfortunately. 
 There's also tons of unlockables in this game, found in the Room of Rewards, which are gained by 
 discovering many things around the castle. Included are awesome interviews with the cast and developers, 
 and stills/concept art from the movie.
  
  Order of the Phoenix is a pretty decent looking game. On a grand scale, Hogwarts and the surrounding 
 scenery looks beautiful. Inside the castle the corridors are decorated with many portraits and 
 statues, and everything looks pretty good. The character models, on the other hand, leave a bit 
 to be desired and some look down right funky. Where this game really shines is in the sound department. 
 EA managed to get 20 some of the actual actors to provide their voices - notable ones being Rupert 
 Grint (Ron) and Ralph Fiennes (Voldemort) . But there are notable actors missing - like Dan Radcliffe 
 (Harry himself) and Emma Watson (Hermione - whose voice I didn't like at all in the game) . I believe 
 EA managed to license the movie soundtrack for this game and it's phenomenal.
  
  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is one of the better movie based games I've played in 
 a while. Being able to roam freely through the massive castle and interact with familiar characters 
 voiced by their movie actors, especially Fred and George, is great for fans of the series. That 
 being said the gameplay somewhat boils down to doing basic fetch quests or simple puzzles over 
 and over again and the story isn't presented well at all. Finishing the story on hard difficulty 
 took me somewhere around 10-15 hours but I still have a lot of stuff to unlock. It's hard to recommend 
 this game as a $60 purchase, as I know I probably won't want to replay it again once I find everything. 
 But if you're a Harry Potter fan (this month is going to be heaven with movie 5 and book 7) you 
 should probably rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pizza_Wizard
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix for a few hours, one fact seemed obvious 
 to me.... The developers spent so much time and energy fitting the whole, large building of Hogwarts 
 School of Witchcraft and Wizardry into the game that they completely neglected that actual gameplay 
 portion of the game. 95 percent of the gameplay consists of nothing but running errands for virtually 
 every person in the castle. The whole game is pretty much Go to person A, receive task, travel 
 to destination A, retrieve object A, travel to destination B, retrieve object B, travel back to 
 person A. Rinse. Lather. Repeat. The core gameplay is tedious and booooorrriiinnngg. I was left 
 wondering if the developers had actually bothered to play this game they created. How could they 
 not think it would get really old after just and hour or two?
  
  You also earn discovery points for completing certain tasks like lighting torches, repairing vases, 
 cleaning up messes, lighting torches, visiting famous locations from the movies, meeting characters, 
 finding shortcuts, lighting torches, completing lessons, repairing vases, levitating certain objects, 
 casting depulso/accio spells on random useless objects, lighting torches and repairing vases. Yes, 
 you'll find the same vase over and over again all over the school and you'll earn points for repairing 
 it over and over... and over again. You'll get the majority of your points from casting certain 
 spells on a vast number of useless objects.
  
  With the discovery points you earn you will unlock various extras. None of the extras will change 
 your gameplay in any way. All consist of interviews with the cast or crew as well as production 
 photos from the movies itself. Both provide fun distractions from the gameplay but the game really 
 could have used MORE unlockables other than just movies and images. You really go into the game 
 expecting to unlock new (optional) spells, powers, locations or maybe even costumes.
  
  The spell (and combat) system is innovative, though frusterating. Countless times will you wave 
 your wand to cast Wingardium Leviosa only to hear Harry yell Depulso! or Accio! The camera doesn't 
 help matters, it is constantly postioning itself so you can't see all the action or it simply gets 
 stuck behinds a tree or building. Even after the all that, the most frusterating thing isn't casting 
 the wrong spells or not being able to see; its being hit time and time again by spells, hexes and 
 curses thrown by your own friends, Ron and Hermione. You'll reposition yourself away from them 
 so you can concentrate on what you enemy is doing only to have them follow you, continuing to hit 
 you with their spells.
  
  As I said before, the time and energy the developers spent designing and rendering Hogwarts Castle 
 is apparent. The ability to travel just about anywhere in the castle is reason enough for someone 
 to rent this game. The castle is certainly something to behold. Nearly all the locations from the 
 movies are there for you to explore at you leisure. Fans of the movie will love strolling though 
 the large doors into the Great Hall, running up and down the Grand Staircase or simply wandering 
 aimlessly around until you get lost (which is easy to do) . Still, in the end Hogwarts Castle is 
 a school, and as I was exploring I was left wondering where all the corridors of class rooms, offices 
 and store cubbards were. And where are the bathrooms? Are the students' only choices Moaning Myrtle's 
 and the Prefect's Bathroom? I know it is just a game but there seems to be a simple dash of practicality 
 missing from the castle's design.
  
  The castle, as mentioned, is easy to get lost in. Arguably the best part of this game (in my opinion) 
 is the inclusion of Harry's Marauder's Map as a kind of navigational guide. At any time you can 
 open up the map, select a loaction or person from the list and small, black footsteps will appear 
 near Harry, pointing him in the right loaction. It is a very efficient and unobtrusive way to help 
 people navigate the halls of Hogwarts.
  
  After seeing the game trailer, tv spot and screen shots, I had high expectations for the game's 
 graphics. I was disappointed. The graphics would have looked great on the original XBox.
  
  A large portion of the movie's cast lends there voices to the game but there are a few character's 
 where the lack of the movie's actor or actress is PAINFULLY obvious. I refer you to Moaning Myrtle. 
 The plot of the game is virtually none existant and is told in very brief, fragmented cut scenes 
 that will leave anyone who hasn't read the book scratching their heads in confusion.
  
  Overall, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix feels like an advertisement for the movie or, 
 at best, a guided tour of a version of Hogwarts Castle. Worth a rent.
  
  I wish I hadn't spent sixty dollars on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who hasnt been living under a rock for the last decade knows of Harry Potter and the 
 massive phenomenon it has become. Selling over 50 million copies worldwide and making author J. K. 
 Rowling the richest person in the UK, the series is no slouch when it comes to fan support. With 
 a franchise like Harry Potter under your wings, it is almost impossible to fail at creating successful 
 games, even with the past games proving to be annoying fetch-quest affairs. Rightfully so, EA has 
 done a spectacular job at re-inventing the series, proving that staying true to the movie and adhering 
 to the love of the books can make a game all fans will enjoy.
  
  Following the plot of the movie almost exact, Order of the Phoenix sees Harry Potter starting his 
 fifth year at Hogwarts. With Voldemort regaining power in the previous year and half the wizarding 
 community thinking Harry is a liar, year five at Hogwarts is not the most pleasant. To make things 
 worse a new Defense Against the Dark Arts makes Harrys life a complete nightmare all year longuntil 
 Harry finally decides to take matters into his own hands. For those of you who have not yet read 
 the book, the description has been kept vague in order to risk spoiling any of the key plot twists. 
 Even if fans of the book already know what happens in the movie, trying to follow the story in 
 the game is a grueling task for anyone. The story at times often feels convoluted, jumping from 
 section to section almost in seconds, and unless you have subtitles turned on it might be hard 
 to catch exactly what everyone is saying. Still, those fans hoping to catch a glimpse of the movie 
 early will not be disappointed by the amount of content available throughout.
  
  Hogwarts has been beautifully re-created entirely from the ground up and the overall result makes 
 the latest game almost feel like a wizarding version of GTA. At any time throughout the game Harry 
 is free to roam the school at his own pace. While some scripted events happen occasionally throughout 
 the story (usually to move things along so you just dont waste your time doing mindless tasks) , 
 there are really no boundaries to withstand at all. Every corridor, classroom, dormitory and staircase 
 has been depicted to near perfection as modeled from the movie sets. This is truly the most open 
 and worldly atmosphere of any Harry Potter game to date, and even the most specific details, such 
 as students yelling at Harry in the hall or even portraits that move independently along the grand 
 staircase, adds a sense of excitement to fans who will try to name every person and thing they 
 come across.
  
  Combat in Order of the Phoenix is probably the biggest change in the series, and-surprisingly-the 
 best. Instead of hack and slash battles as in the previous titles, wand commands are now directed 
 onto the right analog stick. By moving the analog stick in different directions you can then cast 
 corresponding spells. For example, tapping the analog stick twice will cause Harry to move objects 
 towards him, while tapping in the opposite direction moves things away. Dueling is also an important 
 factor in this version as well since almost every person at Hogwarts hates Harry on some personal 
 level. Dueling will happen often, and while the same basic rules apply to the other spells, it 
 feels as though everyone takes turns casting magic rather than the frantic, colorful battles as 
 seen previously. With the action mapped mostly to the analog sticks, combat is easier, and feels 
 intuitive, sometimes as if the wand were in your very hands...
  
  Once Harry starts learning new moves he can than use them any time he wants. While wandering around 
 Hogwarts there are many secrets to unravel, such as broken objects, hidden statues, and talking 
 portraits. By utilizing everything you have learned through the course of the game you can ultimately 
 uncover new secrets and earn rewards. The more magic you perform around the school, the higher 
 your discovery rank will rise. Discovery ranks not only make your spells more powerful as time 
 goes on, but they also unlock special goodies that can be viewed anytime in a cleverly titled Room 
 of Rewards. Such special rewards include interviews with the cast from the films, new costumes 
 and outfits, and even some hidden spells.
  
  As you roam freely around the grounds you will come across an assortment of tasks to participate 
 in. The usual story related affairs are plentiful, as well as minor mundane tasks that dont follow 
 the story at all. There is also a wide assortment of minigames to partake in if you happen to be 
 in the mood for a slight change of pace. Wizarding chess, gobstones, exploding snap, and more delightful 
 games mentioned throughout the series are all wonderfully created and are available to play at 
 any time. Challenging champions from different houses and working your way up the ranks to become 
 the ultimate Hogwarts victor at every specific game can be incredibly addicting, however dont 
 let the sporadic AI cause you to complain from time to time.
  
  If playing minigames isnt your thing, than you can simply head straight for the main tasks and 
 play through the storyline. These different tasks can range anywhere from helping Fred and George 
 hide cases of fireworks to searching for ingredients for Potions homework. The diverse amount of 
 tasks available helps encourage players to fully make use of the huge castle. But while there are 
 various amounts of tasks to do, many of them require little or no skill at all and usually involve 
 simple fetching tactics. Not to mention many of the tasks give no explanation or helpful clues 
 as to what to do next (which is the case where you have to search the entire school for five talking 
 gargoyles) and completing tasks can often become repetitive and frustrating.
  
  To help make navigation much easier, everything is located in your own personal Marauders Map. 
 By using the Marauders Map you can essentially find the location of every place and person within 
 the Hogwarts grounds. By selecting a certain object, black imaginary footprints appear (similar 
 to those shown in the movie Prisoner of Azkaban) to give you a sort of GPS direction on the most 
 direct route to take. While this is a great idea in theory, the overall execution falls short due 
 in fact that the prints always move way too fast for you to follow at times and walking through 
 narrow corridors and staircases can often lead to confusion and backtracking.
  
  Visually, Order of the Phoenix looks fantastic with enough flair and Harry Potter memorabilia to 
 make any fan happy. All of the locations look very much like the movie sets that at times it feels 
 like you are actually physically standing among the cast. Many of the locations that get vague 
 references, such as the schools Aqueducts or Trophy Room, are also created to look just as stunning 
 as the remaining locations. Even the characters look good despite their lack of facial expressions, 
 and all of the main characters look true to their real-life counterparts. Students even sport different 
 color clothing that corresponds to their houses, which is a nice but subtle detail.
  
  While the visuals got a complete overhaul and turned out to look great, the same cannot be said 
 for the overall sound. The music gets recycled way too often for its own good and character dialogues 
 (especially those being said by extra characters) get boring fast as none of them say anything 
 remotely interesting. The biggest noticeable offense, and one that was butchered throughout the 
 game, is the terrible voice acting. While many of the movies stars reprise their roles, there 
 are blatant moments when characters suddenly speak without British accents or girls sound like 
 men and vice versa. Its quite noticeable if you happen to have seen all of the previous movies 
 and know what every character sounds like, but it shouldnt be enough to damper your fun.
  
  Order of the Phoenix is without a doubt the best entry in the Harry Potter series to date. 
 Its impressive go anywhere style of gameplay is every fans dream come true and the amount of 
 freedom available in the game will keep players interested for a long time; just don't expect to 
 return anytime soon once you finish the story. Anyone hoping to play this game without first reading 
 the book may be turned away by the constant bombardment of Harry Potter subtlety, but diehard fans 
 will be hooked from the start all the way to the climatic ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter 5 the game is takening gamers into Hogwarts in an all new way. There are major plus's 
 to the gameplay, but there are some negatives. The last Potter game was downright bad for the true 
 Potter fans out there, but the good news is this game will make any true Potter fan really happy. 
 The setting of Hogwarts is so much in likeness to the film, the different areas are completly cloned 
 from the film counterparts. So if your a fan of the films you'll be glad with what you see. The 
 gameplay is different from past games but its interessting. On average Harry can use about five 
 spells to jinx things, repair things, set things on fire, etc. Then when you enter battle you gain 
 the powerful spells however, you can only use these spells during battle. The voice actors are 
 not that bad and the good thing is that some of actors from the film lend their voices which helps. 
 The story however, moves at rocket speed, you start the game out fighting the dementors and after 
 heading to Grimauld Place, you'll be at Hogwarts. This time period is very quick. Once you get 
 to Hogwarts the story slows down when you must find all 28 DA members. You have to help them out 
 and then they will join you. The negative to the game is that some of the task given to use are 
 either boring or repetitive, its only one or two which isn't that much of a pestering problem. 
 The missed marks are that there is no flying which i feel is the biggest loss to the game. Bottom 
 Line: If you love the Harry Potter series you will think this game is the best in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imperial_agent
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The game has done a pretty good job at trying to summarize the 1200 page OOTP novel into a 15 hour 
 game.
  
  The Good
  
  First off, the environment assests in this game are EXTRORDINARY. You'll see nearly all of the 
 sets from the Sorcers Stone (SS) movie, Chamber of Secrets (CS) , POA, and GOF right here in one 
 game. It's unbelieveabale how faithful there were to the movies. Everything is in this game. Wow.. 
 simply wow!
  
  You can pull out our wand and preform various magic spells on certain objects. Usually, these objects 
 have a pulsing in-glow that make them fairly easy to spot, although sometimes you'll have to find 
 some of the secretive items by point your wand at random things and trying different spells. Hogwarts 
 is teaming with literally hundreds of objects that can be effected by your character, and doing 
 so increases your magical skill and unlocks achievements. The physics system works like a breeze 
 and doing magical tasks is always fun within itself. It feels very realistic and is satisfying 
 to do.
  
  Hogwarts is full of random NPC students walking around the halls. As you walk by them, you can 
 hear pieces of their conversation, and you can also talk to EVERY single student you pass by. Most 
 of them don't have anything unique to the storyline to say to you, but the more prominent characters 
 who drive the story-line can easily by found by bringing up the maruders map and simply selecting 
 them from a list of other quest-advancing students.
  
  The Bad
  
  The unfortnate thing about Harry Potter OOTP is that there isn't much action or suspensful moments. 
 Most of the time, you'll be asked to find a book in the library, only that the book is high above 
 a shelf. Once you use some magic to get it down, you return the book to so-and-so, and that's it. 
 You talk to the next person on your list, and they typically have a request to be fullfilled (find 
 this item in this room, move this object here, etc...) . They're not very challenging and can get 
 montontous to do after a while.
  
  Once you unhinge Umbridge, the game is about 95% over. I was hoping that the next section of the 
 game, getting into the Department of Mysteries and fighting all those death eaters, was going to 
 be another quest. But, no! As soon as Umbridge was defeated,'' there were a series of (badly animated) 
 cut-scenes, with you controlling Sirius Black for one fight enounter against Bellatrix Lestrange 
 (which you have no choice but to lose, anyway) , another cut-scene, and then take control of Dumbledore 
 and fight Voldemort. That's it. That's all there was to that part of the game, and it went by in 
 just 5 or 10 minutes.
  
  The Ugly
  
  The automated lip-sync system isn't working correctly. Characters will move their mouths in an 
 unrealistic, robotic like way when talking, or not even move their mouths at all. The cutscene 
 animation needs a lot of polish and looks horribly stiff.
  
  A lot of the scenes that further the story are done in these scripted-like cutscenes that aren't 
 really cutscenes. Just characters talking while in some sort of standard stand-still pose. It's 
 not very animated. Sometimes, you'll just see a door, with people behind the door talking, but 
 you won't see any animation of any sort. Such a cop-out.. I felt ripped-off by this cheap way of 
 telling the story. When the game switches to game mode and cutscene mode (like when talking to 
 another character) , the characters themselves will often snap to a certain location on screen that 
 looks awkard. The demon-cam that is scripted during talking scenes can be horribly off, sometimes 
 not even showing the talking person on screen at all! The final word: Overall, the game isn't THAT 
 bad. It's actually quite fun at times, but repairing broken vases and hanging pictures gets old 
 pretty fast, especially when it's the CORE of the gameplay. EA spent a good amount of time on the 
 environments and effects, but nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played the past Harry Potter games (on the PC) I had very limited expectations for Order 
 of the Phoenix. Movie tie-in games always have their share of issues, and so far the Potter games 
 have usually not overcome them. Though they have been entertaining, I often came to realize that 
 if the game wasn't based on the Harry Potter license, I wouldn't have played it.
  
  So I went in with realistic expectations, and this time the game exceeded them. By a little.
 
  
  All the movie tie-in issues remain -- decidedly uneven graphics, for instance. Uneven voice performances. 
 And, of course, all the benefits of a movie tie-in as well -- such as excellent art direction and 
 music.
  
  Let's begin with the gameplay. Unlike past Potter games which felt like reenacting the movie, this 
 game manages to play around the movie's main action, and that's a good thing. The game's missions 
 vary from finding individual characters, finding objects and potion ingredients, and even finding 
 hidden Hogwarts secrets for homework. Yes, it's a lot of finding. A lot of traveling back and forth. 
 And it can become a bit tedious.
  
  However, the running around doesn't get old very quickly, because there is so much to do in Hogwarts. 
 Not all the secrets are hard to find, of course, but the game compensates by throwing a variety 
 of spell-based puzzles to solve along the corridors and classrooms.
  
  During the course of the story, you'll also be confronted with some dueling. The controls for spellcasting 
 are rather simple on the 360, and you won't have a difficult time actually making the spells work. 
 However, the aiming is a different story. Done with the left and right triggers, you'd think it 
 would be easy, but it is not always very clear where you are aiming. In testing sessions with teachers, 
 this can get very frustrating. Another problem is that the Wingardium Leviosa spell is often required 
 in such situations, and the demands of the game sometimes outstrip the accuracy of the controls, 
 which can become frustrating. But tests can be taken over again, and so the frustration is minimized.
 
  
  The main quest won't take you that long, and while it is interesting, the real meat of the game 
 is in exploring Hogwarts. And that's fine. Hogwarts is huge, and, at first, confusing as hell. 
 But once you're used to it (and find passwords for secret passages) it is easy to navigate. And 
 there are enough nooks and crannies to keep you occupied for some time. The voice acting is occasionally 
 good, when it is done by actual cast members. Even then, though, the writing for the game is frequently 
 horrible, which is odd for such a well-written book. Delivery is sometimes very bad. The dialogue 
 is often stilted. Worse still is the atrocious character animations. Or lack thereof. Mostly, when 
 characters speak their mouths move and little else. Some of the character models are horrible, 
 especially up close. McGonagall and Sprout in particular fare badly here. They are hideous. From 
 a distance, though, the characters are fine. It seems most of the time was spent on Hogwarts, and 
 less on making the characters look good. I can understand emphasizing the school, but the balance 
 is way out of whack.
  
  Graphically, the game benefits from access to the movie sets. Often the Hogwarts interiors are 
 very beautiful. But the grounds are a different story. Mostly they look very flat and unrealistic. 
 The difference between the inside and outside of Hogwarts is unbelievable. Mostly, though, you'll 
 be spending time inside -- all for the best. But the truly great thing about the game is that there 
 are no in-game loads. Run from Divination to Potions, from the Library to the Owlery, there are 
 no pauses to load. That's freaking cool, especially after playing a game like Oblivion.
  
  Controls can be a bit iffy, and the camera is frustrating about 20% of the time. NPCs often block 
 the way. And since there are so many students in the hallways, this can be a problem.
  
  That said, unless you're a Harry Potter fan, you'll likely not enjoy this game much. The dialogue 
 tends to be shorthand from the book, so you won't get the humor most of the time. The story is 
 also told in shorthand, even compared to what we will likely see in the movie, which means that 
 unless you're familiar with the book you may not follow everything. And the game is, for lack of 
 a better description, an extended easter egg hunt. You are basically finding hidden things the 
 entire game. That is, actually, the entirety of the game. Missions are not as diverse as they could 
 have been, and while spellcasting can be fun, it's pretty straightforward and not very challenging.
 
  
  But the license saves it. It really is fun running around Hogwarts and finding things, talking 
 to professors and other students, and, in the end, sticking it to Voldemort.
  
  Really, though, there is no excuse for some of these failings, mostly with the voice acting and 
 character animations. Movie tie-in games seem to think that looking like the main characters is 
 enough. But it's not. The game could have been a lot better.
  
  Recommended for Harry Potter fans, who will (I think) truly enjoy the game. For everyone else? 
 Meh. You're not missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxXxxMCRxxXxx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a very awesome game, spectacular graphics, cool voice overs, and the best yet from the 
 harry potter games. It gives the players a chance to control harry potter and provide a unique 
 way of spell casting (trust me its unique) . This feature makes the game look more challenging and 
 unique which is a good plus for me cause uniqueness is very important for a great game. It also 
 gives you the feeling of being in hogwarts; the landmarks in the movie, places in the books, and 
 real stuff from hogwarts. Sound is very cool too. Voices from the movie gives the game the real 
 Harry Potter look. the only unfortunate thing is, at some point of the game you barely hear the 
 background music so you can hear almost nothing. Another unfortunate thing is (it doesnt really 
 matter) following the footsteps. It can sometimes fool you but its okay its up to you anyways. 
 In conclusion, Harry Potter and the Order Or The Phoenix is worth-playing, cool and connects to 
 the movie very well but can sometimes be boring..... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
