-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hellboy: The Science of Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/hellboy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cooperative play lets you drag another person with you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simple, repetitive combat.
 Way too easy.
 Disjointed story.
 Obscure puzzles.
 Swords break as easily as shattered hopes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The combat in Hellboy gets repetitive before the first level ends and never presents a challenge. 
 This is a boring, bland game. 

  There is a moment in Hellboy: Science of Evil when you have to face off against a hideous gorilla/octopus 
 hybrid. It roars with anger as its slimy tentacles writhe like sloppy worms. At this point, your 
 adrenaline should gush as you raise your stone-encrusted fist to do battle with this horrific abomination. 
 In practice, you'll slurp up a rogue strand of drool as you halfheartedly pound your well-worn 
 square button for the umpteenth time. In a game where even swinging half-formed frog men around 
 by their prehensile tongues can elicit a hearty yawn, it's not surprising that facing off against 
 a monster that should reside exclusively in nightmares feels downright boring. The only thing Hellboy 
 does really well is make you appreciate how far the beat-'em-up genre has evolved since games that 
 play like this were commonplace.  

           Undead Nazis hate getting punched in the face.      

  Hellboy has a beef with a witch 
 who refers to herself in the third-person. You'll spend the first half of your quest trying to 
 shut her up for good before you suddenly decide your real enemy is a horde of cyborg gorillas. 
 The story is a convoluted mess of inadequate motivations and long soliloquies given by every skeleton 
 you meet along the way. Instead of simple explanations that keep you abreast of why your missions 
 are taking seemingly random turns, you are given such contemporary one-liners as "We're not in 
 Kansas anymore, Toto." Despite the cursory effort given to constructing this nonsensical tale, 
 the cutscenes are all too frequent and far from concise; plus, you can't even skip them. Ron Perlman 
 lends his voice talents, but while it's fitting how often he mutters "That was easy," his usual 
 smarmy punch is nowhere to be found.  

  The main draw in a game involving an endless stream of enemies should be an entertaining combat 
 system. There is no such draw here. You'll spend the majority of your time rapidly slamming the 
 square button to punch with the occasional gunshot thrown in for diversity. This game is so easy 
 you don't even have defensive maneuvers in your repertoire. Why would you need to block when your 
 foes barely even attack? Enemies will meander up to you then simply stand still, waiting for you 
 to turn around and smack them in the face. It's not uncommon to find yourself surrounded by a gang 
 of ugly ghoulies only to walk away with your life bar still at the optimal level. You can pick 
 up unwieldy swords and spears to give your aching fists a rest, but these serve as only graphically 
 different versions of the same tired battle mechanic. Later enemies have bloated health bars, which 
 force you to use discarded weapons to dispose of them in a timely manner. This serves to only frustrate 
 because even the heartiest sword will shatter after three blows. Though these enemies take longer 
 to kill, they never pose a serious threat to your own life.  

  The only time you'll find yourself challenged is when obstinate puzzles and directionless level 
 design lead you down the path of frustration. In one level, you are told to light torches to continue 
 on your way. After using flaming spears to pass the first few sections like this, you come to a 
 point where that tactic inexplicably doesn't work anymore. Instead, you have to reach your hand 
 into an already lit torch and extract flammable bullets -- a technique never explained prior to that 
 moment. In another level, late in the game, you have to find tiny switches hidden along walls. 
 Again, this maneuver was never exhibited before, which leads to a frantic search trying to figure 
 out how to progress. The game is full of moments where it appears to be broken; at least until 
 you realize that you just need to stumble upon some random solution.  

           Crystals shatter way too easily.      

  Science of Evil is as likely to win awards 
 for its technical prowess as Hellboy is for being a dapper duke. It makes sense that the game keeps 
 a relatively steady frame rate because it never tries to do anything that will actually push the 
 hardware. Character models lack detail and diversity -- you'll see only two or three different types 
 per level -- while textures are muddy. Fortunately, the game runs without any noticeable hiccups 
 even when a second player jumps in locally or online. Though cooperative play often makes a game 
 more fun than slogging through alone, an extra player here merely makes this already easy adventure 
 even less challenging.  

  There is no reason to waste your time with Hellboy: Science of Evil. Even fans of the comic won't 
 find much to dig here. The story is handled so inexpertly, it will only anger those who have invested 
 hours reading the paper exploits of Hellboy. Weak combat and ugly visuals should deter those just 
 looking for a solid beat-'em-up. With expectations for licensed products already so low, it's a 
 testament to how poorly designed this game is that it can't even live up to the mediocre games 
 around it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: l0crian
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is miss-represented. It's game play trailers may look fun, but do not be deceived... the 
 only thing this title could do to entertain me is bubble up in a microwave and shower me with pretty 
 sparks.
  
  It's one liners are as bad as the movie and the co-op is ridiculously hard to see as the camera 
 angles just plain fail.
  
  In single player mode, the camera is still a let down; Bosses consistently fly off screen and you 
 are required to run around like a fool while the sluggish controls keep you pinned down under constant 
 waves of repetitiveness. The only reason I even purchased this 'game' was because it was $10. That 
 being said, I still feel robbed.
  
  The only reason this game deserves a grade at all (1.5) is that the sound isn't bad. The voice 
 acting is well recorded and someone was paying attention to how sound interacts with the game. 
 
  
  The music is fitting and the ambient sounds work quiet well... just a pity about the game play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flywheels
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  What can I say positive about this game? Not much, unfortunately. While I did enjoy my play through, 
 I doubt I would re-visit the game again as there just isn't much reason to do so. As others have 
 said, game play is very repetitive and gets old real quick. Mechanics are simple to master and 
 level design is varied enough to keep from getting boring. There are different types of ammo you 
 can use, but no matter which bullet you're using or what type of enemy you're shooting it just 
 doesn't seem to matter. A lot of the enemies can take a lot of damage and most of the bullets just 
 don't seem to kill them any faster. In fact it almost seems easier just to fore go using your gun 
 and just kill everything with your fists instead.
  
  If nothing else you could play this game for the easy achievements, netting just over 600 gamerscore 
 points in one play through. I haven't found anyone to try out the on-line aspects of the game, 
 but one would think that might add some much need pepto to the game play as both Abe Sapien and 
 Liz Sherman are playable.
  
  If I ran across the game for around $10 I would consider buying, other wise stick to a weekend 
 rental. Overall this game leaves a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Me, being some what of an achievement monger thought I'd give this game a try after reading that 
 it had some very easy achievements. I had a free rental from Hollywood Video, so I went and picked 
 it up. At first I thought this game wasn't that bad. The environments looked great, the combat 
 (at first) wasn't that bad, and it had some variety like using different objects around the environment, 
 etc. to pick off enemies. By the end of chapter 2, though, the game's problems started to come 
 out. For one, Hellboy's controls feel very clunky and Hellboy is very clumsy. For a game that focuses 
 on picking things up and using them as weapons it's very frustrating at times to do just that. 
 You'll stand over an object or enemy continually pressing the grab button over and over and nothing 
 will happen. This is not good when there are swarms of enemies attacking from all sides and will 
 get you killed a good number of times. Also, when you start to do a combo (sometimes unintentionally) 
 you can't stop. So if there are 3 enemies behind you about to start attacking and your facing away 
 from them and swing and start a combo -just sit back and watch them mess you up because you're 
 stuck. As the game goes on you start to realize that this is all it is. Groups and groups (some 
 times way too many that take WAY too many hits) enemies coming at you with no challenge whatsoever. 
 So what's the point? I 'get it' after killing 10, but send out 30 more that take 30 hits each and 
 present no challenge? Gets very boring and starts to feel like a chore. "Oh god. Here comes some 
 more enemies." Oh my god, even more?! You gotta be kidding me. Let's get on with the game. Jeeze." 
 So, if you're looking for some easy achievements and don't mind being bored out of your mind for 
 a good 6 plus hours might wanna rent it. I got 2 chapters to go and am dreading the thought of 
 playing through them... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Hellboy: Science of evil doesn't follow the movie Hellboy 2: The golden Army. Instead it has a storyline 
 of its one which is bleak. The storyline is very boring and doesn't capture the gamer's attention. 
 The mission designs are also very boring. Go to these area, eliminate all the enemies in the area 
 and then go to the next area and eliminate the next wave of enemies. But in these game, there are 
 a few puzzles and some of them require thinking. To some, these puzzles are a nuizance as you have 
 to figure out how to do it. Enemy designs are also interesting ranging from wolfs to elfs to zombies 
 to gorrilas to lizards. These monsters may look scary but when they come to you, they hardly attack 
 you. They just stand there waiting to be killed. One thing nice about this game is the boss battles. 
 They are interesting and makes you think on how to kill the boss. The bosses vary from a giant 
 worm to a witch. The combat is not bad and the attack combos are good. There are no hiccups in 
 the game and framerate maintain at a steady rate. The environment looks bland and the voice acting 
 is bad. Cutscenes doesn't go well and graphics are bad. Overall, this game is boring and dissapointing. 
 The storyline is boring. The combat may not be appealing to others and so on. If you really want 
 this game, go ahead and rent it. Its not worth spending your full money on this game. Luckily, 
 i rented this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  As we know movie tie ins usually, to be blunt and low brow "suck as" usually for the reason that 
 they're rushed to the selves in time for the release of the particular movie itself. Of course 
 most of these are based on comics that also have a habit of being really good if they're NOT movie 
 tie ins but rather loosely adapted from the comic/character. Hellboy is a Dark Horse comics character 
 and so isn't as well known as the Marvel family but by no means is that a bad thing. Hellboy is 
 a great franchise, it has action, humor and horror that work well together. The lead character 
 is tough and a total bad ass but also comical and sympathetic and the rest, both good and evil 
 are likable in their own way. The beauty part is the franchise is becoming more popular and thus 
 expanding, with more comics coming out along with animated films and feature length movies. However 
 like all expanding franchises it can't be all good *cough*Spider Man*cough*Super Man*cough* and 
 video games as I've already highlighted are sadly the usual suspects. Now I should stress what 
 you probably already know, this isn't related to the film Hellboy II: The Golden Army but it was 
 most likely made to be released along side it, so its like a movie tie in not based on the movie.
 
  
  Given it having its own plot, you might find yourself lost if you're unfamiliar with comics although 
 then again this is a game you'll most likely look into if you're a hardcore Hellboy fan, like me 
 for one. The basic plot sees big old Red hunting a crazed witch in Romania until he also stumbles 
 upon yet another Nazi conspiracy, of who which you'll also fight against in a couple of prequel 
 missions. Sadly its somewhat paper-thin, and much of the revelations of the Nazi plot is revealed 
 in very few dialogue sequences, much found in the last level and comes about quite suddenly. Most 
 of the more interesting aspects of the story are in the flash back missions as they aren't to tied 
 to the main premise. Its not a bad story in the sense that its confusing or over the top, rather 
 that its to basic and lacking in comparison to most other Hellboy media. Its more of an excuse 
 for Hellboy to travel to exotic locations and beat the inhabitants into pulp.
  
  However you might now be wondering if there's any reason to watch the cinematics other than the 
 justification for why you're in a Japanese Forest or a Romanian Cave... well the real reason is 
 the classic Hellboy charm. With the excellent Ron Perlman providing his voice for Red once again, 
 you'll get many wisecracks, sarcastic comments and good old all round wit to make your battle with 
 evil more fun. Given its mostly a single player affair, the most other frequent voice talent is 
 from the character Herman Von Klempt voiced by... er... a man? Either way its nowhere as near as 
 memorable as Ron playing Red despite being an interesting character in his own way. If you play 
 co-op you can control Abe or Liz, both of which are voiced by the actors from the film to. Even 
 though neither can fully express their talent due to a lack of cinematics in co-op but they'll 
 still shout here and there in battle, of which is also good enough. On top of the voice acting 
 is the soundtrack. The background music consists of orchestral anthems and battle drums/horns... 
 sounds impressive but then again name me a game without one these days... Although while not unique 
 its by no means bad. It does justice to the combat that will drag out so it helps to be hearing 
 something appropriate in the mean time.
  
  Graphically its somewhat of an oddball. You know in RTS game where the graphics become worse when 
 you zoom in? In Science of Evil its the other way around. During the cut-scenes, the graphics are 
 of a reasonably good quality. You can do hell of a lot better on the 360 or PS3 but then again 
 you can also do worse. During the game however the textures are more blurry/pixelated in comparison. 
 To be blunt its more or less on par with last generation consoles. While it would have been better 
 to of seen a greater spectacle on the more powerful consoles (notably given Hellboy II was as such) , 
 its not really an ugly game per say, its just it does scream rushed tie in with some rather bland 
 levels and character animation. Unless you don't care so much about graphics, it might be a ho-hum 
 experience visually. In terms of design however there are some redeeming qualities. First of is 
 the rag doll and damage physics. Its not Half Life 2 but its always a plus to fire a heavy round 
 into the chest of an enemy only to seem then fly through some metal scaffolding and go slat against 
 the wall only to slide down straight after... Ok thats a bit of an exaggeration but trust me it 
 can get crazy when foes and scenery are in the right place. In terms of enemy variety you get about 
 3 different opponent each chapter, maybe 4 or 5 in the later. Of course that doesn't sound like 
 much... and thats the truth sadly given the vast array of abominations Hellboy and co have fought 
 over the years of comics and other media. Yet what you get is still unique and classic Hellboy. 
 There will be the usual suspects like robot Nazis and frog monsters, along with the cyborg gorillas 
 but also werewolves, mummies and Oni demons. The Nazis and mummies aren't anything special but 
 its hard to complain when you're up against Japanese demons armed with maces or giant yetis with 
 chain guns for arms.
  
  Now onto what the game is all about, beating demonic and Nazi forces. Beating is also the correct 
 term even though you may at first think its similar to God of War and Devil May Cry, which it is 
 to an extent with combat style and quick time events but they on the other hand offer mass slaughter 
 due to the fast paced action, Science of Evil on the other hand consists of brawls more like the 
 arcade side scrollers of yore but in 3D (like Fighting Force... or the many other comic/movie tie 
 ins) . Your basic attacks are heavy and quick strikes that when mixed up create differing combos... 
 even though many look the same as they all end with a slam on the floor. The more fun aspects of 
 combat are the grapple attacks, finishers and the Samaritan pistol. Grapples and finishers are 
 the real combo attacks and if you don't enjoy grabbing a Nazi by the throat, punching him over 
 and over in the face before pulling him in half then you're looking into the wrong genre, period. 
 The Samaritan, Hellboy's trusty oversized 6 shooter does feel heavy as each shoot causes kickback 
 for you and of course throws the target when hit and with a choice of 9 bullets its fun to experiment 
 with each... but I should point out however its somewhat weak most of the time so its more for 
 effect than use in combat. Now repetition is a word used a lot in reviews... and this one is no 
 exception. One problem however is the issue that repetition is entirely opinion based given anything 
 can be repetitive depending on the player. For example the Japanese like repetition with the many 
 Final Fantasy and Dynasty Warriors esc games so naturally people the West might to. Science of 
 Evil is best player in small doses, and since most reviewers don't/can't when reviewing, its no 
 wonder this game got such bad press. In tiny bites rather than mouthfuls the game can be fun if 
 not really easy (think more of a stress reliever than Ninja Gaiden) and the short time on top of 
 the production values means its not worth the starting full price but this now leads me to the 
 crunch of this review and the inevitable cliche "all in all" conclusion: this game is for Hellboy 
 fans and them only, no one else. If I was playing this as a generic warrior or bruiser I would 
 be unimpressed due to the basic gameplay. The fact its Hellboy is a great plus given there's no 
 video games featuring big Red (no don't mention Asylum Seeker... that wasn't even a game in my 
 opinion) and fans will eat it up, slugging Nazis and other monsters with the Right Hand of Doom! 
 ... all I recommend to would be fanboy buyers is wait for a price cut, a big one that hopefully 
 won't be to long given the trend of cuts of tie ins, because as a game its nothing special.
  
  And multiplayer? I'll be brief and blunt here. Like most games its always better to play with 
 someone else, just remember Hellboy is better to play as than Abe and Liz...
  
  "All in all" this feel like a Hellboy product in the sense of design, style and writing yet lacks 
 the better conventions of a game like in depth gameplay and detailed graphics, and the story is 
 disappointing for both medias. So Hellboy: Science of Evil doesn't escape the trend of bad tie 
 ins (despite not technically being one) but you do have to remember that people who buy these things 
 are fans and fans only. You can get enough thrills if played in portions rather than stretches 
 of time but this game can be better, Hellboy deserves more than this and with his increasing popularity 
 we might get there eventually... but in the mean time with have this and as a Hellboy product its 
 as closest and good as we've got in terms of a game and that means something (sort of) if you need 
 to become Hellboy through the means of a controller. 
  
  To Hellboy fans only: Look into it when cheap.
  
  Pros:
  - Its Hellboy!
  - Great soundtrack 
 and Ron Perlman voice acting
  - Interesting characters, enemies and locations
  - Co-op good enough
  
  Cons:
  - Gameplay will get repetitive
  - Cakewalk difficulty
  
 - So so graphics
  - Very short
  - Lacks proper story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  If you're not a Hellboy fan (and that is a fan of the comic books) you'll want to keep your distance 
 from this game. Everything begins in gorgeous Romania, which is land to an absurd amount of legends, 
 you're hunting a witch but, of course, being Hellboy, everything will become a LOT more complicated 
 than it should be. There are only 6 stages, basicaly you'll remain in your inicial mission, 'till 
 you fall of a cliff, hit your head, and "dream" about an older mission in Japan, and then again, 
 the same formula, but now in Egypt, then you get back to many different scenarios, but all in Romania. 
 As the story goes, your simple witch hunt soon becomes a devil's nightmare as you uncover a bigger 
 nazi plot that links back to the missions you went through in Japan and Egypt.
  The game palys like any other brawler you have ever seen, if you played any of the PS2 batman Animated 
 games, then you know exactly how Hellboy performs (only here you can use your handgun) . The game 
 manages to entertain fans, since it's pretty true to the character's destructive nature, having 
 a story that is as good as any Hellboy tale so far and carries all the right humour punches that 
 Big Red's lack of luck tend to bring to the fans. The big problem is that in between those cutscenes 
 you'll have to break through legions of enemies, in a simple scenario, average graphics, and weak 
 combos, so that makes everything very tiresome.
  The scenario is simple and repetitive, character's models however are up to the standart graphics 
 (only it imitates the crude straight lines of Hellboy's comic art) .
  Music is also repetitive, specially for people who have seen the movie (it seems to be, for the 
 most part, the very same soundtrack... Not that it's bad, but it gets old after a while, and while 
 it works on the fast sequences of a movie, they do not work on the full length of a game) .
  As for Abe and Lys, they do appear on the game's cover-art, but, in single player they never show 
 up at all. That is, unless you get to play it in co-op, then you get to play as Lys and Abe as 
 well as Hellboy, but here lies another problem, it is VERY hard to find someone to play Hellboy 
 with via LIVE, unlike Gears of War and Halo 3, not many people own (or play) the game, so it's 
 quite difficult to start a co-op match whenever you feel like it.
  All in all, the game is a must have for fans of Hellboy's tales, since it really looks like an 
 interactive graphic novel (albeit very repetitive) . For fans of brawler games, of the old type 
 of brawlers, the game is also worth a buy. But for anyone else, this is at best a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Doomsayer_
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Hellboy: The Science of Evil is a beat 'em up starring the trash-talking, demon slayer in an original 
 story unrelated to either movie. The story begins with Hellboy hunting a witch through a forest 
 inhabited by imps and werewolves. From there he has flash-backs, and the story switches from flash 
 backs to Hellboy's present adventure. The story is nothing spectacular, but fans of the comic may 
 enjoy the same humor and sarcasm to the story and dialog that is expected from the comics, such 
 as when Hellboy talks to the dead and cracks all kinds of one-liners throughout the game.
  
  As for gameplay, my first complaint comes from a fixed camera that can be very frustrating 
 and disorientating throughout the game. Hellboy has a wide variety of combo moves and grapple finishers 
 that differ with each enemy, usually resulting in him tearing an enemy in half and using their 
 body parts as weapons, or stealing their weapon altogether. I found that grabs are sometimes difficult 
 to perform due to glitches such as if an enemy is on slightly higher ground than you, your grab 
 will fail. Also, you have to be staring directly at an enemy and standing as close as possible 
 to them otherwise you will grab nothing but air. Enemy AI is often lacking, and the game can become 
 repetitive quickly, as it is just killing enemies until the demon gate raises and proceed further 
 into the level to kill more enemies. There is the occasional boss fight that can be annoying.
 
  
  Hellboy: The Science of Evil also has multiplayer co-op. A friend can drop in either through Xbox 
 Live or splitscreen, and they can choose to play as either Abe Sapien or Liz Sherman. Each character 
 has their own interesting combat style- Hellboy uses brute strength along with his infamous "Samaritan" 
 handgun, Abe uses martial arts called "Way of the Water" along with a rapid-fire pistol, and Liz 
 uses her powers to light enemies on fire and as a range weapon she can point at enemies and they 
 will burst into flames. They each even have different grab moves, which can sometimes be annoying 
 because this means only Hellboy can complete puzzles requiring him to lift things. Abe can only 
 flip enemies over him or behind him, and Liz can pick up objects with telekinesis and throw them 
 or pick up enemies that light on fire and fling them. The differing move sets make Hellboy: The 
 Science of Evil a pretty entertaining co-op game.
  
  The visuals of Hellboy can often look pretty good, but it's nothing really impressive. Forests 
 look very dark and mysterious with enemies crawling about them as well as a ghost town that is 
 teeming with the supernatural. The characters also look nice. Enemies look very quirky, they bounce 
 about sometimes removing their heads and throwing them at you or latching onto Hellboy's back.
 
  
  Hellboy: The Science of Evil is a decent game, but it is very repetitive. I only recommend this 
 game if you are a fan of repetitive beat 'em ups, or if you are a fan of Hellboy enough to look 
 past this game's flaws. It is a good co-op weekend rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindclown2000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  So I guess with the new Hellboy movie coming out very soon, someone decided that it was just time 
 to give old Red his own video game. Well actually, he's been put in video game before, but from 
 what I hear, that old Playstation game was just plain horrible. 
  
  The game plays like a good old fashion beat em up. Basically each level makes you go from point 
 A to point B, and punch everything in between. Occasionally you'll come across walls or doors that 
 need some special love, so you hold the RT and rapidly press X to have Hellboy go into an animation 
 where he wails on the wall with his Right Hand of Doom until it smashes open. Simple, yet effective.
 
  
  There are only 6 levels, but it takes you about an hour to finish each level. Some of the levels 
 deal with the same storyline, which has Hellboy going after this crowy witch through an old village, 
 which then leads him back to his arch rivals, the Nazi's. The other levels, which are thrown in 
 just to break up the main story I guess, take place at various points in Hellboy's past. One such 
 level finds him in Japan, another has him fighting undead Nazi's in the desert. 
  
  
  Hellboy's has two attacks, a weak attack and a strong attack. You can mix these two buttons up 
 for some nice combos, but basically you'll be pressing the same buttons over and over throughout 
 the whole game. When enemies are weak enough and are stunned, you can grab them and then perform 
 certain attacks on them, like a cool finishing move or just pound the holy living crap out of them.
 
  
  
  Also in Hellboy's arsenal is his trusty Samaritan, his big pistol. Throughout the game you'll get 
 various types of ammo to use, but the gun fires slow and takes time to reload, so you really won't 
 be playing this game like a third person shooter. 
  
  Graphic wise, the game actually looks pretty good. You don't control the camera too much, most 
 of the view points are just set, but you can use the right thumbstick to slightly move the camera 
 in a certain direction to kind of see your environment a little better. 
  
  
  The sound is good, which Ron Pearlman, who plays Hellboy in the movies and animated movies, reprises 
 his role as Hellboy. I never got to play the game with multiplayer, so I don't know if the other 
 actors reprise their roles of Liz and Abe, but I'm sure they do. 
  
  That's right, there is multiplayer. You can team up with Hellboy as either Liz or Abe and help 
 Hellboy smash and bash his way through some Nazi scum. 
  
  
  There's not much replayability here, because once you've beaten the game that's pretty much it 
 unless you just really love Hellboy and want to go through the adventure again. There is only one 
 set difficulty, so you can't rev up the difficulty and try again with more of a challenge. 
  
  There is only very slight platforming, and some very dumb puzzles. Most of the time there will 
 be something blocking your path that Hellboy just can't punch through, so you usually have to find 
 some fire, or special ammunition, or use a special green glowing witch candle to use as a weapon 
 to clear your path. And in the desert level, the bad guys are really vulnerable to certain energy 
 swords, or with these orange crystals that you find lying around all over the level.
  
  I'm a fan of Hellboy, I really loved the movie, the animated movies, and I'm starting to get into 
 the comics. Since this game has very repetitive gameplay, it would probably be best to already 
 be a Hellboy fan before trying this out. If you're not much into Big Red, then you probably should 
 just steer clear from this game, unless you like your games mindless and love to stop Nazi's. 
 
  
  On a scale of 1  10, with 1 being the most smelly disgusting piece of software to ever grace God's 
 green earth, and with 10 being an enlightenment to the whole human existence.
  
  Graphics  8
  Sound  7
  Story  8
  Gameplay  8
  Replayability  6
  
  Overall  8
 
  (Not an average, Batman)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad, I really don't want to review it right now. But I should so that you don't 
 have to play this game.
  
  There are six missions in the whole game, each which last over an hour each so your journey from 
 Carpathian Mountains to von Klempt's castle is one where if you blink, you'll miss it.
  
  There are only 11 combo attacks, melee weapons which last for one hit (sometimes two) , and all 
 of the combat goes to hell when the enemies run in to tress! Co-op is less fun than actually playing 
 solo since both characters suck and have fun unlocking all of the stages all over again. It doesn't 
 even have any spoilers to the movie which is pretty stupid.
  
  Diehard fans may like it a little bit, but the rest of us should just walk away.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
  What's wrong here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  First off the game is incredibly short. The graphics arn't good and the monsters are very generic. 
 Very, very repititive. The weapons are fun and interesting but the monster arn't much of a challenge. 
 The only fun character to play is Hellboy himself. This game is sometimes suprising but not enough 
 to make up for the repititiveness. When I say repititive I mean it with every piece of truth within 
 me. The monsters might as well just stand there. The only reason fans might want to rent this game 
 is because it has nothing to do with the movie, so you discover some more of Hellboy's adventures. 
 Fans RENT this game (rent only) , non fans just completely forget about it. I wish somone would 
 come out with at least a DECENT movie game. If you even think about renting this game you will 
 be highly dissapointed. I mean honestly, did they even try?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I will start off by saying I love HELLBOY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So I jusst had to play the game. I went 
 and rented it. I haven't played it that long but I am already more than half way through it. Their 
 is only 6 chapters but each one is long. I like playing it and all but towards the end of each 
 chapter you start wanting it just to be over. Its not that hard if you know what your doing but 
 some times you just forget what your doing and die. Haha probably cuz I was so tired. Anyway the 
 game is based on the comic books so it has comic book graphics and just like any other game with 
 comic book graphics they are ok.
  I must say you can't really go wrong with comic book graphics because they are never that good 
 and no one expects them to be. I really want them to make a Hellboy game based on the movies and 
 take their time to make it and have some kick ass graphics and make him look the way he is supposed 
 to. I must say though when I first started playing it I didn't like it but as I kept going I liked 
 it more and more even though each chapter takes too long. Overal it is a good game and a great 
 game if your a big Hellboy fan like me. Oh wait!!!!!! They have multiplayer in it but I don't know 
 since it just came out or what but their is no one on it to play with so I can't get the online 
 achievements. So... I have no idea what its like to play with any of the other characters. Sorry 
 : (
  Ok back to my closing statement. It is a good game but even though the chapters are long their 
 is only 6 so... just rent it unless you want to keep going back and playing it after you have beaten 
 it. I might have to end up buying it though because I am really starting to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  hellboy science of evil is a below average, repetitive, mediocre game. it has pretty good combat, 
 but the enemy types is less than stellar. there's too many small enemies like in the first chapter. 
 the game play is average at best and not good. this game for me is really dissapointing and is 
 a total let down. it should have been much better. i'm a big fan of hellboy, but i'm definitely 
 not a fan of this mediocre game. the game play is broken and way too easy. hopefully the next hellboy 
 game will be much better.
  i give 5 out of 10 for the game play. below average game play. 5 out of 10 for the graphics. hellboy 
 looks pretty good in this game, but everything else looks bad. 6 out of 10 for the sound. the music 
 is pretty good, the sound effects are ok , and the voice acting is done quite nicely. 5 out of 
 10 for the value and replay value. this game has little to no replay value. 8 out of 10 for the 
 tilt. the controlls are quite good and it is easy to controll hellboy in this game. so overall 
 i give this mediocre game a 5.5 out of 10. its too bad that this game turned out to be so bad. 
 i had high hopes for this one. who knows maybe the next hellboy game will be great. this game is 
 a rental and is not worth the $59.99 that you would pay for it. rent it first to see if you like 
 it. i rented it and now i know how bad it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANGALOK
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm a rabid fan of the Hellboy movie and comics, so my review's hardly going to be unbiased. I 
 am, however, someone who had very high hopes for this game, and wasn't left disappointed.
  
  The Good:
  -Excellent art design. Comic artist Mike Mignola and film director Guillermo del 
 Toro had creative input on this game, so that's no surprise. The characters and settings are all 
 a solid mix of the Hellboy movie and comic's disparate visual styles.
  -Graphics that live up to the Xbox 360's in-game potential. All too often we see 360 games that 
 look like they would run just as easily on the original Xbox (I'm looking at you, Incredible Hulk) , 
 but Hellboy makes good use of the current-gen hardware. The character animations are lively and 
 interesting, and the lighting and setting textures and effects are solid.
  -Excellent voice casting. Ron Perlman does his usual stellar job as the wise-cracking Hellboy, 
 which is no surprise as Ron is no stranger to voiceover work. So often a celebrity's videogame 
 voice-overs are gratingly phoned-in and lackluster, but Mr. Perlman is a wonderful exception to 
 that rule.
  -Fun, if simple, beat-em-up gameplay. The combo'd melee combat and "press button now!" minigames 
 are obviously inspired by God of War, and while it isn't quite as polished as those games, the 
 grappling system (with its choice of throwing, pummeling, or various finishing moves) is a nice 
 addition.
  
  The Bad:
  -Like the various Evil Dead games, Hellboy can sometimes leave you lost as to where you're supposed 
 to go or do next. Level objectives like "Stop the Nazi plot" don't exactly narrow it down, either. 
 How you're supposed to beat the various bosses is also confusing at first; this game doesn't do 
 a good job of revealing the bosses' weaknesses, like The Legend of Zelda games do such a good job 
 at. Levers you're supposed to press can also sometimes be obscured by the environment.
  -Limited variety of enemies. While the various baddies in the game are all interesting to look 
 at and pummel, there isn't a huge selection of them. After a solid hour of nothing but frog-men 
 or zombie Nazis, you start to long for something else to hit.
  
  In the end, how much you enjoy this game may be determined on how much you like the Hellboy character 
 to start with. The gameplay is essentially the Diet Coke to God of War's Coca-Cola, but if you're 
 the type who'll be excited at fighting the frog-men or Nazi cyborg gorillas from the comic, you 
 can overlook the game's flaws, and Ron Perlman's solid performance makes that all the easier. In 
 that respect, this Hellboy game is much like the various Evil Dead games they started making in 
 the Dreamcast era: they were essentially low-fat versions of Resident Evil, but Bruce Campbell's 
 stellar voicework would win over fans of the source material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  [Notice at bottom for people who liked this review.]
  
  So as mentioned this game does come out about 2 weeks before the movie, which is peculiar. That 
 is, until, you learn it has nothing to do with the movie's story. You can still call this game 
 a movie-game, but it doesn't really try to. It just happens to stumble upon that curse. The review 
 will be split into the usual sections of: Pros/Cons, Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, Value, and Achievement 
 Junkies.
  
  Pros
  -The graphics and artistic direction is mostly original.
  -Hellboy has a pretty nice model.
  
  Cons
  -Simple combat gets boring fast.
  -Online co-op 
 is boring and the controls lag behind.
  -Story is directed in an uninteresting way.
  -Puzzle elements are a useless addition.
  -They replace the Nazi symbol with some cross. Sorry 
 but, it's in the movies and comic book, don't change it in the game.
  
  Gameplay: You can rest assured Hellboy is a game that takes the easy route; frantic beat'em-up. 
 As far as the story goes, it apparently follows the comics book but the cut-scenes are so bad I 
 didn't bother to pay attention. They aren't good in any way. The basic meat of your combat is mashing 
 X and Y in simplistic combos. You can also grab enemies and go in different ways, the most interesting 
 being a finisher. With these you can take enemies' weapons, or kill them in a unique way. The enemies 
 themselves seem mostly original, with the scale ranging from froglike creatures to german soldiers 
 that act like puppets (as such, since they are reanimated) . Now the combat wouldn't be so bad if 
 it was fun, but you usually have to beat on enemies way too long so you can see the basic problem.
 
  
  Boss fights are few, and they usually just involve you doing the usual "weak point" which nowadays 
 is just bad design. Puzzles are also scattered among action sequences (and minor platforming) which 
 would ordinarily give you a breather, but I don't want to carry a torch to some new location to 
 burn a blockade. Sorry but give me a God of War puzzle anyday, especially over this filler. The 
 game spans 6 chapters, each chapter takes about an hour and each chapter long overstays itself. 
 You get far too bored of the current enemies and environment that you end up having to trudge through 
 it.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics are fairly good. That's for a movie-game point of view. Hellboy looks 
 nicely done, but Abe and Liz are forgettable as well as any other character skins in the game. 
 The environments are destructable but you could care less in this game, especially since objects 
 don't destroy as they would in a good game that time was spent on. The sound, well the acting is 
 voice acting, and a fist is a fist, a gun is a gun. Nothing special.
  
  Value: Not worth $60, a rental, or a buy. The game is just way too bad. So it'll take about 6-7 
 hours to complete, but they add in terrible collectibles along with questionable online co-op. 
 One person gets all the fun (Hellboy) while the guest gets the boring character (Abe/Liz) . Add 
 in control lag on online and unstable servers, and you have a mode that feels tacked-on. Don't 
 forget a couple bugs and glitches to spice up the fun.
  
  Achievement Junkies: Beat the game, all of it, on co-op and didn't unlock the achievement. So that's 
 probably glitched, and you have to play through the game twice to get all the achievements (at 
 least) , and then there's collectibles. There are easier games to find for this purpose, so don't 
 pain yourself.
  
  [Notice: If you liked my reviews, I have 75+ written reviews on my profile.] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
