-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: History Channel: Battle for the Pacific
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/historychannelbattleforthepacific/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game plays when you stick it in the disc tray.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Horrendous artificial intelligence.
 Stupid, half-broken mission design.
 Way, way too easy, even on the hardest difficulty.
 Two hours of abysmal gameplay costs you $50.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 4.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 329 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Cauldron Ltd.
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World War II shooters simply don't get worse than Battle for the Pacific. 

  The History Channel's logo is printed on Battle for the Pacific's box, which may lead you to believe 
 that the game features a certain amount of historical accuracy. It's apparently an undocumented 
 fact, then, that if you were a World War II private, you would be accompanied on missions by soldiers 
 completely impervious to gunfire. These soldiers would run directly up to enemies, perform pirouettes, 
 and then kill them at point-blank range, which certainly  sounds  like a reasonable way to win 
 a war. On the other hand, Battle for the Pacific, barring any secret Army documents, may simply 
 be an abysmal game that features terrible mission design, broken artificial intelligence, and substandard 
 controls. Because this is indeed the case, don't even think about buying this game -- not even to 
 experience the bizarre alternate reality of World War II that this first-person shooter represents. 

           Try as you might, you just can't shoot these suckers down.      

  There's no actual story here -- just a series of stand-alone missions tied together by a selection 
 of dry, lifeless voice-overs that sleepily recount the events leading to the victory at Iwo Jima. 
 In a typical mission, you follow a fellow soldier or six down a narrow jungle path or through a 
 narrow bunker. Along the way, you'll encounter Japanese soldiers, who employ the advanced fighting 
 technique of standing in one place and shooting until they die. You can shoot them back, of course, 
 though the easiest way to handle them is to stay back and let your comrades, who are totally invulnerable 
 to enemy fire, take care of them for you. It's not a perfect solution: Should you stray too far 
 from your commanding officer, the mission will suddenly end. Furthermore, the mission leader will 
 occasionally stop in one place, as if he forgot where to go next; thus, you'll need to run around 
 for a bit until the AI catches up and sends the soldier running in the right direction.  

  Once in a while, you will need to use your weapons, though it's clear from the very first minute 
 of Battle for the Pacific that just the standard act of  turning  wasn't even implemented properly. 
 Looking around with the right thumbstick is incredibly laborious because your turning speed is 
 insanely slow, and a nudge that would turn the camera in any other shooter has barely any effect 
 in this one. As a result, you'll find that it's easier to aim by strafing and standard movement 
 than it is to actually turn toward your enemy. Once your crosshairs land on your target, shooting 
 at him may or may not take him down, even if the reticle is squarely pointed at his head. On the 
 other hand, aiming an inch to the side will often result in a one-shot kill. That isn't to say 
 that there is anything difficult about Battle for the Pacific: Even if you take your enemies head-on 
 in the hardest difficulty level, you'll make it out entirely unscathed because your health completely 
 replenishes completely over the course of just a few seconds.  

  There are some attempts to mix things up. You'll occasionally man a few turrets and defuse some 
 mines, but these aspects don't work properly either. In order to man a mounted machine gun, you 
 need to target and press Y, yet you have to position yourself in a small, over-exact spot for this 
 to work. So you will spend 10 seconds or more shuffling around until you're able to take control 
 of the weapon, and you'll encounter the same problem trying to target the mines. You'll also get 
 in an antiaircraft turret a few times to ostensibly destroy aircraft -- at least according to the 
 mission objective -- yet you can't shoot any of them down, which completely negates the purpose of 
 the objective in the first place. You'll be left wondering what the point of it even was -- like 
 most of the game.  

  You'll blow through the campaign in two hours or less. If you are lucky enough to find someone 
 online to play with, you can always try the multiplayer options (deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture 
 the flag, elimination, and team elimination modes are represented) to squeeze some value out of 
 it. The most players online we found at any given time was seven, so while there could be the potential 
 for the intense multiplayer action promised on the box, we may never know. In the matches we did 
 play, the control and hit detection issues were still very much present, which is enough to indicate 
 that online matches aren't any more satisfying than the campaign proper.  

  Amid all the appalling gameplay, there are some less appalling features, such as some occasionally 
 decent visuals, though even here, there are major problems. The frame rate is erratic while the 
 screen shaking that occurs during mortar attacks is so intense and frequent that it may make you 
 feel nauseous. The sound effects are all right, though the repeated reminders from your commanding 
 officer to keep up and not get lost may inspire you to stick in some ear plugs. This may also keep 
 you from noticing how the music cuts in and out for no particular reason.  

  Can you believe this two-hour-long heap costs $50? With gameplay this bad and little value to speak 
 of, this is a history lesson that should stay buried in the past.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fullbloodsaiyan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first started this game when i borrowed it from my cousin for a few hours , I realized that 
 the objectives are flat out generic, and the AI is as dumb as a squirel. Though the graphics are 
 passable, it doesn't make up for the gun sounds, they only use like 4 gun sounds and recycle them 
 over and over, though not many fps games are set in the pacific theater. There is nothing here 
 in this game that COD, one of the greatest shooters of all time, hasn't done. Even the iron sights 
 are wierd!! insead of making the iron sights like you are really looking through it like all other 
 ww2 fps's it just does this zoom thing that ticks me off. Why does historychannel make games!!! 
 stop making video games they all are generic!!!! What I like about this game is......... well, nothing 
 really, nothing special, Its easy to beat too, i beat this in 3 hours.... wow what a challenging 
 video game! Bottom line... this game is just soldier of fortune with ww2 skins.... this game is .... shall 
 i say it.... Mediocre!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was at the gamestore next to my home and I saw this game at the shelves and decide to rent 
 it. I arrived at home and started playing History Channel: Battle for the Pacific. what a waste 
 of money... I tought Activision had learned: Or they changed the way those games were, or they 
 should stop publishing History Channel games. 
  
  This game is the worst ww2 shooter i have ever seen, even worst then Hour Of Victory, and thats 
 a hard thing to do. Civil War was decent, altough still far from good, but this is a disaster!
 
  
  Battle For The Pacific includes it's very own dificulty system: no AI whatsoever. You can let your 
 friends do everything, but just don't get too far away from your commander, because if you get, 
 you'll lose the mission.
  
  You got some decent graphics in this game, and thats the only decent thing about it. The game features 
 a terrible frame rate, a friggin slow and unprecisive aiming, and a 2-hours long campaign.
  
  The game sound effects are buggy, and you'll never, ever, see lots of people playing this online. 
 The missions attempt to be varied dies at the poor, or better say terrible, controls. You just 
 don't manage to shoot down enemy fighters and that stuff. this piece of crap is yours for $49.99...
 
  
  Dont buy, or even rent, this game. Please. Save your money. And thank you again, History Channel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Battle for the Pacific: meet Hour of Victory. you both suck. i liked the premise of going to the 
 pacific theater. the History Channel would never rip me off, would they? yes, private, they would. 
 as the saying goes "they phoned this one in". here goes:
  
  The good:
  - surprisingly, there are moments with great graphics. even stunning textures. rain on jungle leaves. 
 cool light. 
  - the setting was sorta interesting.
  - the battles were novel.
  
  The bad: 
  - where the hell is everyone? the battlefields feel empty and underpopulated.
  - 
 hit detection? what hit detection?
  - why put me on an AA gun if the planes can't be shot down? 
  - how about a tank or two? a flametrower?
 
  - horrible grenade throwing.
  - where the hell are the supply guys at? ammo shortage.
  - the shortest full price game ever - over in 3 hours. hey, Hour of Victory WAS number one in something.
 
  - reached a point in highest difficulty where invisible enemies shoot you blind through thick 
 jungle and there's just no getting by.
  - the sound bytes. it's as if you're wearing ear muffs.
  
  Summary: 
  - if you can find this 
 gem for 9.99 or less, i say what the hell, blast through it and you'll enjoy moments of goodness.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandstroker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  First off I think It would be unfair to compare this game to a Call of Duty or a Medal of honor. 
 Simply because it is not. 
  
  I saw this game on the clearance shelf for around 10$ at my local Game/CD trade in store and just 
 threw it in with my other purchases. It sat on my shelf for a couple of weeks still in it's wrapper 
 until I had a day off and a lot of down time just to veg out and play some Live. When I popped 
 the disk in I wasn't expecting great things, just to fool around with it for half hour or so. 
 
  
  I sat there for a good hour and a half playing this game and just enjoying what I was playing. 
 The game play reminds me of MoH: Allied Assault how you seem to start almost every mission with 
 team mates, but just end up being more of a lone wolf. The shooting mechanics are your standard 
 FPS affair and the controls don't impress but don't restrict you. Like I said overall It's definitely 
 not Game of the Year material, but something in it just brought back some good old childhood memories 
 of those old shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of war games but I'm not at all a big fan of this game. I am disappointed with it 
 don't get me wrong though this isn't the worst game out there that you can find to play but it's 
 pretty bad. So this might be one of those games that a WWII fan may want to pass up on and leave 
 it at that.
  
  Some of the things in the game that make it so bad is the graphics and sound those to things are 
 so horrible and bad its kind of sad to see that on the Xbox 360 to. Two other big things are the 
 missions are so short and the AI never put up a challenge. My little brother didn't even have a 
 hard time beating the game which is kind of funny but also its sad.
  
  And the price for the game is way to high I got the game from my cousin and I couldn't believe 
 he paid that much for them. But the only really reason I beat the game and really even played it 
 is because I got it for free. I wouldn't even recommend this game to be rented there ain't no reason 
 for you to waste your money on it at all. Trust me if you want to play a good WWII game go somewhere 
 else to find it. There's a lot more games that you can play that isn't as bad as this one.
  
  A very disappointing game it could have been a lot better but this is what we get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - It's not the worst WWII shooter you'll ever play
  
  Negative
  - Challenge less
  - Missions are far too short
  - Terrible graphics and sound
  - Costs as 
 normal games
  - AI never puts up a challenge
  
  What a bad game. Bad isn't enough to describe this game. History Channel: Battle for the Pacific 
 has no challenge, almost no story, nothing at all that could please WWII or shooter fans. The 360 
 version is the worst version of this dreadful game. 5 versions of the game and none of them is 
 over mediocre. 
  
  First of all, the game is far too easy. Not to mention the length. The game is over 2 hours and 
 less than 3 hours. And the price for it is too high. This game really should be free, but I think 
 it's too far away for that. Well if it was for free, more would play it, but it would still be 
 a terrible game.
  
  Battle for the Pacific supports online play, but you don't normally encounter anyone. If you manage 
 to find someone good for you, but the times I entered I never encountered anyone. The game has 
 no story; it consists of missions which can be beaten in about 20 minutes each. These are depressingly 
 easy. AI is dumb, really dumb and never puts up any challenge. You can take up a group of enemies 
 by simple throwing one grenade or by giving them a few shots. This is one of the worst AI you might 
 encounter. Sound is horrible and graphics aren't so much better. Frame rate is beyond repair and 
 so is the game. And the price is the same as normal games. I only rented the game, luckily and 
 according to Gamespot the price for this game is $50. Not worth it. 
  
  I personally never liked History or History Channel. I only rented this game to see far bad can 
 a shooter get. I finally got to know and games like this shouldn't even be released or on store 
 shelves. If you want to play a war game you should check somewhere else. This one should be left 
 alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmwm
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes this is another World War II game, however unlike previous games, this one has something that 
 sets it apart from other World War II games: IT'S NOT SET IN EUROPE. Yes, Battle for the Pacific 
 actually takes place in the Pacific theater, pitting the player, who takes on the role of a US 
 Marine against the might of the Imperial Japanese Military.
  
  The game includes some of the most famous battles of the Pacific War, including Wake Island, Iwo 
 Jima, Guadalcannel, and the Phillippines. This game has two major things going for it, it's historical 
 accuracy and it's graphics.
  
  Considering that this game has the History Channel label on it, so the battles, uniforms, and weapons 
 are presented with a lot of attention to historical accuracy. The graphics of the game, are also 
 half way decent, right down to the to creases in the Marine or Japanese uniforms. The game also 
 offers lots of action, including using a single machine gun to repel the Japanese invasion of Wake 
 Island. However, action, accuracy and graphics don't make a good game.
  
  Battle for the Pacific sufferes from two major problems, one is it's AI. The AI in this game makes 
 it far too easy, and at times you start thinking the AI FLUNKED OUT OF PRE-SCHOOL AFTER 30 MINUTES, 
 especally when the enemy bunches up in the a small corner, and you can kill them with a single 
 grenade. The second problem, it's too easy. Yes the dead on arival AI makes the game too easy, 
 at times you have to wonder if you have an invulnerablitiy cheat turned on.
  
  However the only thing saving this game from getting a lower raiting in my book is it's setting, 
 it is nice to see something different. But over all this game will only appeal to history buffs, 
 and die hard fans fo World War II era games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes this is another World War II game, however unlike previous games, this one has something that 
 sets it apart from other World War II games: IT'S NOT SET IN EUROPE. Yes, Battle for the Pacific 
 actually takes place in the Pacific theater, pitting the player, who takes on the role of a US 
 Marine against the might of the Imperial Japanese Military. 
  
  The game includes some of the most famous battles of the Pacific War, including Wake Island, Iwo 
 Jima, Guadalcannel, and the Phillippines. This game has two major things going for it, it's historical 
 accuracy and it's graphics. 
  
  Considering that this game has the History Channel label on it, so the battles, uniforms, and weapons 
 are presented with a lot of attention to historical accuracy. The graphics of the game, are also 
 half way decent, right down to the to creases in the Marine or Japanese uniforms. The game also 
 offers lots of action, including using a single machine gun to repel the Japanese invasion of Wake 
 Island. However, action, accuracy and graphics don't make a good game. 
  
  Battle for the Pacific sufferes from two major problems, one is it's AI. The AI in this game makes 
 it far too easy, and at times you start thinking the AI FLUNKED OUT OF PRE-SCHOOL AFTER 30 MINUTES, 
 especally when the enemy bunches up in the a small corner, and you can kill them with a single 
 grenade. The second problem, it's too easy. Yes the dead on arival AI makes the game too easy, 
 at times you have to wonder if you have an invulnerablitiy cheat turned on. 
  
  However the only thing saving this game from getting a lower raiting in my book is it's setting, 
 it is nice to see something different. But over all this game will only appeal to history buffs, 
 and die hard fans fo World War II era games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game puts you in a WWII enviroment playing for.... well what else but the pacific. Well the 
 graphics are nice... kinda smooth. But the AI is horrible the Japs look like the real pics I have 
 saw from WWII. The missions are way to short and easy. One mission took me 18 mins. to complete... wtf? There 
 also isnt very many weapons to chose from. There is Thompson, M1 Grande, Colt 45, and a few others. I 
 have to mention though, the long load times gah I mean you wont meet them to much because the game 
 is as easy as a drunk 18 year old, but still they take so long. The concept is like throw you in 
 a lot of WWII missions. It really isnt a story at all. Well I've had enough of talking about this 
 crap. But only 684 characters so far, so I have to keep talking. O yea I'm sorry I forgot the multiplayer.. well... boring 
 is how I describe it, not to much lag though. But there is almost nobody online and even if there 
 is it still isnt enough to get a good game going. Please dont buy. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I feel guilty for writing this. Yeah, I feel guilty. Why? Because I just saw World War Two. That's 
 right. Battle for the Pacific is definently the BEST WW2 game I have ever played. BIA or COD, or 
 even MOH don't match this game. I think this is the closest thing to WW2. The only thing it didn't 
 do was present Hideki Tojo to me in my own room. Instead, it was a Japanese soldier that jumped 
 out of my closet, so I killed him with my bare hands.
  
  
  Story:
  
  Read the title and that's all you need to know. People complain of how they don't like the fact 
 that there isn't a story, but do you think soldiers were told what was happening in WW2? No. They 
 did what their platoon leader said, and then they shut off in foxholes. Literally shut off, like 
 a robot. Yes, I was in history class, and this is what we learned.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  I had a friggin Japanese WW2 soldier jump out of my closet. He bled when I hit 
 him. I found food rations on him. The graphics are amazing.
  
  10/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Right after I was viciously attacked, I closed my eyes to blink, and when I opened them, I could 
 mortar fire in the distance outside my house. It sounded close, and the game had created a mortar 
 team outside, launching rounds into a field. I'd say the sound is pretty good.
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game shines. I heard someone complain about the soldiers 
 not moving when they shoot, and come on, how can you shoot accurately while moving? It's clearly 
 impossible. So I understand, and it's an interesting take, but I can say, they don't stand still 
 when they try to kill you with a bayonet. Neither did I expect that I'd have to do more than just 
 using a remote control. I thought it was some joke being pulled by one of my friends, but it turns 
 out it was actually a Japanese soldier. I found his dog tags. I looked up his name on the internet. 
 This game basically manifested a ghost in my house, that I could kill. Amazing. The mortar team 
 is still firing and I am about to go outside and shoot at them with a bb gun and hope for the best. 
 
  
  10/10
  
  This game is utter crap. It really sucked and if there actually was a game that could do anything 
 that I have mentioned, I definently wouldn't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingReddog
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The History Channel Battle For The Pacific
  OMG, What a piece of garbage! Do not waste your money on this game. I am so shocked 
  that a 
 company like Activision would cut so many corners on a game like this. I have not 
  seen graphics this bad in years.... I could live with that.. maybe. The game controls are 
  terrible.. even 
 on fasted setting it takes forever for you to turn around or aim your guy. Trying 
  to line up with the mounted machine gun to press Y and activate the control was so tedious 
  
 I wanted to punch the TV! You have to follow your C. O. who keeps running back and fourth 
  telling you to follow him, and goes nowhere! What, an M1 Garand with no ping when you 
  are empty! 
 Zero's strafe you with no engine or bullet sounds. Did not get on multi player 
  at all. I have not been this mad at a bad purchase like this in years. On a scale of 10 I give 
 it 
  a 1 only because it's a great idea for a WWII game thats finally in the pacific... hopefully 
 
  someone else will pick up on it and make a better game.
  Definitely the worst game I ever bought.. bar none!
  Oh and BTW.. I never finished the last mission... couldn't 
 play it any more.
  I will sell on ebay!
  
  SmashingReddog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is in a few words is :
  horrible, terrible. Thank the lord I did not buy it. a friend of mine being a History Chanel fan 
 bought it, i just happened to be there to witness the worst mistake of all times, I you have the 
 money please give it on charity or somethong but DO NOT pay For something that is going to hunt 
 you all your life.
  
  After playing for five minutes or so I started to realize the crap that is comming out for the 
 360. This typeof game should be banned. The executives at Activision dont mind making a few bucks 
 ripping off consumers. Shame on youy allllll.
  
  This game dont have a story regardless the History Chanel Logo, the control are just annoying, 
 the graphics are just, crap the AI is stupid, so my good friends ju have been warned. IF GAMESPOT 
 GAVE ME THE CHANCE TO PUT 0 OR ZERO IN GAME THIS IS THE WINNER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  i' m not sure i have the proper words to describe the many, many errors in judgment, history channel 
 made in making this game. who is this crap even aimed at? it makes gamers ill, and arm chair historians 
 must wince in dire pain at the unrealistic.... well almost everything. theres no point in rehashing 
 all the bad points that game spot already listed. i just want to go on record that if a friend 
 sends you a copy asking you if its broken cause it wont run on his system but you manage to get 
 it to run on yours. if he is indeed your friend, lie to him and tell him it wont run and to get 
 his money back. its the kind, good friend thing to do. and for heavens sake don't play the thing. 
 your only hurting yourself and wasting precious hours of your life you could spend doing something, 
 anything else. hell go pick your toenails, its a less waste of time and probably more fun for you. 
 shame on history channel. also shame on game spot for not allowing the scoring slider to go all 
 the way down to zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1106
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  As many of you know, the History Channel uses games every now and then in lieu of dramatizations 
 and reenactments. Now they're trying to give back to the video game world. They should be shot 
 for such actions. the graphics are terrible, the sound design is similar to the original Medal 
 of Honor, and the call of Duty (hehe, I just said duty!) games are so much cheaper and better. 
 This game has two things going for it: 1.) it's pretty short, so those who wasted their money on 
 the game won't have to suffer for long. 2.) It makes a decent coaster so your wife won't yell at 
 you and your glass won't leave rings on the coffee table. That's about it. I played this at a friend's 
 house and beat it in about 2.5 hours. Waste your money on a wicked tattoo instead. It'll last longer, 
 look better (no matter how old, fat, or hairy you are) , and hurt less. 
  
  P. S. the .5 is for the functionality. It is a really nice coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor10000
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain bad. I was expecting it to be like the History Channel's Civil War game, 
 not perfect, but still solid. This is a great let down coming from that game. I'm not sure were 
 to start, there is allot to be said about this game. However very little of that what there is 
 to say is good.
  
  I will however start with the two good thing this game has to offer. Firstly the graphics are decent, 
 not the best, but more than simply acceptable. They are smooth, clean, and the lighting is good. 
 However as I will cover below, they are not all good. Secondly the fairly unique nature of this 
 game, a World War II game set in the Pacific Theater rather than Europe, allows for some different 
 weapons than what a typical WWII FPS has to offer.
  
  Now that I have stated the only two good things about this game I will tell you the bad aspects 
 of those good things. Firstly the graphics, the frame rates usually decent, but when you get more 
 than a half dozen people with automatic weapons on screen the frame rate suffers greatly. This 
 is only an occasional problem as most of your own men have semi-automatic weapons and there are 
 rarely more than ten Japanese on screen at any time, several of whom have only bolt-action rifles. 
 Now the down side of the unique weapons, there are only three of them. A bolt-action rifle, very 
 similar to the Russian Mosin-Nagant that you may be familiar with from games like Call of Duty. 
 Then there is the submachine-gun, also very similar to a gun you may be familiar with, the Sten. 
 Last is a fully automatic machine gun, once again you may find yourself asking, "Have I seen this 
 gun before?" The answer is, "no," however it is very much like the Bren.
  
  In addition to these minor flaws the game has a number of other, more major flaws. These include 
 a number of historical inaccuracies, poor voice acting, a lack of a story beyond the history, generally 
 mediocre game play, and last, but most certainly not least, it is short, very, very, very short. 
 It took me three and a half ours to slug my way through the game on easy. Also many of the XBox 
 Live achievements are not worth getting as they require ridiculously high number of kills, and 
 or wins to get them as they are online achievements. I personally did not play this game online, 
 I decided I could not stomach suffering through anymore of this game.
  
  I am a lover of history, so it may have been the number and quality of the historical inaccuracies 
 that led to my giving this game such a low score. I will now endeavor to list the most noteworthy 
 inaccuracies. First is the American uniforms. In reality the United States Marines fought all of 
 the battles in this game, as they do in this game. However they wear the uniforms of United States 
 Army soldiers fighting in Europe, very different conditions that required very different uniforms. 
 This next one is not specifically a historical error, but also a realism error. The anti-aircraft 
 guns are simply wrong. They reminded me of the gun turret that Luke Skywalker used in the original 
 Star Wars film to defend the Millenium Falcon from the TIE Fighters when they were escaping from 
 the Death Star. Fun as they are I am sure that they are less than accurate. The last error I shall 
 note is that many of that the Americans did not use the Thomson submachine gun with a twenty round 
 clip as they did in this game, they used a thirty round clip. This is an error common in recent 
 WW II games, but it annoys me, and I will mention it in this review for this game, regardless of 
 how relevant it truly is. Those are not the only historical errors, but rather the only ones I 
 will mention to spare you a long drawn out list.
  
  I can not in all good and honest truthfulness recommend this game as even worthy of renting. It 
 is bad, don't encourage Activision and the History Channel to make bad games by buying this one. 
 It isn't the worst game I have played, its close, but not quite the worst. Save your money, don't 
 buy or rent this game, simply live your life like you did before you knew it existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakalou
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about such a bad game? The answer is: a whole bunch. First of all, the gameplay 
 is so easy that playing on the hardest difficulty is a cake walk. All's you have to do is follow 
 your dumb@$$ (pardon my cursing at the game) lieutenant around to a T and shoot at sholiders that 
 die in one to three shots depending on where you shoot them. Of course, if you don't follow the 
 game b**ches at you and makes you start over from the last checkpoint. The maps often repeat over 
 the repetitive and short ten levels and I remember getting really bored really fast.
  
  The graphics may not be the best, but they definitely aren't the worst I've seen on the 360. The 
 sound could really use a lot of improvement, though. People that are close sometimes sound too 
 close and people that are far away sound really far away. Plus, the sound effects are horrilbe. 
 An airplane sounded like a tiger to both me and a friend!
  
  What I suggest to do about still wanting this game is waiting till it goes down to $20.00 and buy 
 it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson1964
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game since the tv commercials made the game look fun and it was an Activision 
 product. 
  
  Although a WW2 game this one is based in the Pacific theater of the war which was nice for a change 
 of pace. The graphics and sounds were good i even could hear monkeys, frogs and just critter noises 
 while going throught the jungle.
  
  The gameplay was a big let down, not even up to COD2 or 3 let alone 4. It was soo repetitive with 
 most everyone one of the scenrios is running through the trenches or jungle paths and killing the 
 WORST AI characters ive ever played against. Most of the time they would just stand in the same 
 place while i shot them... they did attack if i came to close but all it took was one rifle blow 
 and they were dead. The guns sounded muffled and the aiming did not allow me to look down the sites.
 
  
  The cut scenes were nice with a nice history of the battles that were in the game. I would not 
 recommend to buy the game at least not at the current $50. Rent it or wait and pick it up very 
 cheap as this one will not keep the average gamers interest for very long... I finished the game 
 in 3 afternoons in less the 4 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob1224
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  average game for the average joe but if your looking for something with good graphics and good 
 story ( but short) then this is the right game for u. there arent alot of people whop play this 
 game but if it had alot more ppl then online would be what the box say VERY INTENSE but if all 
 you can find is a 1 on 1 or 2 on 2 then f it but say 1,000 more people or even 50 more who play 
 alot then this game online would be sick but its definetly a rent but when more ppl get it its 
 a BUY for online multyplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is two hours long, if even that. I know I usually start out a review 
 by saying something like "Let me just say" or "I'd like to start by" but this game doesn't really 
 deserve a half-assed intro of any sort.
  Yes, the single player campaign is shorter than two hours. I was on a level, and they kept making 
 it sound like the last level, and I kept thinking, "This CAN'T be the last level."
  BUT IT FRIGGIN' WAS!
  I didn't even bother to try the multiplayer before I finished the single 
 player campaign, for some reason. When I did try it, nobody at all was playing online. That might 
 be just because it's brand-new, but in a few weeks it'll be because it's a big piece of crap. There's 
 nothing special about the multiplayer. It supports a couple of standard gametypes with a maximum 
 of twelve players.
  The single player campaign is loaded with blatant problems. TWICE, the player charges a beach with 
 no other Americans on it, and the boats the American ("s") run out of to charge the beach are the 
 same boats the Japanese use on the first level. These boats also never move at any point, they 
 just sit still with the door closed and then open suddenly to make it seem like they were actually 
 ever moving.
  The AI are just awful. Not only are they awful, but they have pre-defined targets. Sometimes, allies 
 will refuse to shoot a huge group of certain enemies, and vice versa. Most often, enemies will 
 just completely ignore the player's teammates and instead just gun for the player, even though 
 the player's teammates are shooting them up just fine. I'm not sure why they decided that sometimes 
 enemies would shoot allies and sometimes they wouldn't, but they did. It's even worse when allies 
 won't shoot enemies, because then they just stand still like idiots while a battle rages around 
 them.
  Weapons are poorly deployed. The player first always starts with the Thompson, the M1 Garand and 
 the 1911 Colt. Then he always starts with the BAR, the Thompson and the 1911 Colt. There's never 
 any ammo to pick up for American weapons because, though the player always gets allies, they never 
 die and there's never any ammo lying around. The Japanese are strictly limited to using the Type 
 100 submachine gun and the Type 38 rifle. They'll have these big machine guns lying around, but 
 they never actually use them. Only the player gets to use them. Mounted machine guns are also placed 
 about levels, and are extremely underused, especially by the player who rarely gets an opportunity 
 to use them at all.
  Every, EVERY level requires the player to follow an ally around the entire time. I love having 
 teammates, but this game REQUIRES the player to follow the ally or he instantly loses. Any time 
 I stopped to pick up a gun, the ally- who always runs extremely fast nonstop- would be way ahead 
 of me and I'd get a game over. Any idiot who knows anything about video games knows people don't 
 enjoy the kind of gameplay where AI boss them around for no reason. Rather than think of imaginative 
 ways to block off alternate routes, the game just makes the player follow a guy on some extremely 
 linear path and if the player strays from the path, he loses. I'd have to defend an airfield, but 
 apparently not standing right next to the designated ally counts as not defending the airfield.
 
  The only thing the game has going for it is the graphics. Every level looks great, even though 
 they're really linear and rarely open at all. Sounds range from all right to crappy, with the music 
 being so annoyingly repetitive that the game sounds ten times better without it.
  The game does have scripted sequences throughout levels, which are sometimes well animated and 
 include decent voice acting, though often the lines and/or voice acting will make the dialogue 
 really stupid, in a pleasant way.
  Bodies animate pretty well, and some animations look pretty cool like Japs doing an extremely slow 
 and weak melee attack (even though bayonets are nowhere to be seen in the game, their swing is 
 still neat) , and there was this one animation where my teammate ducked down, grapped the front 
 of his machine gun in one hand and used the other to help him run away, and even though it looked 
 like a random occurence, I only saw it once. It'd be nice if more games would include such deliberate 
 "LET'S F***ING RUN AWAY!" animations instead of the standard fare of people who don't look concerned 
 enough about the situation around them as they trot along care-free. Seriously, it was neat to 
 see such a running animation.
  Everyone looks the same. There's gotta' be like three or four different American bodies with probably 
 just one American face since I can't tell the difference between any of them. ALL of the Japanese 
 look the same, with the same cloth things to protect their necks from sunburn, even though the 
 multiplayer game included a Japanese officer with a helmet who I don't remember seeing at all in 
 the single player campaign.
  Aiming down the sight is cheap. They bothered to make the weapon move into an aiming-down-sight 
 position but they didn't bother to actually line the screen up with the sight, so the screen just 
 zooms in on the crosshair like most older games do. The game contains the ability to do a melee 
 attack (for some reason not on the right thumbstick button) , but it feels like it might as well 
 not be hitting anything since there's no sound of any sort, the Japanese that gets hit will just 
 fall over dead.
  I'm glad they decided to include automatically regenerating health, which is all the rage these 
 days (much like melee attacks) , and that's a good thing since trying to find health pickups sucks 
 big time and it's much nicer when the player just heals automatically.
  The controls feel all right in the department of running around quickly and shooting people to 
 hell, if you can excuse the really crappy melee attack system. Rifles are completely useless because 
 the automatic weapons do way more damage and have the same range effectiveness. Enemies never throw 
 grenades. Neither do allies, actually. Shooting down planes is extremely unsatisfying because they 
 never actually get shot down (or even hit, really) , they just start smoking and eventually planes 
 will stop coming without any explanation, even if the player didn't shoot any of them at all. I 
 mean, it's realistic that a few shots from an anti-air gun won't instantly bring down a plane in 
 most cases, but it'd be nice to see a plane crash for all my troubles. I mean, damn.
  I'm not sure where I'm going with this. The game is pretty awful all around, and anyone who plays 
 it will know just how awful it is. Most problems were just lazy cheapness, which is almost excuseable, 
 but other problems- such as pre-defined AI targets- were extremely bad design choices that could've 
 been avoided.
  The game does have its moments, barely. I actually enjoyed it enough to want to play it all the 
 way through, probably just because it was so easy that I NEVER died from weapons, I only "die" 
 because I'd stop to pick up a weapon and my ally would run way ahead of me and I'd lose.
  The only actual fun levels in the game were the last level and the cave level. Yeah, the cave level! 
 Even games that are usually extremely fun absolutely fail at making fun take place in caves or 
 sewers or any other dark, uninteresting locales. This is the only game I've ever played that made 
 something like a cave fun. What makes it fun is that, to my IMMENSE surprise, the game gives the 
 player teammates in the cave (probably because they needed the player to follow them around) . Also, 
 the cave looks great, like every other level, but for some reason it looks even better than any 
 other level, or any other cave in any other game. The lighting is really dramatic. I don't know 
 what it is. It'd be really fun to come upon a group of enemies in the dark, with the only thing 
 revealing their position being muzzle flashes as weapons fire wildly. I actually enjoyed the caves 
 and wanted more of them. I mean, even games like Call of Duty make caves, sewers and such suck 
 hard and long, but this, the worst game I've played in a while, made it enjoyable.
  The last level was fun probably just because it was fast-paced non-stop shooting enemies in every 
 direction as allies blew up constantly and bombs landed everywhere. It was pretty sweet, and I 
 was hoping there would be more levels to follow it up, but the plot twist is it was the last level.
 
  Overly loud History Channel clips seperate levels and try to set the scene, but all they do is 
 piss me off because they feature weapons and vehicles unused in the actual game. The M1 Carbine, 
 which is as plain as day in one of the video clips, is nowhere to be found in the actual game. 
 American tanks make a couple of appearances- only one that I can actually remember- and they never 
 actually move, they just sit around and pretend to be broken. No Japanese tanks whatsoever.
  I'm just not sure what to say. I can't believe that this crappy game made me look forward to more 
 levels. The reason the game was fun at all was because they put all of their efforts into two hours 
 of gameplay, then they just stopped and said "Done!" Obviously, if the game was longer, it would've 
 been far less enjoyable because they'd have to separate their will to work amongst many more hours.
 
  I'm not sure why The History Channel bothers endorsing games like Civil War and Battle for the 
 Pacific. Battle for the Pacific has no historical accuracy whatsoever- besides the vague imagination 
 the video clips try to stir up- and it's obviously reflective of how little effort was put into 
 the game. I mean, the graphics are totally sweet, but once the game actually starts everything 
 is just terrible.
  The three-year-old Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is insanely better than this game in a thousand 
 different ways, even though I find Pacific Assault to be really frustrating thanks to their hit 
 point system (rather than health regeneration) . If you really want to fight Japs in an authentic 
 environment, Pacific Assault is definitely the way to go, which is nice since it's really the ONLY 
 way to go. I've only seen one other World War 2 FPS with Americans versus Japs, and it was made 
 by those guys who made "World War 2 Combat Road to Berlin", which was hardcore suckage, and the 
 Pacific Theater game followed suite.
  If you ever find this game lying around outside in your front lawn, play the entire single player 
 campaign. Once you're done and are better for the experience as you're better able to percieve 
 what's good and what isn't, throw it in someone else's lawn so they can share in this experience. 
 Otherwise, don't bother spending the money it would cost to rent it because, if they had it on 
 display in a store, you could just as easily beat it there.
  
  I was really hoping this game would take big risks, go against the norm and really make something 
 of itself by letting the player play as the Axis in a World War 2 single player FPS, but alas, 
 this game is just too damn mediocre. I was hoping SOMEONE would show those Call of Duty jerks what-for.
 
  
  Y'know, The History Channel's Kuma Games client is way better for crap like this, because it's 
 free AND uses the Source engine (and whatever engine Deadly Dozen uses) , so even though everything's 
 relatively poorly made, it's not only free so you can't complain but it's also built from well-made 
 retail engines so the AI are already smart and the physics are already top-notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  This game i approached with caution. With the same developer who made Civil War and Soldier of 
 Fortune, i was hoping this would be "third time's the charm"
  
  Graphics. The game looks excellent. The jungles, beaches, bunkers and everywhere else are very sharp 
 and extremely detailed. The jungles are among the best you'll see in any game. Weapon models are 
 also very detailed and look great. Character models also look good and animate well as the "Havok 
engine is implimented here
  
  Sound. The music is well done and kicks in when the action heats up. Sound effects are pretty good, but 
 not top of the line. Some weapons sound muffled when discharged.
  
  Gameplay. The game is pretty linear, but not as much as Soldier of Fortune: Payback. It's pretty 
 straight forward as far as objectives go. The only real flaw in the game is the A. I. They're better 
 then Soldier of Fortune, but pale compared to say CoD4. They remind me of MoH: Frontline, either stay 
 in cover, run away, or just stand and shoot.. I just hate the fact you need to follow Sgt. Slap Happy 
 around and if you fall behind, it's mission over.
  
  
  The game is decent for renting, but has no long term value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
