-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: History Channel: Civil War - A Nation Divided
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/historychannelcivilwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent amount of realistic-looking weapons.
 Running around with a sword can be entertaining.
 It's pretty short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer.
 Takes forever to reload most weapons.
 Lousy artificial intelligence.
 Frame rate isn't always stable.
 Having to save every few feet because of a lack of checkpoints is tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 584 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
History Channel: Civil War is good for a few mindless hours of shooting action, but not much else. 
 History buffs need not apply. 

  There's no question that World War II is the war of choice for developers looking to make a first-person 
 shooter based on real-life events. With no shortage of games based on the Second World War already 
 on the market, including its own Call of Duty series, Activision has gone even further into the 
 past -- all the way back to 1861 -- for inspiration. Despite a somewhat unique setting for a first-person 
 shooter, History Channel: Civil War is a run-of-the-mill affair that isn't likely to please Civil 
 War buffs or, for that matter, anyone else.  

          Time out! I need to reload! Okay, time in!     

  History Channel: Civil War follows 
 the events of the American Civil War that pitted the North against the South from 1861 to 1865. 
 There are 12 levels in all, and you'll play as a soldier for both the Union and the Confederacy. 
 You'll fight through five levels for the North and six for the South before fighting one last battle 
 for the Union side in Petersburg. However, you're not likely to care which side you fight for -- there's 
 very little story, and no matter what you do, the North wins and the South loses. A brief video 
 explains the events leading up to each scenario before each level, but other than conveying the 
 tremendous loss of life and showing a few interesting black-and-white photos, the videos are uninteresting 
 and consist of nothing more than dry narration about troop movements as you view colored blocks 
 moving around maps.  

  Outside of having some different weapons, History Channel: Civil War plays a lot like any other 
 first-person shooter based on a real war. Your soldier can carry a number of weapons such as muskets, 
 rifles, revolvers, a saber, and even a knife. You can also use hand grenades, but they cause such 
 small amounts of damage that they're completely worthless. You'll start off each level with an 
 objective, which is shown as a star on your radar. Radar? Yes, radar. You know, the radar that 
 was issued to each soldier in the Civil War. These tasks include planting explosives, smashing 
 a telegraph machine, stealing documents, or simply meeting up with a commanding officer. After 
 completing a task, you're given a few more things to do, and then the screen fades to black -- there's 
 rarely any sense of accomplishment after a level.  

  Not only are the objectives for each level not particularly interesting, the gameplay isn't very 
 exciting, either. You have some guys fighting alongside you, but they're worthless, so you'll mostly 
 be going at it alone. Enemy artificial intelligence is subpar. Soldiers stand around while you 
 shoot them, they're completely oblivious to a gun being pointed at their heads and rush you in 
 an effort to fight, and they almost never try to flank you. On the default setting the game starts 
 off quite easy and you can make it through the first five chapters by running-and-gunning through 
 the enemy. It's when you fight for the Confederacy that things begin to get difficult. This is 
 less due to the CPU employing any sort of advanced tactics and more a result of the game throwing 
 more enemies at you, which in turn makes it more difficult to ignore its numerous flaws.  

  By far the biggest issue is the weapons -- more specifically, how long it takes to reload the guns. 
 While it indeed took a very long time to reload these weapons, this instance of historical accuracy 
 hurts the gameplay. The reloading animations are detailed and seem to be accurate -- other than being 
 sped up (but still too slow) -- but that doesn't make them good. The first time you encounter other 
 soldiers also out of ammo and race them to see who's going to reload first, it's funny, but after 
 a few dozen such encounters it's much less amusing. Most of the weapons in the game hold only a 
 couple of bullets, so you'll have to reload much more frequently than you do in other first-person 
 shooters. Of course, if you do actually shoot someone, the game might not register the hit. If 
 your target is currently fighting another soldier it's not always possible to shoot them; if they 
 haven't been triggered into action, they might not get hit; and sometimes you can shoot them in 
 the face from three feet away and the game won't register a hit. The sloppy hit detection isn't 
 just limited to shooting, though. Eventually you'll probably get frustrated with your guns and 
 run around and melee-attack guys instead, but the hit detection for melee combat is so poor that 
 it's not a very effective option, either.  

  Unfortunately, the game is plenty vigilant when it comes to tracking how often your soldier gets 
 shot. The CPU has a nasty habit of shooting you through solid objects and dense cover. Enemy soldiers 
 can even shoot you before they appear onscreen, which results in many, many frustrating deaths. 
 These deaths are made all the more infuriating by the checkpoint system -- it doesn't exist. Rather 
 than just sprinkling a few checkpoints through the levels, you're forced to save the game. Because 
 you never know when you're going to get shot by an unseen foe, what ends up happening is that you'll 
 sometimes wind up saving the game literally after every soldier you kill. It's as easy as hitting 
 a button on the PC, but on the PS2 and Xbox 360 you must pause the game, select the save option, 
 pick a spot, and then save. If you forget to save, you're screwed and have to do the entire level 
 over again.  

  It takes around six hours to make it through the entire campaign, and while it can be mindless 
 fun the first time, there's very little reason to play the game again. There's a small amount of 
 replay value in the Xbox 360 version, which has achievements for beating levels, finding hidden 
 items, and shooting accurately. Since it's so difficult to actually hit a target, many of the accuracy 
 achievements are most easily earned by going back through the levels on the easy setting, shooting 
 your gun once, and then running through the rest of the level with your sword or knife. Being a 
 first-person shooter, Civil War might have had some sort of multiplayer component, but it doesn't 
 even have split-screen multiplayer, much less online play.  

  History Channel: Civil War isn't a bad-looking game, but its visuals aren't particularly noteworthy, 
 either. Soldiers don't look bad from a distance, but upon closer inspection they look rather silly, 
 and the over-the-top death animations belie the generally serious nature of the game. The battlefields 
 are filled with gunfire and explosions, which will destroy buildings and kick up huge plumes of 
 dirt and smoke. Most of the cooler instances of destruction are scripted, though, and the PS2 version 
 lacks many of them. This version also lacks the smaller touches, such as snow or cotton seeds wafting 
 about certain areas, and it's got an iffy frame rate to boot. The levels, while extremely linear, 
 give the illusion of being large and open to exploration due to the forests that surround them. 
 But the ol' invisible wall rears its head should you stray far from your predestined path. In fact, 
 quite a bit of your combat will take place in the forests, which would be fun if the CPU weren't 
 so adept at shooting you through the trees. The PC and Xbox 360 versions are comparable, but the 
 PC version looks better thanks to a solid frame rate.  

          You may have given your life for a lousy game, but you'll never be forgotten.     

 
  Civil War's audio is as uninteresting as the rest of the game. The voice acting is dull, hokey, 
 and irrelevant to the point that you'll probably want to skip ahead anytime there's a cutscene. 
 Guns and cannons sound fine, but there's not a great deal of difference between different gun types. 
 There's very little music in the game, though what is there sounds pretty good.  

  In the end, it's very difficult to recommend History Channel: Civil War to anyone. Civil War buffs 
 would probably enjoy watching a show about the war more than they would spending time playing this 
 game. The narration and cutscenes that take place before each level seem historically accurate, 
 but anyone with any interest in the Civil War would scoff at the History Channel lending its name 
 to a Civil War game that has you actually jump over explosive barrels that are being rolled down 
 a ramp a la Donkey Kong. Anyone else simply looking for a solid-first person shooter will likely 
 wind up disappointed by the derivative gameplay, lack of multiplayer options, and the numerous 
 quirks and flaws found throughout the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  History Channel Civil War is a game for history lovers. Full of videos of army moves in the biggest 
 and most important Civil War battles, with a large boring text and some b&w pics. Now to the game 
 itself:
  
  The Good: 
  
  The game innovates in its background. No ww2, its the US Civil War, an almost unexplored location 
 in fps world, full of new possibilities.
  
  One of the consequences of the different timeline are the weapons. Its cool to fight with Henry 
 rifles, those old front loaded muskets, cannons, gatling guns, and swords, specially the swords. 
 Its fun to go around running and killing people with your sword. The weapons are realistic too, 
 and there are lots of them.
  
  You play as both the south and the north wich is somewhat fun because it adds some more variety 
 to the game.
  
  The Bad:
  
  It's ugly. I'm not saying a game must be beatiful , but in a such saturated genre as shooter, this 
 is a decisive factor, specially in a year you got some beatiful games, such as Gears of War, Call 
 Of Duty 3 and Rainbow SIx Vegas.
  
  Civil War is short, it features only 12 missions, 6 for each side. But theres something that makes 
 the game last longer: the lack of checkpoints. You have to be very carefull, like a tactical shooter, 
 cause if you make a mistake and die, its all the way back... it's boring.
  
  Well, when a game is ugly you at least expect it to have a good frame rate, right? Not in this 
 case. the frame rate is very unstable sometimes, causing you to die and... go back all the way.
 
  
  Your friends are useless, they do absolutely nothing, and sometimes even reveal your position, 
 causing you to take a cannon ball on your face or get crushed by a gatling and you... go back all 
 the way. Yeah, the lack of checkpoints can cause some large problems.
  
  --------
  
  At the end, this is better then other History Channel games and a decent game. If you like history 
 or want to see an non-fiction fps thats outside ww2, its worth a rent, but save your cash for better 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to take the battlefield in the epic American conflict. It is not, however, 
 a Risk-style strategy game; instead, it's a first-person shooter just like any of the Tom Clancy 
 games. One difficulty I encountered was the way it's so confusing to get to the next sector of 
 the grounds after you've wiped out one enemy group. Okay, the barn's on fire, there's a cannon 
 in the hills, now what? Also, there is never anyone in cannon range, at least in the part of the 
 field where you start, so I don't know why they even enabled the guns until you get to a different 
 area. Enemy uniforms are a very dull color. Many times you have to run up directly on a group before 
 you can pick out whom to shoot. However, there are some positives: motion is very quick. You can 
 run pretty swiftly around the battle square. The long-distance targeting also works all right. 
 One of the most memorable aspects, though, is the noise. The battle is as messy and frightening 
 as you'd expect a war scenario to be -- complete with realistic human screams. This is one of the 
 few games I've seen which openly admits that war is a horror. That earned it a great deal of respect 
 from me. So while some of the graphic elements could have been tweaked a bit, overall I was happier 
 with this title than I thought I'd be. Worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green_Chaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Though this game didn't come with multiplayer mode. History Channel: Civil War game is one that Activison 
 has put squarely on the shelf's of gaming stores. This game is about going through the sides and 
 getting into the battle of a soldier. Some places are part of what history has to offer, others are 
 new and un-heard of. The object of the game is to complete each level and defeat the sides. Union 
 has 6 levels to go through, as well as the Confederates. Some may take you to town areas, others will 
 take you to the markings of where the tides turned. So, if your like me, and you play some history 
 games, read history books and have started playing history games, or if your looking for a game like 
 Call Of Duty, then the Civil War game is for you.
  
  Remember this: The side that you choose, will determine your tides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  i liked this game alot and i bet u will to dont listn to all those noobs who havent even played 
 half of the game!!!! the only reason i did not give this game a 8 because there was no multiplayer 
  i mean a game is not a 
 masterpiece without  however another bad thing is that most weapons 
 take about 5 to 10 seconds to reload!!!!!!!!!!!!! its really rediculous somtimes like when your 
 in a huge firefight and your enemys can shoot u through solid objects like barrels other than those 
 bad things i think this is not a bad game and that u will love  
 oh and one more thing that i forgot to mention is that the graphics are totally coolio and same 
 with the souns and guns wich are really sweet so i hope this review was helpfull and i hope you 
 like this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and also tell your friends about this game and if they say your 
 crazy for liking this sweet game than they are total noobs!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! peace out!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voork
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 28, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright here is my review for History Channel: Civil War- A nation divided. As anyone knows by the 
 title it is set in the American Civil war. A very Very unique time frame. i'll break this review 
 down into a gamespot-esque review.
  
  
  The Good: Unique time frame, Unique Weapons.
  
  
  The Bad: Horrible Voiceacting, Way Too Short, Ok Graphics, You have to save your game, 
 Linear Mission Objectives, Very Glitchy, Way too long reload time, Horrible Framerate.
  
  
  Ok First off this game's unique. it takes place in the american Civil war. You play as the 
 Confederacy and Union in seperate Campaigns. 6 missions in each combine for 12 total mission. that 
 may sound like alot but, they can be completed in 15 minutes tops each on easy. It took me maybe 
 3-4 hours to beat the game will 42/50 acheivements (Note: i should have 44/50 but 2 of them are 
 glitched) . There isn't a replay value. There are accuracy achievements and hiddens pictures and 
 documents. Heres a hint for the accuracy achievements. At the start of the mission Shoot a person 
 once. Take out your knife/sword for the rest of the level. And theres all the accuracy achievements.
 
  
  Onto the Online, Oh wait theres None! I would have loved to see a little online play they did not 
 give us any. 
  
  Theres alot of glitches in this game. i was on maybe the 4th union mission When i looked and saw 
 under the map. I don't know why but I did. Also, Hey do you like getting shot through solid Cover? 
 Then this is the game for you! it seems like the Dev's of this game made all solid objects not 
 so solid. it gets quite annoying after awhile. 
  
  Now for the Voiceacting. All of it is just disgusting. it seems like the voiceacters Weren't even 
 trying. It's rather bad too watch so just skip the cutscenes in a whole.
  
  The reload time is also very painful. It seems the Dev's made this game too Historically accurate 
 for there own good. Most of the enemies you fight are sitting there just reloading so Just melee 
 them.
  
  
  The objectives are horribly Linear. Heres a few examples: Meet your commanding officer, Blow up 
 Something (Blockade, Enemy camp) Sabotage something, And so on.
  
  
  As always in the end the union do obviously win, The confederate campaign really doesn't have an 
 ending. 
  Before i end this review i want to say a few things i forgot. The framerate during melee/knife/sword 
 is Horrible. I don't have a tendency for seizures but the camera was so shacky i got very dizzy. And 
 last but not least is there isn't autmoatic checkpoint saving. You need to open up the menu, press 
 save, choose a spot, and then save. if you forget like i did alot you have to restart the whole 
 mission.
  
  
  In an all this was an awesome idea that was horribly executed.
  
  A 5.5....... out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Civil War: A Nation Divided may have it's fair share of problems, ranging from graphic trouble 
 to long reload times. But the major thing it has going for it is this: It's Different. 
  
  Most of the Historic First Person Shooters with the exception of the few set in Vietnam, have the 
 same setting either World War II in Europe from 1942-1945 or Modern times. 
  
  Civil War finally breaks that trend, and does it fairly well. For the first time you can experence 
 the Civil War from first person level. While the weapons used can be a headache. Gamers should 
 remember these weapons arn't M1 Garandes or M16s, they are Springfield rifles and Muskets, which 
 were single shot or were the experiments that lead to the creation of the weapons seen in many 
 World War II, Vietnam, and Modern FPSs, and were very inaccurate and required a lot of time to 
 reload. 
  
  Outside of the long reload times, the major flaws with this game is that it's campaign is too short, 
 it would have been better to chronicle the entire civil war with a wider varitey of missions. The 
 other major flaw is it's lack of multiplayer.
  
  This game has a lot of potental but comes up short on many levels. However the fact that it's a 
 different war makes it worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTH_22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  History Channel: Civil War on the Xbox 360 is good for one thing in my opinion: achievements. I 
 had fun for what little time it to took to run through it
  building up my gamer points and that's about the extent of this title. It's rife with issues like 
 automatically equipping a new weapon picked up even when in the middle of a fire fight which is 
 especially frustrating when you're going from a 5-6 shot rifle to a single-shot and you're low 
 on health. The graphics are nothing to brag about here either (unless it was on the PS2 or original 
 Xbox) . Also AI soldiers (on both sides) have a tendency to get in the way, stand in one spot doing 
 nothing, running needlessly to their death, or running in place into the side of a building or 
 other object. The missions are very linear as well, nothing much to do but shoot everything that 
 moves and get from point A to point B. 
  Still it has a fairly nice array of civil war era weapons and you can rack up some decent gamer 
 points as I mentioned above. All in all it's a mediocre shooter. I bought this game new for $14.99 
 during GameStop's after Thanksgiving sale ($25.00 off) and it was worth that but I feel for anyone 
 who paid more than $20.00 for this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  You would think that the publisher responsible for the excellent Call of Duty series would be able 
 to squeeze a decent first-person shooter out of just about anyone. Unfortunately, when Activision 
 attached themselves to The History Channel: Civil War, they apparently didn't pay attention to 
 what Cauldron was spitting out before rubber stamping the finished product.
  
  Gameplay-Combat in the mid-1860s followed the same basic pattern. Two sides line up facing each 
 other and stare at each other for awhile. Then a guy on a horse yells for them to fire. The ones 
 who haven't died yet reload and fire again. Lather, rinse and repeat. At some point, the whole 
 thing devolves into a melee where everyone is either beating the crap out of each other or stabbing 
 each other with bayonets, knives, or whatever else they can get their hands on. Unfortunately, 
 this method does not translate well into first-person shooters.
  
  At its core, Civil War is a low-rent Call of Duty with muskets and bayonets. You play through twelve 
 missions (six Union, six Confederate) culminating in a final battle at Petersburg complete with 
 Southern surrender. There is no alternate ending or rewritten history, so you know how it's going 
 to end. You start at one point, complete a series of tasks, and end up at another point. 
  
  The difficulty varies wildly in this game. On easy (where you will get 90% of your achievements) 
 you're practically invincible. Nothing short of a cannonball will take you down. But on hard, the 
 opposing forces don't miss and cover is pointless... they'll shoot you right through it so you might 
 as well not bother. You will find yourself saving every thirty seconds so you don't lose what you've 
 just done. That "save anywhere" feature is the only thing that prevents Civil War from being impossible 
 on hard due to a total lack of any checkpoint system.
  
  Mechanically, the game is very hit and miss. If you shoot when your targeting reticle is red, you're 
 going to hit something. But if your enemy is directly in front of you, whether or not you strike 
 them with a melee attack is a coin toss. It all leads to a very uneven, and ultimately unsatisfying, 
 experience.
  
  Visuals-Civil War really drops the ball when it comes to graphics. The same four or five character 
 models are continually recycled and the static landscapes don't even begin to push what the 360 
 is capable of doing. Even the destructible parts of the environment seem to look like cardboard 
 cutouts falling down. Cutscenes are understandably sparse (considering the time period) , consisting 
 of static photos and animated colored blocks illustrating troop movements. But overall, the visuals 
 are truly a subpar effort.
  
  Sound-Once again, Cauldron basically just mailed it in here. The voice acting is campy and over-the-top, 
 and death screams are just ridiculous. The explosion is good... all one of them. The weaponry all 
 sounds the same for the most part as well. It feels like they pretty much just used one sound file 
 for each aspect of the game.
  
  Value-You get very little bang for your buck here. Once you've played the game through and unlocked 
 all the achievements, there is absolutely no reason to play it again. There is no downloadable 
 content at all and no real unlockables to speak of outside of achievements. The game clocks in 
 at around six hours for a playthrough. Luckily, this one seems to have found the bargain bin.
 
  
  If you're looking for an easy bunch of achievements, The History Channel: Civil War is worth a 
 rental (or a buy ,if you can get it cheap) . Unfortunately, there are enough nagging problems with 
 the game to make the overall experience less than satisfying. While the idea of using a war other 
 than World War II as a backdrop has merit, the Civil War is more suited for a real-time strategy 
 title as opposed to a first-person shooter. You can't get any better evidence of that fact than 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyc407
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  History Channel: Civil War, definetely sounds more entertaining than it is. When I purchased the 
 game, I expected it to resemble the total warfare that the Civil War was, from the battles, to 
 the intense feeling on the front. The graphics are definetley sketchy at best, and you only fight 
 with a small number of soldiers around you. If I didn't know about the game, and I played it, I 
 wouldn't have even guessed that it was about the Civil War. The guns take an extreme amount of 
 time to reload, and movement it not even close to realistic. While I will admit that the actual 
 concept is a good idea, It made the Civil War seem like a joke, with corny lines and very fake 
 looking terrains. One part that I did enjoy is that you do get to play as both sides of the war, 
 and it does explain some of the tactics used in the Civil War. All in all, I felt that it was a 
 major letdown and I strongly recommend that you at least rent it first before you even consider 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Well this game had a couple good things about it and a lot of bad things. The guns looked cool, 
 and the graphics were all right. On the other hand, the game was very short, it was easy, reloading 
 took long, and some of the enemies took too long to die. Most of the missions were boring and repetitive. 
 Some of the guns were really cool like the pistols and a couple of the rifles. But the sword and 
 the knife were pretty useless. Achievements were kind of easy to get. Overall the game is good 
 for a couple hours of play and that is it. Not really any replay value at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargodjocky2
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  when I went to gamestop I saw that they had a new game. It was about civil and im pretty interested 
 in that stuff. It was also only $15.00. When i first played it, I had fun for about 10 min. The 
 AI sucks and the reloading takes so long that you would get shot halfway through it. The graphics 
 look like the game is only supported by a dreamcast. The story mode is amazingly short and now 
 matter what happens the north always wins the war. Also, at the beginning of the level they tell 
 tou what the battle turns out as. So even if you kill practically everyone you lose on certain 
 levels. And to a large disappointment there is no online multiplayer. All in all, i wish that i 
 had my $15.00 bucks back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The only reason I bought this game was it was cheap at Gamestop on Black Friday the day of thanksgiving, 
 or otherwise November 23. It was in the bargain bin cheap: $15 new as Gamestop had its huge sale.
 
  
  For the first few minutes it was fun, using the sword and the realistic long reload. After a while 
 though the reload was annoying, especially using the one shot rifle. (Sniper though didn't take 
 as long) . After I while it was easier to charge the enemy as the 6 shot shotgun is unaccurate and 
 impossible to hit at long distance. I would use the 6 shot pistol and switch to the sword. The 
 AI is dumb and charges at you but are crackshots even with the lousy guns and seem to know where 
 you are even when you walk behind bushes.
  Grenades something I didn't know existed in the 1800's are weak and can barely be thrown a few 
 feet. My old mom can throw farther. Campain can be beaten in 4-5 hours and is fun if you like run 
 and gun games. Its weird though how it feels like Call of Duty's close combat and intense action, 
 but when I watch old movies and documentaries, soldiers stood in lines shooting each other, and 
 march and or charge, without cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goth_spider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When i go this game i thought i just wasted my money, but it turns out this is actually pretty 
 fun and realistic for a civil war game. 1st, the weapons actually work like realistic old time 
 weapons and the re loading time is accurate. The story mode is fun, but way to easy on easy and 
 normal and short. Hard mode is more challenging, the opposition can kill u in about 2 hits. Some 
 downers about the game is that there is no multi player mode and the AI is some times to bad for 
 its own good. That is why i rank this game a 7.5 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1mpthra
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  ok lets see i was at my local Rhino (its like Gamestop) and i was thinking... this... or RainBlow 
 six (--- notice rainBLOW 6 yes that sucks to... anyway.... this game is fun INTILL you have to 
 reload, and then the shot u loaded will miss its target (mostlikey) the game gets a 4.5-10 Rainblow 
 5-10 :D.... well its gotta be 100 words  
 sa ds asds daf dasd as dasdd s ds s ghh h h h h h h h h jh h h f fhfh fh fh fh fhffdfdfdfd fsdlfnbsd 
 fsdg fjdhd jjhdfddsgj gdsjhag dasjg dasjg jdagjdasgj dgasjdg gdasjg dasjhg jg as k_k_k like the 
 last  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This was a great idea to make a Civil War game, World War II shooters have produced a lot of profit 
 &amp; fans. The issue here is that those WW II shooters that were able to build up such a large 
 fan base, did it because their games were great, or at least good enough to make you want to continue 
 through it after the first couple levels. History Channel: Civil War fails at nearly all aspects 
 of making a good or even decent shooter. Its not even worth my time to go into detail about each 
 aspect and how some were headed in the right direction &amp; others were completely lost, so I'll 
 go ahead and just say this game pretty much isn't even worth the money to rent it and definitely 
 shouldn't ever be considered for a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are pretty good but not gears, gameplay is like Call of Duty 2 but quicker like Shadowrun, 
 the value is ok for a used game but I honestly could never see myself spending $60 for this kind 
 of game. I love the civil war but $60 is just not worth it. Try this out if you want to shoot some 
 guys up with some old kick @ss weapons like Muskets and Swords. If you don't like it then return 
 it as soon as possible because this is not for everyone just the kind of people that like the Civil 
 War. Buy this for its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayormoose
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  N64 graphics, phony audio, no characters, no storyline, confusing maps, robotic dialouge, and terrible 
 weapons all around (especially the reload times) . I spent $29.99 on this and it's not worth diddly 
 squat. to any american history fans out their, this game does not, in any way, represent the true 
 purpose behind the civil war. I give this PATHETIC attempt to almost have half the desire to even 
 think about finding out about where you can learn about the civil war a (-6/10) . The only thing 
 they got right about each historic battle was the name. They made up their own guns too which is 
 a disgrace. They even got the uniforms wrong!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korn420
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I rented this game twice once for PS2 and once for 360. I can't believe I wasted twenty bucks on 
 crap. Civil War is garbage and gamespot is generous to give this game a 5.3. Ok lets start graphics 
 are ok on 360 they look reasonbly well compared to the ps2 version but people it's no Call of Duty. 
 Sound is ok voice acting isn't that great but it gets the job done. Gameplay is bad I mean exceptionally 
 bad, ruins the game bad. It takes forever to reload your gun (but it is based in the 1800's so 
 I can understand why they did that) The A. I is atrocious sometimes the enemies will just stand 
 there aimlessly and even walk through walls!! Plus when you hide for cover they still shoot you!!! 
 They never did that back than did they!!! Perhaps the worst thing about this game is the checkpoints 
 wait there are none!!! Frustrating piece of crap, that means you have to save the game yourself 
 and it gets pretty annoying!! In conclusion this game is like a lamb or a goat talking. It's bah 
 bah bah bah bad!!!!!!! So people just stay away from this one because it feels more like a chore 
 than a pleasure to play!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Well ... what can i say about HISTORY CHANNEL : CIVIL WAR for XBOX360 ?
  
  Ahem...
  
  Well for starters it has the worst A. I. i've ever played against. It's literally dumber A. I. than 
 the AI in Nintendo 64's GoldenEye ... and that ... is... bad enemy A. I. And oh god, the aiming... 
 sometimes that crosshair looks perfectly dead-center on the enemies' head, chest or belly and it 
 doesn't hit the enemy at all! This is a common, and extremely frustrating occurence, and oh boy 
 does it ruin the shooting fun BIG TIME. Even worse, the AI can somehow magically target and hit 
 you through the tiniest holes in cover or from the farthest distances! GRRRR!
  
  At least the achievements come quickly and they are moderately generous. That is Civil War's most 
 redeeming quality, along withthe scenery graphics which are quite good. They accurately portray 
 real-life forests, beaches, and rural buildings very well. The enemy and friendly AI characters, 
 however, look very similar and are crudely animated.
  
  The Good : Realistic Scenery
  Some Missions Are Lots Of Fun
  Shoot Lots Of Enemies
  
  The Bad : Slow Gun Reloading Gets 
 Old Fast
  Target Aiming, Shot-Collision Detection
  Strangely Dumb A. I.
  
  My Overall :
  6.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchicgoth
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  When I first popped the game in I knew what was going to come from playing this game. Typical really. 
 The second my friends fired off message after message on xbox live- one even called me. OMG GS 
 WHORE LOLZ Losers... but it is true, the game is bad, but the points are plentfull and easy. Down 
 to the gameplay this title can bring some realistic, and not so realistic elements and smash them 
 into each other to make another crappy game we have all played and wished we didn't. Lets see- 
 realistically speaking at least the enemies die sooner or later after you shoot them. Thing is 
 I felt like I was fighting the clone army- not the diverse array of soldiers that fought for there 
 beliefs long ago. For this game to fork over some points they expect you to get 95% accuracy in 
 each level but unfortunatly the games enemies tend to randomly move or just die with no one else 
 in sight! So easy thing to do is just shoot one in the chest and then go on a melee spree smacking 
 every last person on the map! Not only that but the game is so linear a 5 year old could beat it! 
 Levels really do consist of  a-shoot-shoot-reload-wait 
 six seconds-shoot-melee-press a-press a. Woohoo! Mission complete! With crappy graphics, horrible 
 gameplay, atrocious level design, awful sound effects and voices, boring cutscenes and a story 
 line worse then reading about it in the history books i'm surprised how they got the History Channel 
 endorsement! Well at least it has 1000 gamerscore so its a good rent for a boost in your gamerscore- 
 happy Confederate/Yankee hunting- this game hates you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidejedi360
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  History Channel: Civil War is a game nobody thought about. When most people think of a war to make 
 into an FPS, the game companies made games on Vietnam, and the people thought World War I. But 
 nobody thought about the American Civil War. Somebody finally had the balls to take on a new war 
 in a videogame, and while not all the results may be good, the game is mindless fun, and at the 
 least, a $30 stress reliever. The graphics definitely show that this is meant to be a budget title, 
 but in that case, it's not a bad looking budget game. The environments and lighting are very believeable 
 and set a good atmosphere. The major blemish with the graphics are the character models. The faces 
 look bad, the hair looks like it was made out of play-doh, and oddly, every single character model 
 has a beard. I'm sure that at least one soldier in the Civil War shaved. Another problem is that 
 soldiers will start to die out of nowhere. Now, starvation was prevalent in the Civil War, but 
 then, how come they have the same death animation as if they got shot? The gameplay follows the 
 mindless shooting romp that Call of Duty pioneered, which leaves the gameplay feeling very uninspired. 
 At least the guns are fun to use, and are believably modeled. The gun sounds believeable, and the 
 music is pretty good, but doesn't play during gameplay. The big downside is that the game is pretty 
 short, only around 5 to 8 hours. At least the game has good achievements, but most are really easy 
 to get and you'll probably get within a week or two. Rent it first and see if you like it. And 
 if you do, get it, but dont spend more than 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player5KJ
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  all u guys who like history should defenitley buy this game but all u guys that are about actually 
 doing something dont buy this game but personnaly i dont care wat ppl say so all u people who said 
 u hate this game fuk u **** i love this game. sssssssssssssoooooooooo this gammmmmmmmmme is a must 
 buy so buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! thats wat i say guys.  
 geeeeeeeet thwe \\ game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and if u guys want to send me a friend request my gamertag 
 is Player5KJ on Xbox 360. so hurry and send me one guys and if u hear my voice online im not a 
 fuking girl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  he Civil War was a time of turmoil and death in which hundreds of thousands of American soldiers 
 gave their lives for their beliefs and ideals. The country itself was struggling to stay alive 
 as war ravaged the land for years. Today, to a far less degree, that is exactly what playing History 
 Channel: Civil War feels like, a struggle. With so many technical problems, remaining alive becomes 
 the greatest challenge of all.
  
  This game at first resembles Call of Duty 2 (Activision helped with the publishing duties and both 
 games use the same engine) . The similarities soon end, as History Channel: Civil War feels nothing 
 at all like its WW II counterpart. It feels entirely like a budget title, which makes it totally 
 lack any sense of battlefield authenticity, let alone that of the Civil War.
  
  The time period itself is a cause for concern for any developer, since recreating weapons, clothing 
 and locations from that era is tricky and time-consuming. However, History Channel: Civil War does 
 a good job of pulling off that particular task. The weapons all look exactly to scale and are modeled 
 after actual Civil War weapons. But like all Civil War weaponry, the guns you will use in the game 
 lack a key feature of today's firearms. Because most rifles from the 1800s lacked a central chamber, 
 which holds ammunition, reloading took a huge amount of time and was a constant struggle. On average, 
 a Civil War soldier could only reload his one-shot musket three times a minute, a pithy to the 
 rounds-per-minute counts of weapons used today. While this delay in reload time may seem like fun 
 in the game the first three or four times, the action later literally comes down to who can reload 
 their weapon faster and get off a shot. While Activision sped up the reload times, it still takes 
 an incredibly long time before you can fire any weapon, which is terrible in any shooter.
  
  Reloading isnt the game's only problem. If you do manage to reload before the enemy, expect 
 to land a few rounds in him before he actually falls. The hit detection in this game is terrible, 
 forcing you to fire several shots at your enemy before it registers that you struck your target. 
 Even melee attacks don't register half the time, which causes your character to swing wildly at 
 the air in hopes he will eventually land a punch.
  
  Also, dont expect any help from your fellow soldiers along the way either, as they simply run 
 off into separate directions or disappear from the battle altogether. This lack of support requires 
 you to spend every mission going it alone against dozens of soldiers who have precision aiming. 
 While aiming is already a demanding task for the player, Civil War's enemies never seem to have 
 problems, as they shoot at you constantly without ever reloading. To make things even more difficult, 
 the heads-up-display (HUD) lacks any form of navigation, making advancing to the next objective 
 difficult. The only thing that appears on the game's compass is a tiny dot that shows the basic 
 location of the objective. Sometimes the dot appears behind you on the map, and the only way to 
 advance through the level is to backtrack. This seems like a cruel developer's trick to make you 
 run around the levels for longer periods of time, making the missions seem bigger. But it does 
 nothing more than make you more infuriated.
  
  As if things could not get any worse, the HUD also fails to acknowledge when enemies are present. 
 Since both allies and enemies wear what appears to be almost exactly the same color uniform, dark 
 blue or gray, it is incredibly hard to tell who is on your side. The only way to figure that out 
 is to get shot and see where a red arrow points to. Expect to die a lot because of these technical 
 follies. To add insult to injury, the game lacks a checkpoint system, meaning you have to pause 
 the game and save in the menu to advance your progress. If you forget to save and later die in 
 battle, you have to restart the entire mission over again.
  
  The missions themselves play out exactly the same, with your character heading to a certain area, 
 most likely to destroy some sort of structure, and finding your commanding afterwards ends the 
 mission. As if it wasn't bad enough already, Civil War is horrible when it comes to providing variety 
 to break up the monotony. There are stealth mission, but they're failures in execution since you're 
 told to stay hidden along a road with no cover in broad daylight. All of the game's missions end 
 abruptly, with no message, no rewarding sense of victory. Instead, once you reach the last objective 
 of the level, the screen simply fades to black and you are taken back to the main menu. A cruel 
 prank, especially with all the other hassles to begin with.
  
  Gameplay aside, this game looks and feels like a budget title too. Characters are blocky and lack 
 facial expressions, moving and dying with the same animated movements. All character models look 
 the same, which makes picking out friend from foe a guessing game. The sound is some of the worst 
 I have ever encountered in a war-based shooter, with cannons that sound like muskets and enemies 
 that scream after they are dead. All characters have the same annoying voice too, all screaming 
 in a Southern accent despite most soldiers from that time period coming from New England.
  
  Even with all of the bad, there are some things you might enjoy about History Channel: Civil 
 War. Since History Channel lent their name to the game, there are some impressive cutscenes before 
 each level that tell you what is going on before each battle and what is going to eventually happen 
 once you get there. While there are some actual photographs from the Civil War era that are used 
 for the game's backstory, the rest of the narrative is told through a PowerPoints where colored 
 shapes show the movement of armies. These look very corny and out of place, especially compared 
 to the rest of the game. However history buffs may enjoy these historical references, I feel they 
 would be better served watching the actual History Channel for more professional, quality depictions.
 
  
  Overall, History Channel: Civil War feels too much like a budget title to recommend. The game's 
 $50 price seems insulting, as it has too many problems to even consider worth a play-through, much 
 less a purchase. The game's achievements might be enough to convince some to buy it, but if you 
 dont care about adding points to your gamerscore, stay as far away from this game as you possibly 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Whats this a civil war game? yes, now the first thing that came to my mind when i heard about this 
 was. Great i can stand with my team mates and get shot while im reloading. And guess what? you 
 do get shot. A lot.
  
  Gameplay in this game feels like its trying to be call of duty 2 or 3... but with health, which 
 could be sort of the games downfall. The games health system is some what broken, and with that 
 being said you would want cover to save that very important health. But when you hide behind cover, 
 you still get shot by the people your hiding from. The guns in this game are authentic, but thats 
 not always a good thing, you will find yourself in a firefight and missing then having to reload 
 then correct your aim, then fire again and hope you hit the guy. There are lever action rifles 
 in the game, but they seem to still have a long reload time and when he cocks the lever it takes 
 him a while. The pistols in this game are downright useless. You can unload six shots into a guys 
 chest and he will still come running at you. Oh and you have a sword, thats cool... run into a 
 crowd and think sweet one hit kill. Wrong takes about five hits to down one man with sword. You 
 can get stuck in the game easily. when i say that i mean you will get stuck on nothing. Over all 
 this game feels rushed in the gameplay area
  
  Graphics are nothing to be in awe for. The games like a xbox game with polished graphics, to try 
 and pass as a 360 game. The only nice things about these graphics is the smoke from the guns, and 
 the sun effects when you look near it. The games character models look nice from a far. but get 
 close to them, its like you are looking at something that should be on xbox.
  
  Sound is not to bad for the rifles. Sounds authentic. The voice acting on the other hand... its 
 terrible, worst thing i have almost ever heard. And when you get shot, your guy sounds so retarded 
 as if he was pinched or something.
  
  the over all value of this game is nothing, its a good rent for achievements. but with no multiplayer 
 and a downright boring single player... keep this to a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  now ppl may say dis game is bad and boring and only give it a 6 but i give it a 8 i found dis game 
 to be exciting and also teaching some stuff about the war it has ok guns and kool knives and if 
 ur interested in achievments dis is one easy game to get it but i hate the realoadin time it takes 
 FOR EVER to freakin reaload da gun but other than it a good game but it may not be for everyone 
 and remember dont listen to wat ppl say everyone said dis game sucked but i loved it just see for 
 ur self and buy it or rent it !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  If you thought that you would want to buy this game, you should really reconsider. The graphics 
 in Civil War aren't exactly bad, but compared to a lot of other xbox 360 games, they kinda suck. 
 The faces are detailed, but do not give you the feeling that you are in the war. They look like 
 the face of a puppet, if you know what I mean. The walls and trees and stuff are detailed, but 
 in a strangely unrealistic way. The guns are the only things that look real. You don't have a very 
 big selection in the way of weapons. Plus it takes about 20 seconds to reload. The concept of shooting 
 someone in the head and them automatically dying must have escaped the heads of the developers. 
 And also the concept of them dying when you shoot them anywhere. What I mean is when you shoot 
 someone in Civil War, the bullet usually goes right through them. The grenades in Civil War have 
 almost no effect at all. The sound in Civil War is the best part. The sounds of the gunshots sound 
 pretty decent. The explosions sound great. The problem is the fact that the voice work is way overdone. 
 The voices sound good, but the script is just retarded. The game play is halfway decent. You can 
 be on the southern side or the northern side. There is 6 levels on each side, which is 12 levels. 
 That wouldn't sound too bad, but considering the fact that each level takes about ten minutes, 
 the game is way too short. In Civil War, the knife is the best weapon because it actually has an 
 effect. This game is a total letdown. Even if you are a die-hard History Channel fan, this game 
 won't appeal to you. Civil War gets very annoying because of the retarded choking noises you make 
 when you get shot and because the enemies forget they are holding a rifle and just run at you. 
 The game costs way too much. This game is Activision at its worst. For your health, there is 4 
 stars. It takes about 20 shots to lose a star. There is medipacks all over the place. Most of the 
 guns can hold a very limited amount of ammo, and only have 1 shot before the half an hour reload 
 session. Civil War could have been a lot more fun. The objectives are boring, stuff like stealing 
 documents and finding your commanding officer. All in all, Civil War is not worth your time or 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakalou
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Since I had never before played an actual Civil War shooter, I came to this game with open arms 
 and expecting more than I probably should have. When I actually started to play Activision's Civil 
 War , I felt greatly disappointed that the makers of the Call of Duty games could make such a mediocre 
 game with such a high price tag of fifty dollars. However, I played on hoping and nonetheless expecting 
 game's experience to undo itself and get better. Little did I know my efforts were all in vain 
 as the whole game could cheifly be sumed up as middle of the road. The only two things that stood 
 out to me from the game were the cheesey dialouge and the little similarities to COD 2 strewn about 
 here and there. With much to be expected, this game falls flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  yes the game play is more like saying that the war was fought like ww2 with men runing up a road 
 and shooting at the union or the rebs and hideing behine boxs and trees and fighting with only 
 a few of your guys and 15 or16 enemies and call it the battle of vicksburg or same other battle 
 that happed in the civil war. if you want a game that plays ture to the civil war stick with pc 
 games that are stragety based games. one thing that a realy dis liked was that the games had on 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Play as either the Confederate or Union forces in over 12 historic battles. The game 
 is actually fun, but some technical issues hurt the game. Such issues are: Enemy AI is poor, You 
 can sometimes get shot from behind cover, etc.
  
  Graphics: Decent graphics captures the grim and gritty side of the Civil War. However, it could 
 have been better, especially if you're playing it on the 360. Some of the buildings in the game 
 look like they came from a miniature golf course.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is okay. Sounds of Cavalry Charges, Weapons, and Cannon explosions are pretty 
 good. Sometimes you will hear your fellow officers rallying you when they're not even within three 
 yards of you.
  
  When it comes down to it, History Channel's Civil War: A Nation Divided is a decent shooter that 
 has some pros and alot of cons, one pro in particular is the easy to achieve 360 achievement points. 
 For once, there's a decent Civil War game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WookieeJAH
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  A few weeks before the game was released I accidentally came across a preview for it on Gamespot. 
 I had wanted to see a Civil War game for quite a while now, and the only ones that were out there 
 were PC strategy games. To my surprise this game was going to be an FPS. So I bought the game within 
 a couple days of its release. I wasnt surprised that is was short, but at the same time I still 
 enjoyed it. As much as I like WWII shooters, this was something different from most historical 
 shooters, and I liked it.
  
  You play for both the North and the South, and youre a different soldier in each battle. Because 
 standing in a line, and firing when ordered would be extremely boring, most of the action takes 
 place in skirmishes, instead of on the open battlefield. This also serves as an excuse to not make 
 as many AI soldiers in the game at one time. It would have been nice to see more. Im not the first 
 person to point out that the number of zombies in Dead Rising shows that the 360 would be more 
 than capable of more friendly and enemy soldiers in the battle.
  
  There are a few complaints about the historical accuracy of the game; the main being about the 
 grenades, which existed at the time, but were seldom used. Then theres the fact that the gatling 
 gun was in the game, but it was not put to regular use in real life either. The radar is another 
 complaint, but its only used to find objectivesit might has well have been called a compass; 
 most shooters have one regardless of when they took place. I could go on and on, and while I still 
 enjoyed the came, these inaccuracies are still worth mentioning. Its defiantly different playing 
 a game with a musket, and the reload times are probably as slow as they were in real life (not 
 a bad thing if it was for the sake of accuracy) , but there are also rifles with cartridge ammo, 
 revolvers, a knife and a sword, along with a melee attack, so the game actually works out. I still 
 thought it was more fun to use the musket though.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer. It would have been a lot of fun. There are leaderboards, 
 and I was number 14 the first weekend the game came out. All I had to do to rand was beat the game 
 on easy. Im over 2,000 now though. You will also get plenty of achievements. The game also supports 
 downloadable content, so maybe well see a few more battles.
  
  Despite its flaws, Civil War is a very underappreciated game. I enjoyed the gmae a lot just for 
 the sake of it being different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Safety
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  For many years, gamers have complained and whined about how unoriginal World War 2 games were and 
 how they're simply tired of them all. Well get ready boys and girls, cause here comes a game that 
 touches on a war that very few games dared to be based around: the Civil War. Once you pick up 
 your 360 controller and start up your first battle, you'll quickly put it back down and start looking 
 up when the next Call of Duty game comes out.
  
  In HC: CW-AND, you play as either a Union or a Confederate soldier fighting for the destiny of 
 a newborn nation. Both sides have six seperate battles which were all important to the direction 
 of the war. Before each battle you are treated with a History Channel-ish cutscene that describes 
 what led up to the battle, and after the level you'll get a wall of scrolling text describing what 
 happened due to that battle. Despite your victory in getting through the level, the news isn't 
 always good for your specific side. During each level you must complete a series of objectives 
 just like any FPS, and you are given a selection of weapons which are supposedly accurate to the 
 weapons used in the real war. Should you take damage you'll notice the four stars near your ammo 
 count start to diminish, should you lose all of them you die, but if you manage to stay away from 
 being shot you'll regenerate to the last star that isn't blackened out.
  
  Now just because you can nail the look and feel of actual Civil War era combat, that doesn't mean 
 it actually translates into good gameplay. Yes, single shot rifles are in the game. Yes, they are 
 quite annoying to reload because it takes forever. Every gun takes forever to reload. But all your 
 computer foes use the same weapons so thankfully they suffer the same drawbacks as well. But should 
 you find yourself in the middle of a firefight you should find cover while you reload, right? Unfortunately 
 most of the time cover in inefffective because bullets can either pass through some things that 
 they shouldn't, or the AI can actually manage to nail the small part of you that is exposed. But 
 you are so tough, however, that you can survive such shots. As a matter of fact you can take so 
 much pain without having to retreat, you can charge most foes and beat them to death with melee 
 attacks. But that's not exactly easy to do, since your rifle butts or sword slashes are directly 
 connected to your crosshair, so if you have a chance to miss a shot, you'd be able to miss your 
 swing even if you're extremely close to your foe. Even if you are able to hit them with the melee 
 attack, sometimes the game doesn't register it and it deals no damage to the enemy. Or you could 
 just run past them, since most of the time they won't actively chase you. They also like to fire 
 at you out in the open, then stand there and reload their single shot rifles like they have all 
 the time in the world. Which usually is never cause due to some reason they like to fall to the 
 ground dead. No shot fired from either you or your friends, they just fall over and die. Great 
 programming, fellas.
  
  Graphically, the game isn't too bad. The look of the guns and soldiers are all well detailed, however 
 there are only about two to three different configurations to each side which makes you feel like 
 you're fighting a bunch of redneck clones. The lighting is done decently enough, though a little 
 investment in smoke and fire would have been great. When we start dwelling into the sound department, 
 things take a big turn for the worse. We're talking voice acting that's beyond phoned in. The lines 
 sound like they were delivered by bored developers that knew they were making a boring game and 
 wanted to get all the voice acting out in one day. When a simple line like Charge! is said flatly 
 as it is here, you know something's wrong. If they spent more time recorded more dialogue, maybe 
 I wouldn't have heard a soldier say Follow me to glory! Follow me to glory! Follow me to glory! 
 in rapid succession. This also didn't happen once, but several times throughout the game. Gun fire 
 sounds about right though which is something they at least did well. On the plus side, the achievements 
 are rather easy to get. By the time you finish the game you'll kill almost 750 enemies, which should 
 net you 300+ points alone. Completing each level and killing a certain amount of people with a 
 specific weapon will only boost your gamerscore. By that time you should of had your fill of this 
 game for, oh, all time. If you are even remotely good at aiming a virtual gun in a 360 game, most 
 levels will take you less than 20 minutes to complete. On normal, it took me less than four hours 
 to beat the entire game. A tactic they use for replayability is placing photos and documents in 
 hidden parts of each level, which honestly doesn't make me wanna go back to each level to scour 
 for. There's no multiplayer whatsoever, Live or split screen, or even networked. A grave sin for 
 any FPS. Bonus materials include an ad for historychannel. com, art, and the ability to look at 
 the photos and documents you've found in the game. So for $50 you get, at max, 5 hours of gameplay. 
 If that doesn't talk you out of buying this game already, I dunno what will. I suppose its a good 
 try for making a Civil War game, unfortunately the era and equipment used in the game just doesn't 
 equate to a fun time. Dim AI, no online or split screen play, and an extremely short story mode 
 makes this game worth even less than a bargain bin price. Paying $50 for this is just criminal. 
 Even if you're only playing for the points, you should probably think about if you really want 
 to have a CW icon on your gamercard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I played it, and i didn't mind it, it is a nice set back, something different finally..
  
  The graphics, while detailed, framerate drops occasionally, you can't say you never saw it, because 
 that would be a lie, but from an artistic perpective, it looks good, who ever designed the art 
 obviously is a pro
  
  Sound, oh my god the sound is somewhat terrible, or is it just me, i dunno, but i didn't like the 
 sound at all, the sounds sometimes overpowered and sometimes extremely weak.
  
  Gameplay is extremely awful, i was set back a whole level just because i didn't save before i died. 
 The AI is no walk in the park either, it is smart sometimes, but it gets tedious to watch you men 
 get shot because they never took cover.
  
  Guns are awfully designed, none of them are forgiving enough to let you reload in a couple seconds, 
 sure it is realistic but I don't care, it takes forever, i was probably able to go out to dinner, 
 and comeback to a loaded gun, thats how long it takes to reload.
  
  The last paragraph. It would have been worth the purchase, figuring it had multiplayer, but no, 
 it doesn't, for a game of this type, you wouldv'e expected multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingjackass
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, not really, it's just a mediocre game that I suggest renting and definately not buying. EVER. 
 Some of the first levels were pretty fun, but when you play on the confederate side, the missions 
 seem much harder. Not to mention the gameplay is fun, but kind of not civil war . Sniper rifles 
 and grenades???! In the Civil war? Ok, whatever. And the achievements are less than easy to achieve 
 all of them within 6 hours or so. I rented it first, and never wanted to play it again, because 
 after that one day, there was nothing left to do. So I just sat around miserably at home and pouted 
 because I had nothing left to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fantasy009
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First off; profhockey33, please tell me you are joking. This game couldn't touch Call of Duty: 
 Big Red 1 on a good day. And Gears of War remains the best game out for the 360. Alright, now the 
 review. I got this game because I love First Person Shooters and the Civil War. That and I wanted 
 to help the South win the war (I'm from South Carolina) . Disappointed on both fronts. I can understand 
 the slow reload times as being realistic , but it is still so slow that it makes playing a chore. 
 Voice acting actually made me laugh. In the first mission for the North when the Yankee says, Don't 
 forget me... funniest thing I've seen in a long time.
  
  The graphics were decent, nothing spectacular, but they get the job done. Character design could 
 use a bit of work though. There really isn't any noticeable difference between the Northern and 
 Southern soldiers except for the color of the uniforms. Gameplay is slow, it reminded me of Medal 
 of Honor: Rising Sun. Running along a predesignated path encountering random groups of enemies 
 that all follow the same tactics; stand, fire, charge, repeat.
  
  One time I real surprised, I got to jump on a wagon and use a Gatling gun to shoot down Yankees. 
 I was excited until the wagon began moving a mind numbing 2 miles-per-hour. So for what felt like 
 forever, I sat and shot groups of around 2 or 3 enemies until I reached the gates of the camp. 
 Or in the area of the gate. Instead of going all the way in, we stopped about 50 yards in front 
 of the doorway and had to hoof it.
  
  Sometimes I got bored and attempted to blow up farmhouses with a cannon, but it didn't work. It 
 just made an explosion on the wall and didn't even mess up the paint. Which surprised me, since 
 bullets can go flying through anything they want to shoot you, yet not the other way around. Next 
 would come me complaining about save points and ghost soldiers killing you, but why beat a dead 
 horse? I will end by saying that I was ticked to find that I could not change the outcome of the 
 war. No matter what I did I couldn't change history. Oh well, back to building my time machine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  The History Channel Presents Civil War: A Nation Divided is the full title to this surprisely fair-playing 
 game. Its the first Civil War FPS game, and its developers did alomst everything right to make 
 it one of the best Civil War games around. However, we find that simple mistakes were made in the 
 game, and length of the title, brings down this gem:
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  The controls of this game are almost indentical to Call of Duty franchise. However, the game has 
 different aspects that actually hinder it. First, the health system is way too nice for the player. 
 On Easy and even Normal, its almost impossible to die. On Hard, it goes to Call of Duty difficulty, 
 yet slightly glitchy. The glitches that I speak of is shooting through walls, something that you 
 and computer can do occisonally. Yea, its nice when its on Hard mode and they are using SNIPERS. 
 However, as I said, this doesn't happen as much as it sounds, since most of the walls work well. 
 Plus, The reloading times are faster than expected for a civil war game, which is nice since I 
 don't see many gamers waiting 1 minute for reload.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  This are last-gen Graphics and some nice ones at that. The game is a PS2 game afterall, but I have 
 to say the character models are really nice on the Xbox 360. Still, its an last gen game on Xbox 
 360 once again.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The Sound of the game is top notch, but the voice acting and music are below par. The voice actors 
 sound unfit for the part and the music is usually one track played over and over again or its not 
 playing at all. The sound I spoke of is the gunshots, explosions and the yelling from soldiers.
 
  
  Value: 5/10
  
  The game takes a hit in this section for the fact the game is really short. I mean 5 hours short. 
 The game really will fly by as you play it. Even achievement lovers will see that the achivements 
 in the game take no time to get, However, I feel must warn the achivement goers of this: make sure 
 you get the (insert number) kills with (insert weapon) achivements first before moving on to the 
 other achievements since the game is glitched with these achivements.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I love the Civil War and as a fan of it, I have to say this is a somewhat faithful look at what 
 the battle are like. Sure its not as gory and distrubing as it should be, but hey, this is a Historical 
 game that fun to play and I sure had a blast with it. The only downside to this is that their is 
 no heartfelt story or story period to help progress the game. O well, maybe we might get one in 
 a sequel or from some other developer.
  
  Overall: 6.9/10.0
  The game was overall fun experience and Civil War buffs will get a kick out of its weapons and 
 atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  After figuring out the right thumbstick was the reload button after finishing the north compaign 
 I realized the game is like Call of Duty 2, it graphically looks and feels the same just that the 
 surroundings need some touch ups and the voice acting was a turn down never made you feel like 
 you were there. The AI were good except they never made them smart enough to stay alive so they 
 would get lost or very well you do the whole story on your own.
  The game needs a few updates that can be easily done and it would make it really good its like 
 gun without the horse and indians.
  
  The game is historically accurate through the story and the weapons, your character, and others 
 look really good but something about the surroundings look sloppy. Like they really went cheap 
 for explosion effects and such because when I through a grenade it makes an explosion smaller than 
 a fire cracker but it seems to have a massive AOE so explosions and animations weren't worked on 
 far enough, and if they added coop with this game if not multiplayer than this would of sold alot 
 more copies.
  
  Since people are buying the game they will probably make another game that looks and plays better. 
 If not than I'm sending a load of complaints.
  
  Anyways back to the AI since I didn't go into detail about whats wrong, they shoot well and are 
 good backup but they can't follow a road they try to run through a wall or something. Your allies 
 seem to die right off the beginning making it a real struggle to survive. The script in the game 
 that when you walk by a certain area or something enemies ambush you seem to repeat ever time you 
 step in and out of certain areas and weapons after a while seem to disappear with the corpse so 
 there is a lack of ammo from time to time.
  
  Overall this game is fun but it will frustrate you if you don't look around carefully enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok first gotta say lol to some people giving it above 6/10 because well i dont even know where 
 to start ok here i go in simple words graphics alright seen better on war games (cod series) value 
 i recommend you get a dumb buddy to buy it so u can try it (i did lol) actually forget that dont 
 try now the important bit like any game the gameplay well what can i say its laughable ok on war 
 games or any game you have a start as in explosion why your there or something at least something 
 this game starts with a gun in your hand and start killing the incoming and you carry on killing 
 and a bit further on in the game its a bit more killing did they just want a bland game of killing 
 because i see no story to the game (please dont reply saying its civil war lol) you know there 
 should be a story to a game oh well im still just speechless as you can see what a waste of cash 
 stick with call of duty you can never beat the best...
  
  Oh one thing wheres the multiplayer its xbox 360 right isnt there meant to be some sort of online 
 oh damn stupid me it would be like single player tdm basicly all the time lol...
  
  one more thing i hadnt even heard of this game till my mate phoned me and said he got a new game 
 i still had to say civil war did u say never heard of it u sure its for 360 (and one thing main 
 online game supplys e. g. gameplay where i get most of my games from havent even heard of it either 
 lol.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josefkrump
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  yeah, the game made by history channel for 360 and pc is out standing
  yes the game play is more like saying that the war was fought like ww2 with men runing up a road 
 and shooting at the union or the rebs and hideing behine boxs and trees and fighting with only 
 a few of your guys and 15 or16 enemies and call it the battle of vicksburg or same other battle 
 that happed in the civil war. if you want a game that plays ture to the civil war stick with pc 
 games that are stragety based games. one thing that a realy dis liked was that the games had on 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  positives: great looks like it's an 1800's environment. Using swords are pretty fun. CAnnons are 
 fun to use as well
  
  negatives: slow paced game, even though the civil war was slow paced. Very short, easy. Not too 
 much fun. Get's very repetitive. Can't feel disturbance of the Civil War
  
  Civil War is a creative idea. It is the first civil war game ever released, but is not too much 
 fun. You can use swords and cannons and other types of old weapons. One dissapointong aspect of 
 the gam eis there is literally no blood. The battles were very bloody yet this game doesn't display 
 that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a big history fan and watch the History Channel when I am not playing Xbox 360. I was really 
 hoping for a Call of Duty quality game. The single shot then reload has a nice feel to it when 
 you blow the guy away with a single shot in Call of Duty. But almost every weapon in this game 
 is single shot with a reload,. Some weapons you are reloading long than firing. Secondly when you 
 shoot anyone they all fall down in the same way and they just stand there. Dumb and boring. I really 
 felt bad when first started playing as I thought to myself Certainly they invested millions of 
 dollars into this product what the hell were they thinking... 
  
  The experience was so poor I actually took the game back to Best Buy and demanded an exchange. 
 They didn't like doing it but at least they have the customer in mind. The designers of this game 
 didn't.
  
  I wouldn't even rent this game for free on GameFly. Don't waste you time. History Channel you should 
 know better. Please learn from this mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: profhockey33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Ive been looking forward to this game for years and when I finally got my copy I nearly had an 
 orgasm. Can you believe it? There was a line outside my local gamestop maybe 100 people long and 
 guess what? I got the very last copy! And ill tell you, it really lived up to all the hype. Gameplay 
 is so good and addictive. Its better then call of duty in every possible way, and its set during 
 the civil war. Brilliant! And I cant stop talking about the graphics. I was telling everyone that 
 this game would blow Gears of War out of the water but no one believed me. Now everyone knows and 
 im taking the credit. Rumor has it that this game uses the Unreal4 engine, an entire generation 
 ahead of the Unreal3 used by GoW, and exclusively limited to the incredible collection of games 
 brought to us by the History Channel.
  
  Unfortunately I have to give this game a 9.9 (I guess 9.7 cuz theres only 5 categories) because 
 the only perfect 10 is my true love and favorite little pony, sniffy.
  
  Cliffs: Best $60 ever spent. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperDJ
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  *I apologize for any misunderstanding, i will think better before i write my next review. I have 
 been sufficiently slammed for the Gatling Gun thing. I admit i was wrong about the actual utilization 
 of them throughout the Civil War, and the action is authentic to a point.
  
  However, in renting this game, i was hoping that for instance during Gettysburg, on Little Round 
 Top, i would see lines of Regiments before me, advancing up the hill as the men of Law's Brigade 
 tried to break the positions me and my comrades held. Or during Fredricksburg, i would march up 
 to the stone wall as choas surrounded me.... or maybe take part in Jackson's stand on Henry House 
 Hill in First Mannassas as muskets rattled out volley after volley of lead and cannons pounded 
 each army's lines with shell and shrapnel. But i was not offered this experience, instead what 
 i got, was a game remeniscent of Call of Duty.... that while proving authentic, just didn't offer 
 justice to the real scope of the carnage of the ACW in my opinion. My emotions made my review flawed 
 in a way, but i do not change my opinion of the game. I still think true fans of the period will 
 hate this game just as much as i did, and if i'm wrong i will admit it.
  
  Game on fellas.
  
  Coop OUT!.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor10000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Well for a game put out by the History Channel it is amazing. However it is not as good as most 
 FPS. However if you liked Call of Duty 2, and can stand history you will probably like it. The 
 graphics are a disappointment, but the game play is amazing. The hand to hand fighting is better 
 than any other FPS I have played (except Call of Duty 3) . The historical accuracy is disappointing 
 for a game by the History Channel. However this only serves to make the game more palatable for 
 people who want more than 3 shots a minuet. This being said most of the guns in this game are repeating 
 rifles. Most of them have between 5 and 12 shots. This game is an excellent renter for a weekend, 
 but only around 5 hours of gameplay and only minute gameplay value it is not a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Yet another review by zombie44, this one goes to the History Channel's The Civil War: A Nation 
 Divided. It's short, it's very badly inaccurate, and the missions suddenly end without any warning. 
 Still I go back to the game, just because it's decently fun.
  
  Story:
  
  Ah yes, the story. Well, the title about sums it up. You either choose to play six battles, not 
 faithfully recreated, as a Confederate or a Union soldier. Now, there's twelve missions total, 
 ranging from the first battle of the Civil War, known as Bull Run or 1st Manassas, to such battles 
 as Antietam and Gettysburg. Now it's not the entire battle, it's in short segments. Some battles 
 in the game are fun, but others are just boring. Thankfully, they're short, but there are many 
 problems in the gameplay. The game looks promising in the beginning, with both Confederate and 
 Union flags flowing in the background, some really good music at the menu and History Channel intros 
 to each battle. Then it falls apart.
  
  5/10 Graphics:
  
  Graphics for the most part, probably only on the Xbox 360, are good. The environments are especially 
 fantastic, although not completely accurate to the battlefields, but not all can be enjoyed since 
 you can only stick to one path. The most notable to me is probably Gettysburg, that seems the most 
 accurate, battlefield wise. Now here comes the bad stuff. I'm not sure what entered the developers' 
 minds when they made this, but they made almost every soldier looking over seventy-five years old. 
 Now there were older people in combat during that time, but most were teens or early twenties in 
 age. The youngest soldier in the Civil War was twelve years old, who was a drummer boy. Another 
 extremely notable problem with the game is the number of soldiers on the screen. Most of these 
 battles were pretty big, but, like the Gettysburg battle in the game, there are only ten enemies 
 in a wide open field to shoot at. I also noticed that some enemies pop out of nowhere and attack. 
 You can tell, because there's usually an empty patch of field you can go into, wait, and then watch 
 as they appear. Also, it seems that every character you play as has a severe cut on his left wrist. 
 No idea why that's there. Anyway, graphics are good, just some severe problems in covering up some 
 things and a lack of research.
  
  7/10 Sound:
  
  Sound is okay, firing your weapons are good, cannon fire, etc. The biggest problem I found in the 
 game was the annoying repetition of comments from your brothers in arms . There's another one! 
 Look over there! Ow! 
  Over and over again. Probably the best sound in the game is the menu music.
  
  6/10
  
  
 Gameplay:
  
  The severely troubled area of the game. This is a first person shooter, which was a plus when I 
 heard about it. The first mission I played was Bull Run as a Confederate. Most weapons in the game 
 are very accurate in how they work, although reloading doesn't seem practical for some of them, 
 but most don't match the actual battle. The game gives you a large array of weapons, but they're 
 definently not accurate to the particular battle, and to the fact that the Confederates didn't 
 use that weapon. Reloading can be a pain, but don't worry, it takes about a hundred hits before 
 HALF of your health is depleted. I'm not bothered about the reloading part, that's great. I'm bothered 
 about the severely large amount of shots you can take. Most of these weapons are .52 caliber weapons, 
 I don't see how you could get hit that much. There is no person who tells you what you need to 
 do, except at the beginning of each mission. Basically, you'll be relying on your compass in the 
 top left corner to show you where to go. Why should you though when the missions are short enough 
 to end when you're just getting into it. You might not even finish the last objective, but the 
 mission cuts off and gives you a score based on accuracy when shooting, how many enemies were killed, 
 etc. What these score points you earn are for, I don't know. Melee is decent, but very disjointed. 
 Sometimes you can miss with your Springfield musket and other weapons while looking down the sight, 
 for really no reason. Getting hit will happen, even when you're behind cover, because those enemies 
 spawn right next to you. Then again, your health barely goes down. I killed lots by just charging, 
 because as soon as you get to a certain proximity to the enemy, they start to charge. When I entered 
 this zone, I'd start backing up, take aim, and fire. The AI is very stupid, but when they shoot, 
 they're ridiculously accurate. Overall this is why I love and hate this game.
  
  5/10
  
  Ultimately, this game is completely inaccurate to the Civil War. Don't go getting it to have 
 an authentic experience. Start Civil War Reenacting if you want that. If you want something short, 
 kind've poorly made, and easy as getting up to go to the bathroom, then get this game. It's fun, 
 but it really makes me hate the History Channel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The United States Civil War that took place between 1861 and 1865 reflects one of the darkest parts 
 of the nation's history. The war, which is said to have pitted brother against brother, presented 
 a great strain on the fledgling nation. Over 600,000 men perished from battle and disease, in locations 
 that spanned the country. The History Channel: Civil War strives to recreate portions of the war 
 as seen from both sides and it fails on almost all levels.
  
  I had very high hopes for this game. Why? Because it's a game that doesn't involve shooting aliens 
 in the face for once. But I soon started to see red with the repetitive game play and the horrible 
 level designs. Part of the reason the game play gets repetitive is because of the level design. 
 It's always the same. You will go down a long narrow path and then 3 or 4 people will pop out of 
 nowhere and shoot at you. Some times you can see them spawn right out of nowhere right in front 
 of you. Every once in awhile you will come to a somewhat of an open area but you still will feel 
 confined. The levels are short and uninspiring. Another problem is the cover. Once I was crouching 
 right behind a wall and I would still be getting shot at and I would get hit right through the 
 wall of concrete. Also sometimes when you reload it doesnt even show your guy reloading the gun 
 or rifle.
  
  The AI is just broken and they just shut down. They will usually just stand right in front of you 
 waiting to be killed. But then sometimes they dont even do anything. The AI will just stand and 
 not even shoot at you. I have seen the bots get stuck on a lot of stuff. If you kill them they 
 will sometimes fall right through the map. Your allies are no better. They will also get stuck 
 on stuff and make dumb moves like running into cannon fire. Sometimes your allies will die for 
 now good reason. I have counted this happening ten times. Youll just be walking and then you see 
 your allies just drop dead. No enemies where around! So you are usually left to defend yourself. 
 Sadly there is no multi player what so ever! I was really hoping there would be some multi player 
 because it would probably mean some intense action. But nope, no multiplayer what so ever. The 
 only thing that comes close to multi player is the leader boards which is meaningless. All I can 
 say about the graphics are is blah. They take no advantage of the Xbox 360. All the graphics just 
 seem too blocky and dull textures hamper the experience. This could have easily been put on the 
 Xbox. The only thing that looks decent is some of the character models and the water. All the rest 
 is dull and uninspiring. The sound is all right. The only music youll hear in the game is at the 
 main menu and the credits. The sound of the guns is good. when you can hear them. You will be 
 able to hear your gun or rifle go off but sometimes you cant hear other peoples rifles go off 
 even when youre right next to them. The voice acting is horrible. There are probably only three 
 different people doing voice acting. You will here to same person tons of times for different characters. 
 I found that very annoying. You wont even here your feet going through water!
  
  Even though this game is only $50.00 that is $10.00 dollars less then a regular Xbox 360 game, 
 just stay clear of this game. The only reason you would want to play this game is if youre a history 
 buff or if you just want some easy achievement points. No matter what just wait till this game 
 goes to the bargain bin or just avoid it all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eskimo777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  History Channel: Civil War
  
  Here is my first review of an Xbox360 game, or any other for that matter. I hope it goes over well 
 and offers a small amount of insight into this game, and possibly assists in your decision to purchase 
 it or not...
  
  For a next gen game Civil War could have produced some better graphics for the masses to enjoy, 
 but they fall short in this department. The frame rate tends to be steady through out the first 
 player campaign but has its choppy moments in larger battle when a lot is going on, and the battlefield 
 is filled with AIs. All in all the games graphics deliver the Civil War to your television set, 
 but Activision could have put in the extra effort to put the 360 graphics card into its own.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The sound tends to make up where some of the graphics left off. The authentic 
 sounds of the battlefield just pull you right into the war. The subtle sounds of reloading your 
 single shot musket ans then letting the bullet fly just sounds, and therefore feels great. Im 
 sure that the history channels advisors had a hand in making sure that the authenticity of the 
 games sound effects were done just right.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Onto the actual game play. History Channels Civil War delivers to those who want an authentic feeling 
 Civil War game, or any game of the like for that matter. The story as you would call it is accurate 
 to the extent that the History Channel could make it, if you could call it a Story Line. Its 
 more of a compilation of battles that took place in history, during the Civil War, put together 
 to help deliver a fun, authentic, action packed experience. The overall length of the game leaves 
 plenty to be desired as it is quite short compared to some other well known FPSs. What is important 
 here is whether or the game delivers a solid playing atmosphere in the time allotted. The answer 
 is simple, yes. Though short it delivers that extra punch that is necessary to make a game in a 
 long line of similar games stand out. I feel that the extra touch is given by the involvement of 
 the History Channel. As a huge fan of the History Channel what could be better than transforming 
 a collection of its Civil War documentation into a game? The 12 battles that you get to help re-enact 
 just bring you to the battlefield of that era like no other game can. Further more, how cool is 
 it to actually play out a History Channel show? Cause thats what it feels like your getting to 
 do here, be a part of a live action documentary that brings the Civil War into your living room. 
 For those looking for the next new thing in next gen gaming and expecting to be blown away by a 
 compilation of graphics that would rival virtual reality on the Star Ship Enterprise then this 
 isnt the game for you. If you are looking for a fun, recreation of the civil war, with good graphical 
 interface, and a sense of realism, then this is the game for you. Enjoy...
  
  Game 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo1810
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game at Family Video awhile back and wondered what a Civil War game would be like, and 
 upon renting it, I was very much impressed. The game itself combines the elements of Civil War, 
 with classic FPS. With cannon explosions, gattling guns, and dirt being thrown everywhere, the 
 game makes for a great simulation of the Civil War, and an incredible first try at the Civil War. 
 The graphics are very good, the sound of artillery hitting the ground sounds amazing, and the game 
 play is easy to learn. Not to mention the video bonuses, and the great history lesson you'll learn 
 playing the game, this is a DEFINITE great game for the 360, and I hope the History Channel does 
 more games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  All righty then here we go..... I've often thought of the concept of a Civil War game would be great. 
 And this is the first one I've seen as far as a FPS Civil War game. Also, what told me the game 
 would be worth the dough was it was made by Activision and they have a quality product almost always. 
 The price is $49.99 instead of the usual $59.99 which is a good thing. In my opinion it may should 
 have been even cheaper. There's no multiplayer on the game so that's one not so good thing. That's 
 probably the main reason for the cheaper than usual price. This game is made in association with 
 the History Channel so the realism and accuracy of the time-period is right on. Except one thing 
 I noticed..... you can be on the Yankee side or the Confederate side. When they raised the Yankee's 
 American Flag the flag had fifty stars and of course their weren't fifty states back then but that's 
 just a small thing. Ok, so does the game deliver? I say yes. The weapons are awesomely accurate 
 to the time period. Ever shot a black powder musket? You wanna know what war was like with that 
 thing? Whew........ take one shot then you have to reload and reloading consists of a few steps...... put 
 in the black powder... put in the firing cap...... put in the bullet and use a ramrod to stuff it 
 down in the barrell..... then fire. But it is a very deadly shot.... one shot will do it if it's 
 in a lethal spot. Thank God not every weapon is a musket. You've got a repeater rifle, a couple 
 of brands of pistols, a few good rifles, even grenades!! Yes they had a form of grenade in the 
 civil war! Also along the way you will get to use a Gatlin gun! Now that is a powerful weapon and 
 a beautiful detail is when you're firing that gun and you're taking out the enemy in the distance 
 you can see the tree branches falling from the multiple bullets. A very cool detail. You also have 
 bayonets, knives, and swords. You can even punch on occassion. If you're into achievements like 
 I am, the game to me was worth the achievements alone because they're not that difficult to boost 
 your score at least five or six hundred points in a few days. The graphics are really good. There 
 is some very cool fine details which shows alot of work and thought went into the product. For 
 instance at one point you have to sneak through an enemy camp...... and I hear this weird noise 
 then I notice its the soldiers snoring in their sleep. Very cool. On one mission you get to ride 
 in a wagon and fire the Gatlin Gun. That was a blast. There's 12 authentic battles that you get 
 to relive. If you're a History buff or fan then this game is a must. I do find American History 
 very interesting especially since I live in some of the areas of the battles. There's an easy, 
 normal, or hard option for the game. In the mission briefings you get a good idea of what the battle 
 was about, where it was and what you're trying to accomplish and all of it correlates nicely with 
 the actual Civil War. So once again, the authenticity of the game is top-notch. My biggest complaint 
 of fault of the game would be that it is too short. That's why I think the price is a bit much. 
 The only way to make the game longer would be if you played it on easy, normal, and hard. But who 
 really wants to do that you know? Especially for just a few achievement points. So my verdict is 
 this..... I recommend this game!! Play this game!! I think it would be good for kids to play this 
 in school to help with their history. For the historical value alone, the game is worth playing. 
 Worth fifty bucks? Maybe. At the very least rent the game or maybe wait and buy it used or just 
 pay full price if need be but one way or the other I do say try it out. If you're a fan of the 
 FPS genre then it's a very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiA-Beast
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to hand it to em, History Channel, Activision, and Cauldron Studios got it right on this 
 one. Utilizing the CoD3 Engine was an excellent idea. Graphics- Great! Actually surprised me, and 
 it will surprise you too. I didnt think they'd be as good as they were, and shadows look good too.
 
  
  Sound- Could be better, a lot of the same sound bites used over and over.
  
  Gameplay- Very good/Addictive, popping down the enemy cough* cough* yankees cough* cough* couldnt 
 be funner, I personally favor the muskets, and the hand to hand aint half bad either. Although 
 sometimes the enemy can shoot you when your not supposed to be shot, ei. behind cover.
  
  Replay Value- Great, you'll really never get tired of it, because there really is no game like 
 it.
  
  Final Words- The answer to all civil war buffs out there, if your not really interested in the 
 war, I highly suggest a rental, its definately worth playing. The End. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb311
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  For the Xbox 360, The History Channel: Civil War -A Nation Divided by Activision is a worthy competitor 
 to the numerous war games on consoles today. It seems that for too long WWII has dominated the 
 market and it is time to explore a new war, one that is more immersive, challenging and closer 
 to home, at least for us in the U. S. History Channel's Civil War -A Nation Divided delivers on 
 an era of war that as far as I know has never been explored in a first-person shooter. Forget machine 
 guns and arm yourself with a bayonet-tipped musket, a calvary saber and Colt revolver plus eight 
 other authentic weapons, all with killer melee moves. I must say the game is not perfect, but it 
 is fun to play. Certain game flaws include the sound which sometimes (rarely) does not match what 
 is on the screen and also the various places in which one can take cover does not provide cover 
 at all (this could be intentional by Activision) . For too long fps have provided cover in games 
 that in real life would not realistically provide cover. In Civil War-A Nation Divided if you hide 
 behind something it may or may not provide cover (except for thick trees which always seems to 
 be a good place to hide) . The graphics are well done, but the 360 is capable of better. The graphics, 
 particularly those which place you in a wooded area provide a breath of fresh air from the wearied 
 and over used corridors of typical first-person shooters. The ability to play as both the North 
 and the South will make gamers across the U. S. happy , no matter where you live. Finally to top 
 it all off each level begins and ends with historically detailed facts played up in true History 
 Channel style. For those of you who have ever seen such great Civil War movies such as Glory or 
 Gettysburg you wil feel you have been placed on the frontlines when playing History Channel: Civil 
 War- A Nation Divided and you will be completely immersed in a war that is just as intense as WW 
 II first-person shooters or any war related fps for that matter. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
