-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hitman: Blood Money
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/hitman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Open-ended stealth action gameplay lets you sneak or run and gun.
 Beautifully crafted mission set pieces seem appropriately big and complex.
 Large variety of realistic weapons, but they're not the only way to do the job.
 Good replay value for a single-player-only game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Non-player characters sometimes behave unrealistically, especially in combat.
 Many of the series' minor cosmetic problems haven't been fixed.
 New notoriety system feels half-baked.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 5,030 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: May 30, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the underlying stealth action is mostly unchanged from the previous Hitman games, a diverse 
 sequence of imaginative scenarios gives Blood Money its own fair share of violent thrills. 

 
  The bald-headed contract killer known only as 47 is in good form, primed and ready for more work 
 in the latest installment in the dark, stylish Hitman series. Though very similar to the last two 
 games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still 
 just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists to the formula, an intriguing story, and 
 a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further make Blood Money worth it.  

          More bad people in high places need to be murdered in Hitman: Blood Money.     

  This 
 is the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't assumed 
 or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played one 
 of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game.  

  There are more than a dozen missions in all, and most of them are set somewhere in the United States, 
 such as a Mardi Gras celebration in New Orleans, an Egyptian-themed Las Vegas casino, a rehab clinic 
 in Northern California, a stately riverboat traveling the Mississippi, a posh Los Angeles suburb, 
 and more. The game does a great job of realizing each of these different settings, making them 
 feel appropriately large, complex, and alive. Mardi Gras is particularly impressive, its streets 
 jam-packed with people partying. All of these places tend to be filled with armed guards as well 
 as civilians, so you'll need to exercise caution in order to take out your targets and escape undetected. 
 However, if you slip up (or deliberately blow your cover) , you can always try to shoot your way 
 out. As in the previous games, Hitman: Blood Money rewards stealth and careful planning, but if 
 you want to try to run and gun your way through the levels, you have that option. You can instantly 
 switch from the default behind-the-back perspective to a first-person viewpoint if you prefer, 
 and the game lets you use a whole bunch of different, realistically modeled real-world pistols, 
 rifles, and submachine guns against your enemies. Of course, it's possible to finish most missions 
 in Hitman: Blood Money without squeezing off a single round, if you're careful and observant.  
 

          Codename 47 is once again in the starring role, but the game's beautiful environments steal 
 the show.     

  You don't need to shoot your victims, because you have access to poisons, explosives, knives, and 
 other means. In many cases it's possible to avoid getting blood on your hands altogether, by arranging 
 an accident for your target -- say, by causing something very heavy to drop on his head. Figuring 
 out these trickier, cleaner kills is naturally gratifying, and it also tends to earn you a higher 
 ranking (and more money) once you've escaped and your mission is accomplished. As in the previous 
 games, planning your strike is easy thanks to a GPS-style real-time map that's accessible at the 
 touch of a button, which shows you all other characters in the vicinity at the normal difficulty 
 setting, including your targets. Tougher settings show you fewer characters on the map, make enemies 
 more lethal, and also limit your ability to save your progress during a mission. Even so, between 
 the map, your objectives list, and the ability to purchase more intel if you need it, even the 
 most intimidating missions become solvable. It helps that 47 is much tougher than an average man, 
 and can withstand a lot of gunshot wounds before finally succumbing in a red-tinged, slow-motion 
 haze.  

  As in the previous games, your enemies' artificial intelligence unfortunately doesn't hold up to 
 close scrutiny, but at least it puts on a good show if you don't start messing around. When you're 
 just observing, you'll find that the AI in Blood Money does a convincing job. You'll see characters 
 chatting or lounging about, while guards casually patrol the premises. Someone might stop for a 
 bathroom break or go outside for a smoke, not realizing the danger of splitting off from the crowd. 
     

  If you resort to shooting your way through a mission, you'll find that your enemies will stand 
 a chance of beating you only through sheer numbers. They'll recklessly come running to their deaths 
 if you wait for them around a corner or in some other type of choke point, and they're easily killed 
 if you aim for the head. Since self-preservation isn't important to any gun-wielding assailants 
 in the game, it makes their deaths seem unrealistic and inconsequential, in contrast to the game's 
 fairly serious (though sometimes darkly humorous) tone. Other less significant issues with the 
 previous Hitman games also carry over to Blood Money. For instance, 47 is still a master of disguise, 
 capable of wearing almost any slain foe's outfit, which helps him infiltrate mission areas. But 
 changing clothes still looks as jarring as ever, with 47 suddenly appearing in the new uniform, 
 while the old one magically appears in a neatly folded bundle at his feet.  

          Disguising yourself in the clothes of your victims is often the best way to get close to 
 your target. Or targets.     

  Those who have been keeping up with the series will find that the gameplay changes in Hitman: Blood 
 Money are minor, occurring mostly in between missions rather than during them. At the normal difficulty 
 setting and above, you gain notoriety from one mission to the next by completing your objective 
 sloppily -- namely, by leaving behind a trail of corpses. Your notoriety can make you easier to detect 
 in the next mission, though by paying an affordable fee in between missions, you can reduce your 
 notoriety back down to nothing. So this turns out to be a negligible aspect of play, but having 
 some sort of continuity between missions still helps the game. The money you earn from each contract 
 can also be used to buy new equipment and customize your main weapons, outfitting them with larger 
 clips, laser sights, scopes, silencers, and more. Another nice touch, at least on first impression, 
 is that after each assignment, you get to see a newspaper cover story describing what happened 
 in fairly exacting detail. These dynamically generated newspaper headlines turn out to be pretty 
 predictable after a while, yet they're still a clever way of giving you feedback about how you 
 performed in a given mission. During missions, you may now do such things as hide in closets to 
 ambush your foes, use enemies as human shields, throw knives and other sharp objects, steal surveillance 
 footage of your criminal deeds, and stash bodies in dumpsters or other large bins. But these aren't 
 key additions, since you can go through the entire game without doing any of this stuff. Some missions, 
 especially Mardi Gras, are much more crowded than any of 47's previous assignments, but the crowds 
 are mostly for show.  

  The missions must be played through in a linear order, but between the game's ranking system, its 
 multiple difficulty settings, and the open-ended design of each individual mission, there's good 
 incentive to play through the game more than once. While it's possible to rush through some missions 
 in just a matter of minutes if you know what you're doing, most of them should take you closer 
 to an hour the first time through.  

  The Hitman series is no stranger to the PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2. Blood Money is available for 
 all of these platforms, as well as the Xbox 360. Each version of the game is identical in terms 
 of content and structure, so the differences are technical in nature. As such, the Xbox 360 version 
 is most impressive, since it features the best combination of sharp visuals and smooth frame rates. 
 The PC version may look comparably as good on a fast system, while the Xbox and PS2 versions still 
 appear quite attractive despite running on dated hardware. These console versions both support 
 progressive-scan displays. Controls are similarly as good across the board, and the game handles 
 about as well when played with a gamepad as with the stock mouse-and-keyboard setup for the PC 
 (though inventory management feels a bit clunkier on the PC) . The only other platform-specific 
 difference that stands out is that the Xbox 360 version includes some unlockable achievements that 
 reward you for playing through the game at successively higher difficulty levels and for finishing 
 missions with top rankings. But it's also the most expensive.  

          This may be another routine assignment for 47, but for all practical purposes, that's a 
 good thing.     

  Part of what's made the Hitman series so well liked is its distinct sense of style, which is unmistakably 
 present in this latest episode. Another great soundtrack from series composer Jesper Kyd effectively 
 sets the tone with a combination of choral tracks and downtempo electronic music. Realistic sound 
 effects and generally good voice acting round out the audio. Some excellent atmospheric lighting 
 and subtle animations, as when 47 hides a kitchen knife behind his back while approaching an unsuspecting 
 victim, further add to the ambience. Enemies shot dead still die the same rag-doll deaths as they 
 have since the original Hitman game, and you'll spot some repetition in the civilians and guards 
 roaming each area. Yet the different mission areas in Blood Money definitely capture the overall 
 look and feel they're supposed to. So in turn, when you successfully complete an assignment in 
 one of these ominous areas, chances are you'll feel a sense of grim satisfaction, having experienced 
 Hitman's potent formula again -- or maybe for the first time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (397 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  The bottom line of "guilty pleasure" pretty much says it all for me because is, or was, not the 
 best on the market. The thing that the Hitman series suffers from the most is it never takes the 
 risk of trying something new. Blood Money is basically the same game as Contracts but with slightly 
 better graphics and missions. 
  
  However, the thing that stands out in this game is the variety of ways of performing a mission. 
 There are other games out there that have the similar "play it your way" thing but what I like 
 about Blood Money is that ever time I play the game I find something new. I've played it three 
 times and I still found some twists that I missed. 
  
  Just some things that I never even thought of like putting poison on doughnuts to kill the guards 
 instead of shooting them and making a ruckus. I wouldn't say that this game has great depth in 
 its choices but regardless it is still very fun.
  
  Graphics/Design: I will not be so hard on this game in terms of graphics because it was made in 
 the time of the original Xbox and PS2 so the quality isn't next generation. This game was stuck 
 in the mess when games were released for the Xbox AND Xbox 360. So the graphics are forgiving because 
 it's primary release was for the previous generation consoles. Having said that Blood Money doesn't 
 have bad graphics or character design it's just dated. The level designs still remains the greatest 
 feature and how no one level is similar to the other.
  
  Gameplay: The stealth action part is my favorite gameplay option and in my opinion the best designed. 
 Despite the "play it your way" thing the game is mostly set up as a stealth game rather than a 
 third-person shooter. Which makes sense because Hitman is regarded more as a silent assassin rather 
 than a shoot-um-up killer. The shooting part is a little clunky because of the lack of a targeting 
 system and sometimes the hand weapons, such as the fiber wire or kitchen knife, aren't very responsive. 
 One significant difference between the Xbox consoles is that the blood in the Xbox disappears over 
 time whereas in the 360 version it doesn't, and that makes me very happy.
  
  Story: Oh dear, this isn't a game I should delve into the story that much because there isn't anything 
 to talk about. Agent 47 is sent to various locations to assassinate a target or targets and that's 
 pretty much how it goes. There are some interesting aspects in the cut scenes where we learn what 
 happened after the end of the game. It left me bewildered but certainly made me more excited to 
 play Hitman 5.
  
  Overall: Blood Money should be a game worth buying because it is very fun and has plenty of replay 
 value. There is nothing wrong with renting it though because it usually takes a weekend to beat, 
 so it's really up to you. If your the kind of gamer that I am and like to explore all possibilities 
 of performing various tasks you will certainly find something you like in this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tannerislegend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Just because the game is basically just next Hitman game, it happens to be the greatest f-ing game 
 ever. Each level has so many different possibilities that you will be surprised again and again 
 and again. The level of detail and uniqueness to each play through is remarkable. 
  You can choose to run and gun, which is super fun considering the game offers a huge array of weapons, 
 a handful of which are customizable to an incredible point (laser sights, extra ammo, silencer, 
 scopes, ammo, butt stocks, full-auto fire adaptation and more) . The game isn't meant to be played 
 this way but it's interesting enough with all the wacky physics in this game. Nonetheless a good 
 run and gun is fun enough, but usually after you've beaten the missions, the right way.
  What I mean by the right way is of course, stealthy. The Hitman franchise is notorious for having 
 so many different ways to do missions as stealthily as possible. Just as an example, and this is 
 in the game so if you don't want to read this part don't, you can grab a bottle of aphrodisiac, 
 put it in your targets drink, he then proceeds to want to go have sex with a woman, after they 
 have sex he goes to smoke a cigarette on the balcony, in which case you push him off the balcony, 
 making the whole thing look like an accident. How cool is that?
  There are so many fine aspects to this game, such humor, and yet, such freaking awesomeness, that 
 it's hard to ever stop playing. If you have never played this game you should go buy it right now 
 and not leave your room for a week so you can try and do everything you can possible do, and even 
 then you wont complete it all. 
  Best third person game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game was the best Hitman in the series. The cool part is it fits really any gamer, for example, 
 if your the type of person thats like to go by the rules and go stealth and make killings look 
 like accidents you can do it, or if your the type of person that wants to go in the level and kill 
 everybody you see, you can do it. The game is a load of laughs for instance, pushing people down 
 a flight of stairs or just thinking to yourself a man in a suit walks up to a stranger and nails 
 him right between the eyes its just funny. There really was no story to it you mostly just had 
 a diffrent victim every level. The games difficulty reacts on really how you play it. This is a 
 game that i put in the system if im bored and cant get out to gamestop I play and push people around 
 in the Vegas mission. The weapons are the best, and you can customize any gun to what you want 
 (silencers, extra clips, laser sights, ect) . Overall the game is great enjoyable and humerous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is definitely amazing, replay value, game play, graphics, (360 so of course) definitely 
 recommend it to any one who likes sneak/stealth/disguise type games or ANY fan of the Hitman series. 
 
  
  The music by Jesper Kyd during the tense times of the game really makes you feel like you're in 
 deep. All of the levels have very different looks and feels to them. As well as having many different 
 ways to finish the mission, leaving very good replay value. From poisoning to "accidents" to sniping 
 or just point blank silenced baller to the back of the head, there is many different ways you can 
 take your targets out, which also affects your score at the end. 
  
  
  The newspaper real is a neat little extra thing too. It shows you your rating, what people saw 
 or didn't see, and if your notoriety is high enough they will try to produce a drawing of you. 
 It's kind of funny sometimes if you cover your tracks well and they still try to produce a picture 
 it ends up looking nothing like you. (It's not a software bug, the picture isn't supposed to so 
 it gives you a more "they are way off" feel.) 
  
  
  The "Theme" song I guess you would call it (Ave Maria) during the Menu and Easter eggish ending 
 was so awesome. Other then psychic A. I sometimes, this game is definitely a must BUY. Love the 
 REAL ending. Probably the best ending in a video game I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Lady_K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  ohhh number 47 will you ever die?
  
  once again the hitman is back kicking ass and takeing names this time around you play though a 
 gritty story plot involveing "blood money" lol youll have o play the game to figure that one out 
 , but nothing special about this one boys and girls its the same old sneaking around tring not 
 to kill any one , but its typical hitman playing a mission like 20 times going through it trying 
 not to get caught and doing everything to perfection *sigh* if youve played the series you know 
 what im talking about....
  
  but in all fairness Hitman Blood money was a hit with me now i have to admit im a hough fan of 
 the series especialy the socond one, wich goes with out saying it seems they Eidos ( the company 
 who made the game) has stepped there game up a bit with cleaning up there graphics and a more smoth 
 game play and interface , no more stumbeling around tring to get exactly behind a person to stick 
 them with a needle or use the wire on them also upgrades are added this time not only to your weapons 
 but to other items as well, body armor, faster lock pick, small heath kits ect....
  
  so over all Hitman Blood money is a hit check it out its definatly worth playing
  
  8.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This was an ok game worth a rental... This is probobly edios best series... (Kane and Lynch) not 
 that great.... The movie of this game was medicore this game is ok. Personally I like the game... 
 The fact that you can be stealthy or just blast dudes... Personally you have to have alot of patience 
 to play this game (stealthy that is) I do not have to patientence so I just blast dudes.... If 
 you start shooting dudes it is hard to survive and police will come in numbers. Although the game 
 is somewhat realistic.... It is not in some ways..... Why would you be in disguise if you have 
 a bar code on the back of your head??? It is very unrealistic in that way and sketchy... Also why 
 are your clothes perfectly folded when you change.... All well... The graphics look great and the 
 environments look awesome.... Personally it is a good rent, but extremely frustrating and can be 
 repetitive.... Its just good for a rental and xbox points and I do not see the point of coming 
 back to it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Agent 47 returns once again to pursue more criminals and put a stop to them. Blood money says true 
 to the stealth action formula and doesn't shake it instead it makes better by adding new innovations 
 that make the overall gameplay better but it does so without hurting the stealth action formula 
 in any way. These new innovations are things like being able to push your target over a balcony, 
 punching your target in the face and head, being able to throw knives at your target, and the ability 
 to conceal a one handed weapon behind your back.
  
  These new innovations make the game stronger then ever without sacrificing any of the other gameplay 
 elements also in the game. Theres also other things that make this game really really good like 
 for instance, the guns you get to wield are pretty cool looking and pack quite the punch. The different 
 clothes you get to wear are aklso xcool looking but thatr doesn't change much from the previous 
 games. 
  
  But there's one innovation that does make this game really shine: the fact that you get to customize 
 the guns that you get anyway you see fit with any of their parts any way you see fit. This innovation 
 not only is realstic but it makes everything else work out better as well. 
  
  With blood moneys new innovations this game shines brightly on all fronts not only that but it 
 deserves to shine on all fronts because these new innovations make this game just begging to be 
 played. Stealth action doesn't get any better then this, this game should be played by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldBengal
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  HitMan: Blood Money takes you into the heart of an Assassin, as you wield an arsenal of guns to 
 do your dirty work. The things I like about the game are, for one, the Graphics. The graphics are 
 very shiny and there is a sort of gloom to it all. Two  the Missions. The missions are very interesting 
 and give you the chance to show off just how sneaky and brutal you can get. Three  the Weapons. 
 The weapons are awesome (the way they fire) and are rendered graphically beautiful. 
  
  On the note of it's Cons The element of too much Stealth leaves it lacking Action. The NPC's are 
 a little too silly and just plain unrealistic in their actions. The game produces at least one 
 particular mission that just cannot go as planned, no matter how much you plan. And the game can 
 get pretty boring as far as a replay value. But overall the game is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackMrOrange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a masterpiece of a stealth-action game. Plain and simple.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, especially considering the release date. Character models are believable 
 enough, and environments are good-looking. If you look closely, the graphics aren't as good as 
 they seem, so just do yourself a favor and don't look that close and just play the game.
  
  Sound:
  Sound effects are good and voice acting is great, but a lot of crowds don't talk enough. 
 Due to this, alot of places seem unrealistically quiet.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game really shines. There are tons of ways to assassinate your target, ranging 
 in stealthiness from running up to the target and shooting him to first killing his guard dog by 
 feeding it a poisoned sausage then pushing your target off a cliff, making the death seem like 
 an accident, and you walk out with no-one being any the wiser.
  
  Buy or rent:
  If you don't like stealth games then rent first, but if you do, then rush to the store and buy 
 this game if you already haven't.
  
  Buy it now. Its great, like Frosted Flakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money on Xbox three hundred sixty. From the moment it starts I was amazed. Playing 
 through I was continually amazed at the AI. The improvements over Contracts were small but helped 
 make the game much more realistic. For example: you can now hide bodies in storage crates to avoid 
 being discovered. There is tons of replay value to this game. From collecting all the weapons to 
 getting Silent Assassin rankings to beating the game on the highest difficulty settings or buying 
 all upgrades. This game is excellent, especially for a now thirty dollar game. Nine point five 
 out of ten. 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipper_1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  this was one the best games i have ever played. there are so many ways of completing an objective 
 or even taking someone out. you can choke a guy to death with your fiber wire then take his clothing, 
 upgrade you weapons, plan out traps (as if you were going to put a detonator on a chain thats bolted 
 down to hold a schandlier, detonate it, squash your target) .
  
  just like the upcoming "far cry 2" videogame, you can in loud or go in silently and assassinate 
 your target.
  ofcourse if you go loud you'll get less money for it at the end of the mission but atleast it was 
 a blast doing it though.
  
  the AI is really good in hitman. i was impressed. this game, depending on how you do your acheivments, 
 one secret one is saving your money up to $5 million but i didnt find that out til later. after 
 the credits roll, you can wiggle your left anolog stick really fast to make Agent 47 come back 
 to life and you can kill everyone around including the guy in the wheelchair mainly because he 
 wanted you dead.
  
  while i was taking my time on this awesome game i was also watching the movie which also great! haha! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimmbro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is an action stealth game developed by Edios interactive. The Story behind the 
 game is not extraordinary but is enough to keep you entertained and interested. The main character, 
 Agent 47, is on the run from competitors and has come to the United States. Enthralled by the rich 
 clients, he completes hit after hit until something starts to look "funny." Each level in the game 
 consists of targets to assassinate The gameplay is excellent, there are many ways to complete each 
 mission thus adding to the re playability. There are a variety of ways to perform the assassinations, 
 from the classic silenced headshot to stranglings to "accident kills" (magically drowning in a 
 pool) . The game is challenging with a definite learning curve, but anyone should be able to pick 
 it up and beat it on the Normal mode. I give this game a 9.5/10 and is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknees93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I'll just jump right into this review. Hitman: Blood Money is a fun game... if you know what you're 
 doing. I'd say you have to be pretty observant and at least a little bit smart to get through this 
 game. You see, the game basically throws you into a "sink or swim" experience. What I mean by that 
 is, you start the level with no instruction whatsoever. You must navigate your way through the 
 level, and try to complete the various objectives without failing miserably in the process. I like 
 this aspect of the experience. A game that makes you think only comes along once in a while. This 
 is that game. Each level has at least two ways to get through it. There are also usually side missions 
 within the levels. In addition, every level presents you with new challenges, this keeps the game 
 from becoming repetetive. For instance, in one level, you could be protecting a political figure, 
 whereas in another level you could be killing two drug lords. The game is never straight forward. 
 You almost always have to do something extra to make sure you don't blow your cover. For instance: 
 hiding a body in a dumpster so no one finds him. Or maybe you have to steal a video tape so that 
 the cameras dont catch you. Overall, Hitman: Blood Money is a great experience. It came out early 
 in the Xbox 360's life, yet is still very polished. Graphically, and control wise. The story is 
 fairly well written and ends with a bang. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes a game 
 that makes them think a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Okay so hitman is a great game, which holds a great character, a pretty decent storyline and compelling 
 gameplay. 
  
  While the gameplay has its obvious flaws and hasnt really improved on the previous games, there 
 is a reason why this game still holds such a steady fanbase and critical acclaim. The level design 
 and scenarios are supurb. The situations the game puts you through force you to really think and 
 strategise your next move. Sure the game takes alot of trial and error but its worth it, and adds 
 to the fun of the game. 
  
  The most important part of the game besides the level design though is the way in which you can 
 kill people, and the total freedom on your way to performing these acts. This leads to great replay 
 value as you can kill your targets in many different ways.
  
  Sure you can run through and just kill everyone but you would be missing th point of Hitman. The 
 slower you take the game the more rewarding it is.
  
  Really you should just go and buy this game. If you havent played it before it will be a welcome 
 addition to your collection, and will add hours of entertainment. Probably at a good price today 
 so go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series has come a long way, and with Blood Money landing and hitting home on the 360 
 a next-gen console, it delivers with unique graphics, gameplay elements and outstanding creativity.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  It's the same formula as most prior Hitman titles only this time beefed up to suit even the most 
 sadistic mind. From it's 3rd person camera perpective you take control of Agent 47 and take on 
 mission by mission ranging from disguising yourself as an FBI agent and rigging a good ol' American 
 BBQ to blow Mrs. Robinson to hell to dressing up as a chicken mascot and breaking into a hotel 
 and uziing down Mr. Mcstevenson while he's playing the piano this game has quite possibly ever 
 assassin moment in the history of gaming.
  
  Graphics:
  To be quite honest the graphics are nicely and finely polished and it isn't just a port to the 
 360. The rag doll physics work nicely as each kill can be extracted and derived and tranfused into 
 a pleasureful venture. The shine on the environments and locales as well are to be noticed with 
 some in depth detail on specific structures and textures that really are noticeable between the 
 360 and Xbox versions alike.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing quite satisfies like the adept sounds of a man choking on his own saliva while a tightly 
 placed piano wire is 2 seconds away from crushing his adam's apple. Also some music in the game 
 can be noted as more than appropriate, especially the final moments in the last level of the game 
 where they are indeed noteworthy. Voice dialogue however could use some tweaking and more time 
 spent on the story could have been better for the overall score as well.
  
  Control:
  Some of the controls are complex, but you will begin to notice a cycle as you progress through 
 each level and you'll become more inept to the control scheme and it will overall allow itself 
 to feel second nature as you whip out the silenced silverballers for that timely headshot or stealthily 
 sneak up behind your target and snap his neck and chug his neck and throat with that infamous piano 
 wire as you hang him over your back like good ol' Saint Nick.
  
  Overall:
  The game lasts for about 10-12hrs. depending on difficulty and with no online mode there is only 
 reason to go back to finish customizing your arsenal and/or getting those silent assassin ratings. The 
 real focus is on the silent assassin rating and stealth tactics this game ensues. It is definitely 
 not your run of the mill action game as it relies more on Splinter Cell techniques to silently 
 disposing of your targets. No game to date does this better than Hitman and deserves to be experienced 
 by any and all seeking a real juicy stealth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is one of those really cool action, stealth, agent games that make you feel 
 like a real hitman. When you play this game, you will really like the detail the designers went 
 to, to get the charecters to look real, the weapons look decent, and the enviroment is well done.
 
  The story is basically the same, agent 47 has to go out and take out a couple of targets that 
 the agency give him to take care of . If I remember correctly there are about ten to fifteen missions 
 in this game, when you play them, you can play the in certain difficulties, I would recommend the 
 first for new players who are getting into the hitman expieriance.
  The game is a crowning achievement for the xbox 360, this game has to be one of the best action, 
 agent type games, it is an instant must for any hitman fan.
  Throughout the game you may find it difficult to kill some of the targets, because the are either 
 constantly guarded, or there are civilians around the area.
  But overall this game is a must get if you own an xbox 360, if you dont buy this game, then you 
 are missing out on a truely great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is what assassins creed should have been. In fact this is what they promised us. An open world 
 where you can study your targets and dispose of them the way you want. Where you can choose to 
 go in guns blazing or take the stealth approach. Do you want to shoot your target in the head, 
 or poison his fried chicken??? In this game it is really all about YOUR choices and what YOU want 
 to do. and nothing is as satisfying as taking your time and pulling off a perfect kill.
  
  This game is in NO WAY a linear game. This game is what you make of it and what you put into it. 
 This game is a stealth fans dream, and yet they also don't hold back on the blood and gore. 
  
  In what other game can you strangle a cop during Mardi Gras and hide his body in a dumpster? 
 Or dress up as a clown and knock out a Mafia rat's slut of a wife? Or break into the White house 
 and take out the VP?!? This list of "you've got to be kidding me" moments can go on and and on.
 
  
  Graphics are great, environments and missions are some of the best the series has yet to put forth. 
 
  
  Added features of the series include different ways to spend your hard earned money. Like upgrading 
 weapons, buying intel or even paying off those who have seen your crimes which is important due 
 to the new "Noteriety point system". Simply put, if you go in and just shoot everyone that comes 
 your way, the more people will know about you in the next mission. Making your job more difficult. 
 
  
  Those stealth fans that understand what this game is suppose to be about will LOVE it. Prepare 
 to lose many hours of your life to this game. Others who simply like a more run and gun approach 
 could enjoy it as well, but they simply won't get as much out of it.
  
  The replay value is off the chart given how many different ways you can choose to get to a target 
 or take out a target. You are really only limited to your imagination. 
  
  I really hope Assassins creed would take some notes from this game for their future releases.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazanger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood money is a stealth/action game (in case you were not aware of that) developed over 
 2 years ago, made for various consoles, and is the 4th installment in the series.
  
  It follows the story of Agent 47, narrated by an ex-FBI director to a journalist who is interviewing 
 him. The story follows sort of a dark and depressing element, much like the other games. The story 
 really isn't that great, but regardless of that they did some great work with it with a lot of 
 very good voice acting by all the characters.
  
  
  The basics of Blood Money are a lot similar to the past Hitman's, you have (at least) one target 
 each mission that must be eliminated, and there's usually a second objective as well, from finding 
 video tapes to stealing necklaces.
  It's improved in several key areas though, with better hand to hand combat (if you need it) , the 
 ability to climb through and over more obstacles, the ability to use someone as a human shield, 
 improved character animations (mainly face reactions) , and the ability to upgrade weapons and equipment.
 
  
  The only problem with that though, is that there are only 5 weapons that can be upgraded (pistols, 
 an M4, a shotgun, a sub-machine gun, and a sniper) , but the only weapons you'll ever really use 
 are the pistols (Silverballers) and the sniper (W2000) , there's never really a good time to carry 
 around a silenced shotgun with you, although it does look pretty cool.
  
  A new gameplay feature that was added to Blood Money, called Notoriety, adds a lot as well. If 
 you kill civilians, leave witnesses, get caught on camera, that sort of thing, your notoriety will 
 rise, making missions harder and harder to do, unless you pay off or bribe someone (which can be 
 done at the end of missions) to lower it.
  
  Another cool feature is when each mission is completed, you'll be shown a newspaper article regarding 
 your mission. It will detail everything, from the number of witnesses, the number of people killed, 
 or the weapon most used for the murders. A very cool feature, and they're pretty fun to read.
 
  As your Notoriety rises though, sketches of 47 will appear on the front page, making you more 
 and more recognizable (if your notoriety reaches 100 it's near impossible to complete the mission 
 undetected.)
  
  Blood Money also improved the melee weapon system, allowing you to throw things at your targets, 
 or anyone else if you want.
  For example, if you accidently knock out your main target instead of killing him, instead of having 
 to start over, you can just go find a kitchen knife or something of the sort and simply throw it 
 into their head, this way no gunshots had to be used (or heard, which is most important) , and your 
 target has been eliminated.
  
  All of the levels are wonderfully designed, and you go everywhere from an Italian opera to a mental 
 institute. Replay ability is very high for this game, the difficulty levels for one get increasingly 
 challenging, but there are just so many ways to eliminate each target that makes it so great. You 
 can try and go in guns blazing and have fun, but where all the fun to be had is going after the 
 ever elusive mission ranking of Silent Assassin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the game is all of violence, but the game is great with violence, second the game 
 is better than the past game "Hitman Contracts" but is it better than the second one? Read my review 
 to see if it is.
  
  Gameplay - 9.0
  Again the gameplay is the same, but there are some tweaks and some extra moves Agent 47 can do 
 to his victims and the ways to kill are quite satisfying, the gameplay is more new to me now, its 
 more easier and more easier to learn.
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  The graphics are okay but for some reason its not a next-gen feel, but the level designs are very 
 artistic, and some of the levels are the best in the series yet, to me Agent 47 looks a lot different 
 from the past games, but the graphics are still good.
  
  Sounds - 9.0
  The sounds to me sound like its been improved some how, the voice acting is once again marvelous 
 and the gun shots are amazing, the bullets sounds so real, and the footsteps on victims are just 
 amazing.
  
  Story - 8.0
  The story revolves around Agent 47 working for a contract, I forgot what the company or thing is 
 but a women named Diana helps him kill off people, he works for money, and some where in the game 
 he goes after his clone and spoiler alert, he success in killing off his clone.
  
  Replay Value - 9.0
  The replay value is great, because the levels in the game are very well done, 
 and they are interesting, I loved the levels in this game.
  
  Overall - 9.0
  This game is amazing, I still play to this day as well, and I am totally hyped for the new installment 
 that was announced a few months ago, and just to tell you, its a sequel to this game, so I'm going 
 to keep playing this game until the sequel comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleUserName
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  The concept, it works. And it's built all around it. 
  
  Too bad they didn't spend too much time on the game play. Because, that isn't great. The weapons, 
 all by all, you only need is one (Silverballer) . You don't need an Full Automatic shotgun to blast 
 your way trough it. 
  
  The creative weapons you can access are alright (wish there would be more though) . The ragdoll 
 is bad. Meh, it worked maybe in 2002 or something, but it's not very realistic. Sometimes the body 
 would even fly by me!
  
  The feeling is right. The environment changes a lot during your assassinations. 
  They all look 
 good. 
  
  I wish they would put far more input in the AI, and Ragdoll.
  Although I know this is an 'assassination' game. They could've designed more ways to kill the target. 
 Or a little bit of chasing over the rooftops or something. I don't know.
  
  The story, nothing special. But I hope you're not buying it for the story. 
  It definitely has 
 it's plot twists, but again, not spectacular. 
  
  All by all, an 'OK' game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Hitman blood money is a very good game, and full of violence 
  
  Game play 
  
  You take the role of agent 47 a professional assassin and when you start a mission you are briefed 
 on who you are going to kill and what other things you have to do, anyone who gets in agent 47 
 way will be assassinated even innocent people because they will pick a gun up and shoot you.
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are amazing they are very well done and you can see the smallest 
 detail even if you are in 1st person view and you have your pistol you can see the logo and the 
 serial number, even the detail to agent 47 barcode can be seen but not the numbers, also the detail 
 to the buildings and the every day objects from a bottle of water to a car are in very good detail. 
 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is amazing as well when you fire your pistol and it as its silencer on all you hear is 
 a ping sound and not the sound of world war 3 going on in a building, even when you are walking 
 on metal you can hear the metal rattle as you are walking even on the hard ground you can hear 
 your foot steps.
  
  
  This game is amazing every thing is in very good detail I am very happy with this game and I would 
 recommend it to anyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJpenguin
Rating: 3
Date: May 19, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I last played Blood money, but I felt the need to review a game I considered 
 bad. Hitman, as you can probably guess, is such a game. 
  
  Essentially you play as a bald, striking individual known only as 47, and it seems that you are 
 some sort of cloneor somethingThe story presents itself through the eyes of a journalist looking 
 for answers about 47. It dances around the interesting point of cloning, but never does anything 
 with it. The cutscenes serving only as vague introductions to the meat of the game, the missions, 
 were these not included I would not have felt any different, seeing as it's hard to care about 
 any character. Even 47 himself just seems to be a total tool, and some not great voice acting doesn't 
 do him any favors.
  
  The game is categorized as a 3rd person shooter, but if you do the missions the way they are set 
 out, it starts to creep into that random mushy genre more commonly described as 'action adventure.' 
 You start off in each mission standing around, looking spectacularly out of place in your business 
 suit, and then you have to kill targets slowly and methodically without being detected. Fine in 
 theory. 
  
  Of course, this all falls apart when you begin to see the game for what it is. The main problem 
 here is the ratings, you are awarded a rating based on how well you make the hit. Factors taken 
 into account are methods of murder, civilian casualties, collateral damage and evidence. So while 
 you CAN pop the guy in the head, the game would give you bonus brownie points for taking him out 
 quietly. The thing is that in order to get the maximum 'silent assassin' rating, you often need 
 to memorise a linear path through each level, which sucks all the fun out of playing the game, 
 replacing it with what I like to call 'SUPER TEDIUM.' 
  
  So surely you'd have thought that you just take out person X in a more fun way? Well, you can, 
 but the notoriety system is in place to stop you. Notoriety is a strange concept, you gain bits 
 of it by being totally obvious that you're a hitman, but after each level you can wish it away 
 by paying a small fee, which you can get from completing the mission anyway. In addition, if you 
 murder everyone on the level, steal the video tapes, and stay alive, you get no notoriety. So the 
 system contradicts itself to the point of making it redundant.
  
  I also didn't see the point of money. Money can be used to buy a number of things, there are a 
 couple of actually useful things, like lockpicks, but then there are a huge selection of guns, 
 now I just mentioned the game doesn't like you being a sadistic murderer, yet by completing missions, 
 you get to pack more heat, which you're not meant to use? The game is just such a mystery to me. 
 You could spend money on tipsLOLthe internet making these inherently useless. 
  
  So I've concluded Hitman was made by moronsa bit harsh, but hey, they're big boys, after all this 
 is an 18! Unfortunately anyone above the age of 7 will see the glaring flaws in the level design, 
 noticeably the AI, who are the most retarded bunch I have ever seen. To accommodate the game's 
 linear nature, the AI have actions that they repeat often, now this makes sense in the case of 
 patrols or rehearsals, but there was one level where a guy went to the toilet every 30 seconds
 
  
  What's even more weird is that in a game where you're supposed to be inconspicuous, you can just 
 walk into the loo behind him and watch, only receiving an angry grunt. The game is far too scripted 
 and this is its main hindrance, because it works really nicely in some places, but then when you 
 let the AI do its own thing, it falls apart. Case in point, you can walk right pass guards, doing 
 nothing, and for some reason, they decide you're a murderer, it's frustrating and irritating, and 
 the icing on the cake is that they chase you, then just group together in a big bunch, stand still 
 (some of the smarter ones may even CROUCH!) and shoot, to be made into cannon fodder for your pimped 
 up arsenal you shouldn't have. 
  
  It sounds like I'm nitpicking but these things really do spoil the game, for a start it has really 
 nice graphics, 47 looks pretty poor, as do many character models, but the environments look fantastic, 
 they are detailed and articulate, with tons of activity buzzing around (the Mardi Gras scene comes 
 to mind.) Water and blood effects look particularly good.
  
  Sound wise, the game sounds alright (I don't know how they got the sound for a silenced shotgunbut 
 hey) Nothing stood out, the voice acting ranges from above average to poor, the weapons sound nice, 
 but lack a bit of oomph, granted though, you'll most likely stick silencers on everything.
  
  Hitman: Blood money presents some interesting scenarios that look really intriguing on paper, 
 but fall apart due to the poor AI, lack of attention to detail, and noticeable realism flaws. You 
 could say that the scope of the game excuses this, but look at saints row (I don't want to say 
 GTA 4 as that's a tad unfair) other games have done bigger and better, and IO needs to either fine 
 tune the game more, or move on to something better than Kane & Lynch. 
  
  3.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Hes back and 47 is getting paid to kill this time around! Basicly you are an assassin who is getting 
 paid to take out his marks. There is so much in the game that you can do. Kill people in a number 
 of ways, take clothes of the corpses and put them on, so if you need to be a mail man go kill him 
 and take his cloths. You can pick up objects that can help you with the game, at one stage you 
 can kill a pizza man, take his cloths, pick up a pizza and walk to the door of the person you need 
 to kill. 
  
  Not like the other hitman games where you go to far out contries in remote locations to take out 
 world leaders, this one has a lot better storyline. You can kill people in busy streets and night 
 and go to mansions and hotels when killing people. The graphics in this game are amazing and are 
 the best in the whole series. Also the sound of the guns and the corpses when your dragging them 
 along the ground is great.
  
  Definatly a game worth getting and make sure to look out for the new hitman coming out later this 
 year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have not ever been a huge fan of the series and having played every one of them i think i have 
 some pull in my opinions. I realize that this title is really more of an xbox title then a 360 
 title but i still have to hold it to the same standard as all other 360 games. With that being 
 said, the first thing i want to complain about is the controls. They were improved slightly from 
 the last title but they are still frustrating. The game definitely dose not draw any strength from 
 the graphics either. They feel very last generation to me. I hate the AI system as well. It all 
 feels very machine like. Then of course the ridiculous body mechanics after you shoot someone across 
 the room with a pistol. 
  I do give it points for the improvements it made from the last title but i feel like in order to 
 make this into a really good title you would have to do a lot of house cleaning. I also give it 
 points as always for the different disguises and ways of killing people. Creative as usual. I have 
 to say i wasnt that thrilled with the story either. But despite all of my complaints i have got 
 some enjoyment out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game play is about the same as the other games. It's a good game, especially if you are a fan 
 of the others. The game has a few downsides, but I believe the good features of the game greatly 
 outweigh these.
  
  First, we'll start with the bad and get it out of the way. You can only choose one pistol, one 
 submachine gun, and one un-concealable weapon (like a shotgun, sniper, or assault rifle) . I agree 
 with the one un-concealable weapon, but not the others. Also, unlike the previous game, once you 
 take a melee weapon from a level, you cannot use it in the next levels. Also, despite enlarged 
 levels and massive amounts of people, the graphics aren't anything too special.
  
  Secondly comes the most important part: the good sides. In this game, most of the ability to customized 
 47's custom weapons adds greatly to the game. The game allows you to buy improvements to the weapons 
 with the money that is earned through the missions. Also, the levels have grown somewhat larger 
 and the amount of people per level has also been greatly increased.
  
  This of course was a brief overview, and despite the minor setbacks it is still a great game. There 
 are so many ways to complete a single mission that it keeps you interested. Put simply: a great 
 game and must for Hitman lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GC_Leonhart
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Blood money seems to use the old engine from Hitman 2, so it's not too flashy. However the game 
 can pose some challenge if you want it and, well, it's great if you want to go on a murderous killing 
 frenzy. I don't like the lack of a game plus or whatever you call it. When you start a new game 
 you start from scratch each time. This means you'll never have a game with all the guns fully upgraded 
 (unless you exploit a little glitch.) But if you like virtual killing, then check this one out. 
 Multiple ways to do the missions will give some extra replay to it. Sneak around stealing uniforms, 
 planting bombs and poisoning food and drinks. Or get out your M4 and have a good ole' turkey shoot! 
 Don't forget to use you map and hide bodies you strip so as not to blow your cover. And just because 
 the credits start rolling doesn't mean the game is over.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj2kl2d
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Hitman blood money shows true to the other 3 Hitman games dangerously addictive game play good 
 story line the game has great replay value due to the numerous ways you can complete any given 
 mission. As a strict shooting game I think it falls a bit short but the stealth action in the game 
 majorly shines the different difficulty settings are all fun to play through so if your just starting 
 out and you stick to a rookie lvl you get through the game fairly quickly the higher your difficulty 
 setting goes the less you see on your map in the way of guards walking points of intrest civilians 
 or cops. Its really addictive to go through and make it a mission to accomplish each mission with 
 the silent assassin rateing. The AI in the game is sometimes tweeky at times the AI can be completely 
 retarded and at other times be above what you expect them to be. Over all i absoulty loved this 
 game and i suggest it to anyone who is a fan of 3rd person shooters or stelth games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was my first time playing a HItman game and wow was it amazing. First I love the story and 
 why your doing these kills. I also enjoy how they make Agent 47 a human being and not just a mindless 
 killing machine. You end up caring for Agent 47 and wanting to know what will happen next. The 
 gameplay is amazing. Its awesome how you can either take out a target quietly or just go in guns 
 blazen. Also I like how before every mission you can upgrade your weapons to make them better. 
 I especially love the twist at the end of the game and how the game ends. The graphics are gorgeous 
 and same goes for the sounds of the game. I also like how you can spend money to get rid of your 
 noterity and pay off the cops in the hide out. Also its neat how you have to know when to be sneaky 
 and when to use your guns. They give you a bunch of ways to get rid of your targets weather thats 
 the stealthy way or the noisy way. If your in to sltealth games than this is a must own. Or if 
 your into strategy games cause you have to know when to move and when to hide. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who is into a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cuchulainn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is my favorite stealth game, a genre of which I am definitely a fan. Before 
 I get into the actually gameplay I feel that it necessary to comment on the uber cool style of 
 this game/series. Agent 47 is a wickedly cool character with an intriguing background; the game 
 itself is done with a ton of style, containing many entertaining and amusing moments. I find playing 
 an assassin fun in just about any game but Hitman Blood Money seems to do the assassin thing just 
 right (not that I'm a real world expert on this) . 
  When the urge strikes me to get a little more violent there is always the run and gun option using 
 a shotgun or assault rifle. Unlike many stealth games playing as a third person shooter can be 
 done, albeit very difficult on some levels. Though the option to go Rambo is there the real fun 
 is planning the next method with which to silently assassinate your targets. Personally I am quite 
 fond of dispatching unwary targets with airborne edged weapons. There are multiple options with 
 which to complete the various assignments, even after multiple playthroughs I still find content 
 and new assassination/stealth options that I previously missed. Even when going for the coveted 
 Silent Assassin rating there are several viable set ups available on almost all levels, many of 
 which are not readily apparent.
  Overall Hitman Blood Money is the pinnacle of assassin type games. If you have the slightest interest 
 in stealth and/or assassin games and have not played Blood Money then do yourself a favor and buy 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PackersMax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I had never played any Hitman game before this one and I can say that it impressed me, This game 
 is so not like any other game, it's too addictive ! 
  A mix of stealth, action, dark humor and lots of easter eggs makes it too fun to be passed on. 
 Another point is the relatively low cost for this game. SInce it's an "old" one, it doesn't cost 
 as much as other Xbox 360 games. 
  
  If you would ask me the bad points, I would talk about the low amount of missions. There are 12 
 missions. But the fact is that there are a lot of way to finish them. You can go like "Rambo-Style" 
 and kill everyone without getting disguise, or go like a Silent-Assassin and kill without being 
 caught nor seen. Also, there are 4 different kind of difficulty, so nobody can claim this game 
 is too easy nor hard, as anyone should fit into one of those 4 difficulties. 
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is a great game that will keep you playing for a long, looong time. So much 
 fun and re-playability to a low cost game earn it a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I've played through Hitman Blood Money many times and i'm still not bored with it. It seems like 
 everytime I play, I experience something new. Achievements add a lot of value to this game also. 
 I got guilty plessure out of rigging the grill and seeing the drunk lady run around and scream 
 while getting burned to death in A New Life. You are Agent 47 and you assassinate targets all around 
 the world that you get from the agency that you work for. I didn't pay a lot of attention to the 
 story line so I won't go in depth about that. I loved the new accident scenario, likewhen i mentioned 
 above. You can either go silent or guns blazing. Though i'd go silent on Pro or Expert if I were 
 you. For the next Hitman they need to improve the AI. I was playing on normal and i was sniping 
 the guards from the treehouse and they kept walking up to the bodies and just standing there. This 
 is one of my favorite games out for the Xbox 360. I even liked it beter than Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent. I can't wait to see what HItman 5 has in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugamama9944
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is such an improvement over the last few games in the Hitman Series. The graphics 
 are better and if you have a decent television then you can take advantage of the lighting and 
 visuals that were inserted in the game. Weapon customization is also great. You get five different 
 weapon classes; handgun, shotgun, sniper, m4, and smg. You can find other guns but you will concentrate 
 on these five classes. You basically do missions and get money and improve your guns. There are 
 many ways in which you can achieve your objectives. From causing an incident to going straight 
 towards your target and going "Rambo". The game offers many achievement points and they are possible 
 to get. Hitman offers lots of replay value as you will go around and try different ways of accomplishing 
 your task. This is a must buy for anybody that wants a game that's worth its cost. P. S. Adding 
 your own conversations into the missions also gives the game some comic relief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljm69ljm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ever played this game was at a friends house, and I didn't get much of a go, but 
 I was simply amazed!
  I love the way you have 100s of different ways to complete a level if it be running through the 
 level with an M4 blasting away at everyone in sight to injecting the necks of your victims with 
 poison.
  The game has many interactions which players love.
  The only downs I have about this game is the suspisoun meter, but obviously it isn't easy for programmers 
 to get it 100% accurate, but who knows.. maybe Hitman 5 will be more realistic.
  I rate this game 9/10 because you don't have to complete it then sell it on, you can keep the game, 
 repeating levels to unlock more cash for different weapons, change your difficulty to make the 
 levels a bit more of a challenge or just repeat levels and complete them in different ways to see 
 what kind of rankings you can see Agent-47 achieve.
  To put it into perspective:
  The Hitman series are simply 'Amazing Games' - Even the playstation series of Hitman grabbed game 
 players around the worlds attention to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth game in the series. You shouldn't have to play the past games 
 to appreciate this game and that it can be treated as if were a stand alone. The first mission 
 is a tutorial that lets you become familiar with the game controls and gives examples of how to 
 accomplish your goals. The story line is good. Once again, you assume the role of Agent 47, a professional 
 hitman who now discovers that he and his employer are sought after by a rival agency. 
  
  The game has many colorful and interesting mission locations ranging from the Mardi Gras in New 
 Orleans, a Las Vegas casino, a riverboat on the Mississippi, a Los Angeles suburb, and many more. 
 Each location offers many creative ways of using your tools-of-trade on hand, to using the surrounding 
 environment to accomplish your objectives of making your designated hits. I really enjoyed the 
 strategy of setting up "accidents" for the victims which could amount to crushing them with falling 
 objects, incinerating them, poisoning, etc. which makes this game more than just the typical run 
 and shoot type, but more stealth and cunning. But, of course, you can always use the old fashion 
 way of strangulation and a nice clean bullet through the head.
  
  This is the first game of the series that I've played on the Xbox 360 platform and I found the 
 game achievement system to contradict the game level rewards. Figuring out cleaner kills gives 
 you a higher ranking and more money during normal game play but I have read that some of the Xbox 
 360 achievements reward you for playing as a mass murder gone wild. As an example, making exactly 
 47 kills on a single mission and another of having a notoriety ranking of 100? That's bad, that 
 means you randomly killed leaving lots of witnesses. I guess I'm old school Hitman, needless to 
 say, I didn't earn these achievements. But, putting that aside, all in all, it was a good game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is my report on hitman-bloodmoney its a awesome game it can have some work redone on the gameplay 
 but other then that its a cool game it is a great game if u dont have hitman u should rent it or 
 buy it that is if u like silent shooters hehehehehe well hitman is played as an agent this is if 
 u dont know who it is well u play as hitman 47 he is so cool u can use any thing u find as a weapon 
 inorder to do the job u will be paid to do like u can even poison food that ur target eats or drinks 
 during gameplay if u can handle a bloody masacre then this is one of the games u should think of 
 geting its a pretty good balanced game and its not to long not to short if u do buy it make sure 
 to get either 1 or2or 3 hehehehehehehe well they r all awesome thats my awesome report on hitman-bloodmoney! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_d_mack_314
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the 4th installation of of the Revolutionary Hitman series. You enter the roll of a cloned 
 assassin and in this installation another agency is trying to kill you along with assassination 
 some other targets. The story is mainly about not letting the world use Agent 47 as the perfect 
 clone and he needs to die if the world will be spared of a rouge government from using Agent 47 
 as the "How to manual".
  
  -Game Play-
  In Blood Money well all of of the series but mainly Blood Money you can kill targets with the "Accident 
system, via making something look like an accident and not drawing attention from the AI or the 
 "press system" news papers in BM is kinda half baked but there really are some funny easter eggs 
 in the news papers after you complete a mission. This game way easier to get a Silent Assassin 
 rating. And getting the glorious achievements that go along with em.
  
  AI-The AI can be a tiny bit buggy but not as bad as the previous installments, ive only came into 
 one really bad one. Where i was in full disguise and some how i still get shot at, having to restart 
 that same mission multiple times.
  
  -Weapons-
  Your main weapons are all upgradeable and the shot gun has a silencer lol a shot gun with a silencer... maybe 
 that would be koo if it wasnt so BIG. The W2000 (sniper riffle) comes with a suitcase and later 
 it can be upgraded to surpass metal detectors. Knifes can be thrown along with any melee weapon; 
 oh and the tossing of the coin do distract guards "classic" lol. Aslo another thing that comes 
 with upgradeable weapons is the upgradeable ammunition. Like all the other Hitman games weapons 
 are still collectible-there even an achievement for it.
  And i almost for got unlike in the other HM series you have the handy syringe -one ejects a non 
 lethal injection to put people to sleep (good for non targets) and my fav. the one that injects 
 instant death... fiber wire is now only for when i run out of the death serum. 
  
  -Other Equipment-
  Agent 47 also has access to other equipment like body armor, lock pick extra 
 bombs, health booster pills (for when your health gets low) , a suitcase that will hide your W2000 
 riffle and pass through a metal detector. All these items can be upgraded.
  
  
  -Graphics-
  The games graphics are pretty good there not full next gen (this gen) but they look 
 good.
  
  Ah i think thats all and one last thing. you can play the credits ;) , and watch those mice fight 
 (easter egg) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgamer544
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is not one of the normal shooter games out there, you've got to actually use your wit and 
 find way to be stealthy and NOT kill everyone (i think this is why some people dont like it) . I 
 really enjoyed this, much better graphics such as blood spatters than the pre-gen consoles. And 
 another reason for the greatness of this game is i got it for $20! so a cheap great game, i'd recommend 
 to anyone who is not completely obsessed with killing everyone in a game. Just the variety in the 
 game is very appealing as well, there is never one way to beat a level, rather many different ways 
 that can be very fun. And you just gotta love putting a mine on the top of a chandalier and blow 
 it as soon as your target walks below it, thus smashing him. If you cant enjoy that then go play 
 pokemon or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megahaloman64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The Fourth Hitman Game, is good and both bad. The good is the stealthly part. It has some pretty 
 good elements to it, like disgusing yourself, to get into certain areas. The bad part is the run 
 and gun part. It really shows the ugly side to the game, like the AI. They just seem to sometimes 
 run into your gun, and get killed. For example, I was standing near a door, shooting unarmed civilians, 
 and they just ran towards me, trying to get to the door. Lucily, you can choose how you want to 
 complete the missions.
  Some weapons show how the physics are weird, like the shotgun. When I once shot someone with the 
 shotgun, they just semed to just fly back, like theres not enough gravty.
  There are a variaty of settings though, like an oprah house, a rehab clinic, and a casino. There 
 are also some good kill scenerios, like replacing a fake gun with a real gun, or rigging a pyro 
 show so the preformor goes on fire and jumps into a shark tank.
  If you like stealth/action games, you should get this, I still find myself replaying some of the 
 missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I managed to find this little gem brand new at a local Toys R Us for only $20. I've heard people 
 rave about this game on forums for an older classic so i finally buckled and picked it up. It was 
 definitely worth the money, not sure i would pay much more but its still a good game.
  For those that dont know the story of 47, youre a cloned assassin who kills for hire. During the 
 games lengthy campaign you'll pull off high profile hits in very interesting and painful ways. 
 You can accomplish this by using the environment, your guns, or your fun set of needles filled 
 with all kinds of good things. 
  This game shines in innovation, concept, and the ability to keep you hooked. The idea of killing 
 a guy by shooting out his glass bottom spa thats 4 stories up is devilishly delightful, while the 
 ability to blend in and become anyone is a great concept. Upgrading your guns is cool to do too, 
 because you can trick them out how you want them which usually falls under, silent, assault, or 
 sniper. There arent set categories, but those just seem to be the molds they fit in.
  Now while this game shines it also stumbles in a lot of areas. This game is about 2 years old so 
 i cant really knock the graphics as im sure they were good for the time, but i can knock the AI. 
 Even on professional the AI was hit and miss. I could shoot their buddies in the head and they 
 would stand there and take it. They also trip up in a classic shooter pitfall. When their buddy 
 gets blasted, theyre all too anxious to go exactly where he was and get plugged too. Another problem 
 is the noteriety system. Its a joke because you could be some mass murderer and erase all your 
 wrong doings for at most $200,000. The game isnt fun at all if you just run and gun but again, 
 there really seems to be no penalty for slipping up. The story is pretty weak too but i didnt buy 
 it to expect a mass effect type of story. Just something to give me a reason to be going out and 
 wasting these people.
  To make a long story short, taking out your rivals and other targets never really gets old. This 
 assassin still has some legs to stand on, thing is hes just got a slight hitch in his step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought Blood Money [01/2008] and I would have to say that it's a pretty fun game considering 
 when it was made. Graphics aren't exactly up to par with games nowadays but other than that the 
 whole game concept is pretty good. You are a hitman aka assassin, hired to kill certain target (s) 
 who have done wrong in some way. 
  
  As many others have said, you can go stealth or be ruthless and just rampage through everybody, 
 your call. Does require reading the manual so that you know how to use your weapons properly which 
 I found to be key to enjoying the game. The controls are pretty straight forward, game does have 
 minor replay value as you can try to master the art of the silent kill.
  
  I would recommend this game for your collection as a game to turn to when you just want to ease 
 back from the serious games. To me, it's just a fun game to mess around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy the Hitman games for a number of reasons. My favorite aspect of them is that for the most 
 part, you can choose how you would like to play the game. Do you tire of stealth? Run through the 
 level killing everyone in your path, but on the flipside, if you tire of action, you can be a very 
 sneaky man. For those who haven't played the games, the stealth is rather enjoyable. You can knock 
 people out, and wear their clothes, but you must make sure to hide the body in a location no one 
 will find for awhile. It's tense, but fun. Go ahead and try to play Splinter Cell in an action 
 oriented manner. The results will not end well. I apologize to all of the Splinter Cell fans, but 
 I do not like the games whatsoever.
  
  The graphics in Hitman: Bloodmoney are lovely, considering the release date. I was very impressed 
 at the time.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. Regardless of the way you play the game, you should have a good time 
 with it. Being stealthy feels more rewarding in the end, especially because you are rated as a 
 hitman at the end of each level, but you can still finish the game if you choose to be a maniac 
 and kill everyone, which is a reason I find the Hitman series to be excellent. This game instantly 
 doubles it's replayability.
  
  Sound is on par with the rest of the game. The ambient noise is fine, the voicework is fine, and 
 music is appropriate.
  
  Overall, it's an excellent game that shouldn't be missed by stealth fans. Especially stealth fans 
 that tire of the tedium that is any Splinter Cell game. I'm a Metal Gear Solid man myself, and 
 the Hitman series is just a couple of rating points short of that series in my opinion. (which is 
 a good thing!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rac-1992
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is all the same as all the other Hitman games. Your Agent 47 who got to go around the 
 world desguising yourself as a civilian trying to assasinate some big time celebrity. Boring. It's 
 the same thing in almost every level oh, poison some dude food as a chef, and shoot an actor while 
 he's performing. What's the point. It's the same thing. The only thing diffrent about this game 
 is that the mafia and authority is trying to take your DNA to make an army that's a good theme 
 for the game. Other then that the game is pretty slow. I don't even feel like getting all of the 
 achivements cause it's so freaking slow and frustrating. You have to wait for the target or targets 
 to come which come almost make you fall asleep then you have to knock out or kill (if necessary) 
 civilians so that they won't be that suspicious of what your doing.
  
  The main idea of this game is sneak, K. O., disguise, kill, and escape. Those who think I'm wrong 
 deal with it. I'm telling the truth about this game buy if you want it for those players who enjoy 
 this kind of game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0felixis0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  It was a normal day when i decided to buy a new game. i went to the shop and i saw all these amazing 
 games but all were to expensive then i looked around and the only game which was cheap enough for 
 me to buy was Hitman: Blood Money. First I didn't want to buy it because i thought it was a crap 
 game but then i bought it and went home ( didnt' want to buy because I never heard of Hitman) . 
 When i first started to play it was a bit hard but after awhile it was easy and then I play through 
 the whole game and i thought that i paid not enough because the game is worth much more then i 
 paid. 
  
  The graphics aren't that good compared to all the other Xbox games. The game play and the storyline 
 are just perfect everything makes sense, even if you didn't play the other Hitman games. In overall 
 i would give this game a 9 because everything is good but the only thing which isn't good are the 
 graphics 
  
  I recommend this game too everyone which likes to use there brains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManWithoutAName
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is a series of games where you play as a hitman who has to assassinate various targets in 
 a variety of creative, clever ways. It may sound stupid, but the results are some of the most fun 
 games ever made. I think the storyline begins where the second game in the series Hitman: Silent 
 Assassin left off. [I haven't played that game, so I don't know much about the story] I am kinda 
 clueless about the story, as I played it so long ago. The gameplay is extremely fun. The amount 
 of freedom and choice is great in this game. You can assassinate a target quietly, swiftly, and 
 unnoticably [thus earning the Silent Assassin rating] or go in guns a blazing Chuck Norris or Rambo 
 style and shoot everything that moves. The sound is decent, but could be better. Some of the guns 
 sound great, such as the shotgun, but others sound a little off or weak. The graphics are good, 
 but have quite a few clipping problems, and some actions are off. For example, you may see someone 
 open the door, but not see their hand open it. They are not up to par in my opinon with the other 
 games, but it doesn't seem to ruin the experience. However, the clipping problem seems to diminish 
 some of the realism. I do wish in the next Hitman game [if they make one] that the A. I. is better. 
 Sometimes they are extremely too smart and realistic, making it too real and very frustrating and 
 challenging at times. They may notice about anything, and may do something wrong and screw up your 
 entire mission or you may have to load from a previous in game save. And sometimes the AI is simply. 
 Well. Stupid. Hate to say it, but sometimes you can walk right by a police officer with a shotgun 
 in your normal suit, and they won't do anything. It would have been nice if Eidos and Io would 
 have spent more time evening out the AI and numerous graphical glitches. This seems to be pretty 
 lengthy for newcomers. It took me about 12 hours to beat the first time round, however, for vets 
 and second timers, they can fly through it in under 6 hours pretty easily. Hitman also seems to 
 be a love it or hate it game. Simply, you like it, or you don't. I would recommend you rent it 
 first, then buy it if you like it. It is pretty cheap now, about 30 dollars because it is one of 
 the earlier Xbox 360 games. Hope my review helped. Thanks for reading. Bye :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, yes. Welcome to the world of 47, who is on there 4th game and will be releasing there 5th 
 game maybe late 08. Like i said Welcome to the world of assassinating people. You are again Agent 
 47 a dark past skilled Assassin born to kill anything that walks this planet that stands the challenge. 
 Like always you will be forced to kill people but with some free roaming abilities.
  
  The Story in this game is you are still working for the same people except you are being chased 
 by a bigger corporation who wants your head, now its time for you to fight back using your arsenal. 
 You will also be able to unlock new weapons for your arsenal. You will also be able to upgrade 
 your weapons to make them more deadlier, more accurate, more silent or just a killing machine. 
 This game does what the others should of done years and years ago but is it to late, no this game 
 is more improved story line.
  
  Does this title disapoint? Yes it does but doesn't every title? This game has alot of glitches 
 that shouldn't be there but can be updated. The game's graphics for a Next Gen game almost look 
 like a regular Xbox title, nothing more and nothing less. You will also be blessed with a retarted 
 ending that grabs you one way and pulls you another with a very piss poor done mission, you will 
 knowtice it when you see how crappy it is put together but then again, its after the credits. But 
 this one did good enough for Eidos to annouce the 5th Hitman which still is untitled, they started 
 working on it after the release of Kane and Lynch which was an utter bomb. The Good abotu this 
 title. The maps are amazing, so big and bold. Beautiful scenery and it really looks like a damn 
 real thing. They are all enteractive, so you can climb stuff, throw people into stuff use certain 
 scenery as a weapon, its all so well done. But the best thing about this title, isn't the graphics, 
 storyline or characters, well it is those are well done but its mostly about the price. 29.99, 
 for THIS! This game is worth 60 just imagine 30 bucks for such a damn good game.
  
  Overall: This game delievers with Agent 47, he does a good job and he always does. This story might 
 have a topsy turvey main story but why does it matter you are a BADASS ASSASSIN!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesonV
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  IO Interactive has brought the Hitman series a long way. Continuing their drive to provide a rich 
 stealth game with cinematic properties, we are presented Blood Money. The series has essentially 
 received an overhaul with a new graphics engine, some new elements to the gameplay and a presentation 
 that only IO could have come up with. Blood Money proves to be yet another solid installment.
 
  
  The story for Blood Money is told in similar fashion to Contracts, but here it's done more interestingly. 
 We're first introduced to some missions 47 partook in between some of the events the last couple 
 of games. The missions are described to a newspaper reporter through dossiers held by a former 
 FBI director. This former director has a big story that he wishes to break, but he wants the journalist 
 to see the larger picture in regards to Agent 47. As the story unfolds, we come to learn more of 
 a web involving the FBI director, Diana -- 47's contact within the organization he works for (The 
 Agency) -- and a rival group known as The Franchise.
  
  The main gameplay mechanics for the series have remained relatively unchanged. 47 can still attain 
 disguises and utilize stealth tactics or try to pull off frontal assaults. This won't work very 
 well as damage is more easily taken in Blood Money and something else comes into play as well. 
 New to Hitman is the notoriety system, which in all honesty feels a bit half-baked. The player 
 can simply "pay off" witnesses so that the notoriety ranking drops, but it does add an interesting 
 aspect to the game. At the end of each mission, for example, a mission summary is presented in 
 the form of a newspaper article. Various details will be dropped throughout the text relating as 
 to how many shots were fired, what type of weapon was used, etc. If the player allows the notoriety 
 rank for 47 to go up, though, witnesses will start to come forward. First a horrible composite 
 sketch shows up until more and more details become available. Eventually 47 will show up in a perfect 
 sketch and this will make missions more difficult to accomplish as everyone and their uncles will 
 recognize the assassin.
  
  As expected, 47 is again privy to a fairly large array of weapons. This time, the assassin makes 
 use of a rather rundown "hideout" to assemble his display. There are no rewards this time for achieving 
 a "Silent Assassin" rating other than a larger sum of money. All of the weapons may be attained 
 in the game by picking them up and sometimes relinquishing the Silent Assassin title. Obviously 
 if someone sees 47 leaving the scene with a shotgun tucked under his arm, there's no doubt there 
 will be at least one witness. Luckily -- as previously mentioned -- there's only the matter of 
 paying off individuals. Also new to the weapons system are upgrades. The player may purchase items 
 that extend rounds, increase silenced efficiency and accuracy amongst other things.
  
  Graphically speaking, Hitman has never looked better. The 360 is simply capable of producing some 
 very crisp visuals. IO developed a new engine for the Hitman series and so we get something that's 
 not really seen anywhere else, although it could be argued that the visuals are reminiscent of 
 something from perhaps the Grand Theft Auto series. The audio in these games has never been an 
 issue and the cast of voice actors here do an excellent job. Whereas the story in previous Hitman 
 games was told solely from 47's viewpoint, Blood Money tells its story from multiple angles allowing 
 the player to become more familiar with all of the characters, which works extremely well.
  
  Blood Money is not only a breath of fresh air to Hitman, but proves that the series' potential 
 continues to grow. The winning elements provided in previous games as well as some new ones thrown 
 into the mix make the game an enjoyable experience for newcomers and fans alike. With a pedigree 
 such as this series has, we can only hope the trend continues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has probably cost me as many hours of my life as all of the Final Fantasy games I have 
 ever played. I'm not kidding. 
  
  I've never had a game with this much replay value. There are literally dozens of ways to complete 
 each level. 
  
  I do have to admit that the graphics are a little bit... sketchy. It doesn't really match up to 
 most other next gen games in that respect. However if you can get past the little annoying glitches 
 and "why did they make it so hard to flip that light switch?" moments, the game play is fantastic. 
 
  
  The music is the chocolate coating that holds it all together. Very well done. Each piece seems 
 to be custom written (In fact I think it may be) for that particular moment in the game. 
  
  All in all, this is pretty much my favorite game, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGuy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Mr 47 is back with more assanation targets to be taken out more weapons and more fun. This game 
 is brilliantly created with big open worlds to explore for every assasionation. There are 12 missions 
 in all each one brimming with life. For every mission you pretty much have two options. You can 
 run in and gun your way through the whole level without being killed. Or you can try the stealth 
 aproach, being careful and planning evertthing can be very fun. There are lots more weapons and 
 this is really good my personal faverouit is the stun gun yea I know it dosen't have much fire 
 power but I thought it was pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dadog91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in Agent 47's adventures. This game has made 
 vast improvements that elevate it above Contracts and Silent Assassin. These additions come in 
 the form of the notoriety and accident system. Both of them are quite clever.
  The disguises are a huge part of the gameplay simply because if you want to be unnoticed, you need 
 them to complete your mission. There are tons of disguises ranging from a drunk Santa all the way 
 up to a Secret Service agent. However, the only fault is that you previous clothes magically appear 
 in a neat pile before you.
  The shooting part of the game is pretty good, although it is not recommended you treat this game 
 as an fps simly because the stealth is much better. However, if you want there are loads of weapons 
 and some of them can be customized. You can even change the view to first person if you want. 
 
  The graphics are the best on any platform this game is on although the xbox 360 can handle much 
 better graphics so Eidos didn't really use the power of the xbox 360 to full extent.
  The audio is pretty good, since it sets the mood and is there when the time is right. The Hitman 
 theme is pretty good when you first start, even though now it gets annoying everytime I start the 
 game.
  Overall, this game is impressive in that I personally think it's better than Splinter Cell. I give 
 this game a 9.0 out of 10.0 or an A-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bingmore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  One of the most important things that make this game great is the hundreds of ways to dispatch 
 your target, there is so many options for you to take; you can snipe them from a balcony, hide 
 a bomb on their patrol route, get in close with the fibre wire, push them over a railing, poison 
 their beer and the list goes on. What makes the game even more exciting is how you have to use 
 your brain to find the best way to get your kill, or you could just run in like a lunatic whilst 
 brandishing the m4 =D.
  
  I especially enjoy the upgrading of 47's weapons, choosing to equip one thing might change the 
 outcome of your mission... Another thing I enjoy is how intractable the environment is, and how 
 the AI respond to certain interactions you might participate in. For example: setting off the fire 
 alarm causes everyone on that particular floor to run to the elevators and panic like they're actually 
 on fire themselves :p Whilst breaking the fuse box and turning off all things electrical will cause 
 a guard to investigate, giving you opportunity to sneak into the area he was guarding.
  
  Every sound in the game is spectacular, from the music creating the right mood for the right situation, 
 to the sound of 47's footsteps and the gunshots. Eidos hit the nail right on the head when it came 
 to the sound in this game.
  
  unfortunately, like every game, this one too has a down side, the visuals. In this game (especially 
 if you favor the storm in and kill everyone tactic) you will be subjected to bodies going through 
 bodies, this really brings me down when i play hitman because the game is so good but it is brought 
 down by this factor which isn't seen in many other recent games. although it does look allot better 
 than the previous games in the hitman series and i will never get tired of seeing the blood splatter 
 all over the walls. =D
  
  overall I strongly recommend you buy this game, it is some serious fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyb9m3bek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  SOUND
  
  Quality: From the sound of 47's footsteps to the gunshots of a desert eagle and silenced pistol, 
 all the audio in Hitman: Blood money is understandable and clear, improved upon previous installments. 
 4/5
  Intensity: The sounds really give a feeling of realism more than anything, all the gunshots were 
 top notch and gave a powerful feeling when shooting them. 4/5
  Music: A great aspect of this game is the intense assassin music throughout, which is delivered 
 in a fantastic manner, I was truly impressed, they have music for everything. 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are a major improvement to the game since the conversion from older 
 consoles. Now with much more detailed next generation graphics, Hitman: Blood Money looks better 
 than ever. 10/10
  
  STORY
  
  Good, solid story kept me interested throughout, considering you knew 47 was going to die as you 
 played, but you just didnt know when. Ill give the story a 6/10. It was pretty average.
  
  AI
  
  Relatively easier to deal with then previous installments, the AI, whilst given intelligence 
 to do things such as see your shadow, patrol areas etc, they seem to have become more stupid when 
 it comes to handling them in a shootout. Rather than taking cover, they will stand in the middle 
 of the corridor spraying like crazy, aiming at your face. I have only seen an emey take cover rarely, 
 and on those occasions I was holding a nail gun :|
  6/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  A fun experience with new tricks and new guns, together with completely new targets to take out. 
 I loved the new elements of the notority system and the new upgradeable weapons, although I wouldnt 
 have minded seeing more guns which I felt shouldnt have been left out, such as the AK-47 or the 
 minigun. What I wanted to see was all the guns from Hitman 2 but upgradeable, it would have made 
 for much more variety. Another thing which was slightly dissapointing is after you beat the game 
 there are no invisibility cheats or ammo cheats to have a little fun, which is very dissapointing 
 to be seen absent from the game considering one level has you running around the crowded streets 
 during an election speech. Overall I give the gameplay 10/10, as it is an experience you should 
 not miss.
  
  Overall score - 42/50 x 2 = 84/100
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8.5/10 The amount of ways to accomplish each mission is great. Using your brain to strategically 
 achieve goals is undoubtedly fun. 
  
  Graphics: 6/10 Not many "wow" moments, except for the hundreds of NPCs that can be shown on screen 
 at once. Looks like a very polished xbox game.
  
  Animations: 5.5/10 Human movements don't look very realistic, but are do-able. Agent 47 has a strange 
 running animation, just like Sam Fisher.
  
  Sound:6/10 Decent voice acting and music, but the sounds could have been more interesting. 
  
 
  Presentation: 6.5/10 Not much to talk about here except that the presentation is just good enough. 
 Cut-scenes add to the game and it tells a pretty interesting story but its still no comparison 
 to the more big-budget productions.
  
  Rent or Buy?: I'd personally give this one a buy, since the replay value is pretty good. You can 
 go back and go through each mission differently, plus the difficulty is really hard, and I've only 
 played on the rookie setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  One great features about the game is that there are multiple things that you can do in order to 
 eliminate your targets. You can all kill them the way you want. The AI sometimes acts unrealisticaly 
 at some events though. The games graphics looks superb from the game's environments, to the characters. 
 Whats great about the games graphics is its lighting and the shadows casted. The games sound is 
 nice from the gunfire up to the explosions including the music. The games voice acting is also 
 great. You should buy the game if your either a fan of the Hitman series or your just new in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I admit it. Hitman is probably my favorite series ever. I've played every game. Probably clocked 
 in over 1000+ hours. Yes, no joke! I am a Hitman addict! I play the game every day. I have all 
 of the games installed still!
  
  This one is the first one I played for a console. 
  
  You play a hitman who is contracted by an organization to obviously do assassinations. In this 
 game though its more of a back story of Agent 47s (thats you) death. Don't worry I didn't spoil 
 it. Thats how it starts. You'll play missions that lead up to your death and really from there 
 you'll just have to play the game! 
  
  The graphics are pretty good I think one the 360. Hitman always has its own style when it comes 
 to characters. So don't expect photo realism. You can tell its still a game. But non the less the 
 graphics are great. some of the levels are down right amazing looking. Which has always been Hitmans 
 strong point. Even the weapons are amazing looking. And in HD it looks even better!
  
  The gameplay is complicated to explain. You start out with a screen that tells you what you mission 
 is. You then can buy info "hints" on what you might need to do in the level. You can also view 
 various info along with buy upgrades for yourself such as better weapon upgrades and misc things 
 like lock picks, armor... etc. (silencers you should buy first) . 
  
  From here you start a mission and really its all up to you. But since its an open world you can 
 kill everything in site and take on armed men and most likely die trying to find your target or 
 be stealthy (which is the idea) and take him out that way and earn more money. The more stealthy, 
 less shots... basically the best assassin you are, the more money you make. But if you don't care 
 about that you can play anyways and still make money. This encourages players to go back and play 
 anyway they want again.
  
  You can take people as shields. Use knives to slit throats. Change clothes to those of your victim's. 
 Hide bodies. Plant explosives. Set alarms off. Heck you can even "make accidents" happen such as 
 pushing someone down the stairs or over the rail this way it looks they died on accident! This 
 game is endless in possibilities! I still am always finding ways to kill of a target I never though 
 of!
  
  There are other things to consider. On harder difficulties doing things like causing trouble effects 
 your rating throughout he game and makes harder for you to do anything in the levels. Not mention 
 the AI is smarter among other things. Theres a ton of other aspects like the game is realistic 
 such as buildings have metal detectors so how do you get your guns in? Or what do you do about 
 snaking int the white house to assassinate the vice president?
  
  The controls are really easy after the first mission. If not just go through it again until you 
 get it. The most important button is the one that makes you put away your gun quickly. As people 
 shouldn't walk around with guns out.
  
  The music and sound are great too. Jesper Kyd does the music for the game and as with most game 
 music its amazing. I own all the Hitman music! The sound is great too and gives you lots of Queues 
 what to do.
  
  As for flaws, unlike the pc version there really isn't any. My only complaint is after you beat 
 it it is kind of fun to cheat and have things like slomo or be able to be invisible to everyone 
 so you can sneak around and see how the game works when your not bugging the people.
  
  Theres infinite replay value on this game so I recommend you buy this game! What are you doing 
 reading this? GO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Blood money, another installment from the hitman series is still as great as ever!
  
  You are again agent 47 and a mysterious enemy is bothering you and your group. The story starts 
 out with the first mission on killing the "swing king". It's actually very easy because it's just 
 a tutorial for those who would be playing for the first time. The game is great because of one 
 reason: you are the one who will decide how you will want to kill the target. If you are not a 
 stealthy character, then just go out there and kill every person that you might see. But if you 
 like deploying your well planned tactics like me to kill the target, then this game is the best. 
 It is not actually repetitive because there are a hundred of ways to kill the target, like I said 
 it's your choice. The story is not lame. You advance to the next mission after you finnish your 
 current one then the cutscenes tell the story. The graphics are great, gameplay never gets old 
 and repetition is always an option because of its open ended story.
  
  Overall, this is a great game worth both your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinematic0903
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This was (and still is) an awesome game! Even though it was released a couple years ago, the game 
 is great! And the graphics for the 360 are SWEET!! It's just a great game to pick a mission and 
 play it 10 different ways. I've only played it on rookie, but now with word of Hitman 5 (Working 
 Title) I'm going to settle down and play it on different difficulties, which I would assume is 
 way more fun.
  I just wish there would be a multiplayer feature, but even though there's not, it's a great game 
 to own and play over, and over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthPanama3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I never really did like Hitman when i first played it but a friend got me into Blood Money and 
 I was hooked. I like most of the missions and alot of the weapons and upgrades are very helpful.
 
  
  I love the Opera house, White House, and The Heaven/Hell Party very awesome!!!! I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who loves stealthy type games It reminds me of Splinter Cell too which ima 
 big fan of also. I love most of all the very last level I won't give it away to anyone who hasnt 
 played it but i was literally freaking out @ the very end.
  
  Nice ending and awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertFuneral
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series makes its debut in the next generation with Hitman: Blood Money on the Xbox 360. 
 Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth installment in the Hitman series, and also proves to be the absolute 
 best.
  
  Graphics: While its not the best graphics on the Xbox 360, theyre good enough to be called next-gen. 
 The environment looks great, along with all of the character models. Agent 47 doesnt have the 
 biggest graphical detail in his face, but its understandable when it comes to making him keep 
 his mysterious image. Its definitely no Gears of War when it comes to graphics; however it has 
 enough to give the game a pleasant look. (8/10)
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is almost perfect. The overall gameplay and controls have greatly 
 improved since the games predecessors. The game is definitely a lot easier to control this time 
 around and also very easy to pick up. The button scheme has all your necessary actions placed in 
 just the right places. Whether youve played a Hitman game before or not, it will be really easy 
 get adjusted to the games controls.
  
  The one great thing about the game is of course its freedom. There is not ONE way to play the game 
 or complete your missions. The amount of ways to beat a mission seems almost endless! Whether you 
 choose to gun everybody down with just your silver ballers, play the whole game with just the sniper 
 rifle or play completely weaponless, theyre all still the right way to play the game. This game 
 will take you as far as your creative mind can go and can leave you coming back for more.
  
  The AI has improved in many ways, but at the same time has been dulled down. In previous Hitman 
 games, it was really easy to get caught and have your cover blown. In this game, you will not get 
 caught by guards for the dumbest little things. The bad part about the AI is that they all act 
 like mindless robots programmed to do a single routine over and over. They will walk back and forth 
 between two places endlessly, making everything a bit too predictable. (I mean, who goes to the 
 bathroom 20 times per minute?)
  
  Another thing introduced to the Hitman series in Blood Money is the notoriety system. This system 
 is what basically makes you a wanted criminal if you get caught or leave any evidence behind. 
 The higher your notoriety is, the easier it is for NPCs to recognize you without you having to 
 do anything suspicious. However the notoriety system falls flat since you can easily remove all 
 of it by simply paying it off with bribes at the end of every mission, thus making it completely 
 useless. Aside from the mindless robot-like AI and un-necessary notoriety system, the gameplay 
 is excellent. It should be very interesting to see how future Hitman games can improve this already 
 near-perfect gameplay. (9/10)
  
  Sound: Jesper Kyd does a wonderful job with this games soundtrack and can only be described as 
 perfect. (10/10)
  
  Replay Value: Hitman: Blood Money is probably one of the most replayable games you will ever come 
 across. If all the silent assassin achievements dont already have you coming back for more, your 
 creative mind will. You will definitely find yourself coming back to every mission many times to 
 experiment with a new way to beat them. Perhaps youd like to return to a mission and snipe your 
 victim from a distance rather than strangle him from behind. You might also find yourself returning 
 to a mission to try and push/throw everybody over a rail. There are more than enough reasons to 
 keep you coming back. (10/10)
  
  Conclusion: Whether youre a long time fan of the Hitman series or not, you should definitely try 
 this game out. It could give you a whole new perspective on the series and perhaps draw you in 
 enough to retry those old games again. The controls are solid and easy enough for anybody to pick 
 up and get used to immediately. If you want a game that will be worth every penny that you spend, 
 Hitman: Blood Moneys replay value will definitely grant you that. If you havent yet picked up 
 a copy of this game, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?? You definitely wont regret it.
  
  Overall Score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a great game. The level designs are interesting and there are many alternative 
 solutions to each of the assignments. One of the stand out missions for me is A New Life where 
 Agent 47 has to take down gangster Vinny Sinistra who is under FBI protection at his house within 
 a west coast gated community. You can take it methodically, poisoning the donuts, rigging the BBQ 
 ect or maybe man the treehouse next door and use it as a sniping position, or just get the garden 
 shears and go Edward Scissorhands on the whole lot of them! It has taken me 2 months, playing on 
 and off, to get all 1000 gamerpoints out of Hitman and even though this required a lot of repetition, 
 going through the game from start to finish 4 times, it has been enjoyable. It is testament to 
 the quality of the game that even though I have clocked the hell out of it I still want to keep 
 it in my collection to play once in a while. There's a certain degree of class or sophistication 
 about HBM, what with the mission at the opera house, and the reference to the Jean Pierre Melvin 
 film Le Samouri (47 has a pet canary in his hideout) . The content feels distinctly mature but not 
 only in the sense that the game is violent, which it undoubtably is, but in its overall aesthetic 
 and presentation HBM exudes style.
  
  My parting feeling with this game is: if there's another Hitman game coming out, I'm getting it. 
 I've enjoyed HBM most of all and I hope to see the Hitman series continue with games of this quality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  sweet n sour some of the game is good but it lacks in some areas There is not much of a story to 
 the game it is basically stealth throuht out but one thing that made me want to play it is the 
 nice enviroments. The locations are great and the game is a good legth but saying that you find 
 yourself doing the same thing all the time so it can become very boring quickly and will not keep 
 you comeing back for more. The graphics are good but they are not the best and the sound is okay 
 but can be abit dole the gameplay like i said is doing the same thing this is almost a good game 
 but not quite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  The bald-headed contract killer known only as 47 is in good form, primed and ready for more work 
 in the latest installment in the dark, stylish Hitman series. Though very similar to the last two 
 games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still 
 just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists to the formula, an intriguing story, and 
 a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further make Blood Money worth it. More bad 
 people in high places need to be murdered in Hitman: Blood Money.
  This is the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't 
 assumed or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played 
 one of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc-seibert
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the game and am going to go threw it again to collect more weapons and unlock the 
 other achievements. The levels are well designed and are of a decent size. There are so many different 
 ways to do missions for killing everyone or cause Accidents on your targets. Its a pretty fun game 
 with pretty good replay value. It is a great game to have for your collection and is only 30 bucks. 
 Also the ending was one of the better endings for the current games on the 360 . This is the best 
 on in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  i cant tell you how much i love this game. The reason is because there are so many different outcomes 
 of each level. you can switch uniforms with people, take their guns, kill everybody in the level! 
 or you can be stealthy and do the hits without anybody knowing. Perform an accident kill. If you 
 are up in the scafolding* and you shove somebody off they think it was an accident and dont suspect 
 you of killing the guy! and since this game is cheaper now since its been out, its only about 25 
 bucks used at ebx, if you have played the previous hitmans its not like hitman 2 where your in 
 snowy places all the time, the levels are ALOT better in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of the Hitman series so it was a given that I was going to pick up this title 
 to play. I was not dissapointed. I beat the game in a fairly short amount of time just on rookie 
 mode. I then dropped off the radar for awhile and even after coming back to the game after around 
 8 months of not playing it, it's still excellent fun. Now I'm trying to get silent assassin rating 
 on most levels and conquer the game completely.
  
  This game has great replayability as you can do any mission in numerous ways. You can blaze in 
 with an assault rifle and kill everyone (including animals and civilians) or you can go stealth 
 and take out your target.
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series has always been a favorite of mine, but I constantly forget about it because 
 I am such a huge fan of anything that Tom Clacny does, and seeing as how there is atelast one Splinter 
 Cell game a year I'm normally pretty preoccupied with that game. Well I finally got a chance to 
 play the new Hitman game and coming from someone who has played every Hitman game to death I can 
 easily say that Hitman: Blood Money on the Xbox 360 is hands down the best game in the series so 
 far.
  
  While you are playing through the single player game (it lasted about 12 hours for me) you get 
 immersed into this story that is at times hard to follow and other times totally insane. The story 
 was nice to have since the previous Hitman games have not focused so much on the story as this 
 one has. Sure they had stories but none of them were as deep as the one in Blood Money that includes 
 an amazing ending.
  
  So after you complete the single player campaign what is there left to do. Well chances are you 
 will want to play through each mission atleast twice. One time you will play through Rambo style 
 and the other you will try to get the tedious but definately satisfying Silient Assasin rank.
 
  
  As always Hitman Blood Money has an amazing soundtrack and voice overs. The music is orchestrated 
 beautifully and the voice overs are the same that they have always been so fans of the previous 
 games should feel right at home. They should also feel right at home with the way that the game 
 controls as well as it is almost the exact same as before just on a different controller. The game 
 still gives you the opportunity to go into first person mode. I found that the only time I really 
 used it was when I was backed into a corner and I needed some precision aiming. So even though 
 it may seem like they just added it for good measure, at times it is more helpful than the standard 
 third person view.
  
  Hitman Blood Money will have you glued to your controller until you reach the finale and then chances 
 are you will go back through to get more Silient Assasin ranks and all of the weapon upgrades. 
 Hitman: Blood Money is a must own for anyone who likes stealth action games or if you are a fan 
 of the think before you shoot type of shooter if that makes any sense. I give Hitman: Blood Money 
 for the Xbox 360 a 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The basics of Blood Money are similar to past entries in the series; each mission is framed around 
 the killings of one or more individuals, which the player character (Mr. 47) must accomplish. Standing 
 between him and success are armed guards, security checkpoints and other obstacles. The player 
 guides 47 through the game's levels with the help of a satellite map which can be cued up at any 
 time. The map indicates the layout of each topographical area of the level, the wherabouts of 47's 
 main targets, and other CPU-controlled characters. In order to carry out his mission, 47 may use 
 any method at his disposal to eliminate his targets, regardless of witnesses or excessive violence 
 done to bystanders. While Hitman has traditionally rewarded stealth over bloodshed, Blood Money 
 includes features that directly penalize the player for making too much 'noise'.
  
  Many new features were introduced to Hitman: Blood Money. These include the capability to climb 
 through more obstacles, improved unarmed combat, the ability to use an NPC as a human shield, improved 
 character animations (example - face, eyes, etc) , a new game engine and the ability to upgrade 
 weapons and equipment. However, only five of the featured weapons in the game, as well as assorted 
 pieces of equipment such as bombs and armor, can be upgraded. Every level contains some sort of 
 method to make the target's death look like an accident; for example, tampering with someone's 
 grill to make it explode when they turn it on, to rigging a chandelier to fall on a target, or 
 the target 'accidentally' falling off a balcony. There are also improvised weapons, like a nailgun 
 or a pair of hedge clippers.
  
  A gameplay feature new to the Hitman series was also added, the Notoriety system. If the player, 
 during a mission, kills innocents or civilians, gets caught on CCTV or is witnessed committing 
 murder, Agent 47's notoriety will rise. Conversely, if the player executes the mission perfectly 
 with none of the aforementioned events occurring, 47's notoriety will be minimal. The higher Agent 
 47's notoriety is, the easier it will be for NPCs to identify him. Players may use the bribery 
 system to negate accumulated notoriety. The notoriety system is not enabled in Rookie mode, which 
 also allows unlimited saves and a lower level of general difficulty. Health boosts are available 
 in the game, namely Painkillers and Adrenaline shots.
  
  When each mission has been completed, a newspaper article is displayed regarding the hit, in which 
 the content varies depending on the investigation results and the player's notoriety. Sketch drawings 
 are also sometimes visible of Agent 47's face, which grow progressively more accurate as 47's notoriety 
 grows. The article's title relates to the player's mission rating. Silent Assassin , in which you 
 assassinate the targets as cleanly and quietly as possible, and draw no unnecessary attention to 
 yourself (blow covers, leave no extra bodies, etc.) , is the best rating possible on all missions...
 
  
  Plot
  
  The game begins with a flashback at a Baltimore amusement park, where dozens die in an accident 
 caused by negligent maintenance of a ferris wheel. The father of one of the victims calls the Agency 
 and orders a hit on the park owner, who was cleared of all charges. 47, on the run from competitors 
 from Europe, carries out the hit; following that assignment, he receives a string of contracts 
 from American clients eager to hire the legendary hitman.
  
  The bulk of the game takes place as flashback sequences that occur concordant to the present day, 
 in which a reporter and the former FBI Director, Leland Jack Alexander, discuss 47's hits over 
 the past two years (2004-2005) and his involvement in the whole thing. The reporter arranged to 
 interview Alexander concerning a recent attack on the White House (an important plot point) . It 
 quickly becomes clear that Alexander's real intent is to discuss 47. As the story progresses, the 
 Agency's employees are said to be being systematically eliminated by an albino clone, a super-assassin 
 dispatched by a western counterpart to the Agency called The Franchise ; the situation degrades 
 to the point where Diana informs 47 that they are the only ones left.
  
  Diana closes down the Agency with a final contract to kill the assassins coming after them. After 
 the assignment, 47 is approached by an old acquaintance, a CIA agent named Smith, who 47 rescued 
 in the Flatline mission (as well as at least twice in every other game in the series) . He approaches 
 47 with a high-profile mission, paid for using several million dollars worth of diamonds. There 
 is a reason why the payout is particularly generous; the targets are The Franchise's clone assassin, 
 Mark Parchezzi III, and the Vice President of the United States, Daniel Morris. Both represent 
 a shadow-ops organisation dedicated to monopolising the cloning technology that spawned 47. They 
 intend to assassinate the President before he can push forward his pro-cloning stance, (thereby 
 disabling their ability to monopolise it) , as The Franchise and its controlling parent stand to 
 lose their military edge.
  
  As expected, 47 is successful. Hunted by both enemy operatives and the police, he flees to his 
 hideout. Without warning, he is visited by Diana, immediately arousing his suspicion (face-to-face 
 meetings with Diana are highly irregular) . Diana claims to know how to shake off the Franchise. 
 As 47 mulls over the folder she hands him, expressing his misgivings as to the likelihood of its 
 success, Diana injects him with a syringe, putting him into a comatose state (her apparent betrayal 
 causes 47 to shout **** inciting his only line of verbal aggression in the series) . 47's body is 
 surrounded by SWAT members, and Diana, announcing that killing 47 was surprisingly pleasant, is 
 formally inducted into the Franchise by Leland Alexander, its founder. The story at this point 
 shifts to the present day; 47 is scheduled for cremation so his bone marrow cannot be harnessed 
 by cloning rivals, destroying forever anyone else's chance of producing a non-defective clone. 
 Diana drapes 47's custom Silverballers over his chest during his hasty funeral and kisses him after 
 applying lipstick. It becomes apparent that the poison she injected was actually a fake-death serum 
 47 used in an earlier assignment that induces a death-like hibernative state. Diana's lipstick 
 contains the antidote in it (The same used to retrieve Agent Smith from a rehab clinic in the mission 
 'Flatline ) .
  
  From here, the story may conclude two different ways:
  
  Ending 1:
  
  ... is the bad ending, in which it is presumed the antidote fails to work, and 47 descends 
 into the crematorium. To obtain this first ending, the player simply does not have do anything as 
 the credits are rolling down.
  
  Ending 2:
  
  ... is the true, canonical ending, in which the antidote works and 47 rises up, slaughtering everyone 
 in the church (except Diana, who has already left  apparently locking the gates behind her to 
 prevent witnesses from escaping) . To ensure that absolutely no one knows he is still alive, even 
 the innocent reporter and priest are not spared by him. After the ordeal, 47 leaves the funeral. 
 To obtain this second ending, the player must press the movement keys repeatedly till 47's pulsing 
 health bar reaches maximum while the credits are rolling by.
  
  Sometime after the funeral massacre, Diana is shown to have, possibly, reopened the Agency, which 
 overlooks the Copenhagen harbor. It is unknown whether she has ascended to a higher rank as a result 
 of this. She receives a call from someone referred to as Your Majesty . The voice cannot be heard, 
 but Diana replies that they can't find a trace of 47. Meanwhile, a briefcase-bearing 47 is at a 
 seedy-looking brothel with a traditionally-dressed Chinese man. He is led offscreen by the man 
 after expressing interest about what he has heard is in the back . As 47 and the man enter a room, 
 curtains close over the screen, and the credits roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theemptyquiver
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I still love Hitman 2, but this game brings the series to a new level of action and immersion.
 
  I was glad to be back in the shoes of 47, but to be honest it was just like playing any other 
 hitman game -- only with better graphics. There are some new moves, but the AI seems about the same 
 as before.
  I love these games and I hate them because they never deliver and are as amazing as I want them 
 to be. It's a fun game if you love this series, but if you don't love the series I would say this 
 is probably not the game for you. The levels are intriguing but I still think the level design 
 in Hitman 2 is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamin261
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  47 is the siniser bald- headed, cloned assassin who is an urban legend in the criminal universe.
 
  Blood money is the 4th in the series of Hitman and it doesn't disappoint! eventhough it plays 
 the same as the rest in the series.
  The missions in the game are more extravagant than the last installment, the Mardi Gras in New Orleans 
 to Opera in Paris and the White house. There are more ways to kill your target then ever before. 
 For example you can push someone into a coal fired boiler or hit them with a shovel. That's fun.
 
  There's the usual score system that marks you on the amount of noise and violence you use in mission. 
 If you run and gun with a vast variety of weapons that you can customise then you are a mass murder, 
 or if you kill the targets only and silently then you are a silent assassin. This is reflected 
 on how much money you earn and a somewhat half baked notoriety system that lets you view a newspaper 
 about the killing but you'll soon find that the papers are the same all the way through with the 
 same text edited according to the target. Also the system lets you pay off witnesses with small 
 amounts of money, which is easy to do because your making millions and that's all you do to lose 
 notority which defeats the object when its so easy to resolve. Its still fun to replay because you 
 can try to better your score each time and find new ways to kill targets and despose of bodies.
 
  The graphics are good but are disappointing when the game is on x360 and Oblivion and Graw are 
 so good and they were released earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  2 thumbs up!
  i rly liked this game, i just got it 2 days ago and is great! there r many ways 2 complete ur objetives, 
 stealthly and/or as a god damn killer...
  ill give positives and negatives:
  Possitive:
  - Dinamic as hell!, tons of moves or ways 2 terminate the enemy
  - Good plot
  - Good gameplay
 
  - Worth the spend
  
  Negatives:
  - The biggest negative r the graphics, as well known, this game was a 6th gen game, but xbox made 
 their own X360 version, so no big changes between Xbox or PS2 game n this 1, n may be a bit dissapointing 
 in that matter... but graphics doesnt make the game (but actualy help) .
  
  However, few games arent spend... r inversion n i rly think this 1 lies on that category, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacDonald_3536
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money for the X-Box 360 is a very good game that gives the player a great variety 
 of ways to go about completing his/her objectives. With a great notoriety system, this game allows 
 you to go about killing people in whatever way you want, however, you'll find there are many benefits 
 to going about it in a quiet and stealthy fashion. If you don't make noise, and use as little violence 
 as possible to kill your mark, you will get more money for upgrading your weapons, and getting 
 special items such as flak jackets, and pain killers, which of course can be quite advantageous 
 in certain situations. The stealth system is the same as the earlier games in the Hitman series, 
 but there is a good storyline following agent 47, and with the ending setting up another sequel, 
 I think that Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in the Hitman series.
  But personally, the absolute best thing about Hitman: Blood Money, is that you can literally shoot 
 up the entire place, leaving nobody alive, or you can be as stealthy and undetectable as possible. 
 Or, you can choose to kill people using the middle ground of the two extremes. I would definitely 
 recommend to at least rent Hitman: Blood Money, but personally, if I were you I'd buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a very good game in terms of graphics but i find it just too dam hard i beat 
 the first to levels and could get no further i think they should make the game a bit easier and 
 more exiting also the sound on the game is poor because normally in shooters you can hear where 
 abouts shots are coming from but in this game it always sounds like they are coming from in front 
 of you and also the value for money of this game is poor i paid &pound;40 for this game and spent 
 about 4 hours of boredom on it so i advise people to stay clear of this game and the rest of the 
 games in the series or make sure you play the demo first but i still advise against it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXSN1PERXx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  ok this was the first of the hitman games i have played in the series and i was impressed with 
 the AI and graphics.. the sound was ok and the controls were comfortable.. now the game itself 
 was very entertaining i found myself replaying missione ALOT to get more cash and get a better 
 score. the scenery in the game was very realistic with fully explorable homes and enviroments the 
 wepons were absolutely amazing! and the fact u can customise them made it VERY cool! however i 
 do have a few things i didnt like about the game.. like the weapons u get to use and customise 
 are GREAT and look incredible but i never really used them... i got through pretty much every mission 
 using the silverballer (custom hand pistol) and choke cable... i think they should have worked 
 on utalising all the wepos in the game a bit more to make it a bit less repetative. My only other 
 nit pick is it doesnt support online play.. i think a multi player death match with the weapons 
 u get in this game would be ALOT of fun.. owell maybe next time :)
  all in all this game is alot of fun and the type of game u can play a few times without getting 
 bored so enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I love stealth games, and this is one of my favorites. This game can be done stealth like, or just 
 run in swinging, your choice.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is just fun to do over and over again, because you can never do the same thing twice, 
 there is a different result everytime. The news paper articles make it give you more of that feel, 
 it follows everything you did in the level. I beat this game many of times, and i love going though 
 it doing it again, trying new stuff. Awesome gamplay.
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks great, with a steady frame rate. There is great detail in everything, which gives 
 it a more real feel to it. Sound:
  The sound is great, everything sounds like it should. All the weapons make different noises, and 
 the noises are what they should be. Value:
  This has great value, I would say, if you like stealth games, or even fps games, go out and get 
 this game, or at least rent it. You will love this game. Like I said before, there is just so much 
 to explore in this game, and so many different possibilities, it can be played over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksoul323
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Hitman series ever since Codename: 47 and I have to say that this is by 
 far the best installment. Many of the glitches and visual issues have been cleared up. Characters 
 sitll have a bit of awkwardness to them but the feeling like 47 is skating has been fixed. The 
 environments are visually appealing and have a better lay out than previous games. I love how almost 
 every level has at least 3 ways to uh... tag the mark. The biggest complaint i have is the shortness 
 of the game. But I suppopse they make up for that enough with a cliffhanger ending that seems to 
 sugest that change is coming for 47. All in all this is a great game for every type of gamer, from 
 the casual weekend gamer to the hardcore fan i think everyone that likes the feeling of being the 
 good bad guy will enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a great installment in the Hitman franchise. Agent 47 is back, and this time 
 his descretion is more important than ever. There is a good number of levels on the game, some 
 a lot more difficult than others, in a wide range of environments from street parties in New Orleans, 
 to the White House in Washington DC. You can eliminate your targets in a huge amount of different 
 ways. You can snipe them from a distance, or go crazy and stab them with hedge-clippers or a butcher's 
 knife. There really is endless possibilites as to how you go about your assasinations.
  
  The graphics in the game look really good upfront. However when you look closer, at the walls or 
 floor they can look really dated and ugly. You may notice that the top of 47's head is made from 
 a series of square edges, which isn't very impressive. For the most part, though, the game looks 
 really nice and is a pleasure to look at (just try to avoid looking at textures close up) .
  
  The gameplay is also very good. Easy controls make it easy to play, and the game flows freely 
 at a steady pace. There is the option of going back and completing the campaign again and again 
 on different difficulties (to earn achievements) , but it does get very tedious and you will probably 
 only do it again once. The game has no online mode, which means that once you get bored with it, 
 there is nothing you can do other than let the box gather dust on our shelf. A little more replayability 
 would have been nice, so it may be a good idea to rent the game and see how much you are going 
 to get out of it.
  
  Overall, a good game at first, but gets boring after the first time round, so renting it first 
 might be a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Although this may be the exact same as the other last gen versions, 47 is still fun with his enthusiastic 
 emotions (sarcasm) . The graphics have been tuned for the 360 abilities and its looks aren't to 
 shabby. The game play is perfect for anyone. The straight psycho who enjoys to massacre humanity 
 by murdering everyone in his sight ( If you do take this path young grasshopper, you can eliminate 
 notoriety buy regurgitating a few bills) . Or the more perfectionist kind of guy who takes out the 
 target with grace and style. The scenarios layed out for you in the game are smart and challenging. 
 The news paper thing at the end is neat with it telling you how many shots were fired, what kind 
 of guns were used, how many witnesses (notoriety) , bodies found, and a little history on the target. 
 You get paid with how well you did the job, but either way, you do get a hefty sum. Upgrades to 
 you and your children (weapons) are plentiful and helpful. If played Hitman before, buy this game, 
 this is the best in the franchise. Newcomers, rent it, and you will buy it with its cheap price 
 and replay ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahb2121
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I've played all the hitman games as it is my favorite series and this is 
 the best one. The concept is very original. The gameplay is simple and it is easy to just pick 
 it up and start playing for the first time. The gameplay is very fun because you have a huge amount 
 of choices and ways to go about playing the level. The settings are very cool and range from an 
 amusement park to a vegas casino to a rehab facility. The addition of accidents is very cool. High 
 replay value because of the amount of choices. I've played each level at least 5 times and I am 
 still finding new ways to play it. Very addictive and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel57
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  47 is back and he's ready to kill a lot of people again.
  
  The story is pretty good although it follows the same format as Contracts where all the missions 
 are flashbacks except for the last one. 47 himself is a great character even if his morals change 
 with each game. For instance in the first three games you were discouraged from killing civilians 
 whereas in this game you actually have to a couple of times. Not a big deal, I love killing civilians 
 but it would make more sense to have it stay the same as the last games.
  
  The gameplay is nearly the same as the last game except now they've added a few cool things such 
 as accidents, which as the name implies is a hit that looks like an accident. Some of these are 
 very interesting mainly because of the creativity involved. Most involve pushing people off of 
 ledges but some are really cool and funny like dropping a chandelier on someone or rigging the 
 pyrotechnics of a dancer's stage. There's also a notoriety system which sounds like a neat idea 
 but it's a really easy system to get around. Basically the more messy you are in a mission, such 
 as leaving witnesses or getting caught on camera, the more easy to spot you'll be in the next mission. 
 It also effects the newspaper clipping that you'll see after each mission. Again, a neat idea that 
 isn't used to it's full potential, for instance all the newspapers are basically the same with 
 a few words that change after each mission. The notoriety system is easy to bypass because if someone 
 sees you you can pay them off after the mission (don't know why he doesn't just kill them) and 
 they'll forget what they saw. It doesn't cost much money to do that and even if you didn't you 
 can still blow away anyone who recognizes you without much problem. The AI is alright and they 
 won't suspect you for things like running or crouching.
  
  The sound is great such as the music and voice acting, the music is very good especially the main 
 theme which has a strange calming theme juxtaposed with the brutal violence. The voices are good 
 mainly because they got the same guy from the others even though he doesn't have nearly as many 
 lines although his relationship with Agent Smith is actually pretty funny.
  
  In short, this a fun, at sometimes frustrating game that deserves a rental but if you purchased 
 Silent Assassin, you should go back and play that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbhtaed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game was just perfect in many areas. There were many and I mean many ways to dispatch of the 
 victims in this game. There were the right amount of options so if you wanted to be stealthy you 
 could or you could just run in there with guns blazing. Probably the best part of this game is 
 being able to customize your main weapons. The only thing that I disliked about the game was that 
 you could only hide one body in stuff like laundry bags when in reality two or possible even three 
 bodies would have fit. This game rocked overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybrog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are amazing , They could possibly be better , the gameplay is fun , the 
 missons are fun adn there are many ways to do each and everyone of them , You can run through shooting 
 everyone or you can take it stealthy anything to complete your mission , you get money for completeing 
 it , and you get for doing certain things within the misson.
  The enviroments , are intersting , from a shutdown theme park ot a martigar party in the street 
 to a boat on the mississippi river , you name they mite have it. The weapons are you choose for 
 each mission , are standard , you can upgrade them and the weapons you pick within the mission 
 become availabe , but cannot be upgraded. When it comes to the diffucltly you get to choose. I would 
 recommende this game fans and gammers in genral , I give this game 8.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When the Hitman series surfaced by the name of Hitman: Codename 47, the reactions were very mixed 
 because if its buggy and sloppy gameplay.
  But the Danish developers Io Interactive have learned from their mistakes and has made by far the 
 best Hitman game in the series.
  
  The premise of the Hitman games has always been hunting people down and killing them for money, 
 and it has most certainly been satisfying for 47 and for us gamers to do so.
  And Hitman: Blood Money does not disappoint, it doesn't really change the core gameplay, but you 
 know what they say: if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
  
  What really makes Hitman: Blood Money so much fun is because the missions are so imaginative and 
 open-ended, it encourages experimentation.
  You're given multiple ways to achieve your objectives, but perhaps not all of them may seem as 
 effective as some other choice.
  Your notoriety level might rise, and that means the cops are getting closer and closer to find 
 you. So you got to be careful how to achieve your objectives.
  For every mission you get briefed of who you are going to kill, and where.
  And for every mission 
 you get to choose what weapons you want to bring, but for almost every mission the better choice 
 would be to bring none at all.
  Because if you do bring weapons your notoriety level will most certainly rise, and you don't want 
 that.
  There are always other ways to kill your enemies without guns, you're given a wide variety of gadgets 
 and weapons, but they're not always neccessary.
  
  Like the previous Hitman games, the A. I is not always convincing, but they mostly behave very well 
 like stepping out of the crowd to get a smoke or going to the bathroom. That's your chance to make 
 your move.
  
  There are more than a dozen missions and how long it will take you to go through them all is completely 
 individual. Some people like to take their time, while others can blow through the missions in 
 a matter of minutes if they know what they're doing. One mission can take well over an hour or 
 it can take merely 20 minutes your first time around.
  After every mission you get paid, and how well you did will affect your payment, if you did bad 
 you get less and if you did good you get more.
  In every mission there are weapons to collect, so all you achievists will be more than happy with 
 what the game's value gives. You can also use your weapons you collected in your hideout at a firing 
 range, it's good target practice. You'll most likely play through it again just for the sheer thrill 
 of it, and you might use different methods to achieve your objectives.
  
  The graphics are solid, the lush, detailed environments and great looking Mr. 47 are very well 
 done.
  While some characters may look a little less detailed than others, and some might look a little 
 plastic-faced, it really doesn't bring down the experience in any way.
  
  The sound is superb. Gunfire, music and voice-acting are top-notch. I love Jesper Kyd's work. Not 
 much else to say about that.
  
  To sum it up, Hitman: Bloody Money is a highly entertaining, satisfying, engaging game that is 
 well suited for fans of the genre and newcomers alike, and if you're interested in stealth-action 
 games this is definitely a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears6180
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is without question the best in the series. It really makes you feel like a bad@$$. The 
 graphics and sound are awesome. The gameplay kills. The controls are tight. You can go into the 
 level know your target/s and eliminate your target/s, them only. Or you can walk into a room whip 
 out your fully customizable .45 silverballers grab a hostage and whipe out every single person 
 in the level. Which brings me to my next point a number of weapons are fully customizable. With 
 a variety of silencers, ammo, barrels, clips, and clip sizes to make your assassination tool just 
 how you want it to make a certain kill even more memorable. There are many different ways to take 
 out your target. You can make it look like an accident our just walk into their room with a shotgun 
 and send them flying across the room. Weapons range from handguns, to shtguns to sniper rifles 
 to sub-machine guns to assault rifles. Or a number of melee weapons such as fiber wire, kitchen 
 knife, baseball bat, axe, meat cleaver, screw driver, and shovel. The levels are well designed 
 and there are several different approaches to get to your target. You can steal many different 
 disguises and play there role to make you that much closer to signing that contract in blood and 
 taking your cash. Money can be used in a few different ways. One way is to pay off the cops if 
 you gain notoriety in a previous mission. Gaining notoriety can increase the difficulty in the 
 next level. People will become suspicious more and will be quicker to pull their guns out and try 
 to take you down . You can always pull out your much more powerful weapons to fight back which 
 brings me to the next way to use your money. You can buy upgrades to make your death tools as deadly 
 as you like.
  If you do not have this game and you like games with memorable kills, tense stealth gameplay, and 
 plenty of replayability. This game is definitely for you. GO BUY IT!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I know the Hitman games have been around for while now. And I've never been a big fan of those 
 games on the PS2. But when the franchise made the move to the 360, I decided to give it a try. 
 This is one of those titles that has a great premise and a great lead character... but broken gameplay. 
 Graphically, Hitman is very good. Not great, but very good. There is, however, little sound to 
 speak of. But the biggest culprit is the gameplay, and the save system. Controls are stiff, objectives 
 can be dull. But what is this? I play through 15 minutes of gameplay, get killed, and have to do 
 it all over again! Sorry, this game isn't fun enough to do that. Hitman isn't a bad game, and patient 
 gamers may enjoy it. But I'm not patient, and I didn't enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Just Plain Amazing... Pick your guns and customize them with many diffrent things and 
 go kill your victim any many diffrent enviroments including Mardi Gras and A Rehab Center for the 
 famous. There are also many wayts to kill your victims from bombs to guns and garrot wires to feeding 
 them to gators.
  
  Graphics: Amazing for such a large game.. Big pretty enviroments with lots of detail to everything.. Guns 
 dont look to good in FPS mode but the game IS ment to be played in 3rd person shooter mode.
  
  Sound: Great gun sounds and voice acting ( expically for agent 47) and good music thro the 
 game and its levels.
  
  Value: The game is only 20-30 bucks someplaces and is tottaly worth a buy. Try the demo on xbox 
 360 becasue the game is kinda hard and not for everybody!
  
  Stability: Ive yet to find ANY bugs what so ever in the enviroments are gameplay. There was one 
 lock up but that was most likley hard ware related!
  
  The Good: Everything About It
  
  The Bad: Horrible FPS mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I got this game 2 days ago, and so far its one of my favorite games. Its also one of the few I'm 
 addicted to. I never played the first 3 Hitman games, so I didn't know what to expect. But now 
 I can say I am thoroughly satisfied. .Gameplay-Pure genius. There are so many ways to get around 
 the levels. There are so many ways to kill a target (or anyone else for that matter) . And there 
 are so many ways just to screw around that its amazing. The AI is good on the harder difficulties, 
 but even on the Rookie level, they are hard to get buy without satisfaction. The difficulty for 
 that matter is perfect. Though not recommended for someone used to winning easy.
  
  .Graphics-Not so awesome. While some parts (the environment, the frame rate) are great, other parts (the 
 characters and graphical glitches) are more annoying. Though I can understand since this game was 
 meant for the current-gen systems.
  
  .Sound-Cool. Gunshots sound like gunshots. Using a syringe to poison someone sounds like using 
 a syringe to poison someone. People who get shot in the leg sound like they should when groaning 
 and screaming. A body splashing in a river after being pushed off a ledge and falling 50 feet sounds 
 great. And thats how it should be.
  
  .Value-High. Due to the sheer number of ways to pull off a mission, replay value is really high. 
 And I value this game a lot (read paragraph 1 for more details) . So take that for what you will.
 
  
  Overall, this is a great unappreciated game in a world where graphics and looks are everything. 
 I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the hitman series since the release of codename 47 on the PC. Although very 
 basic the idea of being a hitman and getting close to your target having a nice little chat with 
 them then pullng out the dual psitols and blowing them to hell was great. The second and third 
 games I was not so impressed with due to the suspicion meter being very unpredicatble and constantly 
 having to restart the mission for the all important silent assasin rating. Then this game completely 
 changes that. The graphics are the best in the series. The Story has some pretty cool plot twists 
 and the suspicion meter has finally been fixed to work a hell of a lot better. There are also many 
 scenes in this game which remind you of some famous hitmen of the movies such as Leon. Also the 
 Hitman aka 47 seems much more meaner in this game than the rest. He has that dont mess with me 
 expression and the fashion shattering red tie to go with it. I especially like the new system of 
 if you dont dumo the body you gotta pay for it lol. You want something dont right... and cheap 
 you gotta get your hands dirty and do it yourself/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Marwin105
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  So, in Hitman: Blood Money, you play as a hitman. A hitman with an attitude. That's right I'm talking 
 about Joe Momma. No I'm kidding, you play as Agent 47. 47 is a cool character and if you've played 
 the other Hitman games then you should no that, The story is told in flashbacks, and while that 
 is clich&eacute;, it is good. The missions are all varied. No one location is alike to another. 
 And the difficulty is just right. There are a lot of hard missions, but there are also easy missions 
 that balance it. And there are also many ways to tackle a mission, whether you use straight out 
 stealth or just shoot any guy you see. I really don't feel like saying much more, so this is where 
 I end my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmrfuzzy225x
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best game in the Hitman series. With many customization options this 
 game is new each time you play. The tutorial at the beginning will get you into a Hitman mindset 
 fast. The graphics could be better. But the gameplay is what wins the player over. You can play 
 it the hard way which is running and gunning. But a higher chance of you getting shot up and killed. 
 A true hitman can get through a level without getting seen or touched. But those run and gunners 
 can survive too. Theres a variety of levels. And achievements to get your playing time boosted 
 depending on how fast you learn. This game is enough replay value for the buy. But you can also 
 get the 1000 GS in a 5 day rental if thats what you prefer. One of the best stealth games to hit 
 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Hitman games have always been about silently killing your target in any creative way you can think 
 of. Strangle the life out of someone with fibre wire or blast them to the other side of the room, 
 Hitman lets you do whatever you want. Blood Money carries on the gameplay elements of past Hitman 
 games and overall the game is more fun and clever than ever before. You are Agent 47 and your task 
 is to eliminate the target anyway you can. Are you ready for your next assignment?
  
  One thing that makes Blood Money shine is the graphics. It's a lot prettier than previous games 
 especially on the 360 which is the version I would recommend. Character models are highly detailed 
 and attractive and there is plenty of blood to spray along walls and floors from your enemies. 
 There are plenty of costumes to try on with each excellently designed to suit the mission.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Blood Money feels closer to Silent Assassin than Contracts (which 
 is a good thing really) . There is a number of ways to reach your target and kill them and after 
 doing so how to dispose of the body. To cover your tracts to become a silent assassin you must 
 kill your taget out of enemy sight and then dispose of them in crates or garbage bins which well 
 help give you a better rating when evaluated at the end. Levels are perfectly designed to offer 
 you different routes to the target and the map is very helpful for finding your way. Of course 
 when stealth fails and a lot of the times it will for fustrating reasons like enemy AI, you can 
 always shoot your way through the mission. But this is a hitman game and it's much more fun to 
 play it stealthy rather than shoot everyone. There are a lot of guns to choose and customize with 
 the money you earn each mission but if you want to be a true assassin all you need is your fible 
 wire and needles. One thing that's new about Blood Money that I'm not fond of is the notority thing. 
 If you don't hide bodies and cover your tracts well then it becomes harder to stay silent in the 
 next mission becuase of people screaming in terror the second they see you. Your notority is out 
 of 100 and you can choose to spend money to reduce it after you beat a mission. Sound is good in 
 the game but could do with improvement. A lot of what the NPC's say is repeated especially with 
 different NPC's that have the same voice. One good thing though is the voice actor for 47 is back 
 again aswell as Diana's voice. Gun fire sounds good aswell as hearing someone choke to death as 
 you strangle them.
  
  There are a few things I didn't like about the game. Notority which I've already said and how unrealistic 
 enemy AI can be. Sometimes you'll be shot and you don't know why or how the enemy knew it was you. 
 There is numerous times where the stupid AI behaviour has caused me to restart the level just to 
 get the damn thing right.
  
  Blood Money for the xbox 360 is something that every fan of the series should buy because everything 
 you loved about the series is back in fine form from stangling in silence to disguising yourself 
 so you can infiltrate. Another great stealth action game that you'll replay over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  but even so, the game is still as stellar as ever. the control scheme for the 360 is as usual superior 
 to sony's. the graphical tweaks aren't overtly noticeable and where they are it's unnecessary. 
 some npc's hair has added highlights based off dynamic lighting. well it makes them look plastic 
 rather than better.
  
  that minor gripe aside, it still plays better than almost any other stealth franchise out there, 
 and is totally worth the money. the achievements r a real draw for me now tho. i can get a real 
 visceral gauge of how good i really am versus my own opinion. it's still pretty fast tho. if yer 
 not going for rank, u can finish the whole thing first playthru in about 3 hrs. course if u actually 
 want to be a good hitman... it took me two days to finish properly. but the replay is there, 4 difficulty 
 lvls, and surprisingly good a. i. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I did not purchase this game so i gotta give the contribution to my brother who bought it. I saw 
 it when i got home from a friends house last summer and looked at it and I said, hmmmmmmm looks 
 pritty cool . But fortunitly i was wrong. IT KICKS ASS. Well i wouldn't put it in my favorite games 
 ever but it is indeed a great game. I think it deserves more than an 8.2 but i wouldnt put this 
 in the 9 catogory. So you are a Hitman thats some sort of a clone and your name is Agent 47. You 
 go through if i remember right like 8levels (not sure its been awhile since ive played it) and in 
 each level you have to kill certain people and sometimes theres like people you dont have to kill 
 but if you do you get extra cash. You can kill anyone you wish to and can use their outfit which 
 helps you out in about every mission. You have pistols, automatic guns, and snipers but you never 
 use them too much. You mostly use your fiber wires or syringes, which can knock out or kill a person. 
 You have to be careful in this game though, hidding bodies and keeping your notority low is key. 
 And not to mention this game has great replay value what with diffrent difficulties and tring to 
 get professional killer on each mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Agent&nbsp;47 returns for another bloody adventure where&nbsp; he blends in like a chameleon to 
 infiltrate, assassinate, and escape locations around the world undetected at the request of unknown 
 clients for bookoo cash. Not&nbsp; a bad business if you don't mind&nbsp; carrying a fiber wire in 
 your back pocket, but the question does come up if&nbsp; a game surrounded&nbsp; by stealthy&nbsp; sneaking 
 can maintain&nbsp; the attention of today's gamers. Sadly, as much of a fan as I personally am of 
 games that require patience, Hitman was never meant&nbsp; for casual 
 
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  From the very beginning of the game the tone is set by introducing any unfamilar killing agent 
 to the controls and&nbsp; screen layout. With this, you infiltrate your first location which is 
 littered with simple street thugs and a few oppertunities to use your craft.&nbsp; The game as a 
 whole depends solely on making the&nbsp; the best possible choice of action at the best possible 
 times. You can be as aggressive as you desire in just about every mission, which in turn will credit 
 you as a mass murderer. If overly reckless, the tabloids will make you a well known baddie thanks 
 to the nifty notoriety system which can be altered with pay-offs. You can elect to be more elusive 
 by stealing&nbsp; identities, obtaining access keys, fully explore the wonderfully detailed&nbsp; environments, 
 avoid surveillance,&nbsp; drug and hide bodies, and esacpe undetected. All things that merit much 
 more money at missions end and produce a level of satisfaction many games 
 
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  Hitman is a game that is coming from the same house that first produced the widely popular and 
 well known Lara Croft: Tomb Raider&nbsp; exploration games. Just about everything they learned in 
 making Ms. Croft's adventures worth while&nbsp; made its way into Hitman, and it shows. The level 
 design is kind of simple once you've played through a&nbsp; scenerio more than once, yet for a person 
 who has been playing the series since day one, its safe to say this was their best yet. Every nook 
 and cranny of the environments is well detailed and allows for you take full advantage of by climbing 
 pipes, walls,&nbsp; roofs and&nbsp; secret passages. For the curious, you can find numerous rooms 
 and alternate routes that allow for creativity on the fly when trying to complete missions or hide 
 certain things. Not as&nbsp; many open environments as something like Tomb&nbsp; Raider that was 
 good for awe factor, but you will find yourself pleased in gorgeous backgrounds, ligthing and NPC 
 
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  Music and ambience is key to games where you are not forced, but choose to take your time to complete 
 objectives. I personally enjoy the small things developers do to really engross a gamer into the 
 world they inhabit, and due to a very well orchestrated music&nbsp; collection that varies well 
 between action and stalking, you can't really complain. As for the voice work, Agent 47 speaks 
 with a level of confidence that in no way reflects&nbsp; most videogames, and this level of professional 
 quality carries into the entire voice cast. One gripe&nbsp; I do have is the slight weakness in 
 how the weapons sound, especially the larger rifles and 
 
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  Besides playing through the game from beginning to end, earning achievements is more of a chore 
 rather than a reward. If you are a perfectionist, then you might find enjoyment in replaying the 
 game for credit in collecting all&nbsp; weapons and fully customizing  
 the game continuously can be difficult simply because you see all the flaws in&nbsp; the computer 
 Ai&nbsp; and this allows for easy exploitation. If you adjust the level difficulties you&nbsp; can 
 earn gamer points&nbsp; for good practice and for the more&nbsp; challenging achievements earn them 
 while in the easier modes. Other than small dislikes, no online action or at the very least leader 
 boards&nbsp; leaves this game seriously 
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  If you are a true fan of the series or enjoy games such as&nbsp; Splinter Cell 
 or Tenchu that rewards you for sneaky violence, then Hitman is definently a game worth checking 
 out. As for the lack of purposeful replay value and nonexistent online options,&nbsp; a slow paced 
 game such as this makes something like MGS look juiced on steroids.&nbsp; If you can calm yourself 
 enough to enjoy the wonderfully&nbsp; created levels and awesome sense of freedom that allows for&nbsp; creative 
 ways to go about completing the game, this one is a sure fire rental at  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game presents you with mission after mission, in each you have certain objectives to fullfil 
 in order to move on. Usually the objective is assassinating people. Now, you might think this is 
 a dreadful task with way to much logical thinking and a patience requirement like no tommorow? 
 Well yes, if you want to get the Silent Assassin ranking that's true. Or, you can go on a maniac 
 killing spree, obliterating everything between you or your target. You can sneak behind every person 
 in the stage, and assassinate them all. You can play it is a FPS, or a third-person shooter. This 
 game can be played in every way you want.
  
  Graphics:
  To be quite honest, it looks like a polished Xbox game. You can't really argue with that. But on 
 the bright side, it has no graphical glitches, and the graphics presented is satisfactory enough. 
 But during the cutscenes in between the stages, you really notice the fact that this is a polished 
 Xbox game.
  
  Sound:
  Plausible voice acting and a great intro theme (Ave Maria) . The in-game combat music is pretty much 
 the same all the way trough. There's a cool soundtrack on the second last stage though, Amendment 
 XVI. The sound delivers, but nothing mroe.
  
  Value:
  As each stage can be solved in a number of different ways, you can have a totally new experience 
 every time you retry a stage, which really adds to the replay value. The achievements are challenging 
 to unlock, but this really adds even more value to the game. But once you've unlocked them, you're 
 not really going to play this game any longer. But for a stealth-game, the value is excellent.
 
  
  Tilt:
  A engaging story will keep you hooked for AT LEAST one playtrough of the game, and excellent use 
 of achievements will keep you hooked for three more. At the end of the day though, this still is 
 just a polished Xbox-game. But still, it is the best stealth-based game to date on the Xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  There are two main complaints I shall point out before I get into the good... One is that unlike 
 most Hitman games, in this one you can get away with just shooting your way through everything 
 with ease. Two is that the game just isn't as fun to beat again the second time as it normally 
 is with Hitman games. The good, is of course that there are major strides in the Hitman series, 
 like the ability to strangle people with weight bars, or poison their food. Another cool new thing 
 is the interactive news paper after each mission's success. The game play is highly addictive, 
 and you will find yourself playing this game when you need to let off a little steam, and when 
 you do, you'll feel great as you storm into that room with your 2 customized weapons, one in each 
 hand (Another new feature) and just shoot EVERYONE in the room. This game is a must buy for all 
 people who liked a Hitman game, even if it was just a little bit......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This was a fun game. because i was a big fan of the Originals, but for some people, it wasn't the 
 case, they never had fun because they would take a gun and shoot as many people as they could before 
 they went down...
  
  Gameplay - There are a couple of problems, but that is over shadowed about how fun it is to sneak 
 around with other peoples suits, not like splinter cell though...
  
  Graphics - This is a few steps up above Contracts, it doesn't look all special, but there are some 
 redeeming qualities, like the shadowing, texture work, and how many ai they can put on screen.
 
  
  Sound - It is a bit weird, voice acting can use alot of work, but you need the sound to play the 
 game, cause if you are sneaking around, you should be able to here whats around the corner.
  
  Value - Achievements and different ways to do missions, that is all the replay value i need 
 to play this game, same for all you other people out there.
  
  Tilt - WHAT DOES THIS MEAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Alright, the game's really nice featuring a fantastic stealth gameplay. Well at least, I may start 
 with it's graphics.
  
  Graphics : I say, its normally nice although some places have a few blond environments. Even though 
 with it, it's characters (including 47) are highly detailed. Also, I like how the shadows change 
 location as characters start to pass through lights closer then getting farther. Well, pretty much, 
 that's all I have to say for the graphics.
  
  Sound : Normally, the third part I like most in the game. Well at least they have manage to time 
 the sounds depending on the situation. The sound effects though are fantastic from firing your 
 own customised pistol to the explosion of your placed shemed mines to the falling debris hitting 
 and whacking people below and thats all I can say for the sounds although I may comment that the 
 voice acting is well timed and really sounds great.
  
  Gameplay : The best part that I like most for the game. Pretty much as 47 sneaks behind a guard, 
 kill it then with its body stays as all characters have ragdoll except for 47. I may say that the 
 AI is pretty smart and they have not much bugs although they may not much know how to look beyond 
 large containers and aren't too much smart on getting suspicous seing 47 following them. Well at 
 least the gameplay is the strength of the game.
  
  During my first gameplay, it kinda took me an hour to finish almost mission since I keep restarting 
 when I get detected although I sometimes cause mayhem especially in the dense crowd on the mission: 
 Murder of the Crows or whatever.
  
  I may note that this game is my first Hitman rather than the other previous once. Its the game 
 I've been playing since I bought like a week ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I could write a long review for Blood Money. I have mastered each level and have sent Emails to 
 Eidos asking them to get working on the next game.
  
  It is hard to get a ranking of silent assasin for a few reasons. I wish there was a menu that would 
 tell you when someone is witness to your crime. I have had many levels that I have completed perfectly 
 but it says there are 1-2 witnesses. I just don't know how to tell when this happens. Has anybody 
 been able to get silent assasin on every level?
  
  The levels are complete and each one can be done in many different ways. The fiber wire move is 
 one minor flaw. The gameplay when sneaking up behind an enemy can be inconveniant. The guns and 
 the upgrade options are one of the many reasons why Hitman has a high replay value. After playing 
 the levels over and over I can only wait for a new Hitman title.
  
  Bottom line though this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete_merlin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  it is now so much easier to pull off a great kill on your target, before when you were in disgiuse* 
 you couldnt run without someout raising the alarm, but not it seems much more realistic! if you 
 get cought in a area your not supposed to be in with a gun, they no longer shoot you! instead they 
 tell you to surrender your weapons or get the hell out! very nice indeed. little things like this 
 really help hitman become much more fun and much less frustrating to play. and now you even get 
 paid for killing your targets (which is the whole point of being a hitman but something that the 
 other games never actually had) . you can spend your money on gun upgrades. at the start of the 
 game you have a regular looking silver baller (agent 47 origionally silver pistol) but by the end 
 you would have 2 of them, big laser on the top, nice silcener, a scope, bigger clip as long as 
 you buy the upgrade.!.
  this game is a must buy for anyone that enjoyed the previous hitman games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josephianpsf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Once again, the bald head is back. 47 is under threat from rivals. But who's caring about the storyline 
 (which is by the way, very interesting and engaging) , when there are hits to be made? Eidos has 
 outdone themselves with this excellent refreshing game. With new ways to kill and hide bodies and 
 well, blend in. The music is once again outstanding. Fans of the series... will definately feel 
 right at home and appreciate this for being the crown jewel in 47's long career.
  
  BLOOD CAN T BE UNSPILT.
  
  CRY MORE NOOBS. So in all brutal honesty, get this game. The new 
 notoriety system, coupled with weapon upgrades and a whole host of new ways to make those hits 
 (Falling chandaliers baby!) woah. Only complaint I have with this game is that 47 is growing too 
 old for my tastes. What else can Eidos do if 47's gonna be like an octegenarian in the next few 
 games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the most cunning games. Whether you want to shoot up the whole place or 
 go in sneakily. I personally like to choke people with the fiber-wire or push them over edges. 
 This is one of the most intense games i have played and i recommend it to everyone. It makes your 
 heart race, and even though you might have to save very often and load a lot, it still has great 
 action. It has tons of strategy, and you have to time everything carefully. This is a great buy 
 and i have tons of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  What can u say about a guy like Agent 47? Ruthless? Cold-hearted? A monster? He is so misunderstood. 
 In Hitman: Blood Money, the 4th game in the long series, you, once again, portray the silent, bald, 
 assassin as he tries to take out important, evil figures. This is the first time the game comes 
 to the Xbox 360 and it packs a wallop.
  
  The game begins with 47, well, dead. Sorry for the spoiler, but its true. A reporter comes to the 
 mansion of a man in a wheelchair to interview him about 47. The missions are actually the descriptions 
 the man gives the reporter of 47's crimes. The story is great, and the missions are all well thought 
 out and unique in their own particular way. One mission has you assassinate an important man in 
 the Opera, who also turns out to be a pedophile. While another has you kill some important figures 
 in the gun trade inside a semi-S&amp; M club called Heaven and Hell . The gameplay is definetly 
 the highlight of Hitman: BM. After you complete missions, depending on how well you complete the 
 level, you get money with which you can upgrade your weapons. Sometimes, they can really come in 
 handy. Also, the game is very realistic. Bullet holes show up on the body when you shoot it. Leaving 
 your suit around the crime scene impacts your noteriety level, which may involve having your cover 
 blown and the police coming after you.
  
  The sound is good, but it has its weak spots. 47's voice is done very well, by the same man who 
 has done him previously. The guns sound realistic sometimes, but they can have their flaws. Also, 
 the grunts and dying sounds of your enemies are pretty shallow and poor. They all sound the same, 
 which isn't very good.
  
  The graphics can be described in one word: fantastic. The character models look great and 47 looks 
 great as well. The guns look almost exactly like their real-life counterparts. The buildings and 
 environments look really well.
  
  All in all, Hitman: Blood Money is without a doubt, the best Hitman in the series. The graphics 
 are fantastic, the sound is pretty good, and the gameplay is phenomenal. I would highly recommend 
 it to any fan of Agent 47. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zexxo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Onefine summer day in 2003, I rented a game titled Hitman 2. After a few mins. I had started into 
 a world like none other. A unique game of violence, hardcore murders and stealth. It was amazing. 
 Then came contracts, and finally I have come to this one; blood money. A fans journey has been 
 once again refreshed. Those who are new should know the following. In BM you play as a geneticlly 
 built killer that goes around the world killing specific targets left and right. This entry in 
 the series offers plenty of options on how to do so. I will not spoil the greatness for you...
 
  
  PROS
  
  + New Newspaper system adds to the already immpresive formula
  + Throwing of Knifes (about time)
  + Customize Certain weapons
  + Collect any weapon and keep
 
  + Unique in geneal (if your a first timer in the Hitman series, this is a good start)
  + Single player takes you to some more odd and exotic locals
  + First Person Mode looks better
 
  
  CONS
  
  - The weapon sound effects seem less powerful this time around
  - AI is inhuman at times (Got shot at because I didnt have a keycard)
  
  This is yet another 
 fantastic Hitman title and I recommend it to anybody with an appetite for something out of the 
 ordinary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series has always garnished a huge fan base for offering a new take on the stealth genre 
 by giving players a chance to change their look in order to infiltrate different locations. While 
 the past Hitman games practically changed nothing throughout its entire span, the latest installment 
 is hands-down the best of the series, giving players much more freedom and customization to handle 
 their objectives.
  
  Hitman Blood Money once again stars Agent 47 as the ruthless contract killer who will go to extreme 
 lengths for a nice hefty sum of cash. Each mission starts out with Agent 47 receiving his objectives 
 (along with this briefcase of cash) and than the rules as to how he must behave, or more importantly 
 how well he can kill effectively and efficiently. Agent 47 soon comes to realize this his own agency 
 is being targeted and destroyed from another secret organization bent on creating the perfect clone 
 army. So while Agent 47 is doing his evil deeds for unknown supporters, he must also try to figure 
 out who this other organization is, all the while remaining totally inconspicuous.
  
  Part of the fun of Blood Money stems from the diverse locations Agent 47 will be traveling to this 
 time around. While the different areas themselves are worth mentioning, it is truly remarkable 
 at how well the different worlds react to Agent 47 and his movements throughout each level. Characters 
 will act differently depending on the situation, running away at the sight of dead bodies or stop 
 by for a quick chat if you happen to blend in quite well. This sense of freedom is what makes the 
 Hitman series different from other stealth games, as players truly feel that they are a part of 
 a living, breathing world rather than just performing objective after objective to reach a certain 
 goal.
  
  Eidos has done a good job of giving each level in Hitman Blood Money its own unique feeling, putting 
 Agent 47 is some of the most bizarre and diverse locations ever. Agent 47 will travel aboard a 
 steamboat on the Mississippi River, attend a Hillbilly Wedding in Alabama, visit an Opera House 
 in Italy, and even sneak into the White House in Washington DC. What makes some of these levels 
 so fun to navigate is the sheer size that most of them exhibit. Each level feels exceptionally 
 large compared to other stealth titles, with some levels having tons of rooms to enter as well 
 as dozens of characters to interact with. One level in particular, Mardi Gras, features nearly 
 100 people on screen at a time, with Agent 47 doing his best to stay unnoticed while trying to 
 infiltrate a well-guarded building. Scenarios like this help create a sense of tension as there 
 are tons of witnesses to keep you well-behaved, but also plenty of people to steal clothes from 
 to get the upper hand.
  
  With the great assortment of levels expect to be blown away by the immense amount of details and 
 visual sights in the game. One level in particular has you infiltrating an Egyptian-themed Casino, 
 complete with restroom signs, spinning slot machines, and even a worker cleaning up that spill 
 on the floor in the lobby. These minor details help make Blood Money feel like a living breathing 
 world, one in which you will no doubt stop to enjoy once in a while. While these levels feel almost 
 real to a certain point, its a shame however that when Agent 47 tries on a new pair of clothes 
 they suddenly just appear on his body while the old clothes are perfectly folded at his feet. Every 
 time you try on a new pair of clothes you cant help but feel you are playing a 10-year-old game, 
 thats how bad the animation looks. Other than that minor nuisance, the rest of the game looks 
 almost lifelike and awe-inspiring.
  
  Unlike other stealth games, Blood Money allows you to broaden your horizons and use any means necessary 
 of achieving your goals, whether that means remaining completely quiet and not hurting any innocent 
 bystanders, or running into the foray with guns blazing and killing anything that moves. While 
 you could complete the game by doing any of these scenarios, it will more often than not pay to 
 remain quiet. Throughout the game, Agent 47 will have the ability to don the clothes of anyone 
 he kills or knocks out, making gaining entrance to otherwise private areas that much more accessible. 
 Using your wits to achieve the different styles of clothing is essential to being an effective 
 killer. On some levels in particular, there can be over 15 different types of clothing, and only 
 certain types works in specific areas, so be prepared to change your clothes quite often.
  
  But theoretically you could always just kill someone who is standing in your way and do your 
 best to hide the body. While most levels have many spots where you can easily hide bodies, such 
 as dumpsters or storage bins, leaving bodies where people can see them will raise suspicion and 
 ultimately cause you to fail the mission since everyone will know whom you are and what you did.
 
  
  Remaining unnoticed is not only a key aspect through each individual level, but it also has a much 
 more important role in the overall scheme of things. Added to the Hitman series is a new Notoriety 
 system, which calculates how well you stay hidden in each mission and whether or not your job was 
 clean or a sloppy mess. Essentially, you could complete the entire game without ever having any 
 Notoriety points if you manage to do a good job of completing your tasks in the most effective 
 manner. If you are one of those players however who casually leaves dead bodies lying around, shoots 
 into crowded areas, or gets caught doing some unnatural things on camera, than you will no doubt 
 be penalized for your actions. Your Notoriety will rise depending on how poorly you perform, and 
 the higher it gets the harder missions will become later in the game as almost everyone will start 
 to recognize you right away, making getting into secluded areas that much harder to obtain and 
 manage. While the Notoriety system is a great new function, it really does not play into effect 
 that much as after every mission you can simply bribe your way out of trouble, which can lower 
 your Notoriety.
  
  After every mission players will be rewarded with tons of cash, as well as the ability to upgrade 
 your weapons and gadgets. Being able to add new customizable features allows Agent 47 to become 
 a much more effective killer, with his guns now having laser-sights, less recoil, and even silencers. 
 Despite this new feature, the only weapons you will really ever use throughout the game are your 
 Silverballers (handguns) , Sniper Rifle, and Fiber Wire, which makes upgrading feel like a bore 
 since it can be so one-sided . It is quite manageable to complete the entire story mode without 
 ever having to whip out an automatic weapon, which deems the upgrading system useless for those 
 specific guns.
  
  If you can look past the new customization and Notoriety features, than you will enjoy Hitman Blood 
 Money a lot more. While some fans may enjoy the sense of being a gun-toting assassin with that 
 world out to get them feeling, avoiding detection and remaining inconspicuous will offer more 
 fun in the long run. Using your wide array of disguises to achieve the different outcomes is a 
 fulfilling experience, and watching everyone around you die while you simply walk out the front 
 door unnoticed is always rewarding. Newcomers should not be fazed by the fact that Blood Money 
 is the fourth installment in the Hitman series, as it offers enough diversity and charm to keep 
 you hooked until the climatic ending. Hitman Blood Money is all-around the best game in the series 
 and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was the best game out of the four game series. This game is as entertaining as.................. oh 
 well this game was the best and most entertaining game of my year. This game also needs some skill. You 
 must be very dedicated, perseverent and patient to get the silent assasin rating on every level. This 
 game was as fun as difficult. I recomend this game a buy as soon as possilble. I bought the whole 
 series of games hoping that there would be some improvement but i was disapointed again and again 
 and then i played this game and i was absolutely amazed. I loved this game and played for atleast 
 13 hours a day everyday. I beat this game in 27 hours. in 27 hours of continuos assasinations. This 
 game is the best game besides halo and gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Hitman : Blood Money is a portrait of a Playstation 2 game wearing a transparent Xbox 360 skin 
 trying so desperately to convince you its worthy of the $60 you've just spent on it. The graphics 
 don't even attempt to use the Xbox 360 hardware beyond the high resolution textures included which 
 while nice, really does nothing to decieve you from a broken game that is more tedious and linear 
 than an Uwe Boll movie. The game is so backwards yet had such promise in its previews that I actually 
 thought it would deliver on promises made by IO Interactive in past interviews. Somewhere down 
 the line, the programmers did not know what the hell they were doing and the idea and purpose of 
 making a fun stealth game got lost. The game is simply not fun whatsoever. The A. I. is retarded 
 to the point of being able to walk past guards after murdering suspects and changing costumes. 
 Plus there is no true stealth in this game whatsoever. Especially for a next generation game. I 
 found myself being discovered after running away down hallways and stairs where no guards followed 
 only to be discovered in a closet they never would have found me in were the a. i. actually behaving 
 properly. The Programmers took a nice long break during worktime it seems. Whats more, better textures 
 do not excuse Playstation 2 quality models. I would feel pretty angry and ripped off were it not 
 for the fact that I rented this game. Even then I returned it on the 3rd day after giving it numerous 
 chanced. Sorry IO, you need some restructuring at your studio and need to put someone who UNDERSTANDS 
 stealth games in charge of this series. If this keeps up, the movie will be good but fans of the 
 games will be plagued by constant disappointments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money takes us back into the perspective of the cloned assassin, 47. RIght off the 
 bat, the game feels and controls very similarly to the PS2, Hitman: 2 (the first one I played from 
 the franchise) . Challenge/Gameplay:
  
  I would say the game is challenging in that it requires the player to think through particular 
 situations, rather than blasting their way through. Not to say that the blasting method cannot 
 be done; it most certainly can. However, as you progress into the more challenging difficulty levels 
 of the game, it is far more important to take greater caution as you proceed through the levels. 
 Graphics:
  
  Although the grapics aren't the most impressive of any 360 game, they are certainly good enough 
 to be fairly realistic. They are definetly creeping up on Hollywood special effects as of late. 
 Little things that I noticed, such as in the level A New Life ... if you angle the camera to have 
 the sun behind 47's head, you can see his ears have that sort of glow that only human flesh seems 
 to have. I thought little subtle things like that really made the game come alive to me. On the 
 other hand, something needs to be done about the graphics when zoomed in on any scope, especially 
 that of the ballers. When zoomed in, the graphics go.... shall I dare say... PS2-ish. Overall, I 
 liked the little jump Hitman made in graphics, and it certainly isn't everything the game has to 
 offer.
  
  Controls:
  
  As I stated above, it feels pretty much like the PS2 version. There are a few subtle changes, and 
 sometimes they can get a bit clumsy, but with practice you can get pretty proficient at killing 
 people :P
  
  
  Audio:
  
  I found the audio to be fairly well done. It was clear and crisp and many of the sound effects 
 were well done. I do think that the music fit the game fairly well, but I believe that more could 
 be added. But... that's what hooking up an MP3 player to your 360 is for, after all.
  
  Ai:
  
  The artificial intelligence in this game is pretty much the same as the others. They 
 did get rid of the stupid (in my opinion) running gives away your disguise thing. C'mon guys, mailmen 
 can run ya know :P
  
  The Ai is pretty good though. They'll catch on, and it feels like panic when you shoot someone 
 and switch disguise and the guards are trying frantically to figure out what's happened. On the 
 other hand, there's a few features I'd recommend adding. Like... when I shoot a guy, and hide the 
 body in a crate... the guards don't find him till after the mission. This could be for the reason 
 that it might be too challenging, but don't you think a guard might notice a puddle of blood or 
 smeared blood on the wall where you just killed a dude? I'm not sure, but I think it'd be a nice 
 feature to add.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is definetly worth the buy, especially if you like the franchise. Even if this is your 
 first time playing a hitman game, it' s great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  the hitman franchise has been a smash hit on most consoles and on pc.
  Hitman Blood Money is the most recent title which has come out on Xbox 360 and other leading consoles.
 
  heres a round up of the good and the bads of Hitman BM
  
  Positives-
  -Large maps allow different planning for ways to complete objects
  -customisation of weapons 
 allows you to develop your weapons in your own unique way
  -AI is extremely accurate also depending on what difficulty you have set it to
  -Physics up to 
 date and extremely realistic
  - Ways of killing and eliminating targets are relatively endless from the basic shooting to strangling, 
 throwing knives or even making the deaths look like accidents by pushing them off balconies or 
 poisoining drinks and so on
  - plenty of disquises some needed if entering restricted areas
  -Brilliant soundtrack which works 
 well with what you are currently doing in game
  - brilliant sounds of people, weapons and environments
  
  negatives-
  - The hardest difficulty..... 
 IS UBA HARD. Its tough to get away with things
  - can be very slow
  - can be very repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oger1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. It had a good set of customization for the different weapons but you 
 might have to play through the game a couple of times to get enough money for the weapons. The 
 story is ok. The achievement points are easy to get. To me the graphics didn't seem that different 
 than the xbox version. The only thing i really didn't like was if you never played any hit man 
 games before it might seem hard. And the whole newspaper thing isn't that important because your 
 face is never on their, so you don't have to pay the news paper people to keep your identity a 
 secret. Also the missions aren't that hard you could do them in the sneaky way but it might be 
 easier to go in guns blazing. Other than that it's a nice game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedGer9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Some of you might had yourself turn away from hitman from contract but do not be mistaken this 
 is the ultimate stealth game. you probably all know the story you play as Codename 47 and you go 
 through levels assassinating people. and for once in the Hitman series you can actually feel like 
 a hitman dispose bodies and punching yes you can now punch your enemies, but the one disappointing 
 thing is that the AI is still the practically same AI but you would always get over it.
  Anyway Hitman: Blood Money goes as one of the top games i have ever rated and i do not think it 
 will be beaten by any other game of maybe if there is an Hitman 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is really a mixed bag. One one hand you have a very cool, non-linear steath 
 game that if you have ever played any of the previous games, you will probably like. One the other 
 hand, it's obvious Eidos and developer Io Interactive didn't take much time upgrading the visuals 
 in any way for this 'next-gen' release. And to be honest, there isn't much new here that you haven't 
 seen in the other games in the series. But at least it's better than Hitman: Contracts.
  
  Gameplay: Like I said before, if you have played any of the Hitman games before, you won't find 
 much new here. When you are playing a mission, everything is much like it was before. I still like 
 how you can play that game in so many different ways. If you want to play with more stealth, the 
 game encourages you to do so. But if you want to just play like a maniac, you have the ability 
 to do that, as well. The biggest improvement for me with this game over the previous Hitman: Conracts, 
 is the storyline. 'Contracts' felt like a bunch of random missions tossed together, slapped on 
 a disc, rushed to stores only to make money. 'Blood Money' takes care of that problem by ushering 
 in a very intersting storyline that concludes with one of the coolest ways to end a videogame in 
 recent memory.
  
  Between missions is really the only place that the gameplay has changed much, but it's all for 
 the better. I love the ability to spend your earnings on upgrading your weapons. Not only is it 
 fun &amp; useful, the achievements that go along with it are addicting. The notoriety aspect isn't 
 as good, but it's still an interesting addition. Obviously if you just run around a map killing 
 people and leaving witnesses, you will becomes very notorious. What this game does, is carry that 
 over from mission to mission. It eventually gets to a point where you become so infamous that it's 
 hard to do your normal missions without being recognized. Both of these additions and are welcomed, 
 even if they could be fleshed out a little more.
  
  Overall I think you will enjoy 'Blood Money' quite a bit if you are a fan of the Hitman series. 
 It's definately better than 'Contracts' and is a fun game to play. I definately wouldn't call it 
 a 'next-gen' experience by any means (more on that in a sec.) , but it's a good game nonetheless.
 
  
  Graphics: I don't know what happened here, but there are times when this game looks nice and there 
 are times where this game looks terrible. For every moment I was impressed by the visuals, I had 
 four or five moments where I thought this game would look crappy on a Playstation 2. Like I said 
 in my opening, it's obvious this game wasn't designed for the Xbox 360 and the visuals are easily 
 the worst part of this game.
  
  Sound: I really like what music there is in this game. There isn't a lot, but what is here is really 
 good. Like the music, there isn't a ton of voice acting, but all of the characters are all voiced 
 pretty well. I have no complaints here at all.
  
  Value: The game can be a good length or very short depending on your playstyle. If you run through 
 the game gunning everybody down, the game will go very quickly. If you play the game how the developers 
 would like you to, you will get significantly more time with it. It's not a long game either way, 
 but if you combine going for all of the addicting achievements this game could keep you busy for 
 awhile. And there is a bit of replay value here since you can replay the missions in so many different 
 ways.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I really had a good time playing this game. I do think the series is a bit overdue 
 for an overhaul and I really get sick of the trial-and-error gameplay sometimes. But there is something 
 about this series that has always resonated with me. Hopefully the next game in the series will 
 improve on the obviously sub-par visuals. If you liked the other Hitman games and you can get this 
 game for the now lower price, I would definately pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhettoPuppet
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I had a great time with Hitman: Blood Money. Although the gameplay can be a bit challenging for 
 some users, there is always multiple options for completing missions. I like how the game is set 
 up for assassins of different styles. My personal favorite, call me a noob if you must, is annihilating 
 everything in sight. nothing is more fun than going through a level locked and loaded shoot to 
 kill! 72 massacred good times. i definately reccomend Hitman: Blood Money to anybody who is looking 
 to have a good time. It is challenging if you follow the steps to accomplish the missions, or even 
 just trying to blast your way through all of the guards and cops. PS, the last level is insane! 
 it took me like 35 tries! Two thumbs way up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  I tried several times to get into some of the previous Hitman games on my PS2, but they never really 
 stuck to me. I'd play them for about an hour and then that would be it, but with Hitman: Blood 
 Money on the Xbox 360 its a totally different story. The graphics are amazing and the movement 
 and controls are easy to use and master. There are a bunch of missions to tackle and the fact that 
 you can do each in so many different ways adds some much needed replay value to the game. Playing 
 the role as a trained assasin can become very addictive and luckily Hitman: Blood Money on the 
 Xbox 360 has more than enough to control your fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  If you think aww hitman blood money, there is gonna be a ton of senseless killing , you thought 
 wrong, hitman: bm is a game of substance, paitience, intellegence and strategy, it portrays a calm 
 more civil world, than the one we live in. The Gameplay of hitman Blood money is beautiful, innovative, 
 and composed. It is not a one way game, it has much replay value as well, you can take several 
 different approaches to murders, from throwing pennies, to dropping chandeleirs, no matter what 
 way you kill them, its going to be fun and/or elaborate, with a story full of twists and turns 
 to always leave you gawking at the end of each level. The graphics of hitman blood money truly 
 shine when in the third person, yet deteriorate when in first, but its good to know its there. 
 Hitman spares no detail when it comes to their graphics of the enviroment and their characters. 
 Along with superb graphics comes superb audio, hitman contains man orchestral peices that well-suit 
 the action, enviroment and such, wether you kill someone, they find a body, or you just pulled 
 a gun on the waiter at the bar, music will always accompany you and your epic adventures. In all 
 hitman is well worth its value or at least a second time rental, for this game is incredible, and 
 should be played regardless of age, gender, gaming style, or maturity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allmont
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  If you think aww hitman blood money, there is gonna be a ton of senseless killing , you thought 
 wrong, hitman: bm is a game of substance, paitience, intellegence and strategy, it portrays a calm 
 more civil world, than the one we live in. The Gameplay of hitman Blood money is beautiful, innovative, 
 and composed. It is not a one way game, it has much replay value as well, you can take several 
 different approaches to murders, from throwing pennies, to dropping chandeleirs, no matter what 
 way you kill them, its going to be fun and/or elaborate, with a story full of twists and turns 
 to always leave you gawking at the end of each level. The graphics of hitman blood money truly 
 shine when in the third person, yet deteriorate when in first, but its good to know its there. 
 Hitman spares no detail when it comes to their graphics of the enviroment and their characters. 
 Along with superb graphics comes superb audio, hitman contains man orchestral peices that well-suit 
 the action, enviroment and such, wether you kill someone, they find a body, or you just pulled 
 a gun on the waiter at the bar, music will always accompany you and your epic adventures. In all 
 hitman is well worth its value or at least a second time rental, for this game is incredible, and 
 should be played regardless of age, gender, gaming style, or maturity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of hitman and as afan HITMAn blood mOny is the beast hitman that I play'd. IF you 
 don't now wot is HITMAN it about you geting pay to kil oder people. This game IS amzing you get 
 to kill people in alot of ways like push tthem ofer the fent or over the bout killdem hit a hamer 
 posian them and meny meny oder. In this game you have a to be carful how sr yuo and wer if you kill 
 your tarket and you get spoted by the camera or a civil then at the end of the mison it tells you 
 how much people notes you you can pay polis wicnes or by a new identaty and it real not nuch mony 
 you get lousds of mony jest by compliting 1 mison. You also get to upgrade your wepons like silentars 
 laisers and meny oder stuf. You get to go arownd the world in difrent locatino it so amzing. THis 
 game is amzing it somthing that you won't be disapointet :D it jest a grate game. People speack 
 in ther own languige and it cool. THIS GAME IS ... is jest grate go and buy it . THE xbox 360 version 
 is the beast for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is back in Blood Money, and like always, he is contracted to assassinate certain people 
 for a variety of reasons. However, as the story progresses, 47's contract firm called The Agency 
 is being killed one by one by a rival firm. So, if you couldn't guess, the last few missions revolve 
 around unveiling and taking down this rouge group.
  
  Your main arsenal consists of a variety of customizable guns such as a handgun, shotgun, sniper 
 rifle, SMG, and assault rifle which, like I said, can be customized by the money you earn throughout 
 your missions. You can also pick up enemy guns and tools laying around and add that to your inventory 
 if you wish. Besides the typical guns, you get to use 47's trusty fiber wire for strangling people, 
 sedatives, poisions, remote mines and other nifty gadgets. You can also do some hand to hand which 
 includes punching and headbutting your victims. Oh, and you can climb things and hop railings.
 
  
  In the spirit of the Hitman series, after you knock out/kill just about anyone, you can steal their 
 uniforms. Most of the time you'll need a certain disguise to get close to one of your targets. 
 So for instance lets say you have to get close to a secured wedding and the grrom, first you would 
 need an invitation then from there kill a high ranking guard and take his outfit while disposing 
 of his body. Disposing their bodies can include throwing them off a rail and out of sight, or hiding 
 them in a dumpster of sorts.
  
  Now you would think with all these options you are basically forced to be stealthy. Think again. 
 In Blood Money, IO Interactive decided to take a different approach and allow you to determine 
 how to snag your targets in your own way.. be it sneak up and poision a cake so you kill them indirectly, 
 or walk right up to them and plant a slug between their eyes. Its completley up to you, the only 
 thing you have to worry about is armed security personell that will attack you.
  
  Which brings me to the next part of the review. There is a suspiscion meter in which people will 
 see through your disguises. If your in the green, your okay, in the yellow your treading thin ice, 
 and if your in the red... well then your probably not playing too stealthy anyway and enemies are 
 firing upon you. What dissapointed me a little about this is the fact that it seems if you even 
 breathe wrong the AI gets suspiscious.
  
  There aren't many flaws to be honest with the exception of the one I just mentioned. Actually I 
 lied, there is one really annoying one and that is the save system. You have your actual saved 
 game, then you have in-game saves which saves your progress in that particular mission. If you 
 were to turn off the system or in some other way quit that mission, then your in-game is erased 
 and you have to start that mission from scratch. Besides those two, the game runs really good...
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a multiplatform game. The enviroments look crisp and each character 
 has their own identity, but there is one flaw. Why is everyone jacked out of their minds? I mean 
 I killed a clown and stole his outfit to find out that he had harder abs then I do in real life... 
 ITS A CLOWN FOR CRYING OUT LOUD! Haha, but yeah the graphics are pretty solid though certainly 
 not the best the 360 can offer.
  
  The soundtrack is brilliant. Its mainly just classical music with some chorus chimes thrown in 
 for good measure. It actually helps create mood and atmosphere for your entertainment. The guns 
 sound appropriate (ex: handguns sound like handguns) but they sound far too weak. The Desert Eagle, 
 a very powerful magnum, sounds like a 9mm which enraged me.
  
  The ending was ultimatley satisfying. Agent 47 is backstabbed by a woman named Diana (she was the 
 lady who gives you all of your mission briefings on the laptop) , and it is revealed that she is 
 working for The Franchise - otherwise known as the other rival agency . Anyway, skip ahead a bit 
 and you see 47 laying on a bed of sorts about to be lowered into the ground when Diana comes and 
 lays two Silverballer handguns on your chest and kiss you. She then turns and begins talking to 
 the head of The Franchise. As the credits roll, a heartbeat is repeated and it appears 47 is about 
 to wake up and basically millhouse The Franchise, so what must you do? If you swirl the analog 
 stick a few times Agent 47 wakes up and begins wiping the floor with everyone around him. It was 
 great.
  
  Overall, Hitman: Blood Money was a surprisingly fun game with alot of violent thrills and spills. 
 I highly recommend it, though it would have been kind of cool if there was some sort of multiplayer 
 on it... imagine a bunch of cloned 47's working together to pull of a HUGE assasination.. maybe 
 even against The Franchise.. hm.. anyway, buy this game if you haven't played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is a great game series. I was looking forward to getting this one for the xbox 360. The 
 game play was fun. It could have been a little more challenging but still acceptable. Where the 
 game failed was in its appearance. It almost looks like an Xbox game instead of an xbox 360. For 
 example, they didn't spend alot of time creating different looking characters. Most all the women 
 look exactly alike. Also, the characters look edging instead of smooth and life like. Basically, 
 you end of feeling the game could have been a lot better looking and that the developers were really 
 in a rush to get this game on the market. I hope the next Hitman will look like and play like a 
 next generation game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is the Fourth in the Hitman series. It's not much differnt from any of the other games 
 but it adds cool new very welcome additions. Such as a longer story mode with twists and turns, 
 great music and vo. Agent 47 is back with every gun and syringe. You can now update your weapons 
 with lazer sights, Scopes, Silencers, Bigger magazines, and Handles. You can choose what weapons 
 you want to use before each mission. The Music is great and so are the voices and weapons. The 
 graphics are a different story though. The character models and environments are detailed decently. 
 But it looks like a bright Xbox game, sometimes there is some good reflections and lighting thogh. 
 If you are a fan of all the other Hitman games you'll like Blood Money. If you have never liked 
 Hitman, Blood Money won't change your mind. Being said it's a very solid game with welcome additions 
 to the Hitman series. It has great gameplay, phenomanal sound, but could have better graphics. 
 I give Hitman Blood Money an 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman7934
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game was damn fun. Especially the ending, but I won't spoil it for anyone. The array of weapons 
 were fantastic, and it left the way you complete your mission totally up to you. Whether you go 
 in guns blazing, or secretively go undercover and try to kill the target subtley, it leaves it 
 totally your own choice. But, the storyline was confusing and crappy, and what the **** is up with 
 that little barcode on the back of his head? All-in-all, this game was fun and challenging. So, 
 if you feel like being a bald, barcoded, gun toting psychopath who enjoys watching people breathe 
 their last breathe, play this ****in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  hitman still is a robotic game the gampley is so robotic and non realistic, the positive thing 
 is the game havs a lot of variety of weapons and forms of killing and ataccks but still move like 
 a robot so the realistic thing is very negative , by another side the graphics are regualr and 
 the game story is good and the sneaking way of introduce in someplace to do your job (kill some 
 body regularment) is interesting the sound and music anre normal and non impressive in fact all 
 the game are regualr non impressive If hitman blood money dont exist in xbox 360 console you wont 
 note, but is oblivion or gears of wwar dont exist another thing happens the world will end jajajja, 
 the point is the game is not amazing but is not a waste of time or waste of blood money but for 
 the next generation consoles that all will expect a lot of every game is not woth because you will 
 expect thta hitman is a impressive game with amazing graphics and very realistic gameplay and the 
 movements of the player are so real, but is not still the same seem that lo interactive team is 
 not evolute and the evolution in a series of games of the same name must evolute step by step but 
 hitma seem not evolute at all ar evolute the way that all hope or wish or eviolute the way that 
 must be, compare halo 1, halo 2 and halo 3 and the difference in one game to another are impressive 
 and abysmal in all ways but hitman is not seem be that way a little better in gr&aacute; phics more 
 interesting play but its all, we hope that the next hitman revolute the gameplay because if not 
 maybe will vanish of the good games, hitman has pottential but lo interactive seem not exploding 
 or something happen there seem thta they build the games so fast or they are very hurried that 
 the do all so quiclky thta dont chek the details of graphics and somethigs of gameplay some example 
 the view in forst person is so terrible seem playstation 1 the hans is so square and no proporcional 
 the weapon is non texture detail and sometimes the pistol seemm very small so with next generation 
 game you cant do this if you can detail so much the weapons the characteres why you dont do it 
 and you do square hans and terribel texture weapons? you dont have money to do that or you dont 
 have time to do that or simple you cant do it like another team games? so is important for firts 
 person fan player to play another kind of games but this with this graphics in next generation? 
 never better I play playstation 1 first person and is so near to the look of the hand in hitman 
 blood money so the details is so important for the players dont you think fan players? but out 
 of all this critic its a good game for lose your time very well jajaja 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  hitman blood money is a good game. the best in the series no question but it can get boring at 
 times the levels are the same alot of guys but it is fun more fun if u sneak aroun and kill one 
 guy and get a new uniform and try to kill just your mission of one 2 or3ish people the graphics 
 were disapointing for me for the xbox 360 i was hoping for a good looking game for my xbox but 
 its ok i recomdn this game. other than the graphics and my opnion on the levels it is good the 
 story is pretty good but being able to upgrade weapons and stuff is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scionix32
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Well at first i said to myself wow! Thses are some nice visuals and then I heard the sound and 
 it was really great to. This game has everything you are looking for in a stealth action/shooter. 
 Well...... almost everything. Before I get down to the cons there are some pros to this. The game 
 overall is beautiful to look at and runs at a solid frame rate. Though at times the graphics in 
 areas look dated and very polygonalized. I know that this is one of the 1st wave of games for the 
 360 but it would have been better to ramp up the graphics. It looks just like the current gen versions. 
 But all in all it is a great game. I like the game a lot don't get me wrong but the level design 
 is linear and the controls are kind of cheap. The guns haveno weight tot them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. Its the same style as the others for the most part, but its got some 
 different things too. This game is really hard, I tried at the first level (not the tutorial) for 
 a long time before I got it. Ive had this game for about 5 days now and im only on level 3. But 
 this game has really good graphics, sound, and nice variety of weapons + the fact that you can 
 customize certain weapons. So overall I think if your a fun of the hitman series that you should 
 definetly check it out, but even if your not you should still at least rent it because this game 
 is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pseudoku69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Agent 47 is fun 4 Pseudoku69. The missions are fun and pleasantly long. Every mission has a wide 
 variety of methods to complete your objectives. You could slip in unnoticed with no voilence, disguise 
 yourself and walk casually amonst your enemies, or bust in and kill everyone that you see. of course, 
 those aren't the only methods. The game is based on its career mode and delivers a solid fun gaming 
 experience. The sound of the silenced pistol when I fire makes warm and tingly~grabs a towel, wipes 
 drool~anyways, very, very fun. Recomended for the sadist in all speils Pseudoku69. Very fulfilling 
 game. Buy it! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok but its so repetive that my friend went to BK to get a whopper. This game is ok 
 with graphics and some in gameplay but you do the same thing every mission. This game is just like 
 all the others but without the fun involved. You will not finish this game unless you have nothing 
 to do because its so stinking boring 24/7. You have some cool gadgets and weapons but its always 
 the same, game after game this series is gunna die in like 5 years if you don; t have a big change. 
 I think you should rent it just for the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow. The prodigal son returns, after a little hiatus in Hitman limbo. Now, I'm a longtime fan of 
 the Hitman series, but if you're like me then you thought Contracts was a joke. It was, pardon 
 the pun, like a greatest hits record when you already own the first two albums. But Blood Money 
 won me back like a straight flush. Booting up Blood Money for the first time was a treat - it had 
 been ages since I'd last played the first one. If you've never played the series, Hitman: Codename 
 47 was a brilliant title with a couple bugs that needed to be worked out. It featured ragdoll physics, 
 a great disguise system, and the ability to stock up on tools for the next hit. For some reason, 
 they ditched that option for Silent Assassin and Contracts, but the buy system has made its triumphant 
 return in this installment. It's a bit different now, and the money makes a bit more sense; instead 
 of being able to buy the chaingun after the second mission and just mow people down, you still 
 need to plan and play your hits with a bit of fiscal responsibility. For one thing, the gear has 
 real-world pricing (to a degree) , and you'll have to weigh the options a bit more. For example, 
 your next mission takes place in a hotel with metal detectors. Would it be prudent to bring in 
 an M-16? Or would that money be better spent on a lockpick?
  
  This is the kind of little feature that makes Blood Money that much more immersive; your choices 
 seem to count for something. Graphically, this one is the most impressive of the series, but it 
 also ranks pretty high in XBOX 360 games out right now. Granted, it's not Gears of War, but the 
 ability to render a huge crowd, some crazy particle effects, and Agent 47's furrowed brow is pretty 
 impressive. The gameplay is great, too, offering multiple (and I mean, multiple) ways of completing 
 your objectives, not just the usual two paths to the same spot method we've often seen in games 
 in this vein. Push a guy off a roof, poison his food, snipe him, cap him at close range, blow him 
 up... The choice is yours. The score can't go without mention; Jesper Kyd is a master at his craft 
 and has composed some beautiful original music for H: BM. The somber tone of the music matches 47's 
 moodiness to a T , and gets the job done by sounding like a Ridley Scott film.
  
  That said, 47's latest installment is an impressive flashback romp that will leave you crossing 
 your fingers that IO speeds up development on their new title, Kane and Lynch: Dead Men. 
  
  Thanks for Reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Master1991
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I have always played Hitman, the first untill contracts, i wasn't really expecting alot from this 
 game but man was i wrong...
  The game doesn't feel like a regular follow up game, the engine has been renewed and you can see 
 it, very much detail in environments, faces, guns.
  it's also now possible to cause accidents, for example putting lighter fluid in the barbecue will 
 make the next user get roasted by the fire.
  every mission feels good and not like it's just the last one with other surroudings. my favorite 
 level is really the one with the mardi gras parade, hundreds of people walk smoothly through your 
 screen, creating possibilities to do bad things, because nobody sees you.
  the sound does everthing it needs to do, setting up some nice tunes to fit in the environment.
 
  I really recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series has been very inconsistent in the past. At times the level of difficulty has 
 been extreme. At other times the games have been ridden with bugs and glitches. Now though the 
 guys at Eidos have really hit the nail on the head. Genius is the word which best describes this 
 title.
  
  The thrill of going in, finding your targets and then taking them out is incredible. Especially 
 when the civilians and security officials descend into complete panic and you calmly stroll through 
 the melee towards your exit.
  
  Visually the game is superb and having also played the PlayStation 2 version I can confirm that 
 the 360 version is by far and away better in terms of graphics.
  The gameplay itself is much more in depth than any other game. This is largely due to the open-ended 
 way you can approach the completion of your missions and also the incredible enemy and civilian 
 AI who always seem to react just as you would expect them to.
  
  Overall this is a must have title that is incredible fun both on the first play through and also 
 when you go back to get top get those all important achievement points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The game, I find, is great. One of the better additions to my small but growing 360 collection, 
 but its got its flaws.
  
  The Good- Killing things is fun, the game's sick and twisted sense of humor, the item descriptions, 
 the dying mini-game , throwing people off cliffs.
  
  The Bad - hiding the bodies is rather irritating, doesn't allow much creativity. Its usually just 
 hide it in a bin, or toss it off something. Poisoning things is also unpredictable, as usually 
 its hard to get people to eat or drink what has been poisoned.
  
  This is also the shortest game its taken me to play through - granted, its only on the Rookie difficulty 
 so far, as this is my first time playing as Agent 47 - but this game is very short. Fortunately, 
 the replayability makes up for it, as its fun playing through levels trying to find different ways 
 to kill. The whole accidental kill thing was fun, it could have gone a bit more in detail though.
 
  
  It would also be nice if guards would notice things because of bloodstains, but it would be annoying. 
 A lot of the missions have the same idea (i. e. Kill certain people, retrieve item, escape) , but 
 the playing for each of them makes it different enough for it not to get stale. Bottom line - either 
 rent it or buy it - you'll be able to play through it either way - the difference is only if you 
 want to replay it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a fun setlth action game. It has a great storyline and great graphis aswell. 
 and to top it off it has a top of the lone soundtrack aswell as voice overs. The news paper at 
 the end of each mission adds a cool affect to the game. The game as tons of replay value. Lots 
 of fun to be had here. This game is a must rent to try. And to back it all up it comes with a cheap 
 price tag to. Agent 47 has never looked better. If u have all the consle i wood reamend playing 
 it on the 360. not just for the better graphis, but for the Adcements that can be eared which adds 
 some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillipo2934
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money Overall is a good game. The multiple weapons of use make it interesting. Fiberwire 
 allows you to sneak up behind your opponent and strangle. It is though one of the harder weapons 
 to use. Their also is a poison that is in a syringe. You can take it and mix it with food. After 
 they it it takes about a couple of seconds to sink in. Which is cool because it provides you with 
 that level of realism. A negative of the game is it is harder than it should be. During your mission 
 you must save the game multiple of times. It is very easy to be discovered and you will need those 
 saves to restart from. Also another negative is you must buy things to upgrade weapons right, well 
 the bad thing is they are cheap compared to what you get from your mission. Within a couple of 
 missions you could probobly buy everything. Lastly, the notoreity system isnt as prestigous as 
 you think. The cops have found many bodies that I have left behind. My notoriety is still 0/100. 
 This is a pretty fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money For The Xbox360.
  
  
  The Hitman series has always set itself apart from other stealth action games while still retaining 
 a gameplay that is all its own. The best thing about the Hitman series is the feeling you get when 
 taking part in well planned hits and coming through as a Silent Assassin. So the basic goal is 
 to find your target and kill them while remaining unseen and unheard of by others.
  
  Hitman Blood Money is the newest of the Hitman games and is also the best. The developers have 
 done little to change the basic gameplay in the series, but they did add a few new additions that 
 will later be commented on. If you are new to Hitman know that this game is something that is not 
 completely easy to pick up. The gameplay DOES take practice, but newbies to the series will actually 
 have the easiest time with Blood Money as it is the most accessible. Now onto the ratings...
  
  Gameplay : The most important part of the game happens to excel the most here, so have no fear 
 about that. The level design of this game is top notch, and the replayability of them is astounding. 
 The biggest change from the levels of the previous Hitman's is how crowded they are. Taking part 
 in a hit on an enemy compound is always fun, but it doesn't compare to taking out a turned gangster 
 during a birthday party (and seducing his wife as a poolboy) . Agent 47 has a few new moves in this 
 game as well. These include choking out people from the top of an elevator shaft, blowing off locks 
 with guns, using human shields, and throwing various objects. 47 retains all his previous moves 
 such as taking disguises (probably the most useful ability) , using all kinds of different weapons 
 and objects for poisoning food, or just taking people out. The new outside mission features include 
 Notoriety and Custom Weapons. Notoriety isn't really a huge feature, but it does lend to the kind 
 of look and feel the game is going for; overall it really isn't that big of a deal. Custom Weapons, 
 however, I really enjoy; this allows you to upgrade from 5 weapons with things such a silencers, 
 scopes, laser sights, and higher loading clips. My biggest complaint with the gameplay would be 
 that it hasn't really changed too much from the other games, but the levels are what really makes 
 the difference, and they are GREAT.
  
  Graphics : The graphics of Hitman have always been pretty well done, and many things have been 
 done with this game to add to this feature. The addition of many enemies and civilians adds is 
 a nice touch as well (wait until Mardi Gras) . The game really does the job of making every level 
 feel different while making it feel like you are part of the world. The sound only further enhances 
 this feeling. As far as comparison between all the versions, the PC the 360 come out on top with 
 better texturing and a better handling of the software (framerate, people onscreen, etc.) Other 
 than those differences though the games are pretty much identical on all versions.
  
  Sound : Jesper Kyd is a longtime composer for the series and it's no surprise that he has done 
 another great job here. The voice acting is also very well done. Dialog outside of story scenes 
 is pretty much dark and comedic. The ambient sound during missions is also done well in bringing 
 the player into the world of Agent 47.
  
  The sound, as in all previous games, is never anything less than outstanding. I'm quickly coming 
 to the opinion that the soundtrack for the Hitman games is one of the most impressive soundtracks 
 I've ever heard, and that includes film soundtracks as well. Due to the stylistic nature of the 
 game, a lot of the music is performed by an orchestra and features grand sweeping pieces of classical 
 music with suddenly swell up as the player nears completion of the level, or when something exciting 
 is happening, and it's done incredibly well. The Hitman: Blood Money theme that greets you at the 
 title and is played throughout the game is the beautiful Ave Maria, probably one of the most 
 famous pieces of music ever written. I've already seen a lot of debate about whether a song that 
 is so strongly associated with religion should be included on a game of this kind; personally I 
 have to say, as the entire Hitman series has revolved around the lead character and his search 
 for religion, the fact that he is a clone and the main debate of the game: should man legalise 
 cloning and in effect act as God, I don't think a better piece of music could have been chosen. 
 The very fact that this debate has even been raised shows the adult content of the game, and highlights 
 what makes the Hitman series a cut above the rest. It also goes to show just how seriously the 
 game developers take the franchise. There's none of this GTA-style tongue in cheek homage to famous 
 films or set pieces, every single level feels new and unique. The only real comedy comes from the 
 disgustingly dark subtle humour that Hitman: Blood Money constantly has on show, walking the line 
 between hilarious and really really nasty more than once. Hitman has never really been about it's 
 story, but I have to say I was really impressed with the story in this game. What catches me is 
 how it's less about 47 and his past and more about how the public and other Agencies perceive him. 
 Your playing as a ghost, a myth, and that is another thing that makes the game great. You'll want 
 to see how 47 keeps one step ahead of his enemies; it all leads to one of the best endings in a 
 game that I have seen.
  
  Control was never the best thing about the Hitman games, but a lot has been done in this game to 
 overhaul the control scheme while making it easier. So while the control isn't the best in the 
 game, it does what it needs to do.
  
  
  I don't know that a high recommendation from a user such a myself will warrant a purchase, but 
 I have to say that it's really a great game that is different from anything else on the market. 
 As said, any Hitman game is not something you can just jump into, but give it time and you will 
 be controlling 47 like a true Hitman. All in all i really liked this game and i could recomend 
 it to a lot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohammed23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  You are Agent. 47, a highly trained assassin working for ICA. Your guiding 47 trough hotels casinos 
 and exotic locations, gaining money too either upgrade your weapons or to buy Intel for your next 
 assignment. Your weapons vary from guns, shotguns and sub-machine guns to rifles and sniper rifles. 
 All of these weapons can be upgraded as you wish with silencers, expanded clips, bullets hard enoug 
 too shoot trough doors and scopes. You can also choose to play the game in 1st of 3rd person which 
 is nice in certain areas. The AI in the game is good, altough if you decide to go on a rampage 
 like Rambo or something the AI is pretty bad. The AI kind of just stand in line waiting to be shot. 
 Stuff like this makes the score go down. Even tough the game is fun and exiting it's a tad too 
 short, but all in all it's worth your money.
  
  -Aleks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  First time to play a Hitman game... and i liked it. I thought it was entraining at the least. The 
 V. O. was good and the story I liked allot. But I think the game as a whole left me wanting a whole 
 lot more. I liked how the story when from present day to the past... and it came together very 
 well.
  
  I am all about the story, and this game... good storyline.
  
  If your looking to just have some fun... this game is not for you... but if your looking to fet 
 into a deep storyline... then Hitman: Blood Money is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davegod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  He's expecting company. You hide in the darkest corner of the room as he walks in and begins tapping 
 on his computer. His heavy silver gun is still in his hand with a full chamber. You pull out the 
 knife you stole from his kitchen and tip-toe up behind him. His body guard stands outside the door 
 - but no-one notices as you plunge the shiny knife into his throat.
  
  It's unsettling how much fun killing can be, but Hitman: Blood Money makes it so. For each kill 
 you get paid by how much attention you attracted (the quieter you are the better) and with that 
 money you can bribe officials, upgrade your weapons and such. The best Hitman game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casey1992
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game revolves around an agent by the name of 47, who is a killer for hire, as the name of 
 the game suggests. It can be time consuming and you have to have alot of patience. The AI in the 
 game seem to have a mind of their own and will pretty much go anywhere they want, so you have to 
 constantly track their movments. Most of the time you are in between a rock and a hard place trying 
 to kill the target (s) . When playing the AI seem to automatically think that you are not supposed 
 to be here even if you have done nothing to provoke it. At times they will turn their head to follow 
 your movement which makes the gameplay a little on the difficult side even on Easy mode. The story 
 can tie it all together, but it seems to me that its too short. All in all you can finish it in 
 about 12 hours of non-stop play. I have played and beat it on all dificulties but mostly if you 
 use the same strategy on each one you can finish it the same way. I had hoped that that would not 
 have been the case and that you would need a new strategy each time but sadly I was mistaken. In 
 my opinion this game kicks the crap out of the others. I would not recommend this game to people 
 who do not have the time or patience for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjxbox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a great stealthy/shooter game. I don't normally play games like this so i'm 
 a bit of a n00b at it but I've done pretty well so far (on rookie mode of course!)
  
  Agent 47 is back and is set on some more missons. It starts off on a training level which is good 
 and it teaches you all of the basic moves, I like the fact you can hid in closets and stash bodie 
 in box etc - its pretty cool!
  
  I've been on the first 5 or so levels. The first level is called A vintage year lol - it includes 
 killing a wine seller hence the cool name. Theres a small party / gathering with different kinds 
 of guards around. There are two people you have to kill, theres a briefing before the level so 
 you know the background on these guys and theres a map you can view in game which is useful.
  
  My first impressions very good, i've played for about 4 or 5 hours at the moment i'd say. The 
 only problem I have is frustration, I get really annoyed with the game sometimes. One problem I 
 get, which i've seen other people find annoying is the stealth meter which is supposed to tell 
 you how suspicious you are to guards etc. Sometimes you are in disguise and everything looks ok, 
 but then they suddenly decide that you are actually a hitman and start killing you. Its probably 
 just me, it doesent happen very badly throughout the game, its just annoying sometimes.
  
  I'd say definatley rent this game, or go out and buy it if theres nothing else you feel like playing 
 at the moment. If you've played Hitman games before, or games close to this you'll love this game.
 
  
  8.4/10 from me
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10 - Looking good! Realistic guards, civilians etc. Guns look really good and detailed, 
 scenery and lighting is also very good - theres also some nice blood in there! Some things let 
 it down a bit I feel, like things that are set up for you to do - eg make a piano drop, they can 
 look a bit 'cheap' sometimes.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5 - Gameplay is good. Theres a wide selection of guns and weapons to use, theres lots 
 to find on the levels. But there isn't a very big selection of customisable weapons (perhaps you 
 get more customisable weapons later on, I dont know) - you can add laser sights, silencers and 
 stronger ammo etc which is cool. Shooting people is realistic, you can also hold people as hostage, 
 strangle people, stab them with knives and things. The members of the public normally act fine, 
 they sometimes just run about weirdly though when they know you're a criminal. Overall very good 
 though. Theres some comedy in there too in the ways you can kill people, such as shooting the bottom 
 out of a glass bottom jacuzzi making them fall off a cliiff!
  
  Sound - 8.8/10 - Very good voice acting most of the time - the main characters, key people and 
 in cut scenes although some phrases from hostages etc can become repetitive. Explosions and gunshots 
 sound impressive, you can tell the difference between guns. Some of the people you interact with 
 say some funny things, just go up to them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Hitman isn't my most favorite series of games to play. But I figured I would give it another chance 
 and play this one on the 360. Needless to say that I fell in love with this game. I used to not 
 like the covertness of the game and having to stay hidden but the more I play the more I like to 
 get in kill the enemy and get out without being noticed. The campaign mode is great you go through 
 multiple of missions having multiple of targets to take out. Scoring is based on how well you performed 
 such as not being noticed taking out the enemy and many other factors. The missions never get old 
 and repetative because if you win to easily you can bump up the difficulty which can get extremely 
 hard I. E. limiting the number of saves you can use and pumping up the A. I. or you can turn the 
 difficulty to rookie which gives you a infinite number of saves along with help from the A. I. when 
 you are about to get busted
  
  Overall this game grows and grows on me every time I pick up the controller. If I didn't just get 
 NCAA 07 in the mail I would definitely be playing this a lot more than I already am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  With an Ru-au mine then sneaks up behind it with a fiberwire and finishs it off or blows the things 
 holding a chandeleir to the ceiling causing it to fall and crush hitman contracts! Sorry for the 
 rambling but it is a really fun game! BUY IT OR RENT IT OR WHATEVER BUT YOU MUST PLAY IT!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay: It is extremely fun and replayable!
  
  Graphics: Are quite nice not blow your mind though.
  
  Sound: The sound is great the gurgoling 
 of someone while you are strangeling them the sound of shooting dual silenced pistols hitting a 
 person plus the music is usually quite chilling!
  
  Value: Its worth some where between $40-$50 US and around $80-$100 I'd say.
  
  Tilt: I really 
 like this game it has an excellent atmospehere and everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good game. It brought me hours of fun. The graphics are good. Great surroundings, 
 but the characters could use a little work. The only problem for me was that this game got old 
 quick. Once you learn how the AI responds its pretty easy to get thru levels. The AI needs an upgrade 
 in this game. All and all this is a good game and enjoyable. It got a little repeticious for me. 
 I've been playing NCAA 07 (great game) . Then I really got bitten by the football bug and went and 
 traded Hitman on Madden 07 (OK game) . But tis the season. So all I'll be playing is football for 
 the next 5 months.................. Go Steelers................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing!!!.
  
  It is my very first Hitman game. I really didn't know what to expect about it. Believe me guys, 
 I bought all the game series because of this game. The way IO interactive gets you inside the game 
 is awesome!!. What else could you ask for in a game, when you have the control 100%, I mean , you're 
 like god, playing with other lives, the way you want it. The ideas you have to make up to get through, 
 out of anybody's sight, make it a very realistic game.
  
  The next day newspaper is a very fancy an innovated idea, that gives the game a fresh detail and 
 something to laugh at instead of just a simple data screen, telling your achievements.
  
  Blood Money will keep you in front of the TV as long as you want to get the greatest range.... Silent 
 Assassin... that is very difficult, but very funny too.
  
  I recommend this game 100% to be bought, if you want to get the greatest range, otherwise just 
 rent it and have fun!!!.
  
  You wont be disappointed with this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToetNL
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  This is a difficult one.
  
  I like the hitman series because of the baldheaded hero.
  I like the way he plays and i like the moves you can make him do.
  
  The levels look great, 
 the weapons are diverse and the gameplay is good.
  
  But what's my problem then? Well my problem is the way some moves are performed. For example the 
 way he chokes someone with his cord. He kneels behind the victim and then he stands up to choke 
 his victim. Am I the only one who finds this strange and time-robbing?
  
  That's not my only problem I also don't get the stealth meter which at one time is empty and at 
 another is filled without seeing anyone nearby?
  
  Still tthis game has lots to offer and I am surely trying to finish this one just because I am 
 curious what the other levels are like. I know I'll have to practice a lot first but thats a step 
 i'll have to take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, it has well-developed missions with multiple paths available to accomplish your 
 given tasks. The environments are wonderfully detailed and enjoyable to look at, but it would be 
 a lot better if you could affect them, e. g. moving tall grass and low hanging leaves as you walk. 
 It would also feel MUCH more realistic and add an element of skill if you fell to your death walking 
 too close to a high cliff. Instead, youre protected from falling by some mysterious, invisible 
 force. Lame.
  
  The largest flaw in this game is the gameplay and character physics. I dont feel like the characters, 
 including Agent 47, really fit. The characters movements are laughable. They look as awkward and 
 uncomfortable as a room full of 12-year-old kids at their first school dance. Theres a big difference 
 between giving your lead character skills that the player can use and just taking over gameplay 
 at certain points and doing those things for the player. For instance, while playing Hitman, 
 if you walk past an open window and happen to hit the sweet-spot on your way past, youre going 
 to climb out that window ... whether you wanted to or not. The only skill needed to jump from one 
 balcony to another is to walk up to the edge and continue to push forward on the move stick. 
 All the dangerous work is done without any of your help. Same thing with climbing up onto crates; 
 walk by one too close, and youre going to end up climbing up on top of it and drawing attention 
 to yourself ... ooops!
  
  * If youd like to see an example of extremely well-developed character physics, take a look at 
 the Splinter Cell Series. Each installment developed exponential leaps in character physics, 
 yet managed to remain true to what they had previously established for Sam Fisher, the lead character 
 in the Series. They also improved upon Sams numerous skills, but always gave the player sole decision-making 
 power for when and where to utilize those skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandKing203
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is back in Hitman: Blood Money and Boom it is in my opinion the best Hitman yet! I love 
 This game so freaking much I rented it 3 times before I went to go buy it! Crazy Fun!
  
  Look at the bullets
  
  On the plus side:
  -Amazing graphics
  -Easy Controls
  -Best in 
 series
  -Better AI
  Crazy Places (Las Vegas, On a Ship, Spa, Suburbs, White House, and so much more then that)
  
 
  On the down side:
  -Al is better, but still need work
  -
  
  Should you pass, rent, or buy:
  You Should Buy
  -Cause different ways to kill one person that 
 makes this game have great replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSgroupie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Well as soon as Hitman 4 was announced i knew i was going to get it , with me being a big fan of 
 the series and all, and now i have got it i can safely say it is the best one yet, the graphics 
 on 360 are gorgeous, with wonderful water effects, body physics and shadows / lighting effects 
 that bring the world of our favourtite assassin to life. The game is quite short with me clocking 
 it within 2 days. Each mission takes a maximum of around 40 to 60 minutes but the levels are so 
 well built and give you so much options to preform that it gives alot of replay value to mix and 
 experiment. Enemy A. I. is brilliant but not all the time, NPCs react realistically to situations 
 and dont go overboard over little things unlike the previous Hitman games for example guards dont 
 shoot at you any more just because you are running around instead of walking etc. And if you find 
 the A. I. is a bit to easy for you raise the difficulty up to pro and you might just be surprised. 
 One of my favourite things about Blood Money is the weapons customization, this lets you buy and 
 tweak every little thing to upgrade your gun at a price of course, but the downside is that you 
 never use them, I completed this whole game without ever using a pistol, SMG, Assault Rifle and 
 only using my Sniper Rifle a few times all the rest were Needles and Fibre Wire. The other great 
 thing about B M is the payment system, if you go in quietly you will get a bigger bonus, go in 
 guns blazing you will obviously get less, but the other thing is you have to pay people to collect 
 your suit and custom weopons if you leave them behind, pay off witness's, also the newspaper articles 
 that you get after each mission are a nice touch (you should read them they can be quite funny) . 
 And after what seems like a sad ending that made me angry at IO for ending this wonderful series 
 there is a nice little twist in the form of a final mission that made me happy inside (dont worry 
 AGENT 47 LIVES!!!) (Move the analog stick around during the final credits yay... dish out revenge 
 on the ugly wheel-chair man, teach him a lesson, no one tries to kill 47) ... Wonderful game enjoy 
 it, if you dont have it yet buy it now i highly recommend it, believe me you will not regret it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  When this game Hitman Blood Money hit the stores i knew its a must have game. The game was just 
 amazing. I never saw This game soo good. They made it perfect but there are sometimes a bit problems 
 with the graphics. When u have HDTV the graphic looks amazing. In normal tv looks also good but 
 not as great as in HDTV. The graphics dont blow me out beause its not the best graphics i have 
 seen yet like in other games. The sound in this game is also very good. As for the gameply it is 
 fun and great story. The Characters in this game dont behave as good as I thought .
  
  But Hey when we play this game u just wont stop playing.
  As for me this game is great.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I don't see how people like these Hitman games. The only one that was remotely interesting was 
 Hitman 2, and that was still quite poor! But this one, is the epitome of terrible. It's about as 
 fun as a trip to the dentist and it plays like a plank of wood.
  
  If you're looking for a fun game. Then you've made a mistake in your calculations. This is as fun 
 as watching paint dry. Sure there's plenty of things you can do with your stealthy hitman, but 
 it all takes you back to one place: Frustrating as hell. Plus the save games take up a massive 
 space on the system (especially on the PS2) and the controls on the 360 are just simply annoying. 
 The Hitman is difficult to manevouer through the world. The guns are hard to aim and the sniper 
 rifle is awkward.
  
  The game's graphics have improved on the 360 and it looks slightly better than usual. However no 
 amount of graphics can make this game more interesting!
  
  The sound and music however is just terrific. It acentuates the tension and mood of the game. Without 
 the sound, well, I would've had to have give nthis game a 1. However the explicit language is quite 
 annoying sometimes. The glitchy, continuous use of the F word can sometimes be a little too much 
 at times and sounds terrible unreal and stupid.
  
  Terrible value. Terrible game. Get your teeth pulled out instead!
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onyxhawk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say.. nice game. Good replay value. Fun. Great way to blow off some stress.
  
  Game starts off a little slow, but it gives you a chance to learn the ropes with a tutorial. Then 
 things start kicking into high gear. A lot of fun.
  
  Things I would like to see.. better reward system for silent assasin. blah blah.. Be nice to be 
 able to make a name for yourself if you can only make all ur kills with a bullet to the head and/or 
 heart.. I know there are some specialized 'titles' with wire and knife.. but one with shots to 
 the head all the way through would be fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The fourth in the chilling Hitman series featuring the cold-blooded killer Agent 47. Finding that 
 members of his contract agency, The ICA, are now being quietly (and mortally) eliminated, Agent 
 47 suspects a larger organization is moving in. Fearing he may be the next target, he heads to 
 America. His jobs now will pay in straight-up cash -- and how he spends the money will affect what 
 weapons he has and what he does next. The developer added new gameplay systems, such as the concepts 
 of notoriety and of blood money. The new Notoriety system means that anyone causing a bloodbath 
 worthy of front page news is risking being recognised by civilians and guards in the future. Blood 
 Money lets players spend their earnings on fully customisable precision weapons and specialist 
 equipment, or they can buy additional information upon the targets and location at hand, to aid 
 a successful and professional hit
  
  Gameplay, fun stealthy action
  
  Graphics, a few flaws, nothin specail
  
  Sound, Nothin much in the sound department
  
  
 Once ya beat the story, there really isnt anything else to do
  
  Tilt Very very very unique 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Since this is Hitman's first attempt at next-gen, and had to play on current gen systems, you could 
 understand the game not exactly being on the cutting edge of games technology. And to be sure, 
 the first thing we have to get out the way is that this game doesn't do anything startlingly new. 
 It is the earlier Hitman games with a few little additions that make it a more enjoyable experience, 
 but it by no means re-vitalises the series.
  
  The game, like the other ones, obviously is centered around hits. You'll find yourself put in a 
 level, often quite small (smaller than some that have been seen in previous games) and be given 
 targets. There are multiple ways to exterminate the target, and you could argue that there are 
 more ways to get to and kill any one target in this game than you'll have seen in the last few. 
 The new Accident Kill system has been brought into the fray this time round. It basically means 
 that you can now kill targets in a way that makes it looks like a hit was not implied, and that 
 it was, as the name suggests, an accident. This, along with a variety of methods, from strangling 
 them in a small room, to running in, fully modified shotgun blazing, adds a required variety in 
 the ways that you can kill your target; without this variety, the game would get very boring, very 
 quickly.
  
  However, despite these small new additions, the game still works on very much the same fundamentals. 
 The levels feel very contstrained, the missions still have that trial and error element to them, 
 where you'll find yourself saving, trying something, and if it doesn't work, loading up and trying 
 something else. Sure, it's still fun, but it detracts from the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Speaking of atmosphere, when it maintains it, it maintains it well. The musical score and presentation 
 of the game is magnificent. The shadowing and lighting effects are complemented marvellously by 
 the rich orchestral and choral backing music, all of which culminates in a real feeling of emersion.
 
  
  As far as story goes, be prepared for perhaps one of the best final missions that you'll ever have 
 played... and it's only 5 minutes long... You'll see what I mean. Dissapointingly, it wont take you 
 much more than 10 hours or so to reach this finale, but there's plenty of replay value to the missions; 
 and the prospect of achievment points on the 360 version will probably keep you going another couple 
 of hours.
  
  Overall, this game is yet another brilliant installment in the Hitman series. It is highly enjoyable, 
 and a very involving experience. Despite this, it is just that. This series seems to be in an ever 
 growing need of a re-think; it's getting a bit formulaic, and for those looking for a fresh experience... look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the Hitman games, you've played this one. Nothing gamebreaking, but a 
 solid game regardless. A nice array of levels and weaponry keep things different, but of course 
 the best way through any of these games is a low body count... so silence and stealth is the key.
 
  
  Gameplay - Solid, pretty simple controls... sometimes with the book was a little more detailed though.
 
  
  Graphics - A little improvement from the previous games, but compared to most 360 titles, a bit 
 lacking.
  
  Sounds - The ambient sounds are nice, again, nothing exceptional but nothing that is going to make 
 me mute it either.
  
  Value - If you can get it in the bargin bin or rent it, go for it. Even for another system. But 
 brand new for the 360... it's not worth $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Omfg, Blood money is now one of my favorite games! It's is an Instant classic from my point of 
 view. I didn't like contracts alot, but blood money has got to be one of the best games of 2006! 
 The gameplay is ******* awesome! For any of you that haven't played blood money yet, I won't ruin 
 it for y'all. But for those who have played it, WAS THAT ONE OF THE BEST GAMES YOU'VE EVER PLAYED?!?!? 
 , it was for me. From my view, Blood money has everything. For those idiots that think hitman sucks, 
 I have to say, WTF?!? Beleive me, worth the wait. This is going up with my fav games of all time 
 (San Andreas, Max Payne 1, Splinter cell, Devil may cry 3, ETC..) ! It's simple, if you haven't 
 played it, THEN PLAY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The past Hitman games have been something that kept me away from the series completely. The only 
 thing that urged me to stay was the engaging story. The way that it all kept me in. The first Hitman 
 game I played was Contracts. It was pretty dull and boring, but then I played Blood Money after 
 weeks of speculation and research.
  
  The moment I begun this game, I was hooked.
  
  It stars everyone's favorite assassin, Agent 47, who is reconized by the barcode on the back of 
 his head that was given to him when he was cloned. Enlisted as a legendary assassin into the ICA 
 [International Contract Agency] he takes out contracts and missions along the way to get his pay 
 and even end unfinished business. During the course of the story, you will notice that you're playing 
 flashbacks that are told by a former CIA director who is stranded in a wheelchair, though it is 
 assumed that 47 did that to him. From the moment you 'whack' the swing king, to the final shot 
 you put into the nosey reporter's head during the entire game, you'll know you played a legend.
 
  
  In the original games, there was only one set path you could complete the mission. In the latest 
 installment, you can complete it any way you want, whether it is bloody or quiet. Though, the game 
 wants you to lean towards the silent way. The more bloody and noticed you are during missions, 
 the more your notoriety builds up. Of course, you're able to pay off bribes and loose ends, but 
 if it gets too high, then some missions will be compromised. For example:
  
  If you're in an FBI suit in the 'A New Life' mission and you walk in the back yard. One of the 
 guys may reconize you, run to the newpaper on the table to confirm it, and then your cover is compromised. 
 Thus the mission becomes increasingly harder.
  
  The graphics have a huge update, so that Agent 47 doesn't look like a constantly squinting asian 
 man, and he actually looks intimidating. At times, when you are shot and wounded, it will show 
 on the character models, whether it be small on the chest, or a big gash on the head. The sound 
 of gunshots, people screaming, and about anything else is just as immersive as the graphics, and 
 the musical score is basically the modern brother of Halo. In other words, unbelievably awesome.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a complete redemption to the original series, and the replay value of these 
 missions completely went through the roof.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money retails for $60 at conventional centers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  As Agent 47 stood in the closet, I could hear only his breathing and see only a small sliver between 
 the doors. He dare not move, his target was bound to be headed this way soon. Moments later, the 
 door to the room opened, the quarry sat and 47 silently snuck behind him, fibre wire drawn tight...
 
  
  Dressed as a guard, 47 strolled up and down the hallway as if it was the most natural thing he 
 could be doing. He stopped at a locked door, picking it quickly and noiselessly, letting himself 
 inside the room. The slime ball drug lord stood on his balcony, oblivious to 47's presence. He 
 crept slowly and silently behind him, pushed him over the railing to his death in the water below 
 and strode back into the hallway...
  
  Assault shotgun in one hand, Silverballer pistol in the other, 47 rushed into the compound wasting 
 the downstairs' guard. The noise of the gunshots alerted the compound as guard after guard poured 
 into the room, only to be mowed down by 47's SMG. After the slaughter was complete, 47 marched 
 upstairs, opened the door and blew the brains out of the target...
  
  Yes friends, Agent 47 is back and has his sights set on the next generation - but how does the 
 fourth game in the Hitman series fare on the 360?
  
  For those that don't know (shame on you) , Agent 47 is the bald, bar-coded, cloned assassin for 
 the International Contract Agency. The ICA receives contracts for assassination and passes them 
 onto 47, who carries them out with surgeon-like precision - or not, depending on your play style. 
 Armed with his trusty Silverballer pistols and fibre wire, 47 infiltrates areas in his familiar 
 black suit, which may be discarded as soon as a more suitable disguise becomes available.
  
  In this latest version, a number of ICA agents have been the targets of assassinations themselves, 
 and the Agency knows that 47 is next. While story has never been a strong point of the Hitman games, 
 Blood Money does a good job of crafting a narrative that encourages the player to follow along, 
 curious how it will all play out. The ending is particularly satisfying.
  
  The Hitman games don't really fit into any single genre. While traditionally associated with stealthy 
 game play, one could conceivably rush through the game guns ablaze and still come out victorious 
 in the end. However, to truly appreciate this game, it is best to play as the designers intended 
 - slowly, methodically and creatively. That said, Blood Money might be the most difficult in the 
 series to successfully go "Rambo" throughout. The enemy AI, while not brilliant, is certainly resilient, 
 and will make your life incredibly difficult should you be caught attempting to relieve someone 
 of theirs.
  
  The Hitman series has always been known for its open-ended environments, allowing players to make 
 hits in a number of different ways, be it as a silent, stalking assassin or a cold-blooded mass 
 murderer. Blood Money doesn't fail in this regard, as highlighted in the scenarios above, which 
 were all taken from the same target on the first (real) level. Each level is unique and none are 
 shoddy. Ranging from a quiet, suburban neighborhood to a busy Las Vegas casino, each level provides 
 a distinct, pleasurable, killing experience. The incredible level design and options for elimination 
 are definitely the strongest features of this latest iteration.
  
  Several new features have been added to Blood Money such as new animations, upgradeable weaponry 
 and the ability to dispose of bodies, climb over low walls and through windows. The most publicized 
 addition is the new notoriety system that tracks your infamy throughout the game. During a mission, 
 if the player kills anybody other than the target (s) in a non-accidental way, bystanders witness 
 an act of murder or cameras catch the player on film, your notoriety will increase. The higher 
 the notoriety, the easier it is for enemies to discover you, with or without disguises.
  
  The idea is great in theory, rewarding players who play the game the way it was meant to be played 
 and punishing those with a less, shall we say, elegant style of play. However, the feature fails 
 to live up to expectations, as it is far too easy to lower your notoriety through bribes. The downside 
 to bribing is not having as much cash on hand to upgrade your weapons, but most players will never 
 notice the effect of notoriety on game play.
  
  The best addition to the game is the new accident system. Players can now push enemies or civilians 
 over ledges, drop heavy objects on targets and cause "natural" explosions to mask their dirty work. 
 An attentive player will discover numerous ways to dispose of targets and unwanted witnesses.
 
  
  Once again the musical score by Jespyr Kidd is phenomenal in its subtlety. The music won't jump 
 out at you, but you'll know it's there, nicely framing whatever is happening in the action. The 
 sound effects of the guns are still over the top, yet wonderfully satisfying. The character voices 
 do an adequate job, though some of the dialog is stilted and cheesy.
  
  As far as graphics are concerned, I'm slightly disappointed. The 360 version is a visually upgraded 
 port from the original XBox version. The graphics in no way could be called fugly, but they certainly 
 don't stand up to most next-gen expectations. There are upgraded textures and lighting effects, 
 but not much more than that. I can't wait for the day when the older consoles are downgraded rather 
 than the reverse.
  
  Thankfully, the camera seems to have been tweaked a bit for Blood Money. In the past, the camera 
 would get caught on walls, clip through Agent 47 and make sneaking up on your enemies an exercise 
 in frustration and reloading. Not once during my time with the game did I experience any problems, 
 though I have read elsewhere that may not be the case for some players.
  
  The 360 version is $20 more expensive and features the exact same game with the only addition being 
 achievements. While I do love my achievements, I'm hard pressed to recommend buying the 360 version 
 instead of the others; there's just not $20 worth of difference between versions. However, if the 
 360 is your only option (and what a sweet, sweet option it is) , don't feel cheated. You're getting 
 a great game at the standard, next gen, non-first party price.
  
  For those who haven't enjoyed Hitman games in the past, this game probably won't change your mind 
 - not much has changed. However, if you've been waiting for another chapter in the Hitman series, 
 this is certainly the finest thus far. The replay ability is solid, featuring four different difficulty 
 levels and the enticing goal of achieving the coveted "Silent Assassin" rating on every level. 
 With fantastic level design, enticing game play and a compelling story, Blood Money will not fail 
 to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from Gamefly, and checked it out. Despite the flaws that critics found with 
 this game, like it being too much the same as previous games in the series in terms of gameplay 
 and having bad AI (which I personally think is untrue) , I found this game to be tremendously better 
 than the other games in the series.
  This game is the most original I've played yet, and though it is said it has "stealth-based" gameplay, 
 I think its gameplay is in a league of its own and almost fully open-ended.
  Nowadays, with games costing alot, I was surprised I put this game on my list for games to buy. 
 Its one of those rare games that I can play as much as I want and never get bored of it.
  Its too much fun to play a level, and try out the many different options on how to beat it. Do 
 you want to just shoot everybody? Or do you want to be stealthy and kill your targets without anyone 
 knowing about it? How about killing your targets without anyone seeing you and not changing your 
 disguise? Lots of depth.
  The graphics are good, but too similiar to the other games in the series. However, the game has 
 some of the best environments I've ever seen in a game. I thought Tomb Raider Legends had good 
 environments to explore, but Hitman: BM has much more variety in the types of locations you will 
 see.
  The game does a good job of gradually building up the difficulty. You start out in a fairly easy 
 level, where stealth is really easy to use, but later levels have you walking around very crowded 
 places where its easy for people to see you killing someone or changing disguises, and causes you 
 to really think on what your methods completing objectives will be.
  What I find done very well in this game is that you get your objectives, but you are never told 
 how you are going to get those objectives completed. Its almost like a puzzle to figure out how 
 you will be about beating the levels, but because there are many different ways to beat the levels, 
 you'll find yourself playing levels over more than once. Its fun to try to beat each level in the 
 least amount of time possible using maximum stealth and no disguises, and receiving a special "Silent 
 Assassin" rating (beating a level one time in this manner counts as a Xbox360 Achievement) .
  Storyline is very immersive, original, and true to previous games of the series (connects the storylines 
 of the previous games with this one, but will not leave anyone in the dust who hasn't played a 
 game in this series yet) . Not surprising they plan on making a movie based on this game.
  I'll be looking forward to seeing more of this series in the future.
  
  For more info on this 
 game and the Hitman series, check these links out:
  
  About the series:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Hitman_%28computer_game_series%29
  
  More about Hitman - Blood 
 Money:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Hitman_blood_money
  
  (be careful, these links contain spoilers!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I usually shy away from the stealth action genre, but the Hitman series has always intrigued me. 
 Probably because you play as a Hitman, duh, and there is no other game where you can play as a 
 Hitman. The original Hitman was nothing to write home about, but its sequel Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, 
 released for PS2, Xbox, PC and eventually GameCube, was far better and put the Hitman series on 
 the gaming map. Hitman Contracts was the third in the series, and it was not as good as H2, but 
 it was still good. At its core, the Hitman games are stealth action games, but because of its open 
 ended design, you can play thru every level however you want. You can run and gun killing everyone, 
 or just those in your way. You can stealth thru a level subduing those in your way and only killing 
 your target objectives. You can play a mix of those two. You also can even mess around and find 
 other ways to get thru levels. Its all upto you. Now, when I tried playing H2, I was not into stealth 
 games at all, still not, but I wanted to try and get thru Blood Money because a few of the later 
 levels sounded really cool. What I found out as I made my way thru the game is that the game resembles 
 more of an adventure game than an action game. I'll explain.
  
  While you can play thru the Hitman games like its a 3rd person shooter, the main goal is to play 
 thru them as a silent assassin by killing only your target objectives. And doing this does not 
 require the use of guns in most of the missions. In the first 3 missions after the tutorial mission, 
 you can finish each one without using a gun at all. And that's the beauty of Hitman. Like I said, 
 you can play thru however you want.
  
  The core gameplay is a 3rd person perspective stealth action game. If you want to use your arsenal 
 of guns, you can click the right analog stick to enter 1st person mode for better aiming, or for 
 sniping if using a sniper rifle. Outside of your guns, you have access to other ways to disable 
 or take out objectives or those in your way. Sedatives, poisons, melee weapons, the traditional 
 fiber wire, and remote mines are all at your disposal. To help with just about every mission, you 
 can take the clothes off of those you kill or sedate to enable you to get into other areas and 
 such. Also, there are plenty of context sensitive moves you can use that range from placing items 
 in toolboxes, hiding in closets, disposing of bodies in containers, setting up remote mines, and 
 more. With all those moves at your disposal, along with a map that at the default level displays 
 everyone in the mission, citizen, guard, and targets alike, you can setup game plans and execute 
 them to try and get that elusive Silent Assassin ranking.
  
  The graphics are very solid, and are very good in a few places, particularly the New Orleans level, 
 as the mission takes place during Mardi Gras and there are alot of people in the streets. The voice 
 acting in the game is solid, as are the various sound effects, mostly from the guns you have available. 
 Basically, all the entertainment value areas are good to great, namely the graphics, sound, and 
 cutscenes. The overarcing story is told via cutscenes mainly before the missions you undertake. 
 Its a good story which leads to a satisfying conclusion with a cool finish during the credits.
 
  
  Even though the Hitman games are single player, there is plenty of replay value to be had, particularly 
 with the Xbox 360 version and its achievements which can be found in the hints section here on 
 GS. Seeing as every mission is very open ended, there are plenty of ways to make your way thru 
 each mission.
  
  Like I said at the start, I'm not a fan of stealth games. But I was very surprised how much I enjoyed 
 Hitman Blood Money. It is as much of a stealth game as you want it to be. Not to mention that its 
 a very fun game to boot. Definitely worth playing if you like stealth type games, and worth looking 
 into if you like action adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINBIG
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Now normally I wouldn't play a stealth game because it's not my style of gameplay but this game 
 I made an acception. This game is surprisingly better than I thought it would be in all aspects 
 of the gameplay. In my opinion this far better than Splinter Cell in my book. Now where do I begin...
 
  
  This game is the fourth installment in the Hitman series and is by far the best. The story is told 
 in one huge flashback of the tales of Agent 47. You don't have to play the first 3 to start playing 
 this one. Our main protagonist/antagonist is a bald-headed class 1 clone created to be the perfect 
 assassin. Unfortunately, trouble struck. Your agency (the ICA) has been losing agents. It's Agent 
 47's job to find who's been killing the agents and and put a stop to them before the whole agency 
 is wiped out.
  
  The game's many environments range from a Riverboat on the Mississippi River, an Egyptian-themed 
 casino in Las Vegas , opera house in Paris, and many more. These environments are highly-detailed 
 especially on the Xbox 360. The graphics are still good on the Xbox, PS2, and the PC are also good. 
 Actually if you have a really good PC I recommend to get this before the Xbox and the PS2.
  
  Action is pretty good. The stealth portions of the game are fantastic and require a whole of 
 strategy to get the best rating possible on every mission. The shooting is solid in third-person, 
 but in first-person the gameplay is bad. Just stick to playing in third-person.
  
  The whole mission scheme is that you find the person/persons you have to kill and finding the best 
 way to kill them. There are different ways like dropping a piano on them, poisoning, sniping, or 
 good old-fashioned run-  is-dead method. The Weapons in the 
 game are some of the best yet and vary from pistols, sub-machine guns, and shotguns.
  
  Levels in Hitman: Blood Money are now free-form as you can stalk the target and find out who is 
 protecting him and dispose of them first. Or you can run in and kill them and their bodyguards.
 
  
  With all said there are some problems such as length and creativity. This game is too short in 
 my opinion and should of had a few more levels to play around with. Also, one or two of the levels 
 weren't as creative as they could have been. But in all this game is worth playing on any of the 
 systems but I recommend it for the Xbox 360 because of the graphics and the achievements you can 
 unlock. This game is an instant classic and is great in all the categories. For all you pretend 
 assassins out there, your prayers have been answered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Reasons: Why would I not rate Hitman a 10 in terms of gameplay? You can assasinate your targets 
 in numerous ways. There is so many areas that you can dump the bodys away to, that it makes me 
 wonder of the imagination of the producers themselves. I have enjoyed knocking out enemys and leaving 
 them tucked away while I do my main task, with no abstractions, or blown covers. This game improves 
 over the Hitman: Contracts game in terms of Graphics ( which should've been looked into more) , 
 Gameplay, Sound (the sounds of the rifles, pistols, and all other aspects of the game are very 
 well done) , and the overall camera view, allowing you to play it out in 3rd person, or first person 
 view. The shooting in this game is very realistic, and hard. It's not your basic shoot around like 
 a fool type game. In this game, every shot needs to be planned to use the game's design to its 
 limits. Try playing the game in expert and the other difficulty as I did, and you will have to 
 definitely.
  
  Hitman: Contracts featured many similar things to this game, but just did not capture the full 
 experience of being the silent assasin that you are in this game. The gameplay area was very solid. 
 Deserves the number.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Reasons: I think the graphics were just kinda sloppy. I mean, had they put more time into them, 
 and mixed the variety of killing styles in with it, they could've made a game that is much better 
 than this game right now. I think it deserves a 7, as it is basicaly around a normal Xbox's graphics, 
 and did not particularly take advantage of the Xbox 360 itself, along with its engine.
  
  I feel as if the graphics were a bit rushed, and that the other aspects of the game were looked 
 into with more detail.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Reasons: The sound in this game is not bad at all. The voice acting is great, some of the cutscenes 
 are phenominal, and the overall sounds of gunshots, strangles along with average killings are great. 
 I could only rate it an 8 though, as it wasn't extraordinary anyways. I can definitely tell that 
 more time was put into the Sound area in comparison to the Graphics of this game.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Reasons: I have to give this game an 8 in the value, because they put alot of effort 
 into making the overall experience worthwhile. I feel as if more missions would've done them a 
 lot more good, but the ammount that we have now is great, and all of the missions are very well 
 planned out, delivered. I would've scored this higher had it been for that longer game experience 
 request, but there really is no excuse for rating this lower than an 8, because work was put into 
 this game, and it was successful.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10
  Reasons: In Hitman: Blood Money, you can play in the Third Person (main mode) , or even the favored 
 first person mode. While in First Person, you can run and gun, or just go through a typical plot 
 sequence for taking out your enemies. It's really well made, and with the FPS mode, it really delivers 
 in this area quite well. The third person view is very smooth as well, and everything you want 
 to do is on the screen... No camera glitches at all.
  
  
  
  Reccommendations: Even with the great review, I suggest you rent it first to try it out as I did. 
 A one week rental is fine, and you should be able to unlock mose of the things if you put enough 
 time into it. The game is an overall masterpiece in the assasination-genre, but is not long enough 
 to be worth the $60-70. If you do buy though, you did nothing wrong, and you will have a chance 
 to enjoy the game whenever you like. This game is awesome if you're a fan of this genre, and is 
 an addictive game overall.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirce
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of the Hitman series. This game takes it all up a notch. Gameplay is flawless, 
 everything works the way it should. Graphics could use some tuning in some places, but agent 47 
 looks perfect. The music is great with its dramatic choir vocals and adrenaline boosting strings. 
 A gamer like me plays a good game as long as it has something to do and Hitman: BM lasts surprisingly 
 long if you try to get all the achievements. Didnt tilt at  llllllllll 
 llllll lllll llll llll llll lllllllll lllllll lllll llllllllllll lllllllll llllll lllll lllllll 
 llll llllll lllllllll llllllll lllllllll llllll llll llllll lll lllllllll llllll llllllll llllll 
 llllll l ll llll lllllll ll llll lll ll llllllllllll lllllllll llllllllll lllllll lllllll llllllll 
 lllllllllllllll lllllllll llll lllllll lll lll llll lllllllllll llllll lllllllll lllllllllll lllllll 
 llll llll lll llllllll lll lllllllllllllllllllllllll llllll llllll lll llllll llllllllll lllllllllll 
 llllllllllll llllllll  llllllllllllllll lll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have always been into the hitman games since Silent Assassin. But they always left out some things 
 that I was looking for. But Blood Money actually fixes alot of those problems and throws in some 
 surprises. First of all, I love my Xbox 360 and thats the one I would prefer. The visuals are very 
 impressive even though there are some graphical glitches here and there.
  Sound is very good, especially the gunshots wich sound very realistic. The weapons also look fantastic 
 except for with the First person view. Mission design is, for the most part, superb. And the level 
 designs constantly vary and never get boring. The game is pretty long and the ending is very impressive 
 because of the special twist. The controls are very good, you just need to know how to use them. 
 For example: only tap the analog when climbing through a window, don't hold it. All in all, you 
 need to experience this game if you liked the other hitman games, or if you are into the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  HItman: Blood Money is a fun game. It's easy, and overall it's entertaining. It's mission based 
 storymode is pretty straight forward, and it's not time consuming or mentally demanding.
  
  Agent 47 looks great in HD. Him, and other character models don't look to shabby, and you'll appreciate 
 all the shibby with your XBOX 360. The games sound design is well. The tone is quiet and light, 
 and the enviroment sounds are applicable. The gun noises are acurate and even change when you make 
 your modifications. NPCs have their own voices all though you'll notice that not many voices were 
 used.
  
  The problems with Hitman are pretty much the same as always. You don't have much variety when it 
 comes to killing your targets. You can either have them explode, drop something on their head, 
 snipe them from a distant, or just run in and gun them down. What realy hurts the game is that 
 some of the missions only give you 1 or 2 ways to execute someone.
  
  Through out each mission, if you're using the be seen, not be seen, approach, you'll constantly 
 be changing costumes, killing people who aren't targets, and disposing of bodies in large dumpsters 
 that are near by the victim as if they were meant to die even if they're not your target.
  
  The games AI is pretty dumb. The only way they'll actually kill you is if you blow your cover 
 and you become overwhelmed by their numbers. If you're playing the way a hitman plays, you won't 
 die.
  
  The game rates you by newspaper headlines. Leaving witnesses, or mass murdering people will result 
 in insults. Also firing more rounds and hitting walls hurt as well... Each rating you get is basically 
 a reflection of how you completed your mission... The papers are all pre-rendered, so you'll constantly 
 see the same description of yourself if you don't change how you get your targets. Overall Hitman 
 Blood Money is a great game to rent for the weekend. The game lacks multiplayer so their really 
 is no need to keep it. Anyone looking for a weekend retreat will love Hitman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deovitalis
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with a pretty basic level that gives you the gist of how the game plays. the 
 first lvl is also the demo they released for the game before it came out. So you will prolly breeze 
 through it.
  
  When you start the game you can select your difficulty level. Which is cool cause you can put it 
 on easy and slaughter everyone or put it on expert and go for a silent assassan rating.
  
  One of the main reasons I love this game is for its mild RPG elements, like upgrading your weapons 
 and your abillity to play the same level many times in many different ways. this game has tons 
 of replay value and everyone knows how fun it is to go around on killing rampages. LOL This is 
 a definite buy for me.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  That game turn out to be evern better than I thought!!! the graphic is alright. the gamply is great. 
 the sound is pretty good. the value alright too. this game is great for people that like slow violenci 
 and waiting for their shot or act on someone. great range of weapon; snipers, shotguns, handguns 
 and machine gunes. love the part were you can add stuff to your guns to make them better or look 
 better. that game is great and its too rent because I finish all four levels and achievment in 
 10 days and it was do one the 12th day!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a very fun and good game but paying $60 for this game is a disappointment 
 because it is exactly the same as the Xbox 1 version.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Very fun and addictive. I like how now you get paid for your missions and use the money 
 to upgrade your weapons, bribe the press, get mission info, whatever. This is the best Hitman game 
 out right now. The missions have so many different ways of completing so that means high replay 
 value.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pretty nice for the PS2 or Xbox but when all three have the same graphics, the 360 sadly 
 has a slightly lower score in this category. The developers could have improved the graphics for 
 the 360 version rather than have it be the same as the PS2 and Xbox version. Still pretty nice 
 graphics but could be better.
  
  SOUND: Great sound effects. Nice voices and music. Guns have pretty weak sounds though.
  
  
 VALUE: High replay value, enough said. Hitman Blood Money has some of the highest replay value 
 ever in a video game in its genre. The price of $60 is pretty high because this is a short game 
 but if you can get this for less than $50 or even $40 don't waste any time at all on buying. Great 
 game.
  
  TILT: The 360 version could have had some improvements from the other versions but still a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexFunk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  100 words heh here i go. js f sdf sdf sd f sdf df d f d s sf a se f a sdf ef h t 5 d fg as e e 
 f sdfasf s df sdfdsjfh jhs fasjdfh sddf ahh
  jdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh 
 sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddfjdfh sddf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  OK, the graphics are great not question of it.
  
  The story line although a little linear is interestingly presented
  
  The controls are very 
 intuitive, a couple of oddities in my opinion but then I am odd.
  
  Everything works but and we have a 'but' that all most destroys the game for me (and any other 
 game that does it to and there are many) the in game movie sequences. Very professional on the 
 initial watching, down right annoying and expodentially so on all of the reruns that follow. Why 
 does it not flag that this user, in the run through has already seen it and allow those like myself 
 the option to skim it?
  
  Going to run through a few more levels before I totally decide but the game is good but them movies 
 annoy the hell out of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game definately redeemed Hitman. I thought the series might go downhill after Contracts, but 
 they produced a really good game here. the new freak accident kills are fun to pull off. they've 
 also made some cool new additions. the character models have greatly increased since previous hitman 
 games. the graphics arent xbox 360's best, but they are certainly very good. this game can be very 
 fun to play when you get into it. there is plenty of cool blood effects and violence to please 
 most shooting fans. its a must buy. but a word of advice... buy the strategy guide. you'll need 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hisup123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Well its not the best in the series, no way. I liked it much more on PS2, i dont know why though. 
 The controls were pretty easy but im not much pleased with the sound quality. I wasent gonna buy 
 this till I saw trailers and gameplay videos and read other reviews. The graaphics are excellent 
 and its not very expensive. For me it was as i cause i bought it on ps2 and for my 360. Well there 
 were not many good games around the release of this one so i bought it.
  Agent 47 rocks in this. Hitman 2: Silent Assassin was a much better game but this game cannot be 
 called bad at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series has been around for awhile now and this is my first crack at the series and I'm 
 impressed. There are many different locations for missions which really helps keep the gameplay 
 fresh, and the gameplay really isn't all that linear its actually quite open-ended.
  
  The graphics on the Xbox 360 look great. All the environments have distinct looks to them and look 
 great whether your indoors or outdoors. I have a complaint about the outdoors though. In some levels 
 the grass and rocks look like crap, but it can be dealt with. The character models look great, 
 but there is a little too much of the same going on. The textures for the most part are really 
 good as is the lighting. Everything looks great in the third person camera view, but in the first 
 person everything just gets worse. The first person view is useful though.
  
  The sound effects are really well done. The sounds of all the weapons are what they should sound 
 like. The sound of bullets crashing into walls and crap sounds awesome especially with the fully 
 customized M4. The music is pretty good, but will sometimes cut out for no apparent reason. Night 
 club music is done really well too as it sounds like night club music and fits everything that 
 is happening. The sounds of hordes of people whether it be in the streets of New Orleans or in 
 some night club really helps capture the feel of being in a crowd. The voice acting and dialogue 
 is also well performed as well as placed. Agent 47 has a voice that really fits his job. The other 
 characters' voices in the game whether it be during cut-scenes or during the game is fitting as 
 well.
  
  There is actually a decent amount of value to be found in Hitman: Blood Money which is surprising 
 as its a singleplayer only game. Achievements require lots of patience and are varied enough to 
 keep some interest in the game. With all the different ways to perform your hit it makes it more 
 fun to try different things. Sixty dollars is asking a lot for this game as once your finished 
 with everything you may not want to play it ever again so I'd recommend renting it first.
  
  The gameplay in this game isn't really all that straight forward as there are many ways to 
 get the job done. You may choose to just run in barrels blazing or play it stealthy and smooth. 
 The way you really should play the game is stealthy and smooth as that is how it was designed to 
 be played. Missions have pretty straight forward objectives such target which is some one you must 
 take out, protect which is someone you must ensure doesn't get killed, retrieve which is when you 
 must retrieve something, and escape which is required from every misson and requires you to get 
 to the exit point.
  
  You will recieve a briefing before each mission providing you with intel. Also prior to a mission 
 you may select your weapons. You get five standard weapons and weapons that pick up and escape 
 during a mission may also be selected. You may also customize your five standard weapons by purchasing 
 upgrades. Other things you may purchase are better lockpicks, health boosts, armor, and some other 
 neat stuff. As you progress through the game more shop items will be unlocked which will let you 
 buy better equipment. The weapon select is a pretty cool as well as the customization.
  
  After each mission you will recieve a ranking depending on how and what you did. Earning better 
 rankings will grant you a larger bonus of cash and will keep your notoriety down. The notoriety 
 meter is how people recognize you. If you've got say ninety notoriety people will recognize you 
 and will blow your cover more easily. The lower your notoriety the better. Though after each mission 
 it will show you your current notoriety and give you an option to bribe civilians, police chief, 
 or just get a new identity. The notoriety system is a cool concept, but really wasn't created with 
 as much depth as it could of had.
  
  Now to actually playing the game. Hitman: Blood Money basically leaves you a choice on how you 
 perform the mission. You may choose to run n' gun or to be sneaky and try to get the best rating 
 possible. All the environments you come across are pretty unique, and really helps keep the interest 
 in the game. The gameplay is pretty much trial and error and a lot of it. The game does get frustrating 
 when your trying everything possible and failing miserably. It can get really tedious at times, 
 but when you finally complete the mission your stuck there is a sigh of relief and a sense of accomplishment. 
 The gameplay can be tedious as I stated above, but it is usually quite enjoyable. The shooting 
 in hitman is fun, but it could of been done a lot better. The third person aiming is a little too 
 sensitive and can make it hard to shoot people, and the first person aiming just doesn't look right, 
 but its easier to use in a shootout. With plenty of ways to kill people such as poisoning food, 
 strangling, or just putting a syringe in someones neck really makes the game more fun instead of 
 only being able to shoot. It can actually be quite funny. The missions are all fun the first time 
 you do them though some of them when you play them for the second time may be a bore, but they 
 shouldn't because you may just go about the mission a completely different way.
  
  The story of the fourth installment of hitman is an interesting one. Its told through cut-scenes 
 and actuall missions obviously. It starts off with a cut-scene with two people preparing to have 
 an interview. Which they talk about agent 47 and cloning in general. Then the interviewer asks 
 some questions and the guy he is interviewing has him read a folder on agent 47. Then it leads 
 you to he past on a hit that agent 47 previously did. Its an interesting way to tell a story with 
 flashbacks and stuff and fits the game well.
  
  All in all Hitman is a great stealth action game that is definitely worth playing though renting 
 it might be a good choice, because its a singleplayer only game and really isn't a game that should 
 be sixty bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game is a mix of stealth and action, mainly foccusing on stealth, you have 11 levels well actually 
 12 if you count the bounus one at the end. The gameplay is very well done as I said it's a mix 
 of stealth and action, you should mostly use stealth because if you run and gun the way through 
 your not going to get very far. Agent 47 has plenty of new things he can do, as usual you can change 
 outfits do discuise yourself from the enemys and thats all good fun and as far as the new stuff 
 is that he as more acrobatics to perform such as climbing haches on elevators, the gameplay overall 
 is great fun and the new stuff really blends well with the old stuff.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks great, the lighting is great and the animations are very well done and the frame-rate 
 is rock solid, the character models look good not great, the enimes look pretty generic and they 
 don't really look all that life like.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great as well, the VO are very good and the musical score always rocks and the ambient 
 sounds are off the hook.
  
  Value:
  The game is pretty good value, as I said before you have 12 levels and there all different, none 
 are anything alike which is good, and there open ended enough that you can beat the level in many 
 different ways, it would have been good if they added some type of co-op play or maybe some online 
 paly would have been nice as well.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is great fun, you have a very good story and I was always intrieged to find out more about 
 the characters in the game, the missions are very varied and I never lost interest in the game, 
 it's a very entertaining game.
  
  Overall:
  Overall if you were were a fan of Hitman before or if your new to the series you should check this 
 game out, it's worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  After lots of press and numerous delays, the fourth installment in the popular Hitman franchise 
 has finally arrived  and honestly, its hard to see what all that waiting was for. Although everything 
 people love about the series  namely, being able to tackle the brutal lifestyle of a hitman using 
 a non-linear structure in which you decide how to deal with any given situation  is alive and 
 well here, absolutely nothing has really changed, either. Some little improvements have been made 
 to the artificial intelligence, but overall, this is the same mix of solid stealth action gameplay 
 and flat shooting elements weve gotten from Hitman 2 and Contracts, and the decreased novelty 
 over time doesnt help things.
  
  You dont need to be familiar with the other Hitman games to jump into Blood Money, as the story 
 sort of explains the grand scheme of whats happened over the series and the opening level provides 
 ample instruction on how to operate your inventory, weaponry, and so on. The storys flashback 
 nature purely exists as a vehicle to jet Agent 47 around the world to a bunch of exotic locales 
  such as a rehab center, an island paradise, and an opera house  but it does the job.
  
  As previously mentioned, Blood Money is essentially an open-ended stealth action game with some 
 shooting elements thrown in there as well. The game will present you a fairly large environment 
 with one or several targets that you must kill, and after doing away with them, youll need to 
 exfiltrate. The fun comes from deciding just how youre going to accomplish this, as each mission 
 has a good number of different possible routes to and from your targets. You can kill an enemy 
 silently with your fiber wire, take his clothes, hide the body, and then walk amongst his compatriots, 
 them being none the wiser. Theres also a pretty good number of ballistic firearms, like M4s and 
 47s classic Silverballer pistols, if you want to shoot your way through the level, though youll 
 typically need to mix sneaking around and shooting things up to be successful.
  
  Some of 47s tricks are still as clever as they were back in Hitman 2; for example, there are some 
 situations where you may need to get past enemies with metal detectors. To bypass this, you can, 
 say, take out a deliveryman, assume his identity, place your weapons in the crate he was carrying, 
 and then pluck them out after youve made it through the detector. Youll also find lots of environmental 
 hazards you can use to cause mayhem, like placing a bomb on a winch holding a gigantic chandelier 
 and then sending the whole thing crashing down as your target strolls beneath it.
  
  But theres just not enough originality here to really appease fans of the series. Making things 
 fall on people is darkly satisfying at first, but virtually every level in the game has some sort 
 of winch attached to a heavy object in it, so it really loses its novelty quite fast (especially 
 when it doesnt even make sense, like a suspended piano that hangs in the middle of a seedy alleyway 
  what?) . Your targets also just cycle endlessly through a two-minute AI routine. For example, 
 in a mission that takes place in a rehab center, one of your targets will walk into a room, pass 
 under a large light fixture, sit down for several moments without anyone around, take a drink from 
 a bottle, and then walk out of the room and repeat the process. It wont take long to figure out 
 that you could either send the light crashing on top of his head or poison his drink while hes 
 not in the room. This uninterruptible pattern is frustrating. Some kind of dialogue tree system 
  where you can bluff and trick enemies into following you and such  would have been a much-appreciated, 
 more clever, and more immersive option, rather than just watching for patterns. 
  
  The convenience of most of your steps is also a little jarring. For example, a mission that takes 
 place during Mardi Gras in New Orleans requires you to take a flamboyant chicken costume from a 
 character. After trailing him through the crowded streets, he will always slink into an abandoned 
 alleyway with nobody else in it  a perfect piece of land to take him out. Hell even pause right 
 next to a dumpster so that youll have to move no further than five feet to dump the body. Also, 
 like other Hitman games, the straight shooting elements tend to fall pretty flat, mostly due to 
 the enemys dumbass behavior. Most enemies will just stand out in the open and fire in your general 
 direction  and one or two shots from a pistol is all it usually takes to put a stop to them. The 
 only way youll ever feel challenged in a shooter scenario is if they simply vastly outnumber you. 
 Most of the weapons lack a suitable punch, also, so the shootouts arent particularly satisfying 
 in that regard, either.
  
  Thats not to say Blood Money is a particularly bad game  far from it, really. Its all just way 
 too familiar, and after all the hype and delays associated with the game, its hard not to feel 
 let down by the sameness of it all. The game looks great, with busy and well-designed environments 
 (with some cool crowd scenes in some levels) and some solid animations as well; the sound is understated 
 but effective, with Jesper Kyds minimalist score once again stealing the show. Fans of previous 
 Hitman games who dont mind more of the same will find Blood Money worth checking out (especially 
 with HD graphics and unlockable achievements on 360) , but if youre looking for something new, 
 you can pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knights435
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This is absolutely the most fun game i've played so far on the 360. I have oblivion I have battlefield, 
 graw, burnout, and a few others and this game has some replay value. The game it self is pretty 
 short and a little too easy but just running through a board and shooting everyone is just as fun 
 as sneaking, hiding bodies, and causing fake accidents. The combination of fun ways to kill and 
 ragdoll effects make just shooting anyone a blast. Now I'm not someone to say that this game is 
 gonna be a favorite of some people while others might hate it and some people will hate it but 
 I myself would reccomend this game to anyone just looking for some long lasting fun if that is 
 you can get past things like bad ai and corny dialogue with some weird graphics but none of this 
 really gets in the way or stops this game from being so much fun. Strongly reccomend to anyone 
 who is looking for some fun and a lot of killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I've been following the Hitman series since I first tried Hitman 2 on the PS2. I had mixed feelings 
 about it at the time, and often ended levels in a bloodbath of fury. Well ... I think the direction 
 the series has taken with this latest edition shines more hope on what could have been a dying 
 series.
  
  The Good:
  - The graphical details in some of the background environments were applaudable.
  - The environment 
 in the game plays a big part in how you accomplish a mission. The better graphics on the 360 make 
 it easier to distinguish an interactive item versus a non-interactive item.
  - What could have been a disasterous control scheme (due to the many functions) turned out to be 
 very easy to follow and use.
  - Good A. I. in the game.
  - The concept of the game is rather unique in its delivery and style. He is a professional hitman 
 and they present him as such.
  - They added a lot more in the way of civilians in the environment and such.
  
  The Bad:
 
  - I think the series needs to better develop the ambience. Every environment, no matter how exotic 
 or civilized, seemed very stale. I'm not sure what they could do to liven it up ... maybe just 
 allow for more interactive items (like in Prey) .
  - For a game that is based around violence, the gore level is way too low. Shoot someone in the 
 face a few times with your .45 Ballers and it is still entact? Weak. Grow a pair.
  - A set-back with the good graphics is that they failed to include a lot of items that added diversity 
 to it. Like ... the PS2 version looks a bit more realistic because it's not so ... clean cut. Does 
 that make sense?
  - It would be extremely diffiicult to figure out how to get a silent assassin on some missions 
 without retrying them oh ... 20 times. The guidance you get within each mission is rather limited.
 
  - Touching on the efforts of completing a mission with a silent assassin rating ... there are 
 not many extras in the game. No unlockables, that I recall. Where's the drive and reward?
  - The civilians don't really often do much but stand there or walk from one place to another aimlessly. 
 How about give them something to do? They all seem bored.
  
  The Ugly:
  - Nice try with the Mardi Gras level ... but it must have been octuplet day. The crowd does nothing 
 more than walk in circles. I saw that level in the preview videos and I was telling my friend "oh 
 man, they've increased the amount of A. I. characters they can render." Sad truth I found out ... 
 it's really made up of about 6 different character models that repeat and repeat and repeat and 
 don't do anything to make them seem ... um ... real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del-boy48
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game having sold my other consoles and investing all time and money into my xbox 
 360 i havn't actually played the game on other platforms so i can't really complain about the price 
 difference. Playing the game was a blast one perticular part was having completed it on different 
 difficulties i found myself trying new ways of taking out the marks for example i purchased the 
 magnum bullet upgrade and a silencer for my silver ballers walked upto an undercover fbi van and 
 started blowing holes straight through the door when i opened it there was blood everywhere even 
 a pool of blood formed under the van which i thought was cool. It sounds pretty gory but i had 
 alot of fun with this game and i would recommend it to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I was apprehensive at first to pick up Hitman: Blood Money; However, I must say i was completely 
 proved wrong! this game has outstanding gameplay, a killer plot, and most of all what every good 
 killer needs about 6 different ways to murder your poor unknowing target! the game takes you through 
 a series of missions spanning from 2004 through the end of 2005 leading up to present day with 
 the "death" of our beloved Agent 47! The Cut-Scene's are amazing and tie in perfectly, I seriously 
 wonder sometimes how they make such great game such as this one. It's by far the best in the Hitman 
 series, and takes the cake when it comes to first rate assassination games. This game has it all 
 so if you want a good rent, or possibly a good buy check out Hitman: Blood Money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  In Hitman: Blood Money you are agent 47 a clone and a super assassin... just like out of a crappy 
 sci-fi/action movie. In Hitman you must kill people and steal stuff. Yeah it sounds fun... but its 
 really not that fun. Either you can play a mission several times over and figure out exactly how 
 to do it Or, (ignore the illusion of having many options to complete a mission) you can go guns 
 blazing, kill everybody and take what you need. The second is my personal favorite. The A. I in 
 this game is pretty bad. Sometimes while I'm playing guys like to start shooting me for no reason. 
 No I'm not doing anything wrong or in the wrong area, nor do i have a notoriaty built up... its 
 just bad programming. Sometimes I can kill someone in front of a bunch of people and get away with 
 it... it just depends on what mood the game is in. 
  
  I'm not saying the game is terrible... the graphics are decent for the hitman series and you can 
 shoot people with a nailgun in mission where you must assassinate the vice president. Yay. 
  
  Oh and the sound is ok i guess. 
  
  PS: everything in the game is cliche garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwoStepsBehind7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Every aspect makes the game better. when its from the music to the graphics this game is "the bomb." 
 I give this game a 10 for game play even after you beat the game u might have a disappointment 
 (cas it was so good) well kinda the ending is very odd all i can say is dont stop during the credits. 
 :) this game truly will keep you coming for more. like i said if you beat the game you dont stop 
 there you can still go back to all the missions and try to get a silent assassin ranking. a silent 
 assassin rating is where no one ses you and you can only kill people with a fiber wire, thats right 
 nothing els very very tricky. Me myself could only do it once. If u do silent assassin youll get 
 some achievement points at the end for your award. it just wont stop there either ull still have 
 to unlock all and upgrade all your weapons witch will also lead to achievements. Try beating the 
 game on hard no saves thats right no saves hole game without saving, just like the good old times 
 no memerycards nothin. Graphics I also give a 10 im not shure if i can remember but im shure this 
 game uses shader model 3.0 with all the extra things like HDR and depth in view. blood looks great 
 too makes you feel like your a real assasion, Just dont trip on it. sound is the last thing ill 
 talk about. this game has a great soundtrack or game score you might call it. kind of a gothicky 
 twist with classical. makes the game really chill when your right behind someone and there looking 
 over an edge then the music somehow gets louder and louder and cas its very lets say creepy music 
 very different from halo but close. halo kinda fast and upbeat makes it kinda heroic you know not. 
 well hitman has this kinda sorrow/death music fits in to the scenery as well. This games allot 
 more different than the other hitman this one your always in familiar places. all i can say is 
 at the end you will never ever think that it would end up that your at the...... not saying.
  well anyhow the game u can make it end short but if ya give urself a challenge "not just going 
 Awal and shooting every last person and witch some of you wont survive on medium mybe easy" it 
 should last 2 days straight before you even beat it. Im talking straight too as in never going 
 to bed and never getting off of it cas this game is so addicting. thats why this game gets 9.7. 
 value not the very best cas this game glitches. especially the rag doll effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrolator
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  
  Well, Hitman: Blood money, what can I say, Its a great game!! 
  But for reviewing it, I would like to go "area" by "area" 
  
  Graphics --  This, is a really 
 good part of the game, Huge enviroments with lots, and i mean lots, of people moving at once, and 
 theres no colapses or anything. 
  
  Sound --  Sound is really good to, the guns sound are really good, and its got a really good soundtrack. 
 Although voices aof enemies and all that are la... to "squigy" 
  
  Gameplay --  Really easy, three buttons, wich light up when you can interact with something. 
 
  
  Lenght --  Well, the game has got 13 missions, wich you can finish in about 8 hours, plus, its 4 
 difficulty levels, and free action, it would sum up some more hours, and you will replay it, belive 
 me. 
  
  Well thats all, as i said, really good game. 
  Lilibsayis
  
  
  So in that sence. This game is pretty damn good but the only thing it lacks is the number missions 
 and sometimes the AI tend to get a bit buggy. I personaly love how they added small effects by 
 the Ai in the background. And if u listen u can hear some funny stuff. The story line was awsome 
 and if u never played the pervious hitmans u still have a good idea what the storys about. The 
 game is fun and interesting. 
  Oh yah the club atmosphere is just awsome and u get alot of eye candy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood money is the best in the serise .
  
  GRAPHICS.
  
  Grapghics are great. All the environments and character models are 3D and are sharp and detailed. 
 Blood Money is quite impressive from a visual point of view. 
  
  GAMEPLAY.
  
  Many new additions have been added been added and everything has been tweaked. Controls are simple 
 and easy to play with. Triangle ,Circle and X are action buttons and at some situations they show 
 up on screen and tell you what to do. In this game, you can kill your victims, then take their 
 clothes and then hide their body in a dumpster. There are many places to hide dead people. You 
 can even throw enemies over railings and hold them as hostages.
  
  STELTH KILLING.
  
  Stelth killing is the best thing in this game. There are too many ways to kill your target .You 
 can place a bomb in briefcase or book or box and also in toolbox. you can injact poison in food, drinks 
 or in cake. The best rathing in this game is SILENT ASSASSIN . There is lots of ways too finished 
 level in SILENT ASSASSIN. Now i finished the all levels in SILENT ASSASSIN thats was tough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beenofalus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the Hitman series. With Blood Money, most of the quirks I had have been 
 removed. The movement has been polished, and the "boring mission" plague seems to have subsided.
 
  
  Blood Money adds some melee combat, which comes in handy. Rather than be forced to kill somebody 
 with SOMETHING and get stuck in a room with a bunch of cronies trying to shoot you to death, you 
 can defend yourself a little and at a minimum, punch your way out of a bad spot. The ability to 
 steal someone's gun is excellent too in a pinch. The ability to transfer from 1st to 3rd person 
 is also a great help in improving the common gripes most people had about movement or camera with 
 the previous games.
  
  The presentation of Blood Money is excellent, and highly cinematic. The music impresses, the story 
 told isn't nearly as boring as the other games had been. Also, the addition of having new items 
 unlock and upgrades you can purchase certainly jazzes up the preparation for your mission. Other 
 nice additions include being able to put bodies in containers or even in a garbage truck, and also 
 dumping them over railings or into the water. No longer do you need to drag people for hours on 
 end. The notoriety inclusion is cool, but not extremely useful. Though its presentation is interesting 
 enough that I found myself checking it out after every mission just to see how much damage I had 
 done.
  
  Hitman has always been an excellent idea, and for the most part, pretty well done. BM steps it 
 up and surely makes for a great time and definitely worth playing again, something a single-player 
 only game doesn't usually pull off.
  
  Gameplay - The missions are varied and unique. Though there is always the option of blasting your 
 way through it, it is certainly more difficult and requires more finesse than before on some missions. 
 The ways to perform your hits have also become more complex, but not quite as unbelievable as before. 
 Taking out a mother pool-side by rigging the barbecue grill to blow up in her face is a perfect 
 example of something fun, yet realistic, to do. Some of the missions were a little weird, but they 
 range enough in size and complexity to make the entire game a much more solid experience.
  
  Graphics - BM is impressive. There's a Mardi Gras party-type level where there's hundreds of 
 NPCs playing, with no slowdown even when I tried mowing down every one of them my bullets could 
 afford. The detail of the levels is extreme, and all of the visuals received a decent bump into 
 the next-generation.
  
  Audio - The musical score for the game is excellent. The voice acting also isn't as horrible as 
 most games are. The gun sounds are all great, and the digital experience is more than audibly pleasant.
 
  
  Difficulty - The game is not easy. There is a lot of planning required to pull off these missions 
 effectively, especially on the harder rankings. While nothing is impossible, don't expect to run 
 through this game quickly.
  
  Fun - BM is great. Some of the costumes you have to take are hilarious, ways to finish the missions 
 are great and original. There is a suprise hidden in the ending that I found very cool and fun 
 to do multiple times just for the vengeance.
  
  An excellent game for your collection! One of my favorites ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is in a class of its own. This open ended killer has always allowed freedom 
 in a world that always seems to constrict its players to a certain set path. Blood Money takes 
 the successes of its past installments and then brings a set of brand new ideas and abilities to 
 help keep the series fresh. By looking at the successes and failures of this installment, Io Interactive 
 will be able to build a better Hitman to come. 
  
  In this chapter of the Hitman series, you once again take the role of Agent 47. You are a clone, 
 that has been created for one purpose, killing. You quickly find out that the assignation agency 
 that you are a part is being threatened by an opponent group. They are taking your agency out and 
 you must slowly but surely put together some abstract pieces to find out what is going on and how 
 to survive. 
  
  You will start out in a tutorial mission that will have you given instructions step by step in 
 order to take out your target, the Swing King. It is a very straightforward mission that could 
 have been easily accomplished even without the babying that you are given. Even though that this 
 mission is quite simple, it will introduce you into all of the common moves that you will be using. 
 Climbing up poles, changing costumes, and climbing through windows are just a few of the common 
 moves that make your life much easier.
  
  There is no multiplayer, which is a disappointment, because there is so much that could have been 
 done with a multiplayer mode. Having two agents work together to complete a hit, or several hits. 
 Even a mode where to rival agents compete against one another to keep each other from attaining 
 a hit, would be a welcome improvement to the game.
  
  This new version of Hitman has introduced a new system of purchases and the use of money. Instead 
 of just being pushed to each mission with the same weapons that you had, you have the opportunity 
 to upgrade those weapons. At the end of each mission you get ranked on how you did during the mission. 
 The more silent and stealthy that you are during the mission, the better ranking you will get and 
 the more money that you will receive. During the course of the missions, you will also come across 
 unique weapons that if you finish the mission with, you will have the opportunity to use them in 
 future missions. This new system of purchasing upgrade for your weapons helps to add a better feeling 
 of actually being the Hitman and getting rewarded for a good job.
  
  Sadly the use of weapons during the game is a not so necessary commodity. During the missions, 
 you will always be able to accomplish said mission without the use of weapons, just the standard 
 set of equipment that you get on the outset of all missions regardless if you choose to bring weapons 
 with you or not. With that said, not all missions will be able to be accomplished without some 
 use of some sort of non-standard weapons for the Silent Assassin ranking which you strive to achieve 
 on every mission.
  
  The gameplay is varied enough that it does not seem to fall into a trap of being repetitive, but 
 it does seem to border that very thin line. Once you do your first mission on your own, you will 
 get the general idea of what you need to do for all of your future jobs. Although you do not have 
 to take the same amount of time or the exact same path for each job you will know what needs to 
 be done. 
  The graphics of the game are nothing to be that impressed with. You get what is really necessary 
 for the game, but it would not be said that the graphics are outstanding. The blood effects from 
 the shooting, stabbing, and such comes across pretty well. The rest of the special effects that 
 are not seen in every scene are done very well and it is nice to see them. Yet, every day items 
 and people seem to be pretty bland and you will seem to see the same people over and over. Levels 
 that are thick with people, especially a job in New Orleans, you will see a lot of the same people. 
 While there are a lot of the same people, it is quite impressive that there is no obvious lag that 
 represents itself. There are some minor glitches that present itself from time to time. It is somewhat 
 disappointing that a game that has such a good gameplay and effects that there would be so many 
 graphical flaws.
  
  The sound of the game has a very good and fitting selection of music. The more classical music 
 that comes with the small interludes is very good. The music really seems to pick up and really 
 seems to help set the mood, when the action gets very tight and hot. Unfortunately there seems 
 to be a rather repetitive tone with all of the music and melodies. All of the voices come in as 
 very distinct and unique, unless you have come across the guards and they all seem to have the 
 exact same voice, which gets rather annoying after a while. The sounds from the guns sound unique 
 and as you would expect to be. 
  
  The value of the game is outstanding. With the capability of each of the missions to be accomplished 
 in more than 1 way, there is a great incentive for going back through and playing the mission again. 
 The value of the game can be extended once again with the 4 different difficulty levels, where 
 the AI gets stepped up and you are presented with less saves, and less help from your map. All 
 in all you will be able to get 20+ hours of gameplay on your 60 dollars. If possible try and purchase 
 the game used or with someone else as the 20+ hours is all you will get and once you have done 
 the missions several times you will be done with it for good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I have to tell you a few things first. I am not a big fan of the sneak around type games. Second 
 I did not finish this game. So here is what I've got. From what I have played so far and really 
 won't play any more of, it is a little fun. I usually don't get into this type of game. They are 
 to slow and when you mess up you will have to restart to get the job done right. If you don't mind 
 that then the game is pretty fun. It may take a lot of messing around to figure out what you need 
 to do to get the job done. Once you know the board might take you 10 to 15 min. So the game so 
 far from what I have played, almost half, is short. The sound and grafix are very nice so that 
 part is enjoyable. The game play is good also. You can play in first and third person which is 
 nice. I think that if you have patience you will have fun with this game. It is not as intense 
 as the splinter cell type games but it is fun. Again I am not a big fan but I though it was pretty 
 good. If you like these type of games you will like this. It is real fun to be the Hitman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Now if youre the kind to stray away from violence and blood don't come near this game. But if 
 you are the sadistic type then you will be in heaven. Bloodmoney is simply one of the best games 
 ever made. It still has flaws but nothing that really takes away from the experience. 
  
  The story of Hitman: Bloodmoney is a continuance of our hero Agent 47 as he travels the world killing 
 people for money. The story is told in a series of flashbacks through a present day conversation 
 between a former FBI director and a reporter. I don't want to give a way much but I will say things 
 don't appear as they seem.
  
  Graphics wise the game is very good looking. Although not the best looking game out there it does 
 not fail to "wow" you here and there. The Physics on the other hand are really off. The ragdolls 
 are very unrealistic. They often do strange things such as fly backwards after being shot in the 
 foot. The sound sets the mood for the entire game. From the music to the ambience noise, you can 
 always tell what kind of situation your in. It fits the visuals very well.
  
  The game play is what makes Bloodmoney shine above the rest. The missions are extremely non-linear. 
 You can play the same level ten times and play it ten different ways. This adds to the hours upon 
 hours of time you will spend playing the game. You are never short of different ways to kill your 
 target from sniping, bombs, shooting, "accidents", strangling, poisoning, and other creative techniques.
 
  
  But the game play is not perfect. Often you will find yourself saving a lot. Because the game is 
 basically trial and error. You save, you screw up, you load and try again until you get it and 
 then save again. This is the most obvious hinder to your enjoyment. I also wish there would have 
 been more levels and some Xbox360 Live.
  
  So overall the game is one of the best out there and worth your money. Although it has a few flaws 
 like I said it is nothing that lowers the value of the game. That is Hitman: Bloodmoney in a nutshell.
 
  
  Oh and PS: Don't forget to move the analog stick up and down during the end credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I hate stealth games. More than anything, it's the whole prospect of being discovered by enemies 
 and having to start over that annoys me. I don't mind the sneaking.... creeping up behind an enemy 
 and choking him with a fiberwire is very satisfying in a game. It's just the hiding that bothers 
 me. However, I loved Hitman: Blood Money so much that the aspects of stealth gaming that I can't 
 stand didn't seem nearly as bad as usual, because the game was just pure fun from start to finish.
 
  
  First of all, this was my first Hitman game, and after reading reviews of the first three, I can't 
 wait for the next one (and there WILL be a next one, the game ends on a nice cliffhanger) because 
 it seems they only get better as they go along. There are 11 missions to complete, plus the opening 
 one (which doesn't really count because you can be as ruthlessly violent as you want and it doesn't 
 matter because your notoriety doesn't count in the first level) . Each one is incredibly unique 
 and take place in a very nice variety of environments ranging from a rich California neighborhood 
 to a snowy mansion in the Rockies to a riverboat on the Mississippi to a huge Mardi Gras celebration, 
 and more. Each of the levels is well-designed and allows you to complete the mission in a variety 
 of ways. The voice acting and characters are great (I can't wait to see the Hitman movie, Vin Diesel 
 should be awesome as 47) , and the environments look great in HD. There are lots of great weapons 
 to use, and a variety of guns if that's the way you want to play the game. Although, I'd say 90-95% 
 of my kills came from either the poison syringe or the fiberwire. You can also rig accidents, like 
 falling chandeliers and pyrotechnics that "accidentally" burn one of your victims to death. As 
 I said before, there's a wide variety of guns to choose from, but if you want to make the most 
 amount of in-game money to buy upgrades and do your missons "right", you'll probably never use 
 them. However, if you really want to, you can run and gun every mission in the game and still get 
 through everything. I just think it's not the way the game was meant to be played and is far more 
 satisfying when you have to work for your kills.
  
  The storyline is pretty good, and is told through a series of flashbacks by a man who claims to 
 have killed Agent 47. Gradually working its way up to the present, the game finally ends at Agent 
 47's funeral, when.... uh, lemme let you find out for yourself. I'll just say that the game's final 
 "mission" is pure fun and took me longer than most of the other full-fledged missions in the game 
 to figure out how to beat. Anyway, this game is a lot of fun and would be a great way to pass the 
 summer gaming drought, especially on the 360.
  
  Pros: Fun gameplay that makes every kill very satisfying, great storyline, good variety of weapons, 
 environments are great on the 360 in HD and quite varied, interesting characters, the last mission 
 is worth the effort
  
  Cons: Character animations could be better, more missions would've been nice, missions can be difficult 
 to figure out without a walkthrough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The cool, calm and collective bald head Agent 47 is back with a vengeance. This time in Hitman 
 Blood Money, Agent 47 finds out that there has been a mysterious someone following his every move 
 for the past year or so. It isnt until the end of the game that Agent 47 starts to catch on to 
 what is going on, but even by then it seems like it is too late. 
  
  The first Hitman game really didnt appeal to me that much. I played it for a couple of hours and 
 then I got rid of it. As far as this installment of the game goes, I was surprised by how smooth 
 the game play seemed to be. One thing I found I found interesting was the fact that you have different 
 ways of completing missions. There is the ideal way of playing the mission where you use stealth 
 to take people out and then hide their bodies so there is no trace. Or you could go into the mission 
 guns blazing, taking out whoever gets in your way. The latter isnt the smartest way to go because 
 you wont be rewarded properly and your notoriety will sky rocket. The more notoriety you accumulate 
 the harder it is going to be to complete missions because people will begin to recognize you no 
 matter what your disguise is. At the end of every mission you are given the option to spend money 
 to knock your notoriety down. 
  
  As many people know the Hitman series is all about sneaking around and strangling people in order 
 to get a disguise. Blood Money sticks to that formula. This time around Agent 47 visits different 
 areas around the USA. There are missions based in New Orleans (Marti Gras) , LA, Mississippi and 
 Las Vegas. There are many different weapons and supplies in the game. You can choose what type 
 of weapon you want to use for each mission. Plus there is an option not to actually shoot your 
 targets each mission. Agent 47 can rig certain things to make the enemies deaths look like it was 
 an accident. 
  
  The graphics are a little disappointing for the 360. Dont get me wrong, they arent horrible; 
 they just dont look like it is a next generation title. One impressive thing about the graphics 
 is the environments. The Mardi Gras mission in particular was impressive because of the number 
 of people on that level. The New Orleans streets were full with NPCs all walking around and doing 
 their own thing. Another impressive mission is Dance With the Devil, where 47 hits up a rave. There 
 seems like there are hundreds of people on the dance floor and the animations are still very smooth. 
 
  
  As far as the sound goes the voice acting is very good. Agent 47 actually speaks in this and his 
 voice definitely fits him. I also enjoyed some of the conversations that the NPCs would have during 
 certain missions. 
  
  There are a few gripes I had with the game. For starters, it seemed that the game was just a little 
 too hard for my liking. It was almost a little too challenging. One thing that made the game hard 
 was the fact that the levels just are huge. In a way it is good but then again there where times 
 where I was confused on where I was supposed to go throughout the level. Another problem was the 
 AI. There were a couple of occasions where I shot an enemy and bodyguards would run in and just 
 stand around while I was still in the room. It was surprising because I was ready for them to start 
 shooting, but they never did. 
  
  The replay value is very high. There are many different achievements in this game that you can 
 accomplish. After the achievements are taken care of there are upgrades for all of the weapons 
 in the game. Plus you can replay missions to see how stealthy you really can be. 
  
  In conclusion, Hitman Blood Money is a game that no doubt is the best in the series. Although it 
 might not have that next generation look, the game play surely makes up for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the best game in the Hitman series, it has alot of new features but the 
 gameplay is still the same compare to the other Hitman games. It can get very frustrating at times 
 when you want to get the silent assasin rank. The cops seem to be everywhere and I hate it when 
 you get busted for throwing a body in the garbage dump or a wooden bin. Either then those the game 
 is very fun and great, I loved most of the levels but some seemed boring like one mission you have 
 to kill six sailors and the captain and take some picture in the captains safe. There are alot 
 of new cloths to wear and a bunch of new weapons to use to take out you're targets. I loved the 
 new accident feature some of them are funny and some are insane, but the one I loved the most is 
 when you mess around with the pyro on a level and the girl just get's burned to death by the fire. 
 This game has an amazing ending which I won't spoil for you but it's one of the best endings I 
 have ever seen in video games. If you're a fan of the other Hitman games you will not be dissapointed 
 with this game, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This was the first ever Hitman game that i have played and now Im wondering to myself why i havent 
 been playing the other ones. This game is awesome and as i said before this game is so real that 
 it scary honestly after you finish with rookie mode things start to get harder like people start 
 to notice you or say in one of the difficulties you have to leave no evidence that means pick up 
 your gun shells, i havent personally done it but Ive heard its possible and one that is most 
 seen and heard of is that you cant run when they look at you so yes that means you have to walk 
 and at some points it does get frustrating with its slow pace but it pays off.
  
  The Good: Awesome graphics, makes you think you just cant go run and gun, sounds of the gun going 
 off are nice, able to change cloths to get to certain places, its a great game and it will take 
 you some time to beat.
  
  The Bad: Can get slow at times, Very Frustrating if you do not know what to do, and it seems that 
 the cops are every where.
  
  Achievements: Hard
  
  If you are looking for a good shoot'em up game go for this it might be slow at times but it makes 
 you think unlike some other games and very satisfying when a mission is complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt for me. Thats it. Stealth games are not for me i need action and lots of it. The 
 gameplay is way too slow for my tastes. You spend way to much time in closets waiting to kill people. 
 Every level is like get in closet and then kill target. Over and over again. Not literally obviously 
 but gets old fast. I needed a walkthrough to complete levels. This game is way to much trial and 
 error. The graphics are subpar. The sound is ok. The voice acting is great but everything else 
 sucks. No multiplayer = no value. Maybe im being harsh but this game isnt for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albanatter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best 360 games and its like my 3rd best game after GRAW and oblivion its 
 a very cool game the best part is the story i wasent expexting a hitman game to have a story like 
 this it has alot of twists it just had 1 big problem the loading times but i can bare those and 
 other then that its the best hitman game to date ton of ways to beat missions and very chalenging 
 to get all acheivments also graphics are really nice this game is worth buying and it has great 
 replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Dragula
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me just say i really want to like this game. For the most part its pretty well 
 thought out, with diverse and reasonably large levels. there are many ways to do each mission, 
 but to get the most out of it, the game rewards stealth and as few kills as possible. Unfortunately 
 play it in this way for a short time and you will rapidly be amazed by the many bugs that plague 
 the AI. Gaurds shoot you for simply climbing onto boxs (which is automatic, simply waking into 
 a box by accident can result in you being killed) . One level sees you posing as a guest in a wedding. 
 Its not a far stretch of the imagination for you to imagine getting lost and ending up in the wrong 
 room at a party is it? The result is the gaurds from all over the level being alerted and coming 
 to shoot you. The problem is the gaurds only have one response to you, which is shoot you. They 
 normally give you 5 seconds to move from the 'forbidden' area and after that they just kill you. 
 Yes, thats always happening to me when im out and about. Yet other times they do not react at all, 
 to pools of blood on the floor or bullet holes in the wall. I was playing it the other day and 
 as i was about to exist a lift i accidently climbed into the lift hatch in full view of the gaurd. 
 This should of been suspicious to anyone but did he search me? or ask me what i was doing? No he 
 simply said his stock response 'hey you shouldnt be in there'. When you have killed somedoby you 
 can place their bodies in chests/boxes but even this is sloppily done. For a start you can only 
 put one body in a huge chest, and even though you can hide in closets you cannot put bodies in 
 them. This is highly frustrating as you can spent a long time preparing for a kill only to have 
 nowhere to hide the body. CCTV cameras are a threat you must avoid, yet even if it only see's 47's 
 legs its enought to identify him.
  
  This is not next generation! Think about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money was a great game in the series. The missions were different enough that the 
 game didn't ever feel slow or monotonous. Each missions took place in a different part of the country 
 and the graphics were phenomenal!! The game play is so real that the reality of the levels can 
 sometimes cause a great deal of confusion because there are so many choices for the gamer to make. 
 I would have been lost without the game guide. I would not have been able to beat the game without 
 it becuase so much of the game relied on timing and hiding that I did not know about until I read 
 the guide. Hitman: Blood Money continues a great story that is supported with amazing graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Hitman is the newest game in the hitman series. I never played a hitman game untill achievement 
 points came along so i decided to try this game out my impressions on the game was that it was 
 mind numbingly HARD!!! I was trying to get silent assassin ratings and it was one of the hardest 
 things i've ever had to do in a videogame. If you make it all the way to the end of the level and 
 then fire one bullet or make one mistake you will lose your silent assasin rating.
  
  The gameplay is very fun you can either run out guns blazing or sneak your way through the levels 
 trying not to get detected once. The only problem i've ever hard with it is the AI is very stupid. 
 The graphics are solid and look very good in high definition. 
  
  The voice acting and the in-game music are both very good in this game. There isn't much replay 
 value though after you finish the game a few times you will get bored and might not even try to 
 get more achievements.
  
  I recomend this game to any stealth game fans or to any achievements junkies (even though they 
 are pretty hard in this game) . But i wouldn't recomend this game to anyone who doesn't enjoy a 
 very hard game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Being able to play as a professional killer is a fantastic idea for a videogame, hence the popularity 
 of the Hitman series. However, while the previous games have been hugely enjoyable (Hitman 2 being 
 the best of the three) , they weren't quite as good as they should have been and were often plagued 
 with some serious AI problems. Is Blood Money the Hitman game we were all waiting for?
  
  Well, yes and no. Blood Money is the best in the series, although it doesn't do an awful lot different 
 to all the previous games. The aim of each mission is more-or-less exactly the same as before; 
 you are required to sneak into a certain location, kill one or more targets and escape (although 
 more complex missions require you to retrieve certain items or protect certain people) . This basic 
 structure works incredibly well thanks to a fantastic variety of locations for you to visit and 
 huge, open areas in which you can perform your hit in any way you see necessary. For example, in 
 order to achieve a 'silent assassin' rating you might want to make your target's death look like 
 an accident. On the other hand, if you'd rather make your hit quick and effective then you could 
 simply snipe the target from a safe distance. It's this freedom of choice that makes Hitman: Blood 
 Money so much fun to play (you can even take the 'deranged slayer' approach and murder everyone 
 in sight) .
  
  The graphics are good, although they're not up to Xbox 360 standards (but they're much better than 
 the PS2 and Xbox versions) . There are some graphical glitches such as some appalling clipping when 
 you create a pile of dead bodies.
  
  As much fun as the game is to play, there are one or two problems. The worst of these is the AI, 
 which is often frankly insulting. While it has been improved since the original Hitman game (characters 
 will no longer be completely oblivious to weapons simply thrown on the ground) , enemies are still 
 happy to charge into your line of fire and often act like total, utter morons. For example, once 
 I burst into a room and murdered several people with a shotgun. I then simply threw my weapon on 
 the floor and waited for more guards to come after me. When they finally turned up they simply 
 stood there scratching their heads and whispering things like "who could have done this?", even 
 though I was standing next to a shotgun and a pile of dead bodies. Clever guards.
  
  Despite this, Blood Money is still a hugely enjoyable game to play and has absolutely loads of 
 replay value (especially if you want to unlock all of the achievements) . Highly recommeneded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I picked up hitman with very high expectations and while not every one of them was met, I would 
 still recommend this game. The gameplay itself is great. The graphics are improved but at times 
 it can be hard to tell it is a next gen game. There aren't any features that jump out and make 
 you say to yourself WHOA!!!!! but there is nothing to make you disappointed either. Tons of weapons, 
 different ways to kill and an abundance body-disposing areas and techniques makes this game extremely 
 entertaining. It is a good step up from the original version (s) but I can find room for improvement.
 
  
  I would suggest renting it and sitting down and playing it. The levels, if you play them correctly 
 should take anywhere from 20-60 minutes so make sure you have time to play if you are going to 
 play. $60 or even $50 is a hefty price tag for a game with no online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Another solid installment in the Hitman series, but the first one to hit next generation consoles. 
 Hitman: Blood Money is a continuation of Agent 47's adventures in the killing business. This time 
 around the game takes a little darker approach as 47 is shown as being more of a killer than a 
 professional. BUT the game succeeds for that reason.
  
  The games visuals and audio are pretty outstanding. They don't necessarly take full advantage of 
 the hardware they have to work with. But they definely get the job done. 
  
  The game is a success but not a huge one, reccommended for fans of the series. But definely not 
 for impatient ones, the game is redicliously hard in parts and it definely takes some thinking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Licossa
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the newest addition to the Hitman series, the last one was Hitman: Contracts, 
 a "good but not great" game.
  
  Perhaps due to the next-gen Xbox 360, Hitman: BM excels at nearly everything, but no one thing 
 is perfect.
  
  Pros
  
  - The graphics are very good, the blood splattering and hit detection are amazing. Mowing someone 
 down and seeing their shirt sprout bloody holes is great fun. Bringing the feature back from the 
 original Hitman was a great idea. 
  
  - Classic Hitman gameplay, multiple ways to kill a target, disguises, it's all there. If you like 
 the Hitman series, you'll appreciate the pseudo-sandbox style gameplay. If you like third-person 
 shooters, stealth games, or just want a good "be a hitman" style game, than check this out.
  
  - The sound is good, but not great, some of the guns sound a bit weak without changing some 
 audio options around. The music is good, but nowhere near the quality of the soundtrack of Hitman 
 2 and Hitman: Contracts.
  
  - The guns all behave like they should, the new feature of customizing your guns is rather fun, 
 but the fun ends quickly when you max out the weapon.
  
  Cons
  
  - The ragdoll is just like it is in Hitman 1, nearly nothing has changed. They still do the, what 
 I have named, "dead flop", where the enemy dies and splays out all of his/her limbs. I'm pretty 
 sure the ragdoll weight is what causes it, but it looks rather silly. Not a huge negative, but 
 a negative nonetheless.
  
  - Compared to the previous Hitman games the levels are really lacking. They are good, but nothing 
 like the classic missions of the old ones. There are a few really awesome ones, but the rest fall 
 short. 
  
  - The game just doesn't last that long. Even on the hardest difficulty, it will only take you a 
 week or two to finish the game. The game was awesome while it lasted though.
  
  - The gun sounds are a bit weak, as mentioned before.
  
  All in all, if your a Hitman fan like 
 me, this is/was a must-buy, if your not, I'd give it a rental and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifleman91
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  now i have been playing hitman blood money ever since hitman 2: silent assassain. ive loved every 
 single one to since the release of hitman 2. wats so good about this game is when u start the first 
 mission u imdeietly notice the amazing grafix, u start out on a broken down dock outside an imusent 
 park that was closed ddown due to the ferris wheel collapsing killing several people. the settings 
 in each level are amazing and range from luxuary ferry boats that go down the georgian rivers to 
 huge political buildings. such as the mission in the mardi gra level, taking on the role the streets 
 are packed and have cops on every corner making it easy if ur a true hitman, or terribly hard as 
 there are a ton of witnesses. each mission is fun to play and the gamplay doenst really get tiring 
 due to the AI never going or doing the sme thing with the exception of your target and some patrolling 
 gaurds. The AI is a little dumb in some spots but most of the time they will be consistent and 
 always keep an eye on u if they think ur up to sumthing. the new thing to the game is th newspaper 
 after each mission. the news paper is basically.... well a newspaper for the morning after ur mission. 
 it tells roughly how many shots u fired as well as how many people were killed, how they were killed 
 and if u read close enuf u can see wat ur rank was. ( normally if u fire afew shots with great accuracy 
 or use poison instead of a gun, ull get a silent assassin rank.) the controls are simple and the 
 learning curve is easy but mission where time is of the essence can be annoying your first time. 
 wats also new is the ability to customize ur guns just like a real hitman. there are 5 weapons 
 u can customize such as the trademark silverbalers, an m16, a sniper rifle, a shot gun and an smg. 
 the mods come in a variety so if ur more of a silent killer, but the 4xscope and the silencer. if 
 ur a sniper u can take off the wood and put lighter pieces to make u run faster, if u wanna go 
 in and spray and pray... instead of a magazine, buy a drum for that m16. all in all the game is 
 amazing, its up there, in m y opinoin, as one of the best 360 games out on the shelves behind call 
 of duty 2 and GRAW. if u have the 60 bux im telling u buy this game u wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dingbar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  The game is excellent, and looks excelent on the 360. Every action is fluidly animated, and when 
 47 riddles some poor fool with bullets, the gun sounds excellent, it rocks back in 47's hand like 
 it really would (I'd know, I've shot a .45) , the victim is knocked around just like he would be 
 in real life... I guess, personally I have never killed anyone. The graphics in this game are bar 
 none the best I have ever seen in a video game. Despite its beautiful appearance, blood money has 
 a few flaws, when playing this game be ready to use a game guide, or start over, and over again. 
 It takes a little poking around to figure out where to go, and what 47's options are. The ponts 
 of interest on the map do help, but I reccomend taking a look at all of them before deciding what 
 to do. There is no getting around it, this game is really hard, getting through a mission without 
 acquiring notariety points is very difficult. "Run 'n' Gun" tactics don't work well in this game, 
 mostly because of the aiming system, which makes it damn near impossible to switch from target 
 to target quickly and efficiently. It takes a little while to get uded to the control scheme, I 
 found it helpful to go to the hideout and blast away at targets for a while, ammunition is on the 
 table near the only door out of the room. Even once a player has adjusted somewhat the aiming system 
 can be frustrating, as often 47 will need to gun down a couple security gaurds who are in the same 
 room as his victim. The details vary a bit, but the bottom line is 47 dies. There is a first person 
 view which the player can switch to, which is helpful when it comes to mowing down security gaurds. 
 This is by no means a first person shooter. It is far easier to be quiet and patient than to go 
 in guns blazing. I never use the automatic weapons the game provides (an M4 and a TMP submachine 
 gun) , because they attract the attention of every enemy on the map, and they are hard to use. It 
 is much easier to distract a gaurd and get past him, or to isolate one and strangle him or pop 
 him with the pistol than it is to mow them down with automatic fire. Generally, the most useful 
 weapons in the game are the pistol and the sniper rifle. The pistol is good for quitely popping 
 gaurds once upgraded with a silencer and low velocity ammo. The sniper rifle is nice because the 
 player can pop bad guys from a safe spot, though scope drift makes it challenging to get a headshot. 
 Using disguises is essential. If you feel up to a challenge, try and beat a mission using only 
 a shotgun. It is nearly impossible to get through the game without changing uniforms at least once. 
 Missions are open ended and there are many ways to do the deed. Generally the easiest and least 
 noticable way is to make an accident happen. I like to get into the game a little so for each mission, 
 I will do the hit in the way I think the client would want it done. For example, in 'A vinage year", 
 the second mission, in which 47 is hired to kill the learder of a cartel and his son, and make 
 it look like a drug hit, I made it look like a drug hit. I was deliberately sloppy, and when I 
 was done, the place was a bloodbath. It took me many many tries to get this right. The only other 
 problem I have with the game is the ammount of waiting around. Honestly, I'm surprised 47 edoesn't 
 bring a book or knitting needles with him, maybe even the latest issue of Guns & Ammo. 47 seems 
 to spend a lot of time hiding in closets, waiting for people to arrive, and so on. However, the 
 addictive nature of the game keeps the player coming back for more, and once a player sucessfuylly 
 completes a mission, there is a huge sense of satisfaction. ANother great part about the game is 
 that all the weapons are entirely customizable. I use silenced, scoped, fully automatic .45 caliber 
 pistols, a silenced sniper rifle with an improved scope, and for messy work, a modified shotgun. 
 Every weaplon in the game can be tailored to the player's personal style, and there is more than 
 enough cash available for upgrades. I highly recommend trying different tactics on different missions, 
 not because it is easier, simply because it is fun. Thats why I chose to do the mission the way 
 I though somebody would handle it in real life. Notoriety is another challenge in the game, I try 
 to keep my score at zero, which means I leave no witnesses, regardless of whether they are civilians 
 or not. If notoriety is acquired, it is easy to pay people off after the mission ends. All in all, 
 the games flaws are made up for by its immersive and addictive gameplay, this is one hell of a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I can sum this great title up in one sentence, a more violent splinter cell! no but seriously, 
 the 360 makes this game look really great. very fun gameplay. full of suprises. great replay value. 
 i highly reccomend to any gamer! you can treat this game like a strategic masterpiece or an fps 
 and anything in between. the game isnt too long, wich is the only real flaw. yet, with the replay 
 value, gathering weapons and working your way from a terrorist to a silent assasian should prove 
 to be equally fun and challenging to any gamer that knows how to use a weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocturnalThoth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Continuing the missions through the bald genetic assassin, Hitman: Blood Money offers a better 
 gaming experience than most third person games. The levels are varied and offer different settings 
 in which you have to kill different people.
  
  The ability to switch between third person and first person adds to the gameplay since you can 
 switch between the two when needed. If you blow your cover and need to shoot your way out the ability 
 to move to first person makes controlling the action easier. Upgrading weapons makes also adds 
 some great options for later missions and even replaying earlier missions. 
  
  Of course stealth is the point of the game and this is where the game really shines. Infiltrating 
 using disguises and guile to get close to the targets and make the kill. Providing a variety of 
 methods in which to accomplish the task adds a great level of realism. Overall the game is a great 
 deal of fun and provides some interesting levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnager
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I rented this a week ago and it is an awesome game. I wasnt a big fan of the series but just watching 
 the gameplay videos of the game that I saw, I had to play it. The story is really really good and 
 holds a crazy twist at the end. The new things added to this game that werent in the previous games 
 are nothing bad. The customization of the weapons you can have in the game is probably one of my 
 favorite parts of the game. In the beginning of the game you have your always trusty Silverballers 
 that to a lot of damage and are really good as they are, but towards the end of the game have a 
 scope, lazer sight, huge silencer, extended clips, etc. make it all the more better. Killing people 
 secretly is extremely satisfying and pleasing. One level in the game (very minor spoiler) is where 
 you have to kill the Vice President. You actually have to infiltrate the White House and carry 
 out your assignment. When you take out your fully customized sniper rifle and pop one in the back 
 of the VPs head and leave the White House without haveing anyone in the know... you really just 
 say "That was awesome." But of course, you can go run and gun which is also extremely fun too. 
 I reccomend going through the game first covert and then when you go back, just run and gun with 
 your fully customized weapons that you have been changing throughout the game. The locales in the 
 game are really great and have huge variety. The visuals are great besides the fact you can see 
 the same persons face quite a few times in a level. The physics are really funny. When you die, 
 you begin to go in slow motion and the screen starts to turn red, basically giving you the last 
 chance to kill as many people as you can before you fall to the ground. I'm not sure why, but when 
 you shoot people in the head while dying, they go FLYING... i mean FLYING. I shot this guy on the 
 stairs when I was about to die, and he flies up and lands on the second level on the ledge behind 
 him. I recommend anyone who is a fan of the series to buy it because it does have quite a bit of 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I was quite hyped about this game a few weeks before it was released and pre-ordered my copy for 
 release day!
  I payed 50 for this title and i was slightly disappointed with it.
  It is a good game however the first time playing, but once completed you'll have a couple of retries 
 of some of the levels but thats about it.
  I think maybe it wasn't worth 50 probably more around 30 but its well worth playing if you haven't 
 done so.
  Difficulty wise i thought this game was just about right to slightly easy.
  Graphics were also fairly impressive.
  In general worth a play but look for it second hand or 
 cheap because there's no multiplayer and you'll finish it relatively quickly and get bored once 
 you have completed it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is really fun, but can get really repetative on some levels. Every level has 
 a bunch of different ways to face it, which can get really confusing or difficult. Doing missions 
 a certain way can get really hard, especially since everything your trying to get to is so heavily 
 guarded and you need certain outfits to get by them. Anyway, having to walk through the same hall 
 ways over and over can get really annoying and boring since if you kill anybody and someone sees, 
 every guard in the level comes to kill you. the controls are pretty simple. you really dont have 
 to do anything because you just walk up to whatever you want to climb or jump off of, and it does 
 it for you. The graffics look pretty good, there a few draw ins like on character textures, but 
 nothing big. There no big replay value in this unless you want to beat it on all difficulties to 
 get the achievements, but i wouldnt reccomend this except to true fans, rent first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Soothing relaxing and downright cold blooded. This game will have you working for those achievement 
 points so don't expect it to be easy. You start at the easiest level in the game ofcourse for all 
 you that never played it. There really is something to be said for the stealth, well duh this is 
 where splinter cell started. There are some really cool things you can do to complete a mission. 
 Lets just say you can do it how you like, if killin everything in sight is your thing then go for 
 it. But if planting a mine in a briefcase is your thing well your gonna go far son. I own this 
 game and will not trade it in, or my girlfriend will go agent 47 on my ass. happy goring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenday
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  O M F G ! This game completly owns. By far the best Hitman game so far. Sweet guns, especiallt 
 the pistols which you start of with, which is weird because usually the things you start off with 
 suck. I love the other weapins you have, suringes, machine guns, anoth gun of you choice (Sniper, 
 Shotgun or another machine gun) , your choker thingy, whatever you call it! It's fun the way you 
 can climb pipes, jump boxes, do all sorts of stuff! My favourite thing is not just killing people 
 with a silenced gun, but headbutting them, or choking them, or even throughing them into the ocean 
 or off a cliff! The gameplay is awsome, sweet graphics nice sound affects, you'd think you were 
 in realy life! This game is a MUST get sell your Family to get it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is what Contracts was trying to acomplish but failed. Blood Money has an interesting 
 plot that picks up later in the game and leads to an unexpected ending. The game's controls are 
 great once you're used to them. The element that makes this game unique is the plethera of ways 
 to carry out a "contract". You can use stealth, impersonation, or........ kill any thing that moves. 
 It's this freedom that makes the game addicting and keeps the replay value high. The achievements 
 are not all that hard to earn but you will need to beat the game on nearly every difficulty to 
 attain them. The customizable weapons are simply awsome and new to the series. After every mission 
 you will earn money based on how the "contract" was carried out. The less wittnesses to the hit 
 and the stealthier the the assassination was carried out will determine the amount of money that 
 is earned. This money can be used to upgrade your bald assassin and his weapons . This is the main 
 addition to the series and is implimented very well. The missions cover many diiferet locals such 
 as a redneck wedding in a swamp to mardi gras. A low point is that while the graphics are smooth 
 they could be better. Another thing is while the gamplay is fun it is essentially the same as all 
 the other Hitman games just pefected. If you're interested in a new game that is different than 
 other action or stealth games this one may be for you, but if you're bored of the hitman series 
 this is esentially a the same game with new levels (better ones) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjgoku80
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  I thought I would never have this much fun with fiberwire. Hitman comes back with Blood Money to 
 add to the series. This time you have more control of the events around you. You can make it look 
 like an accident or just go in straight for the kill, either way you will ge the job done. The 
 fact that there are more factors to it like: leaving evidence, witnesses, cameras makes getting 
 the job done that much sweeter. But you better be careful becuause if you end up n the paper you 
 have to work that much harder not to get caught. A definate must have if your into this sort of 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I reviewed this game a few days ago and rated it a middle-of-the-road title. I wasn't 
 overly impressed with it. However, since that review I have logged in a considerable amount more 
 time with the game and have seen more of what the game has to offer. While I still contend that 
 the game is not a stellar hit, I will concede that the art of sneaking around and taking out people 
 is a pretty cool one indeed. Why do I feel the need to re-rate this game? Well, because, in all 
 fairness, I think I underscored it without giving it a real chance. Hey, we all make mistakes right? 
 Here's a good, solid review after putting in alot of time on the title. On to the Game Breakdown:
 
  
  Graphics: They're not stellar, but they're not bad. I'd say middle of the road on this one. Guns 
 can look particulary nice in the menu screen, if you're picky like me anyway. Character models 
 look good, although many NPC's look the same. It's no wonder you can sneak by if you're wearing 
 the same clothes. I guess the barcode on 47's head doesn't get noticed easily...
  
  Sound: Not very good. Guns sound average, but the music score is pretty bad. Voiceovers are par 
 for the course. You won't be spellbound by the characters talking, but you just might get hooked 
 by the vicious gameplay. 
  
  Control: There are some issues here. The biggest is trying to strangle someone while walking behind 
 them. Usually, this results in punching them in the back of the head. If this happens, its time 
 to restart the mission.. unless you enjoy mowing through non-stop waves of bad guys who will most 
 likely kill you. Sneaking is easy enough by just holding the left trigger. I liked the way Hitman 
 automatically jumps ledge to ledge if you are close enough.. it's a nice touch.
  
  Gameplay: Go slow. That's the best advice I can give you on this one. Much like Ghost Recon, trying 
 to run and gun here will get you laid out pretty quick. Discretion, as far as Hitman is concerned, 
 is the greater part of valor. It does get annoying when you die during a mission and, unless you've 
 saved your game at some point during the missoin, you have to start it all over. There are no checkpoints, 
 so it's up to you to save the game. And on harder difficulty levels, you won't be able to save 
 at all... so don't mess up. As frustrating as it can be to play this game, when you're hard work 
 finally pays off and you get that kill you've been working towards, it does have a very satisfying 
 feeling. Agent 47 is one cool cat, but he's also one vicious S. O. B. with a severe mean streak. 
 I played Hitman: Contracts back when on the Xbox, and I was terribly let down. I'm glad to say 
 that Blood Money corrected many of the issues that plagued that game. The A. I. is still questionable 
 though, but it's not as bad as other titles I have played. 
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a slump for 360 software right now. If you're like me, you're willing 
 to play almost anything just to have a new game that doesn't suck horrendously. If you're looking 
 for a stealth adventure that involves alot of patience and willingness to learn, Hitman could be 
 the game for you to play until Gears of War or another AAA title comes out. I'd go ahead and give 
 it a rental before buying if I were you, but if you are a Hitman veteran, I'd say just go ahead 
 and pick it up. It's the best in the series as far as I can tell. All in all, not as disappointing 
 as I originally thought. Sorry for the premature review for those who caught it before I could 
 change it. But hey, you never know when a game like this is just going to grow on you. In the end, 
 I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeW32
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  this is by far the best game ive ever played in my entire life, such great story i cant even put 
 it into words. the ending so amazing youd have to see it to believe it there is no way this game 
 could have been made any better or anything. it is PERFECT and you shouldnt say how you think until 
 youve seen the ending becasue they ending absolutly knocked my socks off wow i still cant believe 
 how awesome it was. at 1st you may start off just ok but when you starts getting toward the end 
 it is so awesome its not even funny. the last 2 missions especially are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Hitman ... basically describes the game. You walk around undetected and kill people for other people. 
 THe gameplay is very fun. The graphics are amazing... but it falls short in other places.
  Gameplay-Like I have already said ... it is awesome. You kill people for a living. Its not like 
 your usual killings though. You have fun ways to kill people. Like with a baseball bat, or drop 
 a box on them. Or even poison thier water. The gameplay is the best part about this game.
  Graphics- Solid graphics, the setting is beautiful. The characters look realistic. The graphics 
 along with the gameplay make this a good game.
  Sound- Baaaaadddddddddd The sound affects are good, but the music is just horrible. I mean your 
 a stone faced killer, and the music sounds like your a hippy. Come on.
  Value- No online play? The campaign is an ok length. There is nothing wrong with it. But if there 
 was online play it would be way more worth it. 60USD is not a fair asking price for this game.
 
  The game is very fun like I have said. The graphics are intresting. I also like how u can switch 
 from 3rd to first person. That makes it alot better. I did expect more from this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosMasta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game winning a On the Spot question thing and I have never played any Hitman in the 
 series and I liked it. It probably took me 20hours, but now im commin back for more because the 
 points. The reason it took me sooo long is because, never playing this game before and not knowing 
 what I was gettin intto. Ok, when you get past a cutscene for any level (not the tutorial level 
 ) you come to a briefing screen this is where you learn about your targets and other objectives 
 and also where you pick what weapons to upgrade then carry into a mission. First of all when you 
 start in the begining of a level agent 47 has to find something or somewhere to get into a place 
 that is retricted otherwise. Usually there is a person who goes out and turns his back for a few 
 seconds and somkes or whatnot and there is almost always somewhere to store the body where noone 
 can find it. Agent 47 takes his clothes and any other things the victim was carring. Then you enter 
 the restricted area and find your target. Now there are many ways of killing your targets, so sometimes 
 you may put on a uniform then figure out that 1 second later youll be trading it in for something 
 else. Like in the opera house mission, you could go in guns blazing and kill anything in your way. 
 Or get items and unforms to get you to places that you could plan some elabrate assainations. There 
 are usually a ton of ways an assaination could turn out. After the "take out" agent 47 must escape. 
 If you took the stealth aproach this is just going back the way you came ( sometimes near the way 
 tou came) . If you went in gunz blazing, then you might run into some resistince. I picked just 
 right difficulty beacuse there are 4 difficulties to begin with and there set to be good for newcomers 
 along with veterans. Each difficulty basicly does is turn the AI up ( in Rookie if you run noone 
 rlly notices but in Pro they'll start shootin at you if your already at orange) tun turn up amont 
 of damage ememies do to you and the Noteriaty System. After each sucsessful mission you get a ranking 
 based on how well you did covering your trackes and body counts. Overall its a solid game with 
 some AI weridness and some frame rate issuieswhen you get the double picture thing but the environments 
 and sound imerse you into any place you mission is on. 8.0 GREAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danold
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money was quite an amazing game from the moment i played the training level. This 
 game has unending replay value, considering that there is a million ways to kill a character, you 
 just need to be creative and find them. The achievments are pretty hard to earn. The only problem 
 is that once you've played a level its all the same the second time, there are no suprises. Thus 
 the replay value is not that great unless you enjoy doing the same thing over and over again. All 
 in all, I really enjoy Hitman and im glad to have it in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Hitman blood money is a good hitman game. Hitman contracts shock my suport for the hitman series 
 but blood money redeamed the series and then some. The controls are easy and leave no room for 
 unintended screw ups. The difficulty levels sute every player be it new to hitman or has played 
 every hitman and acheved silent assasin on every level. The only thing that i wish they did not 
 add is that saves are erased once the level is betten or the system is turned off. The graphics 
 are very good and suffers no frame rate issues. The character models are very good for a hitman 
 game, there not the best but not bad. The game its self is not a long game if your not new to hitman. 
 The levels are very nice and offer something new to every level. The custome wepons are not used 
 very often for me because i perfer the FIBER WIRE! The way to complete a misson is not set out 
 in stone and there is not only one way to get things done. The sound track is much like the rest 
 of the hitman games and leaves much to be desired but you can always load music to your xbox 360 
 and enjoy that. The replay value is there but after the 3rd time around the game losses its value. 
 There is no onlie play and rewards are not easy to get. For all you rep people 1000 gamer points 
 is not easy to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Bloodmoney is a definite improvement since Contracts and still follows through with the legacy 
 nicely. If you are a fan you will enjoy this title simpley because it is just like the others. 
 Silent assassin is still better in my opinion, but if you are new to the series this is still a 
 great start. The premise behind Hitman Bloodmoney ( and all of the previous installments ) is to 
 take contracts in the form of 'hits' or assassinations. Your job is to get in , clean house , and 
 get out unseen. The gameplay is strait forward. Case the joint ( each level ) , size up your target 
 or targets, and then do the deed. The story has Agent 47 completing missions while, secretly in 
 the background, a rival agency or organization has been killing off all of Agent 47's fellow assassins. 
 The story doesnt have any alternate endings or varied paths , which would have been nice. Another 
 missing element was not really missing . . . let me explain. In Hitman 2 you had a hideout where 
 you had your various gun collection, ( you can pickup new weapons by finding them in different 
 levels ) and run around trying out your guns or wandering around. One of the levels is actually 
 started in your hideout. In Bloodmoney you have a hidout, but it never really because anything 
 more than a place to store your weapons. Its not really part of the story, and anything that would 
 be part of the story is just a cut scene. If it was part of something larger it would have been 
 more satisfiying. The graphics are good but not next gen. It feels more like a Hi-Res xbox version. 
 The controls are responsive and easy to maintain even in a gun fight , but i dont like the way 
 the sniping works on the controller; like they tried to change the formula just for the sake of 
 changing it. The sound and feel of the weapons is satisfying, and the first time you unload a slug 
 from a shotgun into the gut of an unsuspecting thug you will smile and giggle. Along with the soundtrack 
 the mood and settings are all played out extremely well. Minor gripes like witnesses and story 
 flaws still keep this title from being gold. This is still one of my favorite 360 games and a great 
 addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pb8185
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  There is not much difference in gameplay between this game and the previous games in the serious 
 except for the better graphics. Though there are some new and interesting levels to play with. 
 I loved the story, the ending was amazing, except through out the entire game until the end, it 
 never seemed like the levels were designed around the story. I always expected every level to give 
 me a twist in objectives since I was being hunted. But it really never happened. Being able to 
 upgrade your weapons adds another level of complexity to the gameplay but overall it's really not 
 needed since you can do all the missions without a weapon at all, and as a straight shooter the 
 game is bland, though you can play the entire game as a straight shoot em up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  When you first load up Hitman: Blood Money and you are new to the series (as I was this time around) 
 you may think you are in a simple shooter. I was amazed at how not true that statement really ended 
 up being by the time I had played through the entire story mode on the normal setting. This game 
 is about stealth and strategy, and while the story is lacking, the gameplay keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat. Your character is a clone who is built to kill and basically is handed several hits 
 in which the player must perform with as little attention possible. 
  Overall, the game looks good (I believe it could have been better on the 360) , has several very 
 detailed and cool environments to play through, and really makes the gamer think of the best strategy 
 of performing the objectives. I rented the game and unless you are obsessed with becoming a silent 
 assassin on the hardest setting the game as little to offer once you play the story mode (took 
 me about 10 hours) . So rent this game first and if you are having trouble figuring out the levels 
 but love the game itself you should probably buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doonbuggy17
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of the hitman series dont get me wrong i like this game to a point.
  The lvl design was done poorly. the graphics were just lazy on the developers part. i mean i played 
 this game on the 360 it was barely noticable to the xbox version. The AI in this game is close 
 to retardedness
  i know that is a little politicaly incorrect but i dont care . it is true the ai sucks big time. 
 the story is cool and i like the twists that it sends you. I am a fan of dark, demented twisted 
 weird **** and this game had some of that. which is good. I hope the next one if they make another 
 is upgraded alot. This game was dissapointing. It was the same as the others aside from diff weps 
 and the weapon tweaking system and and self shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Sleepsalot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is a unique stealth experience that is not about wearing dark tights or weaving 
 through shadows; Instead, you will find a riveting game that focuses on trickery and traps that 
 will appeal highly to perfectionists.
  
  The main goal of Hitman: Blood Money is to accomplish contracts given to you so you can collect 
 your reward, upgrade your equipment, and do it all over again. There are nearly a dozen contracts 
 in the game, each in the United states. (This is a fresh experience to those who have played previous 
 Hitman games where English is a rarity.) Each contract requires you to kill one or more target, 
 sometimes with other goals such as retrieving a suitcase or saving an agent of the agency you work 
 for.
  
  The methods of killing your targets are numerous, and while mission-by-mission games are normally 
 very linear, you will find plenty of ways to execute your assignments, whether its spiking a drink, 
 bombing an overhead chandelier, or catching him in the bathroom with a poison injection.
  
  While the raw potential of Hitman: Blood Money sounds like enough to beg for a purchase, the game 
 does have its share of flaws. The artificial intelligence can be grating at times, and sporadic 
 awareness of your prescence to the enemy is even more annoying. Those with patience, however, will 
 be rewarded.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is truly an oddity when it comes to graphics. While it doesn't nearly use the 
 360's full potential, it offers an aesthetically pleasing, artistic look. There are nuances that 
 will bother some people, such as facial hair suspending in air off of NPCs' faces or lousy collision 
 detection with hand-to-hand fighting, but it is nothing that really detracts from the overall package. 
 ( Hand-to-hand is generally useless in the first place. )
  
  Repeated textures and dome-like background to outside levels deter from some of the immersion, 
 but again, this game is not really about flashy graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  Voice acting is serviceably in this game, with no particular bad spots but nothing spectacular. 
 The music in this game works well as you play, adjusting and changing to your actions. Sound quality 
 is pretty good.
  
  Value: 
  
  The replay value of this game is astounding for this somewhat short story. Because each mission 
 can be executed in so many ways, you'd have to be very unimaginative to not want to see how all 
 the methods work out in each mission.
  
  This game is a near-perfect experience that anyone should consider purchasing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isick117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Hitman has been pretty mediacore in the past but all that has changed now with blood money. HBM 
 (Hitman: Blood Money) has some of the best missions in an 3rd person game to date. Although it 
 may have no online, it's singleplayer is up there with GRAW and maybe even Oblivion. The weapon 
 customization is expansive and the missions are long (depending how you play them) a mission could 
 take a few minutes if you just go in guns a blazing and kill everyone, including your target, or 
 you can do it professionally and try to just kill your target without anyone seeing. Although many 
 wouldn't usually do this, the achievement list makes you, wich in the end is pretty good. The controls 
 are extremely good, especially the aiming. All in all this is a must have not just for 360 owners 
 but anyone who has a console that can play it. I also want to say the "true ending" ( add some thumbstick) 
 is great and hints at a sequel, I can't wait till then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELBline
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game out so far on the 360. It's like Splinter Cell, but a whole lot more 
 fun, and thats saying something! Let me start off buy saying I'm not a fan of Hitman 2 or Contracts, 
 but this game is great. It's completely open ended, you can play each mision the way you want to 
 whether it's to shoot everybody or be a silent assasin, this is also a reason for its great replay 
 value, I'm doing the campaign for the fourth time and it's still fresh. The graphics are some of 
 the best, the story is great and there is never a dull moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgeorge36
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is definitely back. After somewhat of a sub par effort in the last game, it is definitely 
 worth the wait. Not only does the game look great on the 360, but the game play is pretty good 
 as well. 
  Honestly, just like the last few Hitman games, there is a little bit too much of trial and error. 
 Actually, thats pretty much most of what you will probably do. Try this way, does not work. Try 
 another way, works a little better, and so on. What does stand out though is the different ways 
 that you can do things. You can't just go in blazing to accomplish your mission. There will be 
 allot of disguises, as well as the option of "accidental" deaths. This definitely adds a little 
 to the game, as you don't always have to just outright kill your target. A chandelier could fall, 
 or possibly a crane with something in it. It gives a little more to the game. 
  Also new is notoriety system. After you complete your mission, depending if you are caught on camera, 
 or happen to leave a witness, you will see what the media is saying about you in the local papers. 
 Get a little bit too sloppy, and pretty soon crude sketches, followed eventually by accurate descriptions, 
 or possibly pictures, will be in the paper. Then it takes money. Depending what you want to do, 
 from just paying off a few people to getting a whole new identity can be bought. 
  I happen to own the 360 version, and the graphics on the game are absolutely great. I must admit 
 as well, that the music goes along great with the game. You don't have to worry about allot of 
 purchased music playing that will eventually get annoying. It's not my choice in music, but the 
 soundtrack goes very well with the game. Overall, definitely worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Very good game with hard achievements, thats really all i can say. The hitman genre hasnt really 
 changed much in this installement. Just better graphics and the same old gameplay which people 
 love soooo much. Its a slow paced game if you want to beat it. Im more of a run and gun shooter 
 and that is one thing that doesnt work in this game. You will die. The graphics are great and the 
 sound. The story is okay and the gameplay is very right for the type of game it is. No muliplayer 
 but a lot of replayablility. Not my type of game but the best in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_kid1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money was worth the wait the game isn't that long but it's really good. There is so 
 many ways of taking out the Target and there's so many ways you can do a mission, you can go in 
 all guns blazin do it stealthy or do a bit of both. The ways you cant take the targets out are: snipe 
 them down, Poison there food fibre wire them or just shoot them like everyone one else. There's loads 
 of costume's to get into places you wouldnt normally be allowed to go. The Graphics in this are 
 a bit better than the ps2 version, The sounds are decent and has good replay value. I would reccomend 
 this to alot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: originalkruger
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Quite a while back now, I played the initial outing of this 4 game series (to date) on the PC - 
 Hitman: Codename 47. At the time, I remember thinking that the title had bags of potential, but 
 didn't quite make fulfil its promise for a variety of reasons...
  
  But this is 2006, and things have moved on considerably - obviously gaming technology has improved 
 to the point where getting your kicks bumping a whole host of bad guys off for money becomes a 
 much more immersive and entertaining prospect. One of the biggest strengths of Hitman: Blood Money 
 lies in its ability to let players take a totally free-form approach in eliminating their "marks". 
 Gone are the linear missions of old, and you can now choose whether you want to adopt stealth-based 
 strategies, or go for all out run-and-gun and watch the bodycount reach stupendous numbers!
  
  Like other stealth based games (the Splinter Cell series springs to mind immediately here) , 
 going "quiet" will result in a better post mission rating, and players who are patient, observant 
 and above all, devious - will be rewarded here. Remember, the true "silent assassin" kills without 
 remorse, and leaves no trace! If you decide this is going to be your bag, then you will need to 
 consider how you can manipulate the environment to arrange "accidents" for the hapless unfortunates 
 who are in your sights. You will also need to think laterally - want to steal a hungry FBI man's 
 clothing to use as a disguise? Why not poison or sedate his donut supply!
  
  The alternative method could involve tricking out the inventory of stock weaponry at your disposal 
 with the proceeds from your life of crime, and then go out on a rampage that will doubtless leave 
 a trail of destruction in your wake. As soon as the bullets start flying, you can expect to have 
 to deal with hordes of irate security personnel, and it pays to have an extra thick -flak jacket 
 and painkillers to hand!
  
  I was pleased to see just how replayable the missions were as there is only a single player component 
 in this game - you can mix and match your approaches, scout out locations for the perfect sniper 
 kill, and if you don't get the elusive "silent assassin" rating first time, why not try doing things 
 another way? All in all, if you're prepared to put the time in concocting the perfect hit, you 
 could get hours of fun out of this game!
  
  Graphically, the 360 version has a few tweaks over other console versions, but I don't feel they 
 push the technology available to the max - however, that said, the environments do look good generally, 
 and are a pleasing feature of the game. NPC textures and animations aren't the best I've ever seen, 
 but looking at 47 in third-person view sneaking up on a target is a joy to behold! The sound design 
 is, well... pretty "sound" with some atmospheric ingame music, and solid weapon effects.
  
  I'd love to see an online Coop feature added - a two person squad that communicated and worked 
 well together could have a real blast (as per Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory) , though obviously if 
 players went their own ways with one sneaking around and the other gunning down everybody in sight, 
 any mission would quickly end in disaster. As in Splinter Cell, you would have to pick your partner 
 carefully! One for the future perhaps guys?
  
  To summarise, I definitely feel this is the best Hitman game in the series so far, and I am now 
 looking forward to the next iteration, whenever that is released - while Blood Money is not wihtout 
 some flaws, it is still an involving and, at times, challenging title - well worth a try if making 
 your fortune by removing shady politicians and hoodlums is your thing!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herrfluff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  47 is back! on this game you can do alot new things.. like you can upgrade your wepaons you can 
 upgrade some another kind of things to! well.. at first you start at a traning level witch is very 
 easy and short all you have to do is to kill all ppl in the map.. very simble. after the game starts 
 you start outside a party in the jungle. i did go inside. now i saw alot of ppl and civilions i 
 did think wow its alot more ppl on this game it may be hard.. but no its the same it isent hard 
 at all. anyway the map is absolutly perfect ! and now you got 3d view so you can look everywere 
 you can stragle ppl from elevator jump trough balcony and alot more things! very well i just gonna 
 explain about how i did at the first map.. 
  
  opps i forget the points. if you play on normal or up you get points if you kill more ppl and get 
 your cover blown.. so you have to sneak and make no1 seens the murder you do..
  
  1: vintage year
  
  you start outside a party in a jungle.. i did walk inside and i saw a door 
 to the left.. i had not a proplem with it so i walked in.. i did walk trough the house and i saw 
 3 guards 2 awake and 1 sleeping.. i did think this guard uniform whould be great to watch around 
 the map with but very well i did think about the points.. so i walk back and i saw a box.. it did 
 say break the box and i did press on it.. the ligth did go off in this moment so i fast did hide 
 in one of the closet the guard did walk trough and i did sidate him.. he dont die just sleep after 
 i took his clothes and walk away i did look at the map and i saw one of the target was down in 
 the basment and the another were in some kind of house. i did take the basment first. i saw you 
 chould plant a bomb but there was a guard that did see when i did it.. so i trow away a coin and 
 he walked away. than i had the chane to plant it i did it.. very well i did contine after he did 
 stand where the boxes whould fall down but.. i cant bomb the guard can i?? noo not if i want good 
 points.. so i did trow a coin he walked away i did pull the denator and BOOM! target down.. every1 
 did think it was a acident. so no1 knowed it was me. i did smile a bit and watch the blood sprid 
 over the floor.. very well i did go upstaris to the beging and go to the rigth i came to a room 
 with alot of boxes i did jump up and came to a garden where the house was.. with the guard uniform 
 i dident have acesses to go into that house so i did climp up the pipe and into the house and after 
 run down the stairs.. i found a vip suit that had acces to that house.. very well. i did go upstairs 
 and there was 2 guard blocking the 3 doors.. one was walking and one was standing and watching 
 the both doors one to the rigth and one to the left. the another guard was just walking so when 
 he was at the left i had the chane to picklock but than i was thinking mabye he see me when i do.. 
 so i did pick the lock when he was looking at the rigth door and the guard was walking to the rigth 
 door click! im in the room.. i found a guy playing with his cello.. well how shall i make a accident 
 on this guy i did think. i did wait and see where he go.. he did walk to the balcony so i just 
 simble trow him over.. i did watch then he fall down and in just a few secounds he was at the ground 
 and bledding. i did contine out of the house the same way as i came.. down the pipes but.. how 
 to get over the wall?? its imbolse so i did have to run trough the left and fast into the gate! 
 after i did took my old suit at the house to the left and run out the same way as i started at. 
 after walk to the left till you come to a small bride walk down trough it and you will see the 
 old poor dead man on the begin anyway walk down trough it and then you down i saw a airplan thats 
 were i shoud escape there was guard but i did just ignore em then there said i had no acces.. and 
 after i took the plan and the map was complted.. 
  
  if you want silent assian the best rank you shall do the same as i did but dont sidate the guard 
 to the left just do all the same but you sholdent sidate that guard.. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say this game is excellent fun and I recommend it to anyone who likes the 
 skill of a silent kill.
  The missions are extremely fun and challenging at the same time, it teaches you that patience is 
 a virtue and stealth will ultimately make you the perfect killer. The first mission is an excellent 
 introduction that teaches you everything of the trade and will no leave any door unopened, except 
 how to become a Silent Assassin. Basically a Silent Assassin is a rank that all Hitman players 
 endeavour to become. You can only kill your targets, there must not be any witnesses or evidence. 
 This may seem difficult at first but once you get the hang of it, its still difficult.
  Each mission can vary in size, difficulty, intricacy and population. One of the levels is during 
 a Mardi Gras (hundreds of people) and the other is just guards (Death of a Showman) . No matter 
 what level you enter there will always be guards, cops or some sort of security. Your job is get 
 past this security, kill your targets and get out without even being approached.
  One of the best parts of this game is the ability to totally customise your weapon; with scopes, 
 laser sights, lightweight frames and various ammo. Basically you can turn a very plain looking 
 M4 into a pimped out killing machine. The upgrades look really good and make a huge difference 
 to the way your weapon fires and most importantly how it looks. Although the past six missions 
 on which I achieved a Silent Assassin ranking, i only fired my pistol twice; once to shoot a dog 
 (witness) and the other to destroy a spa and send my target to an accidental death.
  If I have one piece of advice to anyone starting the game, DO IT ON ROOKIE FIRST! The first time 
 I ever do a mission, I do it on rookie. At first I find out exactly who I need to kill and how 
 I need to do it, not worrying about guards or civilians. The second time round I find out what 
 is the best uniform that will allow me into the most secure locations. The third time round I try 
 to get a Silent Assassin ranking, and believe me it will take quite a few tries and quite a few 
 saves, but once you go through it on higher difficulty levels you will be grateful you did it on 
 rookie first. I did one mission on rookie; it took me two hours, I did the first six missions on 
 normal and it took me around a hour and a half, I knew exactly what to do and how to do it.
  Overall this game is amazing. It will give you hours of single player gameplay finishing each difficulty. 
 It will get slightly tedious when you play a mission for the first time, trying to find the best 
 way to do everything, but once you get it down, it will become an exhilarating breeze. The weapons 
 are extremely fun to upgrade and you will keep admiring them as you add another upgrade. I think 
 it has a good difficulty rating; not only for the game itself where you can select how hard you 
 want it to be, but the achievements have a good mix that will separate the good from the bad. Sometimes 
 the guards will get frustrating and witnesses will come out of nowhere but don't let that deter 
 you, just keep at it and you'll eventually become a Silent Assassin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gore-Infest
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game for quite a long time, and I wasnt dissapointed!
  
  This game really lives up to what the Hitman series has always wanted to be.
  
  This game truly 
 captures stealth elements and the hitman feel.
  
  Sure its not as centered on stealth as other games such as Splinter Cell.. 
  
  But its still 
 very good, the ability to sneak around or just go all out really works well..
  
  The graphics are pretty good, nothing spectacular like GRAW but still very good, better then other 
 Hitman games by far.
  
  The gameplay really is excellent, I enjoyed this game from the beginning to the end.
  
  If 
 your a fan of stealth/action games with a dark hitman twist, this game is deffinetly for you!
 
  
  -gi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game will blow you mind away. Agent 47 is back and looking better than ever. The music in 
 the game is amazing and flows well with the game. The game is extremely hard and you will end up 
 playing the same level over and over again. The graphics are amazing and makes you want to sit 
 there and watch someone Else play for hours. If you hated the last few hitmans then you going to 
 hate this one as well. This game has a great replay value. If you have an xbox 360 this is a must 
 have game. I think it's in my top 10 best game categories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel1ofakind
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Hitman series but was dissapointed with Hitman: Contracts. I decided 
 to buy this game without playing it after watching Gamespot's Video Review on the game. When i 
 started playing the game i was blown away at the interactiveness the gameplay allowed and was addicted.
 
  
  There are so many ways to kill enemies in this game, you can make it look like an accident or you 
 can go into an area guns blazing to kill civilians and targets which will boost your noteriety.
 
  
  Great game with a surprisingly long lifespan which is well worth the money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money puts you in the shoes of Agent 47 who works as a Hitman (if he didn't this game 
 wouldn't be called Hitman Blood Money ) . The game can be played in either First Person mode or Third 
 Person which ever one suits you best which is something that mosst games do have.
  
  The Gameplay is exactly what it should be fun and the exciting the kills can be exiting t watch 
 sometimes. Well to kill someone you must be stealthy (just like Sam Fisher in Splinter Cell) , but 
 then again you could just go for the make loud noises and alert people aproach ,but that wont go 
 so well.
  
  The sound in Hitman Blood Money has everying you need to set the mood in this game like if make 
 noises or a local sees you kill someone then the music gets faster and the beat gets deeper like 
 your being chased which is exactly what we need in a Hitman game. Or lets say you're silenty snaeking 
 up the music will either a. Wont be playing OR b. The music will be really soft.
  
  The graphics have improved from previuos games now that its on the 360 its gotta look better than 
 ever the graphics are great from recreating gangsters and and hookers to making Agent 47 look good 
 in his snazzy suit they all look good!
  
  Overall Hitman Blood Money is a prettty good game especially since you can upgrade weapons anyway 
 you want (I made a handgun automated!!) so thats why I give Hitman Blood Money 9.2 gangsters sweraring 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bervanakis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Variety is the key here, and Hitman Delivers.
  Never have i been so immersed in a Hitman game with so many different ways to stalk and whack your 
 targets, Hitman delivers intense gameplay with stealth being the key to unlocking those precious 
 gamerpoints!. Run and gun style can be fun and challenging also especially on harder settings. 
 The storyline of Blood Money will keep you interested throughout the whole game and controling 
 Agent 47 has been widely improved. Performing different actions feels very streamlined and comfortable. 
 Graphically the game is quite impressive on the 360 for a first round title on the system. What 
 really made this game stand out for me was the Music throughout the game, done to perfection in 
 every level.... With suspensful action, awesome Music, great choice of weapons and variety in the 
 Levels this is currently in my top 5 games available on the 360. Whacking your targets never felt 
 so good:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Once again in Hitman you play as Agent 47 as you tackle hit mission after hit mission. This time 
 though you have a bounty on your own head as another agency is out to get you. I won't say anything 
 else except that the ending is unbelievable! Prolly the best I've ever seen.
  The levels are very fun and non-linear. They range from a flashy Private Rave Nightclub to a southern 
 redneck manison located in the swamps. Each level has like 100 ways to beat it and getting a Silent 
 Assasin rating has it's own reward. 
  Shooting is very good for a game that's suppose to be stealth but on harder difficulties that's 
 out of the question... unless you have a pimped out gun. Which brings me to weapon customization. 
 There are around 14 different custom options for your pistiol, smg, shotgun, m4, and sniper which all 
 greatly alter the look of them. You can even get a silencer for a shotgun.
  The ai though has unbelievable reflexes, and if you get caught doing something the all suddenly 
 know where you are, but those are juat minor complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Zanaforia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  Finally, a Stealth action game for the 360. It was a great game where you needed a degree of intelligence 
 to achieve the perfect hit. I had no troubles with it at all. Ill admit i wasnt a great big fan 
 of past Hitman games, but this one changed my mind. The only flaw i must point out on this game 
 is minor. If you don't like to spend much time dedicated to one mission to get it right, this isnt 
 for you. This game was made for the 360 and is a good buy. The fully customizable weapons is a 
 great plus to the superb gameplay. I get a good challenge from trying to succeed a silent assassin 
 rating. IO interactive did a good job on Hitman: Blood Money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  I played a little of the first and second games in the Hitman series and I thought that they were 
 merely OK (everyone said the 'contracts' was crap) . Ive never been a fan of trial and error gameplay. 
 However, with this installment, I have been surprised and got quickly wrapped up in the story and 
 characters. This is definitley the best of the series. 
  GAMEPLAY - Like I said, I am no big fan of trial and error gameplay. However, with the level of 
 detail found in each level it made was fun just 'scoping' out the area and thinking through your 
 actions. I spent most of my time walking around, looking for gaps in the targets defenses by way 
 of catching the one guard off by himself. I would take him out and slowly get closer to the target 
 and plan my strike. Patience is key and you want to try to cut down on the collateral damage as 
 much as possible. I heard you can get through each level by only taking out the contracted hits 
 but I aint that good unfortunately.
  GRAPHICS - Graphics are excellent. The levels are large and intricately detailed. The characters 
 themselves look really good as well (especially 47) . Certain showpiece levels are awesome to take 
 in visually. Mainly, the Mardi Gras level and the rave level come to mind.
  SOUND - The music helps create a very cool and suave atmosphere. Specifically the classical music 
 score at the startup menu. Mostly the music consists of cinematic scores, all of which are high 
 quality. The techno music in the rave level stands out.
  OVERALL - I found this game to be a welcome change of pace from run and gun action. I hope IO interactive 
 will capitalize on the successful formula with Blood money and release another hitman game of the 
 same high quality. Plus, agent 47 is such an extremely cool character!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bambamcoolio
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the fourth game of the Hitman seris and the best yet. Hitman: Blood Money lets you get 
 back in the shoes of agent 47 for one last run. The graphics for HBM are absolutly outstanding, 
 considering that I played it on the Xbox 360. HBM's gameplay is highy deep and immersive as now 
 you can customize your silverballers and as well finish a mission any way that you want. The absolute 
 detail on.... everythng is amazing, from 100's of people at Mardi Gras to porn stars at a mountain 
 ranch. And the A. I. is so life like, for example if you have a knife in your hand the gaurds will 
 gun you down so fast. Well anyway if you have 60 bucks to spare go out and buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a third person stealth/action game from Eidos and Io. As always, you play 
 as Agent 47, a clone created by a scientist to be the ultimate weapon. You are a hitman. People 
 call on you to do your dirty work and in return you get paid the big bucks. But as you progess 
 through the game, you will see that your job will become much more than that. 
  
  THE GOOD-
  You can chose how will go about to play the game. You can chose to be as stealthy 
 as can be and only kill your targets. Or you can leave a wake of destruction in your path by killing 
 everyone and everything in your path. It's you choice. Although, the game does encourage you to 
 be stealthy, it still makes it possible to run and gun. I did find though, that the game is a lot 
 harder if you decide not to be stealthy. 
  
  Each mission is very well designed. Each area is very large and gives you lots of nooks and crannies 
 to check out. The objectives are complex and require some looking around. Each objective is believable 
 and just very well done. 
  
  There are a huge number of weapons in Blood Money. You start out with your with your pistol, shotgun, 
 SMG, and sniper rifle. But as you kill police or guards, you can pick up their weapons. If you 
 escape the mission with a new weapon in your inventory then it gets added to your collection. There 
 are dozens of weapons to collect and they are highly realistic. But remember if you like the stealthy 
 approach then you will hardly be using these guns.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is a singer player game. With no multi-player or Xbox Live. The story mode 
 can be completed in about 10 hours. So, that's it, you say? 10 hours of gameplay? WRONG! After 
 completing a mission you get a rating. This rating is affected by your violence and noise. It is 
 surprisingly fun to try and get these different ratings. And I admit, sometimes it is fun to just 
 take the run and gun approach and kill everything in sight. So, what I'm getting at here is that 
 even though this is a single player game, it has a very good re-play value. 
  
  THE BAD-
  The NPCs can act very stupid at times. And unrealistically. One of the dumbest thing I saw about 
 Blood Money is that if a civilian sees a dead guard, they will run over to corpse and pick up the 
 gun and start shooting at you. -_- 
  
  Hitman has always had some graphical problems with NPCs. And this remains the same in Blood Money. 
 Pretty much every NPC looks the same as the next. We, as gamers, have some to expect more than 
 this from a game. Especially with game like Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion where every single NPCs has 
 a different face. 
  
  Blood Money features a new system to the Hitman series. This is notoriety meter. Your notoriety 
 is basically the evidence you leave behind. If you are caught on camera then your notoriety goes 
 up. This is a real nuisance and makes the game very difficult. I really hope that this is taken 
 out of the next Hitman.
  
  Overall, Hitman: Blood Money is a great game and the good really outweigh the bad. Although, I 
 do hope that in the next Hitman there are some innovation new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeac90
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Alright first off, I'm a veteran of the Hitman series, I have now beaten every Hitman game to date, 
 including the original which was only available on the PC.
  
  This is the best one since Hitman 2. Contracts was a let down in my opinion but Blood Money got 
 the series back on the right track.
  
  Now I won't spoil anything here but the storyline was absolutely fantastic. The gameplay was fun 
 and has a good replay value, the textures were very realistic and the sounds are very accurate. 
 The originality of the missions are also a huge plus. This game lets you live out your fantasies 
 of being a contract killer. The graphics don't exactly look like a next generation game, but mind 
 you all, this is a port in a way. 
  
  I will say this though, better hitman games are yet to come, and this series will not ever get 
 stale in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I've long been a fan of the Hitman series (though I was a little disapointed in the last installment) . 
 Hitman: Blood Money was the first time I'd played such a game on a console (I'm a recent convert 
 to the X360) . I was a little worried about the controls on a console -- being used to the keyboard/mouse 
 combo -- but was pleasantly surprised.
  
  The game is gorgeous in HD. Occasionally the character models looked a bit off, but were great, 
 for the most part. What really stood out were the locales. The environments are highly detailed 
 and engrossing. Great music and sound design also draw you into the game.
  
  That would be nothing if the gameplay sucked. But it doesn't. Nearly all of the levels offer a 
 variety of approaches, and often a few unique challenges. Some levels are easier than others, so 
 you'll be finding yourself punching up the difficulty level, especially early in the game. That 
 said, you'll find yourself replaying the level even after you've beaten it, just to find out what 
 alternative approaches you may have missed. The replay level is high for this type of game.
  
  One thing I did not like was the save system. I'm all for limited saves as part of the difficulty 
 system, but I thought it was particularly cruel to have the saves disappear when you quit the game. 
 A few times I've had to ditch progress just because I unexpectedly had to leave to do something, 
 and had to turn the Xbox off. That's just wrong. Limit me to one save, but let me keep it, dang 
 it!
  
  The game also feels a bit short, with a dozen missions. But as I said, you'll come back to replay 
 the levels (and you'll do a fair bit of replaying just to get through the levels the first time) .
 
  
  Overall, this is the best in the series. An interesting story, great voice acting, great graphics, 
 and fun, refreshing gameplay. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game with great graphics and sweet gameplay. I love the challenge that the game presents, 
 and the mystery of the storyline. It's a lot of fun to play, though some of the killings are quite 
 crude, but I suppose that's just the nature of the game. The storyline is great. I haven't played 
 through the entire game yet, so I'm not sure about the length of the story, but I'm already hoping 
 that there will be more sequels, because I love the adventure involved in this game. I'm looking 
 forward to coming home from vacation to play it some more. Yay! It has very innovative gameplay 
 as well, and cool features such as newspaper articles with specific details about each assassaination. 
 It's very exciting to play, interesting, fun, new, fresh, etc. There aren't enough great words 
 to describe the game. So far this is the most fun game I've played on XBOX 360, so other game producers 
 better step it up, and keep coming up with better ideas for games, unless they want this one to 
 top all of theirs out on the charts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This is really a great game. It's much more enjoyable to me than the first two. The story line 
 is great and has a pretty interesting ending. The weapons are all pretty realistic and the killing 
 is realistic too, which is something I really liked.
  
  The character models are all basically the same couple of faces but it doesn't take away from the 
 game too much. Sometimes it's a little annoying trying to do one thing while theres other options 
 that all use the same button (for example, turning off a light when theres a body right under it 
 and a door to the left of it) . Also, the inability to save and turn the game off and continue where 
 you started when you turn it back on is a little odd. 
  
  But you hardly even notice that stuff when the levels are so big and detailed. The places you go 
 are really the best part of the game. 
  
  You may be a little disapointed if you're one of those people, like me, who buy a game and pretty 
 much beat it as fast as you can, so rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the assassin type, but I liked this game. While this game is the best out of the series, 
 this title still doesn't have that ZING that makes games really satisfying to the gamer. The character 
 isn't the problem at all ; I mean, agent 47 has a cool backstory in a world of inrigueeness. His 
 prey have their own motives, but our "hero" is focused on pro efficiency and pure slaughter, which 
 includes the new notoriety system, and that has some fun rewarding stuff. A generated newspaper 
 clip lets 47 know all the info he needs to know about cops, reporters, and yourself if somebody 
 catches you doing your job. If too many people recognize you and what you do, future hits will 
 be in jeapordy before you even start. Since 47 manages his own money this time, you get the option 
 of choosing to upgrade/buy new weapons or bribing/blackmailing the coppers. All the setups are 
 interesting and very much well made. The killing during an opera is elaborate and wonderfully clever. 
 Usually, the game is ingenious and 47's methods and the environments (along with the corny soundtrack) 
 make the entire game's mood dangerous and dramatic. But Blood Moneys good looks aren't enough though. 
 For every ounce of effort that is put into the levels I wish that had tripled into the AI factor. 
 Threat levels go up without you doing anything, enemies will call in to ambush you even when you're 
 in the shadows, and the map is more of an annoyance then helpful. The other part the game failed 
 in was that in a stealth game, its successful when it makes the player thinks he's smart and is 
 handling the situation in a clever way. Blood Money does not. But even with this huge problem in 
 the way, I still love the Hitman series and particulary this game. The mission design care, the 
 option to choose your own weapons and equipment and when to upgrade them, and Agent 47 is cool. 
 I just hope that future Hitman games have that ZING that this definitly didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgsfan055
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer. It has a lot of replay ability since you may not get the silent assasins 
 rating every level or you could just go through the level mowing down people as you go. The suits 
 are awesome and the ways you can kill people are endless. You can fully customize each weapon in 
 the game too. You can also hide there bodies in cool places like a fernace on the boat level. Its 
 a must rent for the xbox 360 but i advise most of you to go out and buy this game its worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Near flawless gameplay. The notority and upgradable weapons are excellent new editions 
 to the series. The game is very non linear as there are a lot of ways to execute a mission, you 
 can run and gun killing everyone and everything ( My favorite way to do things :p ) , use the envioment 
 and "accidents" to stealthily kill your target, and more. The only glitches are the clipping. The 
 clipping on doors is kinda whacked because people meld thru the doors soetimes but nothing big. 
 10
  
  Graphics: Some of the best on the 360 at the moment. The enviroments are pretty good but the models 
 can sometimes look ugly up close and I noticed some refelction glitches. 9
  
  Sound: Pretty good music. It changes when things happen in game. The ambiance sounds really nice 
 in this game. The voice acting is top notch. The guns sound pretty cool too. 8
  
  Value: After you beat it theres not much else to do besides trying to get the other achievements. 
 Beating the game on a harder difficulty is pretty fun since you know what to do because you have 
 beaten it before. 7
  
  Tilt: The best 3rd person stealth action game on the 360. I would reccomend it to pretty much anyone 
 because its a very good game. It is also The best hitman game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickballe1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a really good game. It has  assault rifles. That's 
 only the firearms! It has stun guns, syringes for sedating, poisoning food and drinks with poison 
 with syringes. A fiber wire, or also known as a garrote. You can suit  
 different clothes you can change into. You have 5 weapons you can take with you before you start 
 the mission. You can upgrade them so you can have better aiming, different ammo, stocks for your guns, many 
 upgrades. The missions are really fun, takes 10 to 20 minutes to complete them. Great game, go pick 
 it up NAO if you have a 360, and when you get one, get this game with it, good starting title. So, ghet 
 ready to sacrifice $60, because it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Delightfully grim is how I would describe Hitman Blood Money. This is the fourth installment in 
 the Hitman series, but it is easy to play this game, even if you haven't played the others.
  
  The gameplay in Hitman: Blood Money is apparently pretty similar to the previous games. If 
 that's so, then I definitely want to pick up the other installments in the series. In Hitman, you 
 play as a contract killer, called 47, assigned contracts by a woman named Diana whose face you 
 never see. The objective is to quietly kill the target (s) and try to leave as little evidence at 
 the scene of the crime as possible. Killing people is made extremely fun thanks to a large arsenal 
 of upgradeable weapons, as well as many innovative features such as 'accidents'. In order to appear 
 innocent, you can rig things to fall on targets in order to kill them in a way that appears accidental. 
 However, you can also run in guns blazing if that suits you better. As a plain shooter, Blood Money 
 is great thanks to the powerful weapons. As a stealth game, it's insanely creative and very fun.
 
  
  Blood Money also sports some impressive visuals, at least on the 360 version. Character models 
 are somewhat cartoony, but realistic nonetheless. Lighting and environments look excellent as does 
 47. Guns look pretty good, although some could have more detail. This is a vibrant colorful game 
 with many unique environments that are always fun to look at.
  
  The audio in Blood Money is excellent. Voice acting is superb, especially the guy who does 47's 
 voice. The thene music is eery, as it should be, and very well played. Sound effects are good, 
 but they don't stand out at all like the music or the voice acting. All of the music and voice 
 acting in the game really helps to immerse the player in the game.
  
  The replay value of Blood Money is great. Since there are so many ways to eliminate each target, 
 levels can be replayed many times. The notoriety and rating aspects also help to add replay value. 
 The later missions especially are very fun to play through repeatedly.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is a very fun game, even if you haven't played the other Hitman games. The 
 levels are all inventive and entertaining, the graphics are very good and make for a rich experience, 
 and the levels are so creative and fun, that you can play them again and again. I am seriously 
 considering buying the first three Hitman games and I hope that more Hitman games are released 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockToTheLed
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i've always been a fan of the Hitman games. I love the stories. This one is by far the best. 
 It grabs you with every aspect. I'll start with graphics.
  
  Their great. its not comparable to chromehounds or gears of war, but still definetly next gen. 
 suits move when you walk, wind blows your tie, water and ripple effects are great. and the bulletholes 
 stay in your enemy after you shoot them.
  
  Next is the gameplay. Amazing. you can use pretty much anything, nail gun, hammer, screw driver, 
 fire extuinguisher, weights at a gym, and of course guns and syringes, and the infamous fiber wire. The 
 cotnrols feel very smooth, then aiming is great and the 1st person is awesome. seeing your guns 
 tricked out.
  
  yeah, tricked out. your primary weapons (silver baller pistol, spas 12 shot gun, mp5 smg, m4 assault 
 rifle and dragunoc sniper rifle) are all completely customizable. laser sights, rails for scopes, 
 grips, shoulder stocks, different ammo (armor or door piercing) , extra clips, duel wielding. it 
 all there.
  
  sound is great too. hearing the tip tap of his shoes, people running in fear screaming and tripping. 
 shell casing hitting the floor. doesnt get much better. 
  
  over all this probably one of the 3 best purchases ive made on my 360, along with Call of Duty 
 2 and G. R. A. W. the game is amazing. i'll play levels over and over again because depending on how 
 you do the newspapaer changes, tells how many people died, head shots, brutal kills, "accidental" 
 kills, and its a full front page article. its phenomenal. Definetly a buy. go now, stop reading 
 and run to buy it, if your reading this still then you havent left yet to buy it.
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a very well conceived and thought out game with next generation graphics 
 and witty AI. Each mission you take can be finished in a dozen different ways depending on your 
 style. You can go from the extremes like whipping out the sub machine gun and killing every person 
 in the level, awarding yourself the Psychotic rank, or you can sneak stealthily around only killing 
 those who need to be killed and sedating all those who get in the way, doing it all without blowing 
 your cover or having someone discover a body, awarding yourself the Silent Assassin rank. Although 
 the game is spectacular it isn't without its faults. Some graphical glitches occur every once in 
 a while, sometimes a person will see you killing someone when they aren't in the same room, and 
 other times the AI characters get stuck in a loop and don't do anything forcing you to restart 
 the level. But other than small rare glitches this game is brilliantly designed and well executed, 
 and is easily recommendable to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Hitman as great graphic which have been missing for a lot of the games on the xbox 360, it also 
 make use of the systems power to create large crowded streets, and other asspect not seen in games 
 before. It has a very easy learning curve so it is accesible to gamers of all levels, the game 
 does hwever play through very short, but does have a very hgh replay level.
  
  The detail of sme of the levels is also very astonishing, and creates an very realistic enviroment 
 for the game to take place in, and the characters on the streets and in the neighbourhoods also 
 react to your charater in the game depending on what your wearing, or if you have a weapon visible 
 or are acting suspicious which is also real cool.
  
  This is a game that you should deffinently check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in Hitman are good. They aren't the best on the console, they aren't groundbreaking 
 either. The graphics hold out pretty well when compared to other games. The shadowing is great, 
 the character models are good too, and the framerate is perfect. The levels in this game are so 
 creative, with the developers having in mind of alternate paths. But the only thing holding down 
 this game's presentation overall is the amount of graphical glitches you will encounter. These 
 generally range from weird interactions between npc's and the environments, weird instances where 
 you don't get a SA ( silent assassin ) rank when you should have, to bad bullet detection blamed 
 to the physics ( although these bad physics can be funny ) .
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is more or less the way it has been, by having the ability to switch outfits 
 in one or two seconds, the very average gunning controls, and just that good old signature feel. 
 If you have played any of the previous hitman games you should know what your getting from the 
 gameplay standpoint.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. It's the not bad, not perfect kind of thing. The sounds of the guns are 
 good. You also will hear during a mission stationed at the Mardi gras parade the random chatter 
 of a massive crowd. The environmental sounds are solid too, such as a chandelier falling and crushing 
 an unsuspecting target.
  
  Value: Taking into consideration the fact that this is a single player only game, it has a great 
 amount of replay ability. You can go through a mission many times attempting to find alternate 
 ways to accomplish your objectives. This version of the game tends to have more replay ability 
 than the other console versions, because of the unlockable achievements within the game that most 
 xbox 360 owners will want to get. The game also has a upgrade system in which the player can tweak 
 every aspect of a weapon with larger clips, scopes, laser pointer, silencers, putting door piercing 
 ammo in a gun and changing the rate of fire of that gun. But, with only 14 missions and most of 
 these levels taking only minutes to beat if you know what to do, it can be short.
  
  Tilt: This installment of Hitman, is a game with better graphics, same good gameplay, and in terms 
 of value it has the replay value there and it's for the taking, it's just whether or not you want 
 to. A must have for fans of the series, and for newcomers it's a whole new way of stealth-action 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay for Hitman: Blood Money features pretty smooth controls, with minimal errors. 
 The enemy AI for this game is a little glitchy at times though.
  
  Graphics: This game is simply one of the best ports on the Xbox 360. There are some tiny graphical 
 glitches in the game that start to become tedious as you play. These range from simple things like 
 people shooting through walls or parts of enemies' bodys going through walls. These things aren't 
 a big problem if you don't really look for them. The Xbox 360 version of this game definitely shows 
 its "next-gen" look. It looks so much better than its PS2 and Xbox counterparts.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is beautiful, all the guns sound realistic, as do all the intricate 
 sounds within the game. Also voice acting is pretty well done, the lip syncing is not perfect but, 
 it is exceptionally done.
  
  Value: This game has decent value, you can go back through your favorite mission to figure out 
 different ways to neutralize your target (s) . There are also various difficulty settings that have 
 their own set of achievements on your 360. You can also go back to gain different rankings for 
 each mission. The game runs a little on the short side, clocking in at about 11 hours or so for 
 your first time through.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This game is definitely the best Hitman game in the series, if you are a fan of 
 the series then you will find much enjoyment. Even if your new to the Hitman series it will still 
 appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is a famed series for it's execution in portraying how a hitman does business. Even though 
 Blood Money is ported it's still worth the rent for those seeking a game that requires them to 
 think while at the same time getting caught up in some heart pounding action packed sequences.
 
  
  The graphics in Blood Money are nothing to brag about, however you can tell the difference between 
 the 360 and current-gen versions of the game. Everything is pretty basic. Textures aren't too good 
 and the character animations themselves still seem stiff and edgy. 
  
  The sound is nothing to mention, so I won't
  
  Gameplay is where this game shines, as should 
 any game for that matter. Blood Money gives you the choice of how to take out your targets, whether 
 it's making it look like an accident or going in guns blazing and anything in between. Getting 
 to upgrade your weapons is loads of fun also, especially since you can take them back into past 
 levels that were too difficult without them.
  
  AI is definatley below average. Enemies seem to get too aware of your presence even if you didn't 
 really do anything. This especially doesn't make sense in a level where there's a large wedding 
 in the south and the family owns a large house. If you simply walk into the house you get pumped 
 full of shotgun pellets without much warning, even it's one step through the door.
  
  Hitman Blood Money is a must buy for hardcore fans of the series. However if you havn't played 
 past Hitman games I advise that you rent this one first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid, it is nice to see an open-ended stealth game like 
 Hitman: Blood Money make a debut like this on the Xbox 360. Hitman: Blood Money is the fourth game 
 in the notorious (no pun intended) Hitman series. It was first a PC-exclusive stealth title, earning 
 it mixed reviews with a small fan base. The second game, Silent Assassin, fixed virtually all of 
 the problems with the first game by making it available on the consoles as well as the PC. The 
 third game, Contracts, kept the same great formula from its predecessor but failed to make major 
 changes. With Blood Money, this actually feels like a sequel to a stealth game instead of a sports 
 game. Blood Money keeps the same beautiful graphics, sound, and gameplay as well as adding three 
 new things that affect the gameplay: notoriety, money, and publicity.
  
  When you played through a mission before, you had no one recognize you after you finished a level 
 and began a new one. Now, when you finish a mission, you gain notoriety depending on how you approach 
 the objective. When you put on a disguise, try to blend in with the crowd while rigging a grill 
 at a child's birthday party and walk away unnoticed, you will get very little notoriety, allowing 
 you to complete the next level with the same ease. But if you decide to run-and-gun your way to 
 the next objective, your notoriety will skyrocket and you will have a harder time on the next level. 
 You can also see how you did by looking in the newspaper. This in turn affects your rating and 
 how much money you get at the end of a level. Unlike all of the other slap-dash features in other 
 stealth games, the money actually affects the game. At the end of the level, you can use the money 
 to either lower said notoreity or purchase upgrades for your guns. The biggest thing that affects 
 the game is publicity. Most of the time in regular stealth games or the previous Hitman games, 
 you spent most of the time in secluded areas. Sure, there were the occasional mansion or bank missions 
 that have tons of guards and cameras, but they were few and far between. In Blood Money, you are 
 always in a heavily populated area. The citizens won't just stand in a corner and let you kill 
 your target. If they spot something wrong, they will immediately run to the nearest guard or police 
 officer. These three additions to the series makes Blood Money the best Hitman game to date.
  
  But as much as I loved the game, I had some major problems with some of the bigger details. 
 First off, the crap save system was never fixed, especially in Silent Assassin. You basically have 
 a set number of in-game saves depending on what difficulty you are playing on. Once you quit during 
 the game, those saves are lost. So basically, if someone crashed into my car, I couldn't stop the 
 game, sue who crashed into it, and continue playing my game; I would have to lose my data and start 
 all over. Another problem is that the AI still needs a little tweaking, especially for the Xbox 
 360. Despite these problems, I still had a lot of fun with Hitman: Blood Money and it's also a 
 fresh breath of fresh air in a genre mainly dominated by Splinter Cell and Metal Gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Over the last three Hitman games, Agent 47 has become one of the worlds favourite anti-hero. Now 
 after his near death experience in Hitman Contracts (released in 2004) 47 is finally back in business.
 
  
  The story starts with a tragic accident in a theme park, involving many deaths of innocent people. 
 The owner of the Theme Park (Mr. Swing King) is held responsible for the incident and i forced 
 to close the theme park. Hes now entered the drug business, and is hoping to re-open the theme 
 park. However, 47 is sent out to make sure Swing King sees a photo of one of the deceased loved 
 one, before he is killed! Then the story ships to present day, where 47 and the agency is threatened 
 by some other mysterious agency, 47 learns more as he complete more jobs, which leads to a surprising 
 ending.
  
  The gameplay is improved over the last three games. You can push people over ledges, take human 
 shields, beat up people, and poison things like: cake and beer among other things. You can still 
 take other peoples cloths though, adn youll still need to hide the corpse of the dead people. 
 Actually, you can now hide people in large boxes, which helps a lot. You cant hide the corpses 
 in the closet or locker though. As always, you can chose to shoot your way through each mission, 
 however its a little harder then before. There are more people in on screen, and the civilians 
 can pick up weapons and use them against you. Secondly, theres a notoriety system. You gain notoriety 
 by (for example) killing people in front of civilians and otherthings, and the higher notoriety 
 you have, it will be eaiser for people to recognise you. Its dosent work to well though. See 
 to lower your notoriety, youll need to bride your way through, and the prices are low, considering 
 that you get around 500.000$ for each mission (more on that later) so youll lower your notoriety 
 as soon as a job has been completed. 
  
  Before each mission you can upgrade your equipment and select which equipment you want to use for 
 the job. Its good to upgrade your weapons, especially if your shooting your way though. You need 
 money in order to upgrade your weapons, and youll get money by the end of each job. You should 
 at least get 500.000$ Otherwise, the amount of money youll get depends on which rank you get for 
 each job.
  
  The game is about 10-12 hours if you shoot your way through and 20 hours if your trying to get 
 Silent Assassin on each job. As the other Hitman games, you can complete each job in different 
 ways, so youll be into this for a long time.
  
  The sound is incredible, the sound effects are spot on, the music (Composed by Jesper Kyd) is fantastic 
 and so is the voice acting.
  
  The game is released on the PC, PS2, Xbox & Xbox 360. PC and Xbox 360 version shares the same next 
 generation graphics, the menus are a bit clunkier on the PC though. The Xbox 360 version also has 
 some big replay value becuase of the Xbox 360s achivement system. The Xbox version dosent have 
 the same graphics as the Xbox 360 and PC, but it looks good neither the less (considering the console 
 is outdated) , plus you can post your mission scores over Xbox Live. The PS2 version dosent have 
 the leaderboards system from the Xbox version and the frame rate is a little worse on the PS2 then 
 on the other consoles. Neither the less, all of the versions has some good looking cut-scenes, 
 good controls, and some frame rate issues. Overall you should go for the Xbox 360 version. 
  
  Overall, Hitman Blood Money is the best Hitman game since Hitman Contracts, and evey fan of 
 Agent 47 should definitely get this. People who havent played a Hitman game yet should get this 
 right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  If you know the series, then you know a bit about the deadliest assassin this side of Duke Togo. 
 If you dont know why this assassin is simply known as Agent 47, then you should probably go back 
 and play Hitman Silent Assassin or Hitman Contracts to catch up on this genetically-mutated killing 
 machine.
  
  In Hitman: Blood Money, the tides have turned a bit on our anti-villain, as theres a sneaking 
 suspicion that the next contract may be out on the guy that comes right after forty six in the 
 depth chart. The tension created by 47 possibly being hunted down by the ICA is palpable, and helped 
 along by the well-directed cut-scenes that seem to pop up every five minutes. I dont mind the 
 number of cut scenes much this time around, as the story is much more intriguing, thus making it 
 worth the down time. This cheddar system isnt just because 47s favorite color is green. Money 
 can be used to purchase a number of weapon and round upgrades, bribe those that can help you, or 
 for purchasing a snazzy new disguise. You can still complete levels in Hitman: Blood Money how 
 you want, ether stealthily or brutally, but realize that youll only earn maximum dollars for being 
 Fisher-like in all that you do. Youll trek across the U. S. in Hitman: Blood Money, and stop at 
 many famous locales to both hit and keep from being hit. Places like New Orleans and Las Vegas 
 provide interesting, vibrant backdrops for what Hitman: Blood Money is all about. Of course, theres 
 a thorough mixture of both harmless civilians and armed baddies in every level, which is of the 
 utmost importance when playing a Hitman title. Youll find 47 needs to pop into both bystander 
 and enemy disguises to stay under the radar, which- by the way- is quite resolute at the two highest 
 difficulty levels. Another beautiful portion of Hitman: Blood Moneys visuals is each levels overall 
 background style and how the texturing artists helped to carry out the directors planned mood 
 for the environments. The background texturing in Hitman: Blood Money is stupendous where it counts, 
 and the overall layout of each level is as visually pleasing as it is challenging in a gameplay 
 sense. Take a good gander at each the areas of interest in the amusement park; an aesthetically-trained 
 eye will immediately see the work that went into such a moving setting.
  
  It's not at perfect game but if you own a xbox 360 and you can't wait to get Gears of War or Call 
 of duty 3 then just get this bolt guy's stealthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonlordagony
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is much like crack. I didn't buy it initailly but after playing it 
 for a few hours I realized I'm in love with this game. I have in the past week beaten the game 
 three times and enjoyed every bit of gameplay. The graphics are just barely 360 worthy but that 
 isn't a problem, the game is still extremely well made and with multiple paths to take in any mission, 
 it has a lot of replay value. Although it is an awesome game I still recommend renting and not 
 buying. Although I have played it through a great number of times and will come back to it sooner 
 or later I'm probably going to bring it back at a later date, It is definitely a worthy rental 
 so rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  
  i played the last CONTRACTS game and was a little underwhelemed by that but decided to get Blood 
 Money and give it a try.
  
  first off, its very shiny. looks pretty and 47 moves well and all that crap, nice touch is the 
 weapon customization and give a slightly more strategy approach. briefing sets it up well too but 
 .....
  
  i dunno , it seems that you go into the mission and its a bit to open ended, you can go guns blazing, 
 or go 4 the perfect kill. problem i have is their is no real aim to the level. for example theirs 
 no "this is the perfect kill" and your kinda left to wander round these huge levels and chance 
 across the method. 
  
  perhaps its just me but i enjoy the game but find it a little underwhelming, probably my last hitman 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogersband
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the most cunning games. Whether you want to shoot up the whole place or 
 go in sneakily. I personally like to choke people with the fiber-wire or push them over edges. 
 This is one of the most intense games i have played and i recommend it to everyone. It makes your 
 heart race, and even though you might have to save very often and load a lot, it still has great 
 action. It has tons of strategy, and you have to time everything carefully. This is a great buy 
 and i have tons of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornhusker_Fan9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  What would make this game better is maybe a little bit more open-ended like GTA series. You could 
 maybe go from one guy to another doing missions and stuff like that. 
  Anyway on with my review. This game has great graphics and effects. For example when you shoot 
 people they actually react appropriately when the are hit. The gameplay could've been better, maybe 
 a little freedom to do whatever you want (open-ended like GTA would be great fun) . What I like 
 the most is how you do the missions, if you feal like being undetected you can go right ahead and 
 do that, but if you want to go in there with an M4 and a Shotgun and kill everyone in the whole 
 place you go right ahead. Overall this game was very intertaining, but if you are near a city where 
 you can rent this game I suggest doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsparagana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I got Contracts for XBOX I began to love everything about the Hitman games. I preferred 
 to aim for Silent Assassin ratings on every level (which I achieved after many tries and with much 
 patience) but I also enjoyed being what I liked to think of as 'realistic'. This involved sneaking 
 around and using silenced weapons and sniper rifles to eliminate my targets. There's also the incredibly 
 'direct' approach of ruthlessly murdering anyone in your way -- all these different approaches make 
 for an surprisingly high replay value. Normally one would not expect so much playtime from an action 
 game.
  
  I had been tracking Blood Money on Gamespot forever, and was so relieved when it came out. The 
 tutorial level was somewhat disappointing to me (because of my stealthy style) because it was pretty 
 linear (for a Hitman game) . But as soon as I started the second, I felt right at home. I suppose 
 the first level was to just introduce you to all the game mechanics. I tried to savor the game 
 and played it slowly over several weeks, completing levels in long sittings. Even though my complete 
 time would range from 30 minutes to an hour per level, I spent much more time on them because every 
 time I screwed up Id try and take as many enemies (and innocent bystanders) with me as I could. 
 So even if you are a stealthy player, youll get a healthy dose of ruthless violence if you play 
 out your screw-ups. As of right now I've only completed the game on Normal, but I am looking to 
 complete it on all the other difficulties. The achievements system of the Xbox 360 only fuels your 
 desire to replay the game even more -- the achievements in Hitman: Blood Money cater to all playing 
 styles of the game -- so even though I'm a stealthy player, I'll have to get precisely 47 kills in 
 a given mission in order to unlock the achievement. About the story: the missions are laid out 
 about a year in the past - almost present day. Right before 47's cutscene and the mission briefing, 
 there's a scene (probably meant to be present day) about 47's missions and his 'downfall'. These 
 make the game really addicting because you often want to know what happens next. The end of the 
 game left me feeling satisfied, but I still hope they continue the series.
  
  There was one issue, though, and that was the graphics, many people thought that they were sub-par, 
 and looked better suited for an XBOX console. I agree with this somewhat, but I also liked the 
 sort of 'cartoony' look of it at times, it only made your brutal assassinations funnier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobras075
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the best game of the hitman series yet. It is very fun and rewarding to be 
 stealthy and fun just to go around and kill everyone, it can be played by the way you like it. 
 I just really like the environments and its just fun to be a hitman. Most of the missions are really 
 fun but some are a pain. My favorite has to be the New life mission, it has humor and the neighborhood 
 environment is not something you see in too many games like this. The least favorite would have 
 to be the mardi gras mission (dont remember name) this one took me a while to figure out what to 
 do. Agent 47 is once again one of the badest video game characters with his bald head and barcode 
 and duel ballers he is a character to remember. I recomend this game to all players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stlblues232003
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Not one game-play element takes advantage of next generation hardware. While playing it reminded 
 me of why I quit playing my PS2. Please stop making old games with sharper graphics. Thank you. 
 Otherwise I did'nt feel compelled to finish the 3rd mission, as the gameplay is extremely repetitive 
 ( sneak around, change clothes, strangle someone, repeat) . The npc's in the game are pretty dumb 
 as well ( while I was waiting on a balcony at the opera house a bodyguard would pass by me every 
 10 seconds and say the same thing) . Also, a construction worker in the basement saw me picking 
 a lock so I knocked him out and every npc in the game came after me even though the next closest 
 guy was upstairs. Did he have a microchip in him that automatically notified everyone within 10 
 miles of his death? The bottom line is this, I don't really like wasting my time with trial and 
 error games. The chances of you beating a level without dying or having to start over about 10 
 times is about 0. Trial and error games are the result of poor A. I., bad level design, and bad 
 control. ( It's pretty frustrating when you're near the end of the level and your character does'nt 
 respond correctly and you die.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwallacefan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I would rate this game a 10/10. The graphics are superb and its full of never-ending action. The 
 audio is little light but the cutscenes in the game are amazingly good. A little to much blood 
 is illustrated (recommend for 17 and older) My favorite part in the game is when you get to customize 
 your weapon and make it have scopes and silencers. The missions are exceptionally great and pretty 
 easy to operate and have a good time. I spent $60 and it is worth the money to play one of the 
 greatest games of the hitman series. BUY!  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaner258
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  In this game you play the role of the paid assassin known is Agent 47. He is a clone made of several 
 different people and he gains different abilities from those people. He goes on missions where 
 he most kill at least one person, these missions are called contracts. Each time he completes one 
 of these fun-filled contracts he gets a lot of cash because it is not easy work and it is very 
 dangerous.
  
  Gameplay: I have to give the gameplay a 10 because it is amazing and extremely fun. You can complete 
 your mission two ways: Being insane and shooting everyone, or the better way of Stealth. Sometimes 
 oyu just want to go on a rampage so you can get your Ballers out and just go crazy but you usually 
 want to do the contract by using stealth and cunning. You can sneak around killing different people 
 in many different ways with many different weapons. You can use your bloodless fibre wire to choke 
 a victim to death or maybe you will snipe them with your silverballer. When you use a gun it will 
 make blood on the floor and walls and when a person sees this blood they get suspicious, that is 
 why you usually what to make it bloodless. When you kill someone you don't want people finding 
 the body andthen sometimes figuring out that you took their clothes. You must hide their body in 
 various places such as freezers to ensure no body knows that they are dead. You also have syringe 
 poision that you can put in food or satb it into someones neck. You can find different objects 
 like hammers that you can use for brutal sneak attacks that are very disgusting sometimes. The 
 most satisfying way to kill your target is if you stage an accident. You could maybe make something 
 malfunction to make the people die and no body will know what you did.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't really that great, they don't see, all that next-gen. They do look 
 pretty nice on the 360 especially outside on the "New Life" level. The blood looks very good and 
 character models look fine. I will have to give the graphics an 8.
  
  Sound: The sounds of guns and people dieing is very nice and well done. Most of the music is good 
 but sometimes the music is VERY annoying. When you are sometimes knowwhere near someone or no one 
 knows your there and your tension meter is green it will be playing the fighting music which really 
 takes you away from concentration when you are trying to sneak around. I will give sound a 7.
 
  
  Value: This game is very short with only 13 levels, you can beat it in a day if you try. There 
 are four different difficulty levels that will challenge you to play more. You can always try to 
 get different ratings and you can play through each level dozens of times killing people in different 
 ways. I will give value an 8.
  
  Tilt: I am giving tilt a 10 because I am having a lot of fun playing this game. I have beat it 
 on rookie and plan to try and get Silent Assassin on all of the levels and maybe someday beat all 
 levels on all difficulties.
  
  Overall: I would reccomend this game to annyone who likes violence and owns a 360. 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this the best Hitman yet but it packs hours of fun and a quick learning curve. The 
 graphics are very good and the levels in which the AI can be set to leave a gamer of any level 
 a good time. This game keeps you coming back for more, If you beat a mission you want to go back 
 to it and see other ways in which it could be done.
  
  Hitman Blood Money is one of those games when you wake up from sleeping and go, "That's how you 
 are suppose to do it!" It is fun for hours, this isn't a cheap fun game. Hitman Blood Money will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat until the end.
  
  The story line is also magnifencent, all your missions tie back to a story, you beat a mission 
 because you are lingering for more info on the story.
  
  Hitman Blood Money is a great game and deserved above an 8.2, this hitman is simply the best of 
 all the hitmans and is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The Hitman's like clay. You can make a lot of crap with clay but Eidos seems to have the idea 
 of making wonderful environments that are open for change. You have a mission and tools to do the 
 mission, but you overall get to choose how that mission plays out. It's a good design that has 
 worked with the Hitman series from the running days.
  First person mode is actually a lot better. It doesn't have a generic pull to it. I liked Contract's 
 first person mode but this one just feels more authentic.
  Finally, they brought bullet holes in bodies back. I thought after the Hot Coffee "scandal", violence 
 would be watched more closely by game creators. Thank you, Eidos, for putting bullets holes in 
 the bodies. It creates a nice realism.
  
  :Bad Idea:
   The graphics are great but they appear to have been toned down in some areas of the game. For 
 instance, there's a lot of clipping issues (more than usual) and there's a bit of a problem with 
 going through fabrics on the training level. 
  When using your fiber wire on a guy from above, the camera moves to below his feet. It makes the 
 game feel less real and more generic. I hated that.
   There's not a lot of language, but I would have enjoyed a language filter.
  
  :Overall:
 
   If you enjoy getting paid to murder bad people, this is the game to get. Blood Money adds more 
 into the mind of an assassin (more than you Rogues in World of Warcraft will ever know) . There's 
 plenty of fun to be had and even though the game is difficult, it isn't annoying to lose. It just 
 makes your think "What did I do wrong?".
  
  -------------------------------
  :Achievement Challenge:
  The achievements are super easy to obtain... until you get to the Professional 
 missions. I can't get a Silent Assassin on the first mission. Someone always see's me. I don't 
 know what I'm doing wrong. Oh, well. But the secrets are basically... Don't spend money until you 
 hit $5,000,000. Complete a accidental kill. Kill 47 people and finish a mission. Lol, 47. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-bak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is excelent. By far the best in the series. Hitman Blood Money is about the notorious 
 Agent 47 and his latest and most deadly missions. The game opens up with a training level that 
 is suprisingly helpful, it guides you through all the aspects and controls of this hitman game. 
 There are four modes; rookie normal expert and advanced. Rookie is annoingly easy and normal is 
 a slight challenge. If you really want to impress yourself, go for the expert mode it's very challenging. 
 The new notoriety feature is cool but it feels half finished. It is way to easy to repeal your 
 notoriety (buying a new identity for example) . The reason why it is so easy is because you make 
 an enormous amount of money on missions compared to what you have to pay to repeal notoriety. Another 
 new feature is the weapons upgrade system which is one of the many highlights of the new Hitman 
 game. You can put various upgrades on four guns (an M4 assault rifle, SPAS 12 Shotgun, Tactical 
 Sub-Machinegun, W2000 Sniper Rifle, and of course the deadly Silver Ballers) . These upgrades range 
 anywhere from Magnum rounds to full automatic fire for your Ballers. Besides the gun upgrades you 
 can upgrade your standard gear (improved lockpicks, bullet-proof vests, ect.) The sounds in the 
 game are great. An excelent music score but poor weapon sounds (they dont sound authentic at all) . 
 The graphics are very good by far the best in the series.
  All in all Hitman: Blood Money is an excelent game with many flaws but excelent highlights.
  
 
  PROS:
  -Weapons upgrades
  -Excelent levels
  -Great graphics
  
  CONS:
  -notoriety system half finished
  -horrendous artifical intelligence
  -weapon sounds are weak 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  47 may be the most beloved anti-hero ever. He is everyones favorite bald-headed assassin to say 
 the least, and thats why everyone has waited for his new contracts in Hitman: Blood Money. Just 
 as the previous games in the series, Hitman: Blood Money is a awesome game. This time, the games 
 got s better story, through it dosent really matter. A man in a wheel chair has called Rick, a 
 journalist for a interview. But it is not as it seems. The man in the wheel chair (cant remember 
 his name) , insted tells him about agent 47, and his attacks. Theres also a rival agency after 
 him, but that part is a bit failed. It says everywhere that 47 is hunted by a rival agency, but 
 that only happens in the last 2 missions (theres a reason why theres a funeal at the start menu) . 
 The story also explains some questions from Hitman: Contracts, like whats he going to do in the 
 white house, and why he is wounded in the start of Hitman: Contracts.
  
  You dont need to have played that earlier Hitman games in order to play this game. The first level 
 is basicly a traning level, explaning everything about 47s moves, and the controls. You are also 
 guided through the level step by step, which actually makes the next level hard, since you have 
 to figure it all out yourself. Levels are simple, you have either 1 or more targets, and they are 
 at diffirent places on the map. Youll then have to find a way to get to them, and chances are 
 youll not make it the first time around. You can complete the levels by either shooting your way 
 through, or sneak in and kill only the targets. Its harder to shoot your way through a level this 
 time around. You die quick, which for the most part forces you too use stealth. Some changes have 
 been made through it dosent make the game much diffirent from the other Hitman games. Most noteably 
 is the new control system. No longer you get random windows enableing you to open a door, or anything 
 like that. You now have 3 buttons showed all the time. Y, B, and A. When ever you can do something, 
 the action is showed right next to the button. A is for opening doors, open/close things, and drag 
 bodys. B is for collecting weapons, and ammo. Y is for dropping things. Hold X down, and you enter 
 the inventory, quick press it to equip, and unequip weapons. Then theres the money (theres a 
 reason why the name money is in the game) . You earn money at the end of a mission like in the first 
 Hitman game. Money is used to upgrade weapons. The amout of money you earn depends on your rank, 
 and item retivial. If you leave your custom weapons, (like the Silverballers) , and/or your suit, 
 the agency have to get it transported it back to you, and they take some money from you, which 
 is about 5000$, it dosent hurt since you make well over 100.000$ at the end of each mission. Then 
 theres the notoriety system. If you on one level leave to many evedince, like bodys, and weapons, 
 and let by-standers see your face, your notoriety rises, and youll be easier to spot in the next 
 mission. Through its very easy to get rid off. You have 3 options, and the best is getting a new 
 Identiey, which costs 100.000. It isent really much, since you really earn a hell lot of money 
 after each mission. Another new cool feature is the split screen, taken from 24. Its used to let 
 you see what your targets are doing, at some points which is cool. Unfortunely, the past games 
 problems havent been solved, like the AI which still acts very stupid at times. Even through theres 
 a new control system, and the notoriety system, the game isent much diffirent from the other Hitman 
 games, which isent bad really.
  
  The games graphics are really the star of the show. Theres a huge veierty in locations. Youll 
 vist and X-mas party, a Wine Caller, Mardi Gras in New Oarlens (Viva La Bam!!) , and even Vegas. 
 The places are so big, and you can just about go everywhere. The characters are very detailed, 
 and there are some cool models. Even when there are over at least 100 characters in a level (Mardi 
 Gras) , the frame rate dosent drop. It does drop sometimes through, during split screen.
  
  The sound is once again great. Theres great voice acting (47 speaks a lot!!) , and some good sound 
 effects. Only the gun sounds are weak. Jesper Kyd has once again created the music, and he does 
 a great job (soundtrack out now) .
  
  The game is about 20 hours long, cause it can take a long time to complete levels. There is also 
 a lot of replay value, in teams of figuring out the diffirent ways, and earning all of the 24 achivements. 
 There is much to do here.
  
  Overall Hitman: Blood Money is a fanstaic game. Its easily the best Hitman game ever. Its a need. 
 You cant live without playing this game. If you love stealth, youll love Hitman. They are clever 
 those boys at Denmark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Briboo21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a good game with extreme variation in the levels Agent 47 has to complete. 
 The weapons are fun to look at and upgrade with suppressors, double clips, laser sights, etc. The 
 graphics are good but not the best. I think that Far Cry Instincts on the original Xbox looks just 
 as good as this game, so they could have probably upgraded the graphics more. To me the game was 
 pretty easy to beat even on the highest difficulty, but thats just my opinion. The achievements 
 are fun to try to get and some of them will take some real work on the players part. The sound 
 is ok but im sure a Dolby system would make it much more immersive to hear. I wish they had more 
 levels in the game, theres only 12 plus the alternate ending scene, so I beat the game in less 
 than 10 hours on pro difficulty. But if you want the achievements, you will have to complete the 
 story multiple times so this increases the time. The gameplay is good and the physics are fun to 
 watch when you shoot and blow people away. Overall its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is just a fantastic stealth action game for everyone. It has new abilities and levels that 
 are shocking and very fun. In the game you are Agent 47, a clone hitman. You are playing as him 
 as two reporter guys discuss what you have done in the last few months. After every mission, you 
 look at the local newspaper and see what the results of you killing spree were. IT also tells the 
 info on how much people you killed and how much bullets were fired. I thought that was a pretty 
 cool addition. The graphics in game and in the cut-scenes are just phenomonal. The things I didn't 
 like about the game was that only in the tutorial was a little helper. It should have been in the 
 game for people that actually "needed" help. Also, the game could have a had a radar kind of map 
 to help you find your objectives easier, beacuse once you are lost, your lost. IF you try turning 
 back and finding your way to your objective, you ar e going to be searching for quite some time. 
 This is a great game all in all and I would reccomend it to any fan of the previous Hitman games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  *Updated* See bottom.
  I went into this game expecting little to nothing from it. I found my self pleasantly surprized, 
 as it captured the feeling of being a emotionless killer. It's was a boy hood dream of me and my 
 brother to be hitman, pirates, or something wicked, he's in the army and I'm a mechanical designer 
 now... go figure.
  
  Pros: Solid gameplay makes this game truely worth while. The ability to kill a bunch of different 
 people, a bunch of different ways to your morbid sides blood thurst, is so entertaining by itself! 
 Your supposed to sneak around and stuff, I try to kill as many as possible with a kitchen knife 
 before 47 dies. The game presents a good challenge without giving you a headache. Even if you can't 
 figure out what to do, you can always explore for awhile and figure it out. The weapon customization 
 is very good, and actually uses real parts unlike some games that try way too hard to make guns 
 look "cool" couuu*black*ghhhhh. Black's guns were so "overdone" they looked fake, I hate that. 
 The blood effects are very good until it comes to blood splatter on walls and such (see cons) . 
 The story puts you in interesting places and gives you interesting things to do. The music is good 
 and sets the mood well. The graphics are better then last gen.... but compaired to other 360 games.... 
 they are alittle lacking especially in FPS mode. 
  
  Cons: The blood looks good squirting from the person... but looks scripted and un-natural splattering 
 on walls. A game about killing people should have excellent blood splatter and blood trails when 
 you drag someone, nothing less will do. AI is just plain "ok". 
  
  Bottom line: No award winner here, just a solid fun game that gets a few mechanics RIGHT unlike 
 others out there. Pick it up if you have patience, don't pick it up if you can't sit still. All 
 and all, this title is just a fun little distraction until Prey and Chromehounds come out.
  
  *Update* Other reviews have made mention that the AI will freak out or shoot at you for no 
 reason... I've found that there is ALWAYS a reason why people will freak out. For instance, if 
 you've been shot in a noticeable place, people will freak. If you run everywhere, people will freak. 
 If you go somewhere that is off limits (you have to use common sense, in real life can you walk 
 on a stage while people are preforming... No!) people will freak out and gaurds/cops will come. 
 I'm telling you, you have to pay ALOT of attention to this game because even the slightest little 
 thing can tip people off to who you are.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a well made game. The graphics are first rate with no or little slow down. 
 The sound is -- eehh, but the overall gameplay is what makes it a winner. Each level has a number 
 of not so obvious avenues one can take in order to complete the objective; this allows a little 
 creativity on the part of the player. One player might find a particular level difficult and another 
 might find it easy depending on how one is able to think on the fly. The manner of execution is 
 purely up to you, either quietly James bond your way through each mission or go Duke Nuke everyone, 
 either way this game definitely has some replay value. Each level varies in style and difficulty 
 just enough to keep you entertained, and its challenging especially on the harder difficulty levels. 
 Lastly, this game's ending totally ranks in my top ten of favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money offers a game that could have been so much more. There are times when you'll 
 notice if this idea was just put into the hands of the right creator, it could have been benchmarked 
 onto the scales of greatness. However, poorly implented design flaws, AI, and annoying glitches 
 will ruin the experience for everybody.
  
  The stealth gameplay works well for the most part and the control scheme does too, it's just that 
 the AI just won't allow everything to go about as it should. For no apparent reason people will 
 become alerted and begin to warn guards, run in terror, or shoot at you depending on who they are. 
 You will often wonder, "What did I do now?!" You will most likely be clueless as to what will trigger 
 such things to happen. However, you will recognize some things that make everything go wrong, and 
 when you do realize what these things are, good old common sense tells you that it just shouldn't 
 be like that. Also, everyone in the game will turn their head and stare at you when you enter a 
 room, and keep on starin until you leave. It will provide an awkward feeling that just shouldn't 
 be there. There should be no reason for people to randomly single out Agent 47 out of everyone 
 that is in the room to be stared at. It's not like Agent 47 is walking in the room backwards with 
 his barcode on the back of his neck flashing at everybody in neon lights.
  
  The levels in Hitman: Blood Money are varied and you won't see a similar location twice. However, 
 some levels look like they took much more time in creating than others, and even these levels that 
 look like much time was spent, just weren't designed the way they should have been. Most of these 
 levels are just way too small for the location the developers were trying to capture.
  
  Glitches are common among every level of Blood Money. Clipping occurs very frequently which is 
 a shame for a game like this. You will see body parts go through walls, people walking through 
 others, people walking on top of fire, and all other sorts of bizarre happenings.
  
  The graphics are mediocre. We have begun the next generation, and next generation visuals aren't 
 apparent here. You will see muddy textures here and there and Agent 47's head isn't even round 
 like it should be. They constructed a few lines to make it look round, instead of having it actually 
 arc like it should. Environments look detailed, but still not as detailed as they should be.
  
  This sound really needed some touching up before this game was put on shelves. The music on 
 the main menu has a nice feel to it, but that is where the good things in the sound department 
 end. The rest of the game's sound is incredibly flawed. When you enter a new environment, the game 
 will wait for you to reach a certain point before synching up accordingly. For example, if you 
 were inside with a bunch of people chatting and then walked right out the door where it is raining 
 outside, you would still hear the people chatting while the doors are closed and no rain. But, 
 if you walk one or two steps, then the rains begins to come along. Also, during cutscenes the voices 
 are under-modulated. You will find yourself frequently turning up the television to hear what the 
 characters are saying.
  
  Blood Money is designed so that you should go back and play all of the levels again after you finish 
 the game to get a higher rank, but after playing through all of this mess, you really won't want 
 to. I'd reccomend a rent, but not a buy. All throughout Blood Money you will realize that this 
 game could have been so much more. If it used a little more polish... well a lot more polish, and 
 have the AI act like they should, you know, like humans do, then they would have had a real hit 
 on their hands. But, in the state it is in now, it is basically unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  No game manages to pull off some of the hits that Agent 47 accomplishes. This game is so creative 
 as in ways to pull of hits without making yourself noticeable, that at sometimes I feel as if the 
 developers have really thought of doing these in real life. 47 returns in the fourth installment 
 of his successful series, and he is much more brutal then before. 
  
  First of all, the graphics are real nice to look at. However, though its weak compared to what 
 the 360 is capable of, its still real nice and you can actually tell the difference between the 
 360 version from the PS2 and Xbox version. But as far the gameplay, it still does the same as before, 
 but now it pulls it off alot smoother. For example, remember how if you took someone's outfit and 
 you walked to close to them they will notice and start shooting at you? No more. Now you can stand 
 next to them and they will just stare you down but never actually suspect something. Though the 
 A. I. can be just plain stupid at times as with all games, its still tolerable. For one, if I kill 
 a guy in a room without a silencer so the guards can hear while dressed as a guard, and I'm standing 
 over his body while the guards run in, the guards will suspect you but never really act on it. 
 How obvious is it that I killed him? Plus theres a new notoriety system that lets you bribe off 
 cops or witnesses when you have been seen doing a kill.
  
  And if you come into this game thinking you can just go in guns blazing like the old ones, then 
 think again pal. Now its staying more true to its roots of the "Silent Assassin" motto and forces 
 you to take advantage of causing accidents as well as setting traps to get the job done and get 
 out with no witnesses. The storyline is also a major improvement over the last and keeps you intrigued 
 with the story of another group of assassins trying to take 47 down. 
  
  The thing that truly shines in this game to me is the level designs. All the levels are completely 
 different than the last each giving you different ways to dispose of your targets whether it be 
 rigging a barbecuer, placing a bomb in a birthday cake or even placing ether on a girls panties 
 so when the perv agent goes into the room to sniff em, he passes out. Each are unique and there 
 are loads of different approaches on how to get the job done. When you go to replay a mission you 
 will always find another way to take them out. When you head into missions like the Murder of the 
 Crows mission or the Dance with the Devil mission you will truly be amazed on the way it works. 
 And how could you not the love the finale of the game that has you waking up from the dead to go 
 gun ho and kill everything in sight? And with the awesome achievements, you will be willing to 
 play through each difficulty available. Though the game is easy to fly through, you will feel the 
 need to return to it. Its a great game and does not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJP7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The fourth in the chilling Hitman series featuring the cold-blooded killer Agent 47. Finding that 
 members of his contract agency, The ICA, are now being quietly (and mortally) eliminated, Agent 
 47 suspects a larger organization is moving in. Fearing he may be the next target, he heads to 
 America. His jobs now will pay in straight-up cash -- and how he spends the money will affect what 
 weapons he has and what he does next. The developer added new gameplay systems, such as the concepts 
 of notoriety and of blood money. The new Notoriety system means that anyone causing a bloodbath 
 worthy of front page news is risking being recognised by civilians and guards in the future. Blood 
 money lets players spend their earnings on fully customisable precision weapons and specialist 
 equipment, or they can buy additional information upon the targets and location at hand, to aid 
 a successful and professional hit.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLXD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  I've been expecting the return of the baldy killer from the release of Hitman: Contracts, and now 
 its here. This series takes up the torch and takes what was great from other games, plus adds more 
 to make it worth playing. The story line turns out to be stronger then other Hitman games in my 
 opinion, but I'm still not fully on the same page with the whole clone assassin idea (although 
 the barcode is great) . 
  
  The game play stays within the same emphasis on stealth as it was before. The game really makes 
 a point of staying undetected, especially on xbox 360 as you get various accomplishments. The first 
 mission pretty much leads you through the game, and tells you the how to. Even when following he 
 step-by-step tutorial to eliminate the "Swing King" in a shady abandoned amusement park you get 
 a feel for what the game is going to be like. Lots of steal and tricky kills that you can pull 
 of. The following missions are a lot less linear, but nonetheless, the first mission serves as 
 a great introduction to the rest. 
  
  There are more than a dozen missions in the game, and each one takes a place in a various locations 
 across the US. But this time the environments are more thought out and brought to life. If in the 
 past you faced with a bunch of guards and very little civilian power, and the same old sketched 
 environments you're in for a ride. The Mardi Gras level by itself is statement to how far the game 
 progressed. The crowd fills the streets is vast, and the guards out numbered by civilians, for 
 probably the first time in a hitman game. The physical environments are also very well recognized 
 as each place has a specific feel to it, along with many places you can go in order to achieve 
 your mission. (On one level I counted over 5 sniper positions in 3 minutes) . So the environments 
 really do play an important role in the game, sometimes they feel like an additional character 
 in the story. 
  
  This Hitman game also took the gameplay, to a place where you can finish a level without firing 
 a single shot. Accidents such as pushing someone of the balcony, or rigging their grill to set 
 them on fire, were introduced to make the walkthrough more branched, and add a little replay value 
 to the game. As always you can use the trusty garrote wire, handheld close combat weapons or poison 
 syringe. This adds depth and difficulty, as you are always trying to figure out how to "accidentally" 
 kill a victim, and thus have more fun. Of course you can still go nuts and shoot everything you 
 see, but that is frowned upon now as Blood Money introduced a new notoriety system. Now at the 
 end of the mission you get a summary of your work, and money comes out of your salary to "damage 
 control" whatever mayhem you caused. Also you get treated to newspaper article about your killing, 
 which is though a nice touch, gets really repetitive if you read it as it says almoust the same 
 thing all the time. IF you were silent it will say that noone was see, but if you did kill many 
 people, you'll see someone who looks like you on the front page, and then people on the next mission 
 will recognize you better. Mostly the newspapers give you more of a generated biography of someone 
 you just killed rather then an accurate account of what happened. The notoriety system is a nice 
 touch, but it feels forced on the game, and underdeveloped. As bribing cops or FBI easily rids 
 you of some of the hassle. The AI is somewhat decent, especially while you observe, as they talk, 
 go to the washroom or to take a smoke (some of them just do nothing but smoke and piss though) , 
 and act close to real life.
  
  The gameplay is neat as I said before, but there are still some minor flaws that do get in your 
 way. For example baldy still changes closes somewhat awkwardly, although that does allow us to 
 understand how he accomplishes getting inside all these places. I was really pissed off about this 
 though when I followed a guy into a washroom in front of like 5 marines, strangled him in there 
 and the walked out in his uniform, I mean it felt really unrealistic at that point. Also some of 
 the AI doesnt respond well, especially after a killing. Like when you have to kill this assassin 
 boss, his cronies just drag him in a body bag outside and act the same as they did before. Also 
 after the accident many people carry on with their lives, like when you kill a theater actor, the 
 stage people will continue to set up the stage after a few minutes. Once you start shooting, the 
 problems with the guard AI really show, as the only way they can take you out is outnumbering you. 
 I found out I could kill everyone in any level by just setting up in a corner of a small room and 
 shoot at the door as guards run in.
  
  The visuals are great, especially for the 360. The environments feel smooth and detailed, but it 
 does still feel like a mere upgrade from a weaker system that was not taken all the way. Baldy 
 and other characters look somewhat toyish in this installment, although developers did try to give 
 him a more realistic look. Although the characters are still some what distant from reality (closer 
 the this gen) , the environments are amazing. Every location you go to will have its own feel, and 
 will seem just as complex as others. You will need to explore most of them looking for little details 
 were you can set up an "accident" and although some are quite obvious others are not. This was 
 a true addition to the Hitman series as it does add even more depth to the missions, outside of 
 numerous ways to kill your target. 
  
  All and all this game is a good addition to the series. The sound effects are pretty cool. The 
 gun shots for every gun, the chatter of crowds on Mardi Gras, the chocking of a victim with a garrote 
 wire. The voice acting is good, but sometimes could show more of an emotional tilt, especially 
 in within the mission animations. The music created for the game gives it that darker feel, while 
 still maintaining the naughty fun aspect. The lighting and animations are well done, and only add 
 to the overall atmosphere of the levels. The death animations do stick to the same all rag doll 
 effect, which makes it fun sometimes just to shoot it up with the guards and watch tem fall.
  
  Overall, Blood Money picks up where Contracts left off, and it gives me a nice warm feeling 
 inside. I really enjoyed seeing all the new additions, which allowed for the deaths to be more 
 graphic and atmosphere dark. The franchise has definitely taken a step in the right direction. 
 The ending of the game leaves an impression of more to come, and I know I'll be waiting
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshalt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  the forth hitman game in the series really saved it overall
  
  graphics: hitman blood money on the 360 has some great visual affects with lighting and blood for 
 example areas were light is shinging through looks really nice and other affects like when you 
 shoot a enemy in the head his blood splatters and parts of his brain are in the blood and the grahpics 
 on the npcs are ok for the 360 but arnt top notch for the 360's power but overall they are nice.
 
  
  sound: the sounds in blood money can range from extreme gun fire to raging hillbillys screaming 
 and shooting their guns in the air. every gun in this game has its own sound which is nice because 
 you can perdict what guns the enemy are carrying. some times there is audio glithes were a gun sound 
 will keep acurrying even when thier is no shooting but overall the audio is nice.
  
  control: hitman blood money has many diffrent moves and things you can do if you are not used to 
 the series the controls can be somewhat hard to get down but as easy as any other game. but the 
 controls arnt vey hard and they differ on what platform you play on but overall they are good
 
  
  a. i: the ai in this game can get really annoying at points like your suspicsion meter will shoot 
 all the way up becasue you ran infront of a guard. at times the ai can be really good and work 
 fine like the guards will talk with eachother and stick to their normal patterns. overall the ai 
 is good
  
  game overall: hitman blood money has its ups and downs some ups are great gameplay with alot of 
 diffrent paths and ways to kill a target some downs are sctechy ai at some points and they took 
 alot of the famous guns out this time around. overall this game was really bumped up from the previous 
 games which is a nice touch but the series still has its flaws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_735
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Hitman blood money Agent 47 is... back!
  New and better Hits are ON.
  all we know that Hitman contracts was ``Good, but this one is a great
  Gaming evolution.
 
  The new Weaponry is way bigger, and the graphics are a lot better.
  Now here we can talk about game play: its got a big variety of actions,
  new moves, captivating 
 missions and new enemies.
  We can do everything we want ( has some consequences) but its like real life, we everything has 
 got some advantages and some consequences.
  in my opinion the sniper rifleis the best made weapon in the game,
  because the games graphics 
 puts you behind the rifle, imagine.
  What do we want more?
  Its a perfect match! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: made2k
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is a game that all action and strategy lovers will enjoy. The new installment 
 in the series offers a lot to the table. In the game as everyone knows, you play as Agent 47. 47 
 will take on many missions that can be taken on as a stealthy job, in which you will have to think 
 and carefully watch the circumstances of your surroundings. Then again, some missions allow you 
 to take more of a Rambo approach. 
  
  One of the biggest plusses in the game is the wardrobe changes. Different outfits allow you access 
 to different places, or will get you shot at. Upgradeable weapons and other miscellaneous objects 
 help you to complete your missions. A notoriety affect also ups the games fun. It will change depending 
 on how you take the mission. 
  
  Some cons about the game are defiantly the collision detection system. While playing through the 
 game you will eventually see some people just walking through a door and then the door opening.
 
  
  Overall I give Hitman Blood Money a solid 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Hitman is a sweet game! I have played a couple of the other games and had fun but not as much fun 
 as with this game.
  
  Graphics - Models look nice and the surrounding areas are really well designed. Everything pretty 
 much does what it should too with dragging bodies aroudn and stuff like that. The bodies being 
 eaten by crocs is a nice touch on the wetlands level.
  
  Gameplay - Being able to do more in this game rocks! Jumping through windows and stuff like that 
 makes the game that much better.
  
  Sound - The sound in the game is perfect. I also like the people just chatting about the most random 
 things. Very funny!
  
  Overall it is a solid game that is fun to play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this is probably the best hitman yet. the last level was simply awe striking, because 
 of the suit it was amazing to say the least. I liked the story line and enjoyed the new notoriety 
 and seeing how you did after the mission by reading the paper. I loved how you may figure out how 
 to beat the mission but can find ways to beat the mission in many other ways. Plus the complete 
 customisasion of your weapons made me very happy about wanting to play it over and over again. 
 Also the Xbox 360 achievments were not that hard to obtain and were fun to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game is okay... To start, there is alot of language!!! F-Bombs, #$!@ fights. The works. 
 Not as violent as explicit. Let's get past the bad stuff and profanity. I would personally like 
 this game more if it was better. Does that make sense. I don't suggest you to buy this game, a 
 rent might be okay, but not a buy unless you really like Mr. Bar Code (AKA Agent 47) I don't like 
 how little combat there was. I spent alot of time just walking around looking cool in my suit. 
 I think they should change the title to Hitman: Rather Pay For The Game With Blood More Than Money. 
 If you want a better game like Hitman, play GRAW. You think it's way different? Look at the objectives 
 to the game: KILL! KILL! KILL!!!! Yup, same. Except GRAW's better. You thought I would give it 
 a 47? Wrong! It's a 7.0, and you know it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time Hitman fan and though this game is great it could have been better. First, lets 
 start off with the good things, the graphics are amazing, the sound is amazing, the story is great 
 and the level design is astounding, some bad things are that the sound sometimes glitches at times, 
 and its a wee bit short Hitman 2 was still the best cause of its length, also at the begining it 
 seems that in all the levels there are multiple ways to kill targets but as you progress it seems 
 to get to linear and there are as many cool deaths, It does keep the same Hitman Formula that i 
 have come to love with some cool new features but something that kind of makes me mad is in the 
 old games you collected everything including knifes and axes and stuff well you dont do that in 
 this one and that would be cool also if you could collect the clothes you wear throughout the levels 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykodude4523
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and detail in this game are absolutely amazing. The way you can customize your weapons. Its 
 all phenominal. The blood splatter when ever you hit/stab/shoot somone are awesome. And you can say 
 "I have 5 million dollars.... in a video game". The ways you can approach a mission is unlimited. This 
 game is absolutely amazing. Maybe in the future, A Hitman game will be the first 10 missions you 
 aquire a piece of technology. That at mission 11 you clone and create your own Hitman. And name (a. k. a. 
 Number) him and take him into the field and educate him up to leave 47 and contract with other 
 people. And build his weapons and have signature weapons. Overall I think this game is perfect. So 
 thats why I'm giving the eidos and Io interactive game "Hitman: Blood Money" a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onewithtoenail7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  blood money is great in its creative level design & the number of things to do in them. youll preform 
 hits at a wedding, a rehab clinic, the white house,& plenty more unique locations all with a little 
 something to spice it up like a christmas party or enemy agents after you. you'll find great pleasure 
 in exploiting faulty design (like a glass jacuzzi with nothing between it & the floor 70 ft below 
 ) , to sadistic pleasures like poisoning all the drinks at a wine show or whipping out a custom M-4 
 in the crowd of mardi gras, every level offers plenty of fun to be had. some tweaks could be made 
 to the AI, though. sometimes you'll shoot a man in a room, conceal your gun, and when security rushes 
 in and sees the only people in the room are you & a corpse, will ask ,"are you a witness?!", and 
 other times you'll walk into a room disgiused as security with the standard issue shotgun casually 
 slung along your arm, & all the other guards stop showing off their weapons to point them at you. 
 but these problems will lead you to the real fun of a stealth & stay quiet game like this : screw 
 the extra money & kill everyone. simple items have a thousand possibilites. mines could be put 
 in food, on chandeliers, dropped onto a balcony below, or placed right on the vice president's desk. 
 you mix & match all the elements for infinite ways to take out your targets, or creative ways to 
 take out all your targets at once, wich will be put to the test when you have 7 targets, but the 
 results will definitly be worth it. this game is a must buy for the sheer number of options presented 
 to you, & it will always offer a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNREAL_IRLman22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  ok, i know i only played the demo for this, but its prolly most of the same thing. i really like 
 the detail on the people themselves, but it seemed like thats all the developers cared about, the 
 environment still could have been most detailed i think, and the thing that pisses me off the most 
 is that when your talking to someone (not in a cinema scene) they barely move theyre mouths. but 
 i really loved how the post-game stats are in a newspaper layout and teling you how you did as 
 if it was a newpaper article. i just believe they could have done a better job with the overall 
 power of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poovens
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  the game looked great, going around assasinating people seemed really cool. when i bought the game 
 i thought very different the game is just straight up boring. this game reminds me of nancy drew. 
 I mean all you did was walk around in a stupid suit all sly and kill the target. the game got old 
 to me in 30 minutes. no action at all i didnt even understand the game. but thats just me i like 
 action maybe you will like this stupid game, but i would recomend skipping this game bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Hitmas Blood Money is the first Hitman game on the Xbox 360. The graphics don't look too different 
 from the Xbox and PS2 versions of the game, they do look a little bit better, and they are still 
 pretty good but certainly are not the best graphics on Xbox 360. The voice acting is great and 
 the music is great too.
  
  This isn't really like Splinter Cell or Metal Gear Solid, but stealth is the best way to play. 
 You can cycle between 1st and third person. Both have advantages, but both are pretty easy and 
 fun to use. Personally, I prefer 3rd person it's easier to get through stuff because you can see 
 Agent 47. You can use wire to choke enemies, or use weapons like Sniper Rifles, Shotguns and Pistols. 
 You can use cool punching and kicking and choking moves too and easily steal an enemies weapon.
 
  
  This game is pretty bloody and there are some suggestive themes in it too. The game isn't overly 
 gorey, just very bloody. The game is violent and they say the F word quite a few times along with 
 othe rbad languauge. I wouldn't suggest this game for younger players unless there mature enough 
 to handle it.
  
  Overall, this game is very fun. The stealth and shooting is fun but the graphics could've been 
 better. It's worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, when I first played the Demo for Hitman I didnI'll 't really like it. I found it 
 kind of boring. It wasn't until one night i was bored and just played it again and instead of listening 
 to the what the tutorial told me to do i went my own way. I found it to be MUCH more enjoyable. 
 I played the demo about 8 times before renting the game from Blockbuster. I loved it. Just loved 
 it. 
  
  Even though this game can be turned into a run and gun the players that are looking to be more 
 paitent and stealthy will have alot more fun. Being Stealthy is really satisfying. If you give 
 the game time and really evauluate all your options for each given level you will be rewarded with 
 Acheivements and just plain fun. You can set the most perfect plans and it will be amazing to see 
 how these plans work out. 
  
  In hitman you play as the worlds most dangerous Assasin known. Agent 47. Your a legend to the everyone 
 but the CIA who have been tracking you for years. All the mission in Hitman are actually been done 
 in the past as a CIA agent talks about them to a reporter.
  
  Throughout the game you earn money which can be used for two things. Customising your weapons and 
 bribing people to lower your noteriety rating. Your noteriety rating is basically how much your 
 expected. It goes up if you are wreckless. The higher it is the more the guards in the next level 
 will expect you. You can customise your weapons wil some realistic upgrades including Scopes, Laser 
 Sightes, and Silencers.
  
  In each level your can take out your target anyway your would like. You can justb bust in and kill 
 everyone or wait till hes alone and jab kitchen knife in the sweet spot. It really is up to you.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty superb especially on HD. The sound i mixed. The voice Acting is superb 
 but some of the weapons sound a little too weak.
  
  All in All Hitman Blood Money is a very good game. Deff a rent if not a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satchman781
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is a great sequel to the other 3 games, and easily the best of the 4 in terms of graphics 
 and gameplay. The only aspect I liked better in previous games was the firearms sound effects. 
 They're a little too quiet in this one. Contrary to what Game Informer says, I don't find the AI 
 to be unpredictable or spotty. Most of the characters react pretty consistently. An awesome new 
 feature is the ability to wrestle away someone's gun or just kick their a$$ bare handed. This opens 
 up a lot of opportunities when you find yourself getting stopped in restricted areas as long as 
 you're isolated from a crowd. In previous games, many characters would unrealistically just start 
 blasting away if you were caught somewhere you weren't supposed to be. In this version, most characters 
 will tell you to get lost and threaten you for a minute before WWIII breaks out. This gives a chance 
 to wrestle a gun away and whip out a silenced pistol or simply beat the characters into submission. 
 This pattern makes the game a lot more fun and reduces a lot of the trial and error that would 
 result from easily triggered bloodbath gunfights in the previous games. My criticisms are fairly 
 minor. First thing is the very difficult strangling controls. This is easy to screw up and makes 
 strangling an undesirable tactic. IO should have made this context sensitive so that you can autostrangle 
 someone as long as you're close. AI could have a used a tad more refinement as well. Overall great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoverallbaby
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game! Controls are rock solid, gameplay and difficulty that have been the serie hallmark 
 has not been dumbed down for the 360 players, this is one of the most challengeing games around. 
 my only criticism of the game is that i wish there were more edgey roles for women in the game. 
 apprantly we are only suited for whore jobs, assistants or eye candy. not one is the subject of 
 a hit or are guards! c'mon! there is one woman killer in the game but i dont want to spoil anything, 
 her role was even silly and a let down. but that very minor issue aside i loved playing this game. 
 i found my self replaying level after level to see what i could do different. i wish i could just 
 sneak up to fools and snap there necks though! :) anyhoo my favorite weapon is the poison filled 
 needle, i just love hearing people moan and groan as they die:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  This game is good, but its not great and its not worth the 60.00.
  The gameplay is pretty decent, though some of the animations look a little "rough", like not enough 
 attention was paid to that part of the game. It seems as though the disarming manuvers and hand 
 to hand combat attacks just arn't fluid at all most of the time. The frame rate is stable. The 
 graphics have that "I was designed for the ps2 and xbox and just got ported to the 360" look. They 
 visuals are below par for what the 360 is capable of. 
  
  Agent 47's head is still kind of "blocky" and there just doesnt seem to be much definition to any 
 of his other body parts as well, accept for his clothing which seems to be fairly detailed with 
 wrinkles, etc. The environments them selffes look good but not great. I know graphics isn't everything 
 but this game falls short somewhat on gameplay too. Not too much but enough to notice. I will say 
 sound quality is pretty nice.
  
  All in all if you are a fan of the series , buy it. For every one else rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  What makes "Blood Money" so good?
  
  Options  and lots of them.
  
  Rather than force players to take a specific action as they try to assassinate various bad people, 
 the large, detailed levels can be completed in a variety of ways that can take a few minutes or 
 a few hours.
  
  Do you inject a deadly toxin in his drink? Why not sneak up from behind and silently strangle him? 
 If you're really feeling creative, why not set an explosive trap and make it look like the whole 
 thing was an accident?
  
  All of these are possible, though some methods are much harder to pull off than others.
  
  
 The biggest challenge is reaching these elusive targets: They tend to be swarming with body guards 
 who get awfully suspicious  and downright violent  when they see a bald guy in a black suit wandering 
 their domain.
  
  Agent 47 has plenty of foils, some of them quite clever. He has a seemingly endless supply of coins 
 which can be tossed to cause a short distraction.
  
  Better yet, find a guard in a quiet corner, take him out, then put on his uniform as a disguise. 
 So long as nobody else notices the corpse you've left behind (you can stash bodies in various conveniently 
 placed trunks and other containers) , it's a surprisingly effective way to gain unfettered access.
 
  
  Yet this single-player won't appeal to everyone.
  
  Patience is truly a virtue here, with lots of trial and error involved in correctly performing 
 each step of each mission.
  
  Good Graphics, Fun Gameplay, No real complaints here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The true sequel to Silent Assassin is here. For those of you who like Hitman and didn't play Hitman 
 Contracts, good idea, that game sucked. Blood Money really focuses on what it did best in previous 
 installments. In Silent Assassin the high points were when you could mingle with real people without 
 worrying about getting shot at by armed guards running after you. You could infiltrate parties 
 or hotels as a normal person and make certain things occur that allow you to get to your target 
 and kill them. That's how it is in this game, all the way till the end. The last level you're basically 
 forced to go mass killing with your upgraded guns. On that note:
  
  There are a lot of new features in Hitman Blood Money. The most noteable is the upgrading Gun System. 
 Instead of gaining up hundreds of guns that somehow manage to fit in all your pockets no matter 
 what outfit you get into (Though you get an achievement if you collect all the weapons in the game) . 
 Now you only have five and three of them have to be pre-placed in the level and you have to pick 
 up later. You get your trusty Silver Ballers, Shotgun, SMG, M4, and a Sniper Rifle. If you choose 
 to take the SMG or Ballers they fit snugly in your pockets, the M4 and Shotgun are pre-placed in 
 little black boxes that you can pick up later. And the sniper rifle is in a little briefcase that 
 you start with at the beginning of the level. You start out getting basic things like silencer, 
 more ammo, but soon you'll get things like Laser Sights, zoom, and bigger bullets to break through 
 doors etc.
  
  Another addition is the Noterity System, which is a breath of fresh air, but I wouldn't know. Unfortnately 
 (Depending how you look at it) the system can be skipped over completely. On normal mode you can 
 go on a mass killing, and leave hundreds of people to see the white of your eyes. And your noterity 
 will only rise to 35%, there's some obvious flaws in the system, since a simple $100,000 lowers 
 40% of your noterity. That seems like a lot but seeing as how you get paid around $400,000 per 
 mission, it's not. And you rarely get that high, it normally only gets to 15% in whcih it takes 
 $50,000 to pay off. In theory if your noterity is high people will be more suspcious of you in 
 the up coming level. There's only 12 but it can be a problem sometimes.
  
  Another note worthy addition is the crowd system. It's pretty over hyped, it's suggested that the 
 crowd will react, you will have to move through them, you can use them as shields etc. etc. blah 
 blah that's not true. If you shoot a bullet straight into the head of someone during Marty Graw, 
 the crowds runs a few feet ducking, and continues with their business. But that's not what so cool 
 about it. What's cool is that you can get one hundred people on screen, fire a full clip from the 
 M4 and not have a single drop in frame rate. That alone is awesome. There are only 3-4 levels that 
 use the crowd on a large scale, but it's still nice to be there. It ensures that the frame rate 
 is fantastic.
  
  As well are the animations, Agent 47 has some new tricks, he now has Posion Needles and Sedating 
 Needles, he also has his trusty fiber wire, a coin to distract enemies, and hand-to-hand combat 
 which makes going through a level without any guns a lot more possible then before. Don't make 
 it seem like getting Silent Assassin is any easier though. In my 20 hours of playing I've only 
 achieved a single Silent Assassin rating by myself, on one of the earlier levels. The graphics 
 in the game are really nice too, everything looks real, animations are realistic, it's all good 
 and cool. And when you get shot as long as you wear that outfit the bulletholes stay in you. But 
 there are upgrades like body armor and painkillers that resist bullets or help cure your health.
 
  
  It's also good to know that a lot of the levels are in the United States, or places where people 
 speak english, so you don't feel so isloated anymore on missions. It has a better mood to the game, 
 and makes you feel like it's possible to complete the mission and not like it's impossible and 
 you give up after a few tries.
  
  Achievements why this game would be good for Hitman fans, you could easily get some of these. To 
 name a few, make an "Accident" happen, which basically making a guy die from a falling light system, 
 etc. Get five silent assassin ratings on Normal, five silent assassins on Hard," on Professional. 
 You also get achievements for completing the first mission, beating the game on any difficulty, 
 and for fully upgrading your guns. There are a lot of "Secret" achievements which are annoying 
 since you don't know what you have to do to get them. But this game is real fun, and should make 
 an addition for anyone who likes to go around hunting down people and killing them.
  
  A little note, the whole save system stuff that's been getting a lot of bad reputation is true. 
 If you save a few seconds before the mission ends (In case you screw up at the last seconds) once 
 you finish the mission it deletes all of the "in-game" saves. Which saves space, since I recall 
 having 30 saves in Silent Assassin but, this is just so annoying. It's nothing TOO bad though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few games I haven't gotten tired of playing over and over. Started out on normal 
 difficulty, and that was a great way to get used to the gameplay, figure out some different strategies 
 to complete levels and stuff like that. When you get into the harder difficulties, its even more 
 fun. It gives you a nice challenge, but if you know what you're doing, you can get pretty creative 
 with your missions. Theres a good handfull of achievements, which is always a plus. And its always 
 great to replay the levels with your upgraded weapons and complete your "hits" in a different way. 
 It lets you get really creative. I like the open-endedness of this one, and you're never completely 
 boned if you do blow your cover. Graphically, you can tell its just amped from the XBOX version... which 
 is nice. Only true complaint with the graphics would be that i'd like to see some better textures, 
 particularly on the people. Can't go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money offered a lot to many Hitman fans who have played the previous games and enjoyed 
 them. First off, Blood Money's engine is no different than the previous games, but it offers a 
 few thrills to keep the classic gameplay going. It offers an upgrading system, noteriety ranking, 
 newspaper headlines, and beautiful locations. The story is quite different this time, Agent 47 
 is being hunted down by a shady rival agency while he's doing the missions . Another note is that 
 the missions sometimes have a bonus, for instance killing an optional target or carrying the suitcase 
 your target carried. Another new addition to the game is that silence may not be your best bet 
 sometimes, you could kill everyone in your sight, but don't expect your noteriety not going up 
 the charts. All in all, the game offers a lot, you either love or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CradleXX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Well there is not much to say that I haven't already said. After you beat all 4 difficulties, (Rookie, 
 Normal, Expert, Pro) , the replay value starts to fade. If you lots of extra money, buy this and 
 Condemned (buy/rent Condemned if you like scary stuff) . But any game where you can put a bomb in 
 a cake or drop a piano on someone has to be good. Multiple ways to take out your targets anf fun 
 achievements make it pretty fun. 
  
  The cons of this game is that it is Single player only. It would be awesome to have Hitman vs. 
 Hitman or co-op. But no multiplayer. Also there are minor clipping issues. People's arms go through 
 furniture, etc. It's infrequent but a little annoying. 
  
  In conclusion, I'd give it an 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2FacedJanus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The Hitman series have all been pretty straightforward in what they're about. You're a hitman, 
 think of a way to kill your target. The beauty of the series lies in the fact that you truly can 
 explore multiple ways to kill your target. You could go on a rampage leaving a sea of dead bodies 
 in your wake. Or you could be silent, change an outfit, penetrate the facility where your target 
 is, and only take him out. And of course many ways in between.
  
  In Blood Money the amount of ways to kill your target has expanded even more, including with some 
 very original ways. However the more silent you are, the more money get paid. And there usually 
 is only one way to beat a level to obtain that highly valued "Silent Assassin" ranking. Yes, after 
 each level you're ranked which will be the basis of your reward. There will be some other factors 
 that can decrease your score, like leaving customized weapons around, not hiding bodies or leaving 
 your suit behind. Another new gameplay element is the notoriety rating. After each level, depending 
 how many times you're discovered you gain a bit of notoriety. This will allow npcs to spot you 
 sooner in later missions. It is fairly easy to counter this effect though through bribes or an 
 identity change.
  
  Another new addition to the series are weapon upgrades, so yes your money actually has uses. I 
 found myself to stick mostly to my silenced silverballers and sniper rifle, but than again I'm 
 always sneaky when a game allows me to. All weapons have their uses though and none really are 
 redundant, well maybe the shotgun. There are various ways to upgrade your weapons and some upgrades 
 will make others impossible, like having silencer type 2 equipped will disable silencer type 1. 
 Most of the upgrades are very useful though and this feature is very well implemented.
  
  The controls in hitman (especially for pc) have been enhanced and while maybe a bit confusing in 
 the beginning it really is quite good. Instead of relying on one button to do all your actions, 
 you now have 3 at your disposal which allows for a much more fluid control. The best part about 
 it it's now it's easy to sequence actions. For example: you kill a target, drag his body, open 
 a chest, drop the body in it and close the chest. In previous Hitman games I guarantee you it would've 
 taken a lot longer to do that than in Blood Money. And time is quite often of the essence. The 
 only problem with the controls are getting through open windows. It's somehow quite hard to jump 
 through them which can be kinda annoying if you want to get away rather quickly.
  
  The graphics in hitman are very good, on the pc and 360 a bit less so due to some very low-res 
 textures you might bump in (Like hedges) . Other than that the character models and the outfits 
 they're wearing are very detailed. The environments in which you do your missions all have their 
 distinctive look and feel which really sets them apart.
  
  The sound in hitman is probably the best feature of all. The game hosts some really good voice-acting. 
 The weapons sounds are really crisp and clean and the ambient sounds are done really well. You'll 
 hear birds and parrots in the jungle, opera music in the opera house and so on.
  
  As for the story it's awesome. If this is your first time playing this game you might not really 
 get it but you'll find the plot twist at the end undeniably awesome.
  
  Overall this is a great game and a recommended buy if you like killing things with a twist. The 
 only truly negative comment I have on the game is it's length which is fairly short. That and once 
 you have the "Silent Assassin" ranking on a mission there's no real incentive to replay it. Other 
 than that I had a great time playing this game and I'll probably play it again in a few months. 
 This is the best game in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  To start, I was not a big fan of the original 3 Hitman games, which I give 7 out of ten to all 
 of them. This one was different. From the graphics to how you could kill someone, the game felt 
 fresh and exciting. The pace was well done and the combat was amazing. Lets start the review:
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Superb. The graphics of this game are not very "Next-gen" but considering that this game is also 
 on Xbox and PS2, it looks pretty damn good. Of course, its not without flaws. The ragdoll effects 
 are somewhat rough since the bodies sometimes get messed up too easily. still, not much to complain 
 about,
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Awesome. Jesper Kyd does an amazing job with all the games he works on, and this one is no exception. 
 From the russian opera, to Agent 47's deadly theme, this game's music was a masterpiece. The only 
 bumps I see are that some of the music piece didn't have a longer piece then they should have and 
 could have been.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  VERY open-ended. The game pretty much lets you kill a person any way you want. A wise choice indeed 
 since that aspect is what makes this series so wonderful, and why it brought me back for the fourth 
 entry. My only complaint is that the AI sometimes cheated. by cheating, I mean they saw me do something 
 when no one was around, and (on VERY rare occasion) they start shooting at you for no reason.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  For achivement lovers, there is no question. the value is there and this 
 game will rock your world while collecting those achivements. Of course, for everyone else, that 
 60 price tag might not cut it, and I don't see too many people going through all the difficulties. 
 Still, I reccommend this game highly to anyone, thats if they don't mind the sometimes crazy plot.
 
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I enjoyed the game very much and I have a feeling that many other will as well. Its too bad that 
 this game doesn't have a multiplayer in it to keep things going, but the problem I see is how would 
 that work? Anyways, I can't wait to play Hitman 5, when ever that comes out...
  
  Pros:
  - Great Graphics
  - The music is awesome
  - Agent 47 is sleek and cool
  - The multiple ways 
 to kill someone are so sweet
  -Your Targets' stories are downright evil
  
  Cons:
  - The ragdoll physhics screw up too much
  - Gunplay is not kind of shaky.
  - the occasional 
 AI mishap
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Tips:
  - On "The murder of the Crows", don't goof around too much trying to find the targets. after a 
 while, they will carry out there mission, which results in a failure for you.
  - On "A new life", grab the lighter fluid in the basement and rig the grill at the pool side with 
 it. This will kill the wife so you can get the necklace. don't worry about the FBI agents though, 
 they don't seem to expect a thing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunder88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm a hitman fan, I've beatin the hitman series since number 2. THis one I would have to say is 
 better than the rest. You could actually beat this in a rental but then not need to come back at 
 it at all though, unfortunately.
  
  THe new cool things you could do like customize your weapons, kill targets and make them look like 
 accidents and new gadgets with upgrades is a great addition to the game. Agent 47 is a really good 
 character and the person who created him was genius. Another hting I like is the realism changed 
 in the game. If oyur alerted by one guard then that doesnt mean ALL the guards are suspicsious 
 of you. In the past games if one knows your there then they all know.
  
  Get the game either if you rent or buy it. Im sad that it's not that long though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blckflcn7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying that I only put "Hard" for the difficulty because if you try to get 
 the best rating and not get caught, it is definitely hard. 
  
  This is my first time ever playing a Hitman game. And I must say, and am throughly impressed with 
 this game. Sure, the graphics aren't as amazing as some of the other 360 games, but graphics aren't 
 everything. You can still see plenty of blood and some great details.
  
  This game has amazing replay value, since you can go through all the levels any way you want. I 
 prefer the stealth way, but my brother prefers to run - and - gun. It's all how you feel like playing. 
 This game has been made with great stealth features and surprisingly good fighting features.
  
  The sound is alright, I wasn't blown away by it. It did have some times where the sound cut 
 out (that may have been my system or the game) and sometimes I couldn't hear anything, but the 
 gunshots were realistic and you could hear people stuttering and whispers.
  
  Overall, this game is one of the best stealth games out there. I loved it the minute I tried it 
 and I am now a big fan of the Hitman series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bern20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money has had some changes in it, but other than that it was the same deal. The story 
 mode was quite easy to get through because most of the action on the levels is repetitive, so all 
 you have to do is wait for the right moment in order to execute your plan perfectly. I guess as 
 you progress through the difficulties this will be more challenging. The gameplay is similiar to 
 previous Hitmans, but is has been updated a lil more. You get to do your evil deeds now in close 
 up first person view for all you psychos out there. Also there is more to kill, yes more civilian 
 casualties. You can now upgrade you weapons also. The graphics are solid and the music fits the 
 game. Overall it is a fun game and you will spent plenty of time trying to pass it at different 
 difficulty settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjaded
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  For being a recreational gamer this was the first time I had ever played a shooter game and I must 
 say even tho I am a rookie it was easy to learn the controls and follow the story line. I admit 
 I'm still in rookie mode but for me that is awesome I've never been able to do action games without 
 giving up. I love the graphics and all that went into making this Hitman. I would certainly recommend 
 it to anyone and those that are use to this type of game the levels on this are awesome and I'm 
 sure they will enjoy it thourougly. I know I want to continue on and try the next level and see 
 how I make out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharris01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Blood Money is well thought out and just the number of ways you can take out a target is amazing. 
 I still have yet to discover all of them and I probably won't. I believe variety is what has really 
 given this game its life and tilt value.
  
  On the subject of eliminating targets, the game offers stealth and all out shooting. You can go 
 in guns blazing, but it won't get you far - especially on any difficulty higher than rookie.
  
  Speaking of stealth, the game seems to have not changed much over past games so far as sneaking 
 is concerned, but the new ability to cause accidents and poison random things is nice. You can 
 eliminate targets without getting near them and thus keeping witnesses and your notoriety down.
 
  
  The opposite to the game's stealth is of course weapon-wielding. Gun play in the game has not improved 
 in my opinion, but a nice addition is the weapon upgrades system. Some upgrades are well worth 
 the money, but others just seem like fillers (you'll see what I mean once you get them) .
  
  While some may want to upgrade all the guns to their full potential, I found myself rarely using 
 any weapons other than the silent-types: fibre wire, sedative and poison. The only real weapon 
 you will ever need to bring out is the W2000, and I can easily say it is the best weapon in the 
 game and has a great design to it. Once it is completely upgraded it definitely becomes a sort 
 of surgical tool.
  
  While I'm talking about weapon upgrades - and I'm sure many will agree with me on this - a lot 
 of the guns become pretty stupid looking once upgraded completely. I won't give anything away, 
 but when I pulled out a maxed out Silverballer all I could think of was an outlandish sci-fi movie 
 prop gun. It just seems like overkill for a world-classed assassin.
  
  On many missions you may not even have to use weapons to eliminate your mark. The new accident 
 system I mentioned earlier is a nice addition. Push someone off a ledge and to the cops it appears 
 like they fell. It does not count against you in any way and is nearly evidence-free. It's fairly 
 satisfying to drop a chandelier or piano on the target.
  
  Now for the quirks. There aren't too many, but they are irritating. The AI seems a little dumb 
 a lot of the time and overly suspicious. You can have NPCs run into a room and nothing happens, 
 but as soon as you walk in you are fired upon. That, to me, was the only really bothersome bug, 
 and it is pretty annoying.
  
  Overall I loved the game, but as a veteran of the series I played through it too fast, or at least 
 I believe so. I've beaten it on every difficulty and now it's just not appealing anymore. However, 
 don't let that persuade you. The game is worth a purchase, or at the very least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhwp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Ive played Every hitman in the series and this one is the best one yet, failure is not a discouragment 
 in this game, everytime I failed I tried even harder to beat a mission, most games when I die I 
 quit the game for a bit, this game had me immersed from start to finish, one of the most replayable 
 games ive played in a long time, I love it, I cant wait for another hitman game to come, this game 
 had me thinking, its rare to see games like that that are actually enjoyable these days, You can 
 pretty much do anything you want, just dont get caught, on the last mission I murdered 102 people 
 with a knife, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money may not quite have the bells and whistles one may expect from a top selling 
 Xbox 360 release, but it makes up for it with an excellent and varied supply of missions, and more 
 refined yet instantly familiar playablility. 
  
  I could never quite feel completely in control of the previous two incarnations on Xbox, and always 
 thought the developers would be onto a real winner if only Hitman could play a little more like 
 Splinter Cell. It winds up somewhere in between, enabling it to remain it's own game, and it's 
 all the better for it. Also added (or returned, I read here) is the Blood Money system, whereby 
 you use the money earned from hits to upgrade your weapons as well as bribing witnesses to lower 
 your noteriety. While bringing something else to the series, I'm finding it a little useless, as 
 I prefer to approach each mission with fibre wire, and gain weapons from victims later on. Full 
 additions to each weapon count as achievements though, so it's still worth doing.
  
  Hitman has had a substantial graphical improvement, but we know the 360 is capable of even more. 
 It's nice, it just won't blow your mind. Who cares though, you get to use your noodle a bit, and 
 it's loaded with messed up killings. Perfect game fodder, methinks...
  
  You have to be cautious to a certain degree. Start a massacre and you'll be taken apart. There 
 are options to push it a little though, and it's possible to unload on a crowd of people, then 
 make a hasty escape, change clothes, and get away with it. But really, the true joy comes from 
 taking your time, adopting a trial-and-error approach and finding how to make the hits look accidental, 
 going for the most professional rating.
  
  As long as you're not put off by the idea of hiding in a closet for four minutes waiting for your 
 prey, and don't mind spending a fair bit of time exploring each time you begin a new level, you 
 should get a fair amount of entertainment value from Hitman: Blood Money. If you've ever enjoyed 
 a Hitman game before I highly recommend this. If you're a 360 owner busting for the new Splinter 
 Cell game, this should satisfy your stealth/killing urges until it's release later this year. This 
 game is clever, cool, and disturbingly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game well at first i thought is was going to be nothing the first two were nice and all but 
 it just didn't have the real life thing with it this one oh man i love this game i am so keeping 
 it forever and ever the blood the colors the music i loved the music so much it went with the game 
 great.
  Now for the hitman kick butt man he rocks if i could i would want to be like him in a way only 
 i wish there was a hitwomen you never know they could come out with his wife or something if he 
 ever gets one and they could work side by side the grapfics of this game it just looked so real 
 like if you had a TMP and you shot at the cop i felt like i was him like i was standing right in 
 the hitmans shoes plz make more games like these plz i love this game kick butt ppl great job to 
 the game makkers for this one !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_7008
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is playing games with my emotions. First of it's unlike anything I've ever played before 
 with the exeption of Hitman: Contracts, it is hard to compare Hitman to anything but Hitman. Second 
 Hitman: Blood Money is very innovative and free form in the way you decide to make your hit. Now 
 this is where the hard part comes in. I really hate giving anything so innovative like this game 
 less than a glowing review but Hitman: Blood Money has taken a dive below what I would consider 
 a wonderful game.
  For example, picture a man sitting in his office heading a hit operation. You have to take him 
 out. Now here is the beauty of Hitman: Blood Money. Do you follow the delivery man about to pay 
 the target for his operation and steal his costume and money, thus gaining easy entrance into the 
 targets headquarters and kill him when no one is watching OR, do you sneak into the bookstore next 
 store and shoot the target through the walling? However to figure out which to do takes dozens 
 of tries before getting it right. Now on to the games graphics and audio. The graphics of this 
 game are absolutly beautiful. However they are clearly not designed for the Xbox 360 specifically 
 much like Tomb Raider: Legends. The audio has a good quality to it as well, but could have used 
 more polish than it got. Such as when you walk on to a crowded street, hear nothing and then thirty 
 seconds later the sound of a roaring crowd pops up. My last point for this game is that it runs 
 out of steam far to quickly. Around the time you get half way through the game the levels begin 
 to feal less innovative and creative. Now I'm not saying don't buy this game... I'm simply making 
 a point for you not to expect this game to be the wonderful title that will hold you thru the summer 
 drought.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagocub_101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  In this game, the possibilities are endless! The are probably about 50 ways to kill your target. 
 Such as poison his drink, push them off a balcony, shoot them, etc... Over all, lots of fun, great 
 replay value, I've replayed about 6 of the levels just to kill my target differently. Pick this 
 one up if you like stealth with a twist! For more mature gamers... to say the least!!!! filling 
 up space... filling up space.. I need one-hundred words.... one-hundred words... p. s. this game owns! 
 uh huh uh huh uh huh uh huh uh huh oh ya oh ya oh ya... why does this have to be one-hundred words.... this 
 game is quite good though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JIMK1209
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money gives the player life through a hitman's eyes. I enjoyed the story line in the 
 game. The missions were just the right length. The only thing that bothered me was no Xbox Live in 
 the game. The enviroments were fully detailed. You can use a everyday-normal item as a weapon like, hammers, knives, baseball 
 bats, canes, and many more so i recommend Hitman: Blood Money for the Xbox 360 its worth $60. and 
 you can updgrade your weapons they arew Silver ballers, M4, W2000 sniper rifle, SMG tatical and the 
 Sp12 Shotgun. The achievments are really easy to get but you have to beat the game in rookie, normal, and 
 professional levels. So check out Hitman Blood money right away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a mediocre game with limitless possibilities, but the developer's obviously 
 didn't take advantage of what they had on their plate.
  
  Gameplay: Boring, simply to be said. If you go stealth, the game comes to a stand-still (in other 
 words: slow) . If you choose to be a run-n-gun type, well then you die in a few small hits (one 
 enemy has the chance to easily take you out) . The weapons are broken; the sniper is hard to control, 
 the aiming is horrible, and you cannot control your reloading. Sure there are numerous stealth 
 weapons with which to annihilate your enemies, but even that effect isn't even rewarding. Also, 
 the clunky controls don't help this title much. The story isn't even very creative or original.
 
  
  Graphics: This game is based on multiple platforms, so don't expect much of a difference between 
 this and the current-gen consoles. Agent 47 looks okay, could have been better. Everything in this 
 game needs polish.
  
  Sound: No music, so basically this makes the game very plain. The weapon sounds are fine, sure, 
 but without any music flowing, you don't really get into it.
  
  Value: Once you play it, why go back? This game (although they say it is non-linear) is very linear. 
 The levels are so small there cannot be anything but linear. The achievements are stupid (beat 
 the game on a difficulty, get one achievement, then a higher difficulty, get another, rinse, repeat) , 
 and this game has no unlockables.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I expected much more, this game looked pretty good. The levels are small, the 
 gameplay boring, the storyline broken. This game needed polish, and an overhaul of it's gameplay 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and very bloody. You play the role of agent 47 a bald assassin who goes around 
 killing people and getting payed money the more quiet and stealthy you are the more money you receive 
 you can play this game in first person or third person. You also get a great arsenal of weapons 
 at your disposal you get to use pistols, machine guns, sniper rifles and assault rifles to use 
 on your assignments you get a great mixture of stealth and run and gun combat in this great game. 
 This a very good XBOX 360 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  All puns aside this game is a real killer. From the first tutorial level to the dead on ending 
 it's all a real blast. Okay now really all puns aside.
  
  The game play is just great. Very responsive in both first person and 3rd person views. You'll 
 likely find yourself using both, as both views have there advantages and disadvantages. The 3rd 
 person perspective will allow you to see more of what's going on around you while you sneak up 
 on someone or picking a lock. Where as first person view is great for scoping an area out or getting 
 that perfect head shot. 
  
  Agent 47 moves as you'd expect, with precision and intent. The gun play, when you choose to use 
 it, is fast and fun in 3rd and first person view. Characters respond correctly to where they are 
 shot and the ragdoll makes for some satisfying kills. From the way the guns fire to the way 47 
 holds them, right down to the way he walks, it all feels very polished. From sneaking to sniping, 
 from planting bombs to poisoning drinks it's all very solid and very apparent the developers knew 
 what they were doing.
  
  The visuals although not truly next gen certianly have some nice next gen flash. Character models 
 look good, their movements look good, and the environments you skulk through are generally well 
 designed and in some cases down right beautiful. Also worth note is the amount of characters on 
 screen at one time with no drop in frame rate. The only time I ever saw any drop in frame rate 
 was after several bodies had already piled up and then I was shooting glass windows. The FPS dipped 
 a bit as the glass shattered, but other than that it was steady and solid.
  
  The story, although not extremely deep, is well rounded and moves the game a long at a steady pase. 
 The newspaper clippings at the end of each mission are a very nice touch helping to pull you further 
 into the world of Hitman. The main character Agent 47 is portrayed very well. From his voice to 
 his varying facial expressions the character is very mutch top notch. His interaction with other 
 characters and his little yellow caged friend, in the cutscenes that start and finish each level, 
 allow you to see further into his psyche in a very satisfying way. Considering the games opening 
 menu, a camera panning around what looks to be a dead Agent 47, you'll want to find out how the 
 game ends.
  
  The development team behind the Hitman series has had plenty of time to perfect their star character 
 and the universe he kills in. This game shows off eveyrthing they have learned and it's a real 
 treat for fans of the series. It's also nice to see they fully embraced the 360's achievement system. 
 The game is certainly fun enough that you might want to have another go but the simple fact that 
 you'll earn more gamer points for playing well and completing certian tasks, makes it just that 
 much more fun, really adding to the replay value. Which helps to take away from some of the initial 
 sting of the $60.00 bucks you'll be paying for it. But make no mistake this is a great game to 
 add to your steadily growing 360 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mestizoman
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  hitman is a good buy for everyone whos mature.....
  1. the weapons are all solid, although recoil is not what it should be, u get money after each 
 hit, which you can use to upgrade weapons, such as silencers, laserpointers, third person aiming 
 is a little weak, and its hard to move and shoot, the steel wire is very satisfying when you sneak 
 up on someone
  2. costume changes are very cheeky, and essential for gaining acess to certain areas, disposing 
 bodies is also important, and you can arrange some sick accidents, the stealth is fun, although 
 i wish you could peak just your head around corners
  3. the graphics are pretty, but the main attraction is the beautiful environments, with nice lighting, 
 the ragdoll deaths are still a little awkward
  4. the games story isnt phenomonal, it just presents itself in a great way, there are certain context 
 sensitive kill sequences which are pretty cool
  5. the sound does its job, but is repetitive, especially certain characters
  6. this game has 
 great replay value, and is primarily-not linear
  
  by the way, this game isnt as cruel as its cracked out to be..... the enemies you kill are the 
 real phyco killers.... theres one instance where i saved an innocent from being burnt alive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aric172
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The game play is about the same as the other games. It's a good game, especially if you are a fan 
 of the others. The game has a few downsides, but I believe the good features of the game greatly 
 outweigh these.
  
  First, we'll start with the bad and get it out of the way. You can only choose one pistol, one 
 submachine gun, and one un-concealable weapon (like a shotgun, sniper, or assault rifle) . I agree 
 with the one un-concealable weapon, but not the others. Also, unlike the previous game, once you 
 take a melee weapon from a level, you cannot use it in the next levels. Also, despite enlarged 
 levels and massive amounts of people, the graphics aren't anything too special.
  
  Secondly comes the most important part: the good sides. In this game, most of the bugs of the previous 
 games are fixed, and the ability to customized 47's custom weapons adds greatly to the game. The 
 game allows you to buy improvements to the weapons with the money that is earned through the missions. 
 Also, the levels have grown somewhat larger and the amount of people per level has also been greatly 
 increased.
  
  This of course was a brief overview, and despite the minor setbacks it is still a great game. There 
 are so many ways to complete a single mission that it keeps you interested. Put simply: a great 
 game and must for Hitman lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geom1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  i did'nt think that hitman could get any better but it did. even from the start the game looks 
 fantastic. the game play has even been made more diverse by allowing you to use bombs which you 
 have from teh very start and can basically use anywhere. this makes the game very open as i found 
 out when i dropped a suitcase bomb in front of a mark and proceeded to see eliminate him. the new 
 close combat system is exactly what the game needs. it allows hitman to deal with a target when 
 everything dont quite go to plan and lets say for instance the target turns round to see you holding 
 fiber wire and look suspicious. All these new features are very cool not to mention the upgrading 
 of weapons and other items but the storyline is simply mind blowing. all hitman games have been 
 good with exception of the original which was average but the storyline in blood money is ver well 
 defined and really sets the mood. in conclusion by this game! if you don't then you are a fool. 
 anyone can play this game. you can play it as a puzzle game or a straight up fps depending on your 
 preference. while its essentially just the xbox version the improved graphics and power of the 
 360 has helped to make the game even funner to play as you notice the small details ever more clearly. 
 i have but one dislike and that is the fact that the you dont get to see the stats of the completed 
 missions once you have completed them all like in contratcs which does limit the replay value a 
 bit. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smcg69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Ive played all the previous hitman games and in my opinion this is by far the best one. The size 
 of the levels makes for much more enjoyable gameplay than the other ones. You are also punished 
 less for exploring around the level than in the old ones. I think that on the xbox 360 there is 
 also huge replay value as there are a number of achievements to unlock. Of course the xbox 360 
 also ensures that the graphics are amazing, especially in high definition. In short i would say 
 this game is close to perfect. If you haven't already done, I would advise you to go and buy it 
 now!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  I have really only played one Hitman game prior to this one which was Hitman 2: Silent Assassin 
 on PS2 and had an immense time of fun with. It was so different, unique and so unlike any other 
 type of game. It had an original and innovative style of gameplay that blended stealth, action, 
 suspense and a great story all together so well. I thought it was an underrated game but it does 
 have its fair shares of problems. Some what glitcy at times, graphics are not the best and AI could 
 be better especially in a game that needs it so highly. The physics are not bad but not realistic 
 either but I think it makes it more fun in a game like this. This game being the best of the series 
 implements all of the good elements, removes a few bad ones and adds some neater ones. My most 
 favourite thing about Hitman games is just the whole fact that you are given a vast and nice collection 
 of weapons ranging from pistols, smgs, shotguns, sniper rifles, knives, bombs, syringes, etc and 
 the most infamous silver ballers. I like the fact that you can store and see all the weapons you 
 have in a little hideout level on a wall in which you can always go to look, play around with or 
 test your guns. Its good that they leave empty spaces showing which weapons are left to collect 
 and gives you an incentive to go through the game and collect them. However in this game I feel 
 the arsenal is lacking a bit. There are alot of guns in the other games that I wished were in here. 
 Also I don't like the fact that when starting a mission you can only take one pistol, one smg and 
 one rifle, which in most cases will be the same weapons each time: the ballers, smg tactical and 
 W2000 because there the best guns and customizable. You also no longer have melee weapons to collect 
 or choose, you can only find and use them in a level. Before you take at least a few of each weapons, 
 at least the pistols and smgs. The good thing about this game is the upgrade system though, the 
 guns can now be fitted with additional features which you buy with the money you make on contracts. 
 These include silencers, scopes, stronger ammo, laser sight, extra ammo etc. Bur there are only 
 5 things that they allow you to upgrade anyways, the ballers, an smg tactical, M4, Spas Shotgun, 
 W2000 sniper rifle and miscellaneous objects such as lockpicks, bombs and flak vests. The gameplay 
 is still like all the previous games, you have a target or more and you have tokill them either 
 discreetly through using disguises or sabotages, or you can loco on their asses though this results 
 in more killing which can be more fun, but will earn you less money. Some missions have additonal 
 objectives such as retrieving something or protecting someone. The great thing about blood money 
 though is that in a few missions there are nice twists and other assassins and hitmen out to get 
 you in which normally ends up in a dual of battle. But this could of been carried out better though 
 as some are too easy. Money is based on a ranking system, such as how many people you killed, witnesses, 
 accuracy and time. Though this game really captures the true essence of the thrill of killing your 
 targets in clever ways such as causing accidents or being incredibly sneaky. There are some additional 
 small new features such as using the environment more like climbing, using devices, picking up 
 things and using other objects as melee weapons. You can also hop over things like balconies, climb 
 drain pipes, and pick doors. Also there is now a fighting system in which no weapons are needed 
 and you can knock out your enemies through a series of moves or disarm them if they have a weapon 
 which is neat and quite handy but could of had more variety. You can also use anyone as a human 
 shield if you have a one handed weapon equipped. The graphics are on par with the normal gen graphics 
 but definitely nothing next gen or 360 worthy, the sound is great from the soundtrack to the guns 
 firing. Infact this game does one of the best jobs of catching the right sound of guns. The levels 
 are big and diverse and plenty of fun especially for re-doing them after you beat them and all 
 in all a great game. Its biggest flaw is that its not too long a game, its not short like or as 
 bad as others like Black but the other Hitman games had more missions. The story is great but could 
 of been played out alot more but is still the best in the series and is a great game for veterans, 
 new comers and a good game to have for the xbox 360 collection, especially this time of year, known 
 as a the deadest time of the year for videogames, damn summer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeepguy16
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the Hitman series and Blood Money didnt let me down. The graphics are fair, 
 not quite up to 360 standards but they arent bad. The way the story played out was fairly interesting 
 and creative. The gameplay is fun and addictive and keeps you wanting to play more. 
  The problem is that the Hitman games have room for improvement. They could be GREAT, but they arent. 
 And I refer to them all because they are all basically the same, which is one of its problems. 
 The problems it had at the beginning, the games still have. You still get shot at in the middle 
 of a restaurant even if you did almost nothing to even alert suspicion. Sometimes NPCs see you 
 when there is no realistic reason for them to. There is no real sense of cover so even if you shoot 
 someone from behind a bush, 200 yards away, everyone immediately starts shooting at you (and actually 
 hitting you) . 
  Basically, it is a very fun game, but it has so much room for improvement, that I cant bring myself 
 to give it any more than an 8/10. This game has the possibility to be a 9.5/10 or better game but 
 no one is taking the time to fix its problems. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I am not the biggest fan of the hitman franchise but blood money just got to me the gameplay is 
 authentic and the character interactions are amazing it was a bit tuff at times but the game is 
 just worth playing cause you know that once again that waiter is gonna get waisted its just fun. 
 the graphics ofcourse will be gorgeous but the most interesting aspect of the game is definitely 
 agent 47 himself. i gave this game a 9.6 and i must add that the score was well deserved. if you 
 want a shoooter thats fun exciting and adventourous then Hitman Blood Money is the perfect game 
 for you so go buy it now.
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verrater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Note: ive only played contracts so i'm reviewing it from comparison. 
  
  This game improves (some) wear the other one failed. most importantly to me actually making money 
 for you're hits. In a way it has added and taken away the realistic proportins that ive come to 
 love. first you can hide bodies which is a good thing but the clothes changing has become less 
 real because it doesn't take as long. personally i like it and don't under stand what the big deal 
 is. the weapons that can be obtained is kind of a let down, but still it has a fair ammount. to 
 a fan of the series or some one just looking for a great game pick it up today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsdisforme
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  While I had pre-ordered this sometime in the middle of April, I had to deal with almost a weekly 
 delay of the game. First they say May 2nd... then May 16th... then finally, May 31st. At first 
 I was miffed, depressed, and in dire need of some stealthy, bald men in my life. I waited it out 
 however, and on the 31st picked up my pre-order of Blood Money, and without a doubt it is the single 
 best installment in the entire franchise.
  
  I mean, it better be, right?
  
  In development since roughly 2003/2004, Hitman: Blood Money is what Hitman: Contracts really should 
 have been. Contracts, as we all know, was a gap-bridge between Hitman 2: Silent Assassin and this 
 game that we all cherish and love. While I myself found no problems with Contracts and thoroughly 
 enjoyed the experience, in the end it felt a little too similar to Hitman 2. I'm happy to say that 
 Blood Money offers up an (almost) entirely fresh experience that will leave you clammoring for 
 more.
  
  Graphics: 9.3
  
  Owning this game first on the X-Box platform and then "upgrading" to the 360 model, I can safely 
 say that the graphics took an amazing leap in detail, texture quality, and overall awesomeness. 
 Everything on the 360 is incredibly detailed, and the lighting itself is what I spent most of my 
 time oo'ing and ah'ing over. It's truly a marvelous looking game, and to me that makes the stealhy 
 kills that much sweeter.
  
  Audio: 8.9
  
  Once again, Jesper Kyd returns to the series to lend his brilliance in the scoring of this game. 
 He has chosen to walk a thin line between orchestral and electronic scoring, as often you'll find 
 the strings mixing it up with beeps and boops of the staples in electronica. This does not come 
 together as oddly or weird as you'd think, and it actually feels like a completely natural fit. 
 Jesper Kyd's composition is, for the most part, stark and very, very dark. It sets the tone for 
 the atmosphere in this game, and you really take notice in missions like "Flatline", "The Murder 
 of Crows", and "A Dance with the Devil". In other aspects, you get to hear some very interesting, 
 light-oriented compositions from missions like "A Dance with the Devil" and "Requiem". 
  
  I'm trying hard to find a single fault in the score of this game, and I cannot. Jesper Kyd just 
 shines like a true musical genius.
  
  However, the audio department suffers from some very strange dialogue issues. It would seem that 
 in certain aspects of the game, the dialogue would suffer from very low volume or almost no volume 
 at all, making it very hard to hear the characters even when your television is turned up full 
 blast. This may be just a bug in the game, but it's still a very annoying one.
  
  Plot: 8.5
  
  The plot in Blood Money is not exactly what the trailers and press releases have 
 said it would be. The focus is not really on assassins trying to take down our beloved bald killer, 
 but more so on a story that Alexander Leland Cayne is telling a press reporter in his home. These 
 stories are of course assassinations that Agent 47 has performed from February 2004 until September 
 22nd, 2005. This makes it both interesting and kind of a let down, as it is once again dealing 
 with "flash backs" in a sense, as opposed to a story that's happening in the here and now... but, 
 it worked for Contracts, why not here?
  
  I think my major problem is that we were led to believe that the story would revolve around the 
 hunting of Agent 47, and we find that that isn't the case. Either way, it's a solid plot that keeps 
 you intrigued until the very, very bloody finale.
  
  Gameplay: 8.8
  
  Hitman: Blood Money takes the stealth genre and even improves upon it, forcing it to new heights. 
 This game is completely non-linear, and is open ended to the core. Every mission is a delightful 
 new sandbox of guns, melee weapons, and body counts. Of course the objective is to always be as 
 stealthy as you can be, but sometimes it's just fine to go in 'Ballers blazing. There have been 
 a lot of re-works in the mechanics, and the Glacier engine that has served as Ol' Faithful to the 
 franchise for so long has definitely been stripped and revamped. 47 no longer glides across the 
 floor as if he was on ice, and now ascends and descends stairs accurately. He also climbs, shoves, 
 headbutts, jumps balconies, and more as realistically as possible. 
  
  The A. I. in this game still needs work. While it is definitely a challenge to play through the 
 game on the harder difficulty settings, on Normal or even Easy, some missions can be done in less 
 than 10 minutes, and really, that's kinda cheap. A lot of people paid a lot of cash for this game, 
 and they want at least 10-15 hours of gameplay the first time through. This can be over-looked, 
 if barely, because the game is so open-ended and it has extremely extensive replay value.
  
  Overall Opinion (not an average) : 9.0 
  
  This game is a definite improvement upon the 
 games that came before it, fixing many of the problems from previous iterations and providing an 
 extremely useful and well-balanced system. Now, you won't get caught and have to restart the mission 
 unless you yourself screwed up. This is something that made games like Manhunt extremely popular 
 for me, as the A. I., while somewhat lacking, is not incredibly cheap. 
  
  This is a solid game, this is a very good game, and I personally cannot wait until the next installment. 
 With that said, I'm sure I will be playing Blood Money six months from now, when the word breaks 
 on the next installment.
  
  Definitely buy this if you're a fan of the series, or if you've been interested for awhile now. 
 It will NOT disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanDamian12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo on my 360 out of curiosity, since I haven't played any of the previous Hitman 
 games. I wasn't even planning to purchase the game, but after the first few minutes of playing 
 the demo I set up my alarm clock to make sure that I get the full version first thing in the morning. 
 This game totally rocks! I am a big fan of Clancy's Splinter Cell and I always thought it to be 
 the best stealth-action game ever made. The Blood Money quickly converted me into agent 47's fanatic, 
 I am amazed with it's open-ended missions and over all freedom of game play. The first day I got 
 the game I played it for 10 hours straight and I put the controller down only because my eyes became 
 so bloody red that I couldn't see anymore. H: BM allows you to hide in shadows as well as to bring 
 out the artillery and smoke anyone in sight, which is great! Changing outfits and pretending to 
 be someone else is definitely a lot of fun. The graphics are sweet, the environments and characters 
 are looking sharp and detailed. The sound effects effectively create the motion of tension, changing 
 accordingly to the situation, it is so much better if you have a 5.1 surround connected to your 
 360; you can hear from which direction an enemy comes. I gave this game a perfect 10 because it 
 gave me a totally new gaming experience and a lot of fun. I strongly recommend it to anyone who 
 likes stealth-based games and is ready to experience a great adventure, which Hitman delivers with 
 a first class service. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estearns
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I was scared when I downloaded the demo of this game onto my 360. It was so linear and not to grafically 
 stimulating. I didn't care to much to play the full game, But game fly sent it to me anyway. I 
 was so glad. The Game was so complex and So much deeper then the demo, And the secnd hitman for 
 that mater. This game supplyed me with everything I love about the Hitman series, But bigger. the 
 maps are bigger with more people. SO much is going on that I didn't know where to start. That is 
 how I like it. At that point each leavel becomes like it's own game. The movies become pointless 
 to me and the characters sort of all look like you, well at least the shine and bone structure 
 of everyone is similar. But what ever If you are a fan of this game I definetly sugest that you 
 pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Lets just get this out of the way... i rather say wahts wrong with this game first. It is a a high 
 res version of an xbox game taht is all.. those expecting great or even good graphics can go elsewere. 
 The gameplay is sick... it reminds me of MGS because u can use stealth or just run and gun which 
 i love.. I hate how splinter cell is all stealth and u have to play a cetrain way and its so linear... 
 
  this game isnt u can just run and kill everyone, sneak up and kill then, or rig something like 
 pryo techniques and make people catch on fire... its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I'll make it snappy. This game rocks! Its so fun once you beat the game to replay the missions 
 any way you wish too. Wanna go on a rampage at a night club and shoot everyone? This is your game. 
 Feel like being stealthy and placing single silenced headshots on your mark? This IS YOUR GAME! 
 I've had so much fun with the missions and their awesome locals such as vegas, suburbs, mardigra, 
 yadda yadda. What gives this game a 9 in my opinion is its replay value. The sound is good, graphics 
 better than normal. This game is great to help you get through until the holiday season. Give it 
 a shot! If anything go out and rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skatester57
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  There are problems with this game and things that are great about it. So this review will help 
 you sort that stuff out before you buy it. My main problem with this Hitman is the glitches that 
 plagued the others have remained untouched. You will still get bad clipping and the occasional 
 sighting of people runnig through doors. Another thing that has been left untouched is the AI, 
 they still are pretty tupid at some times, although at other times the AI can be really good. Another 
 thing that bothers me is that you can't jump butthats just a minor issue. The graphic are very 
 good most of the time but in some areas of the game they look like the original XBOX not XBOX 360, 
 but that doesn't bother me that badly. Now that the bad parts of the game have been established 
 now we're on to the good parts which greatly out weigh the bad. The main thing here is the gameplay 
 it's awsome, it can't get much better here. The missions are laid out so you can choose many paths 
 to a completion. You can shot everybody or you can carefully plan and be a Silent Assassin. In 
 other words this game gives you more choice then most other stealth action games. Another great 
 thing is the weapon customization, it never gets old putting stuff on weapons and making an ordinary 
 pistol into a hitmans number 1 choice for a contract. Another great thing is the mission variety 
 sure your just killing someone and getting paid but theres so many different ways of accomplishing 
 that like I said earlier. A cool feature you get when you comeplete a mission is that there is 
 a newspaper giving a crime analasys of what you did and it is always fun to read in my opinion. 
 My overall statement would be pick this game up and I'm sure if your in to shooter/stealth action 
 games you'll love this one. Its a great add to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  This installment is some-what of a let down to be completly honest and I will tellyou why in just 
 a moment, first though.. The game itself is excellent, gameplay is good, no 'jitters' or pixelation 
 while moving across screens and landscapes which is very nice BuT.. this version could have easily 
 been a plain xbox version not a 360 version.. with the exception of the 'mardi-gras' level where 
 you see hundreds of people/drones milling along the street with little to no framerate lose.. there 
 is no graphic pizzaz other then the street ful of people.. even the clothing is static. The rest 
 of the game is not what i would have hoped for a 360 title.. especially for 60bux (plus taxes) . 
 There is very little voice overs, and the plot.. is... weak.. better then the last one.. but still 
 weak. the learning curve is very easy but one thing that is not part of the curve... item/weapon 
 switching.. the layout to switch tems or weapons is ridiculous, have to cycle through your inventory 
 all the time really sux, a very linear inventory.. they made very poor to little to NON-use of 
 the d-pad and/or other toggle keys that most games employ nowadays... but for all that ranting.. 
 it is a good-great game.. the simple fact of been able to accoplish your goals & missions many 
 different ways is the big plus here.. you decide how you want to finish the level or even just 
 parts of it.. so kudos to the ever growing AI & custom level completion (s) . I really suggest you 
 rent this 1st since I took me all of 7hours to finsh the game (the basic straight through to the 
 end) so now I'm goin back and redoing the levels on different diffuclty levels and different tactics.. 
 but hardly worth 60bux++ .... although so far what game is worth that?? common M$ & Fellow Companies 
 .. make the prices alil more reasonable.. this fool me with a 360 title for extra money is growing 
 thin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grambyte
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  As you all know by now is that fact that you can't go all that wrong with a Hitman game. Which 
 this version no doubt proves, again. After the first one being released for the PC only. IO Interactive 
 quickly realized that the game had more potential than that. And released the next version on almost 
 all available consoles. 
  
  And of course also in Hitman: Blood Money for the Xbox 360. You're again representing the person 
 who fills the shoes of mister 47. I don't think I need to explain more about this fellow. Let's 
 say that nothing changed thus far. He's still a money-hungry, cold-blooded killer. But let's get 
 on with the game itself. First of all you'll get this great sort of 'tutorial-mission', where you 
 can easily get used to many of the things you'll be doing in the game. Which makes the game pretty 
 easy to pick up for somebody who didn't played it yet. 
  
  After that mission the story starts of and you'll be getting your assignments after which you can 
 prepare yourself to go to 'battle'. Things such as choosing your weapons, viewing the briefing 
 and intel and last but certainly not least: updating from your weapons. This last feature is new 
 for the Hitman series and really is a perfect addition to the game. It's pretty detailed and true 
 to reality. So in all these different and very diverse levels. You'll be doing your missions on 
 a dozen ways that are possible in the game. From brutal 'head-bashing' with a hammer to 'just' 
 witnessing an accident happen. Which 'accidentally' involves your target. Uhum.... sure... ;) But 
 no doubt the freedom delivers a really good experience. Also the AI is a strong point in the game. 
 This has a good setup and increases nicely with higher difficulties. Certainly at the highest difficulty 
 you can't fool around anymore and playtime is surely over. 
  So the 'free-roam-killing' and AI on its own are strong enough points to make the game play really 
 good. 
  The story does nothing more but make that 'good', even better. It's a really catchy story and intrigues 
 you till the end. Even people who haven't played Hitman before will enjoy the story no doubt. But 
 more I don't want to let go, only to make sure I won't spoil no 'appetite for the game'. 
  Though there are some things that do surprise me. Which are mainly the graphics. For some reason 
 I don't get the idea that the game contains the full fledged 'next-gen' graphics would expect with 
 an Xbox 360. You surely could have fooled me with saying it's a normal Xbox game. But don't get 
 me wrong here. I won't say that the graphics are bad or anything. It's just that 'square trees' 
 and fast repetitive patterns aren't really things I would expect from a 'next-gen' game.
  
  What does bring me back to that point are the achievements of course. What would a 360-game be 
 without the achievements? Indeed, a game without achievements... Anyway, the gamerscore to gain 
 in this game isn't all too easy. You'll have to play trough the game a few times if you want to 
 get them all. But they are true to the setup of the game and fun the get.
  All by all I think the game is certainly worth to get. While waiting for the next nice game thats 
 coming out on the 360. A gift and rental are no doubt also good choices with this game. Even if 
 it misses online functions, its still well worth to play and play over again. So make sure you 
 at least tried the demo, if you got an Xbox 360 that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Im a total 47 freak. Ive played every single Hitman game to date and this ones the best. With new 
 features like customisable weapons make it to die for and the fact that its non linear will make 
 you kill the same person over and over again just differently. Just be sure to be ready for poking 
 around for the best possible means to kill your target from shooting a gun to poisons to a giant 
 chandllier makes it extremely interesting and the storyline is really well done and the soundtrack 
 by Jesper Kyd is flawless. Im just praying that they are making another Hitman game.... fingers 
 crossed...
  
  Exellant job Io 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IzLor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is quite good 
  there are no major flaws
  It can be as fast or slow as you want
  The stealth part of it is really cool
  The blood money 
 system works pretty well
  And its Hitman, you know, Its just fun to have a set hit 
  and go and be stealthy and kill 
  just that person or any one else that you like
  This game 
 also does a good job of telling the story of 47 
  Allowing you to play missions wile this guy is like telling 47 story
  If you are a fan of Hitman 
 there is no question GET THIS GAME 
  If you didnt like past Hitman games than there is no point of buying this game
  Maybe rent it 
 or something
  Just remember 
  to me this game is Just plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is also on PC but the publishers should have made a difference between PC and XBOX 360 
 in matters of graphics. The 360 graphics makes it to the mark but not the best for HITMAN : BLOOD 
 MONEY. there isnt full utilisation of 360's capabilities in this game. Also not everybody can afford 
 HDTV. So quality gameplay should be there if we wanna play it on CRT.
  
  The gameplay is good with weapon modifiers and the locations to visit (my fav. is Las Vegas) . Also 
 we can use other method to eliminate people rater guns. WOW!!!!!!!. Also there are new targets 
 which we have to elimate like that agent womam who tries to kill us - The AGENT 47. So beware folks 
 dont hang out with sexy seductive gals. LOL.......... The best part is that we can kill people 
 using that metal string & other innovative methods. COOL!!!!!!!. So forks go grab a copy of it 
 before the stocks over.
  
  PLAY MORE............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is most certainly not revolutionary, but that doesn't mean it's not a fun ride. 
 Indeed, there are several problems that prevent this game from being a masterpiece (slightly frusterating 
 AI, bizarre ragdoll physics engine, odd glitches, etc.) . But, Agent 47 is a certified badass and 
 most of the hits are satisfying and fun. This game is sort of like Grand Theft Auto in that you 
 can either play it the way it's supposed to be played (sneak about and klll only your targets) 
 or you can just run around and murder anything that moves (even puppies...) . The game is fun both 
 ways and every time you replay a mission you will find a unique way to assassinate your mark. H: BM 
 is at its best when you are able to get Silent Assassin ratings by leaving no traces of your presence 
 and only killing your marks. Seeing the "Silent Assassin" rating at the end of the mission is probably 
 the high point of excitement during gameplay. If you enjoy third-person action titles, you would 
 do well to pick up Hitman: Blood Money on your next trip to your local video game retailer.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Weird AI but very satisfying hits and level design.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Nothing 
 superb, but believable enough to create an immersive experience.
  
  Sound: 9
  The characters have superb voicing, especially Agent 47, but the guns all sound kind of similar 
 and its easy to hear the environmental loops.
  
  Value: 8
  Plenty of replay value, even without XBL play.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Oh, what fun it is to eliminate 
 people with Agent 47. The story was even above average... especially the intriguing end.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bansheesdie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Pros- While attractive and well done, the graphics don't even touch on the 360's abilities; huge, 
 expansive levels; each and every mission is varied and different; Very large amount of replay value 
 for a single player only game; an amazingly well done ending
  
  Cons- graphics don't even touch on the 360s power; HORRIBLEY HORRIBLE hit detection; AI is way 
 too linear; camera problems can occur in some of the smaller rooms.
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is the latest 
 installment in the Hitman series, which puts you in the shoes of the geneticly inhanced super killer, 
 simply codenamed, 47.
  
  Blood Money, just to start off, is the best instalment in the Hitman series, and also the hardest, 
 but thats a good thing. The missions in Blood Money are some of the best that have probably ever 
 been put in a game. Gigantic levels, some missions even have thousands of people in them, also 
 each missions has many different ways of completing it.
  
  The graphics in Hitman are good, but not as good as they should be especially since this is on 
 the 360. While the shadows and most lighting are well done, the overall graphical look is not at 
 all exceptible for a 360 game, but at the same time the graphics are by no means ugly.
  
  Quite possably the best addition to this edition is the close combat. 47's new abilities to elbow 
 a guard in the face while stealing there firearm at the same time is welcome change, also knocking 
 some one out with your fists then injecting them poisen is always a great way to get them out of 
 the way. Strangelling passengers in an elevator by jumping up onto the ceiling then strangelling 
 them with your Fiber Wire.
  Another new feature that is quite a nice eddition is the notoriety system, basiaclly if you kill 
 alot of people and leave alot of evidence and witnesses then people will react different to you 
 in your next and later missions, also the next missions will have more guards, and more opposition.
 
  
  So while Hitman: Blood Money isn't really a revolutionary game in the world of video games, it 
 does do alot of things right and improves the overall stealth action genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manatassi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Hitman.
  
  This game is not a technological showcase of the next generation gaming exerience. 
  
  Then 
 again Hitman shows no implication of those aspirations. 
  
  Hitman is one thing and it exells in its purpose exelently. 
  
  Hitman is a toy.
  
  Simple.
 
  
  The game itself from the outset is well presented, with that particular flair for style and elegant 
 presentation previous Hitman games have set in place. 47 himself, despite his ruthless hitman status 
 is a character that you can emathise with. He holds that certain unstated sense of depth that some 
 characters can pull off so effortlessly. 
  
  The real meat of the game however are the missions. Each mission within itself a self contained 
 experience, a toy to be played with as you see fit. You see the level design is extremely competent 
 within Hitman the ability to solve any problem with so many given soloutions allowing a real feeling 
 of replay. Its not often that I find myself wanting to play a level again straight after completeing 
 it to see how I could have done it differently. Hitman captures that very well.
  
  There are a few niggles I have with the game however. The main problem with Hitman is the fact 
 that it was developed for last generation consoles aswell, and as with other multiplatform game 
 this realy shows in the visuals. They are good they just lack that nextgen feel that games like 
 G. R. A. W and PGR have captured, the art style realy is what carrys Hitman through. Not the visual 
 flair in itself.
  
  The other gripe I have can also be attributed to its multi platform status. The controlls do seem 
 a little awkward at times. Dont get me wrong they are fine and easy to get used to, but the game 
 just has that slightly clunky feel to its movement that shows that IO havent realy been able to 
 refine the controls quite like they would have had they not been catering to multiple platforms.
 
  
  Finaly the AI. Now this is an interesting point and not realy a complaint. The AI in Hitman is 
 not good. The AI controlled characters react in a very predictable manner and if provoked will 
 run straight at you guns ablaze.
  
  However...
  
  The limited AI almost adds to that sense of basic problem solving, that sense of playing with a 
 toy, a maliable predictable toy but nonetheless a very fun one. You know hoe the AI are going to 
 behave, you have seen it a thousand times before, but in a way it is an integral part to the experience. 
 
  
  If you are looking for the next groundbreaking experience that will change the way you play games 
 then look elsewhere my freind. 
  
  However if you want an adictive problem solving fun toy that you can play time and again experimenting 
 with different methods just to watch the effects. Then here you are.
  
  Oh and finding out just how many people you can kill in the huge crowds before being brought down 
 is brilliant fun. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Well Agent 47 is back in Hitman: Blood Money.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is simliar to the previous games but has some nice additions. It has buttons 
 assigned to different actions so you don't have to scroll down in a large menu of whawt you want 
 to do. Only problem it had was that it was one player only, but I didnt expect it to be different, 
 so it wasnt really a problem.
  
  Graphics: I really liked the graphics. Apparently its not "next-gen" but its better than current 
 gen graphisc which makes it next-gen for me :D
  
  Sound: The sounds all sound realistic to me. People beg for their lives, gun shots, all of that 
 sounds pretty cool. The music was absolutely great. I'm a big fan of Jesper Kyd and he surely didn't 
 dissappoint.
  
  Value: Totaly worth the money. There are soo many ways to kill the targets its too much to even 
 mention. Point is, you will be playing this game more than once through.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I was waiting for this game for I don't know how long, with great hopes. This 
 game definitly delivered. I have no complaints about this game at all.
  
  Extra: If you're a Hitman fan you will definitly want to get this game. It similiar to the other 
 games but unique, so definitly go for it. As for non Hitman fans, I would suggest at least a rent, 
 its really a fun game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is Hitman: Blood Money, You are Agent 47, a clone of Rank 1, the best of all clones, and you, 
 are a Hitman.
  
  Story: A man that is against Cloning is against 47, so he is against cloning and he has been sent 
 out to kill you, and oh yeah, he is a leader of a hitman agency , and he is in a wheelchair. 47 
 is sent out to do several missions, and eventually you will die at the end and if you do something, 
 you will come back with two Desert Eagles, and you will come back to life, and kill everything 
 Including the Man in the Wheelchair.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this 
 game are so realistic I thought i was a T. V. Show, but sometimes, the way this game plays, it may 
 seem TOO realistic.
  Such as, if you get a headshot on a person, and they are near a wall, the blood will spill all 
 over the wall, and if you come close to it, and it is texutured, and the blood almost made me sick.
 
  
  
  
  Sound: This game's sound is amazing, if you sneak araound you can hear 47's shoes. the bullet noises 
 in this game are extremely amazing, i reccomend this game just for the sound.
  
  
  
  Tilt: amazing, words can't describe, 
 try it before you buy so you get used to the gameplay.
  
  TheChedude 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeVeAn22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Hitman before. Friends said it was a good series but still I had no interest. 
 I have a 360 and played the demo. I was wowed. I really like Agent 47's character. He gets the 
 job done but isn't a pyscho killer. You can upgrade your weapons when completeing missions which 
 is always cool. The thing with that is I never take weapons with me. I like to try and sneak through 
 the whole mission so I don't use guns. Even if you start to get a little bored you can rambo your 
 way through the mission. You will end up dead most likely. It still freshens the game up to try 
 it. There are plenty of levels to go through. I have yet to beat the game but. when I do I plan 
 to go back and try to get through the levels in different ways. Its a great game to add to the 
 collection. If your new to the series like me and like Metal Gear then this is a worthy title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeldoom05
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Well i really dont see that many negatives in the game aside the game being a little short and 
 some really annoying glitches that sometimes blown your cover when attemping to kill someone. Also 
 the story line can be understood even for the others who may have not played the other "hitmans 
 games". The graphics are great besides when you look at there body of the characters they are a 
 little too bulky but its not a big concern unless you want perfection (which you wont get) . Anyways 
 the achievements in the game are also really great because they are not some easy lame achivements 
 from a "2k gam", very little of them are easy most are hard. The game is actually very graphic (for 
 example) if you kill someone with a gun kill aside from sneak kill, when you body more blood leaks 
 all over the floor so even if you hide him in a box or something his body will be found. Other great 
 new feature is you a able to store the bodies in boxes, throwing them in water, and even over rails 
 to hide the body. Overall the game is quite good and i really recommend it to anyone but in my opinion 
 this game is a rent game but thats my opinion....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpo335
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  this game is a great game because it incorperates the different fighting styles for different people. 
 For instance, you can use stealth to quietly sneak up on a person and take them out, capture your 
 objectives and leave the scene without anyone ever knowing your there or you can do the run and 
 gun technique where you blast everyone away killing whoever is in your path making more noise and 
 it easier for people to see you. Both of thses work but I prefer the stealth, it makes the game 
 feel like what it supposed to be and does you can get deep into the storyline. 
  
  1) Graphics
  The grapics in this are good but could be better. The weapons look great and very 
 realistic. The evironment looks great too, there are tables and chairs and bars that all look realistic. 
 The people in the game such as your hits or innocent people however could look a bit better. Their 
 bodies look realistic but some of the people's faces look a little rushed. When you kill them, 
 rag doll effects come into play meaning that no person dies the same way twice. Also when you kill 
 them blood falls on the floor and onto some of the surroundings that are around the body. 
  2) Sound
  The sound in this game is great. The weapons sound good when you fire them and if you 
 ever drop them the clang of metal hitting metal sounds realistic just as it would if metal hit 
 wood or metal hit some other type of material. When you take your fiber wire out and choke someone, 
 it really sounds like their choking! They gag and try to get loose. But when they finally die and 
 you drop the body on the floor they could make a thud. When disposing of a body they will make 
 a noise that sounds realistic. The enviornment such as water, wind, etc. sounds like your there. 
 It isn't anything over the top but just right.
  3) Gameplay
  The gameplay in this game is incredible the way you can incorperate the different styles of fighting 
 to taking someone out. You can use the more stealthy way by using your fiber wire, silenced gun, 
 throwing of a coin to distract guards and hiding bodies. The other way is that you can use the 
 run-and-gun technique and gun everybody down that's in your path. Leaving bodies strewn on the 
 ground all over. Also the way of changing into someone clothes as a disguise is great. The way 
 that you must change into lets say a robe to get inside a certain part of a building but then must 
 change into an orderlys clothes to move freely about the premises.
  Overall I think that this is a great game that is worth a trying to anyone who owns a 360 or someone 
 who likes stealth or GTA stlye shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  
  Bill went to all this effort to build us a nice new next generation console.
  
  Why aren't the publishers taking advantage of it?
  
  Hitman: Blood Money looks very nice indeed 
 that there is no doubt. But how about the simple things, such as some bad clipping at times and 
 the very sharp and straight arms and legs, how about the trees being 2d and being able to stop 
 a bullet.
  
  It would be nice if hitman: bloody money had the same environment as the latest splinter cell.
 
  
  The game play is brilliant - I love the openended game play.
  
  I love the music - very nice.
  
  I don't like the glitches, and I know the X360 can display 
 so much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  hitman is definitly a game to pick up not only if you are already a hitman fan but also a fan of 
 action and stealth games. this game is by far the best in the series. theres so much to do in missions 
 that you end up spending hours figuring out your best plan of attack. the only drawback to the 
 game is the sometimes glichy AI and the fact that you can only save at the end of a mission. other 
 than that this game is nothing short of good old fashion murder fun. i would highy recommend this 
 game to anyone who is into stealth action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The bald-headed contract killer known only as 47 is in good form, primed and ready for more work 
 in the latest installment in the dark, stylish Hitman series. Though very similar to the last two 
 games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still 
 just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists to the formula, an intriguing story, and 
 a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further make Blood Money worth it. This is 
 the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't assumed 
 or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played one 
 of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game. 
  
  There are more than a dozen missions in all, and most of them are set somewhere in the United States, 
 such as a Mardi Gras celebration in New Orleans, an Egyptian-themed Las Vegas casino, a rehab clinic 
 in Northern California, a stately riverboat traveling the Mississippi, a posh Los Angeles suburb, 
 and more. The game does a great job of realizing each of these different settings, making them 
 feel appropriately large, complex, and alive. Mardi Gras is particularly impressive, its streets 
 jam-packed with people partying. All of these places tend to be filled with armed guards as well 
 as civilians, so you'll need to exercise caution in order to take out your targets and escape undetected. 
 However, if you slip up (or deliberately blow your cover) , you can always try to shoot your way 
 out. As in the previous games, Hitman: Blood Money rewards stealth and careful planning, but if 
 you want to try to run and gun your way through the levels, you have that option. You can instantly 
 switch from the default behind-the-back perspective to a first-person viewpoint if you prefer, 
 and the game lets you use a whole bunch of different, realistically modeled real-world pistols, 
 rifles, and submachine guns against your enemies. Of course, it's possible to finish most missions 
 in Hitman: Blood Money without squeezing off a single round, if you're careful and observant. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbholt
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The first Hitman game that i had played was Contracts for Xbox. I loved it and could not put it 
 down.
  
  Now that Blood Money came out i just had to get it. The graphics are a "tad" dissapointing because 
 i expected better from a next-gen console. I think the gameplay is great, except for the way people 
 walk, that can be improved, it looks like they are skating. If you have played a hitman game in 
 the past and liked it i highly recomend you checking this game out, it is very very fun. And it 
 leaves for many ways to complete a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman140
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  agent 47 is back, and better than ever. And quite possibly younger. I realize he is a clone, but 
 he looks 10 years younger in this installment, then he did in the previous titles. that aside, 
 can i say WOW. My first impressions were not soo good because the demo on live, but the demo does 
 not do it justice. AT ALL!! Once you get past that cumbersome "trainig" mission, the game turns 
 into a action packed rollocoster ride. You could litteraly spent hours on each contract, finding 
 out different ways to complete them. Its still not quite up to "next gen" standards as far as game 
 play and graphics, but the story makes up for it. Dont get me wrong, the game looks great, but 
 it could be better. you have tons of wepons to choose from, and a million and one different ways 
 to achive your goals. If you are the "run-and-gun" type, you can run in and kill everyone. (that 
 will give you a sloppy rating) , or if your the MGS, splinter cell type, you can shoot for "silent 
 assasan", and unlock achivement points. you even have the option to play the game in first person 
 mode. all and all, this is a grat game for someone who play another quallity hitman game, or perfect 
 for the person who has never played one at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have played Hitman since the first one was released on PC. I always found the series appealing 
 albeit difficult. Blood Money has much of the same elements as its predecessors but adds a lot 
 of improvements that are welcome. 
  
  This is not a game for those who prefer more fast paced shooters or action games. You start off 
 a mission with an objective to take a person (s) out, select your arsenal and then basically are 
 left to figure out exactly how to accomplish it. The "How" is always the trick because you have 
 multiple ways to kill someone but there are always things that stand between you and your target. 
 There is a lot of trial and error involved and you will probably find yourself reloading a saved 
 game frequently as you find which paths lead you to your target and what means which help you accomplish 
 your goal. Fortunately, there are a different difficult levels so you can choose just how much 
 of a silent assassin you really are. 
  
  I was disappointed in the graphics on the 360. First, the PC version looks much better which the 
 360 should easily be able to stand head to head with on current generation PCs. Secondly, the HUD 
 is much larger than that on the PC which makes the screen look cluttered. Fight Night Round 3 proved 
 that we no longer need HUDS in games and Hitman should have followed suit or at least minimized 
 the need of one. 
  
  The sound, as with all Hitman games, is quite good as far as the score and effects. Voice talent 
 has improved a lot with supporting characters. Howver, I think better use of surround sound in 
 Hitman would be nice in future releases.
  
  The controls are easy to use but the animations still seem rather stiff. This is a big franchise 
 and I think its time they start really making it shine. They really need to study the Splinter 
 Cell games to see how fluid animation really makes a game more immersive. All games should actually 
 learn from Splinter Cell games on a lot of factors but that's another story.
  
  Overall, Hitman is a very good game with interesting and diversified levels. The devs of the game 
 really have been fine tuning the series but I think there are still some areas that need overhauling. 
 It is a game that some will find frustrating but if you like to explore, try different things and 
 appreciate stealth games you will find this one quite enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Agent 47 is on another assignment and this time he is not alone as another agency is picking off 
 his teamates one after another. In Blood Money, you must go through exotic locals such as a Chile 
 drug den made up as a wine cellar and a Vegas hotel which many believe to be the hardest mission. 
 The graphics have marginally improved but the new crowd system shows the XBOX 360's capabilities. 
 If you walk through the Mardi Gras level, the Death of Crows, you will see nothing but people which 
 adds to the surrealism of the game. The new accident system is another great upgrade and the now 
 featured option to hide the bodies is another great addition. The levels are very nice looking 
 and mostly all textures are smooth instead of scratchy. If you can't hide a body very well, just 
 throw it of a rail. In the Chile level, A Vintage Year. There will be a guard patrolling around 
 and the last thing you need is for his body to be seen. If your not looking to achieve a Silent 
 Assassin rank, just throw his body off the rail. Some other fun things are to put a bomb in a container 
 and when a target walks by, just hit the detonator and eliminate him. Yet there are more additions! 
 Hitman nows features a way of taking an enemy shield by grabbing someone from behind. And like 
 Contracts, it has open ended ways to eliminate your target which sets a good replay value. If your 
 looking for a great stealth game that adds more violence than anything, Hitman: Blood Money is 
 a worthy contender.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunatic321
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This new Hitman game is an enjoyable experience. But not revolutionary. I think that it is time 
 for Eidos to take the Hitman series into a new direction. Dont get me wrong I enjoy very much carrying 
 out the "Hits" but after many years of playing the Hitman games, it is starting to feel like the 
 usual "Been there, done that" routine, and thats a bad thing. I would love to see the Hitman series 
 venture off into more open ended game. This game has some new things that change gameplay from 
 one mission to the next depending on how sloppy, or noticed you were in your previous mission. 
 This is a step in the right direction, but it feels a little "Unfinished". I would love to see 
 Eidos expand that feature. Its a great idea that should have been worked on and expanded. Overall 
 the graphics are good. They are awsome if your playing it on XBOX 360 with an HD screen. The sound 
 is good, and sounds best if you have a surround sound setup. The gameplay of Hitman: Blood Money 
 is pretty much the same and should be easy to pick up for veteran "Hitmen". Let's hope that the 
 next Hitman game hits us with a lethal dose of newness that just makes us drop dead on the spot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Ive played every Hit man title to hit consoles since Silent Assassin. This is the best on of them 
 all. The game play is simply Hit man Simulation. Ten friends and I sit around playing the same 
 levels seeing what different routs and different scenarios play out, never doing the same thing 
 as the last player. Its just a really well thought out game. All the people complaining about minor 
 if any glitches dont know what it takes to make a good game and this title is just that...... a 
 good game. All the different weapons, upgrades, mission ratings, notoriety, News crews, 1st person 
 & 3rd person views, Gun fire sound effects (Soundtrack sound effects bliss) , Beautiful visuals, 
 Great level design and story make this a well-rounded 360 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  Well I read what this game was about, and I knew I would be into this kind of thing so I just went 
 ahead and bought the game. Something I usually dont do for a single player only game but it looks 
 like replay value may not be that big of a concern, as it is entertainging to see what friends 
 do when they try to beat the game. Also it is entertaining to try and fiugure out all the other 
 ways you can go about killing ppl. So the replay value in the game is pretty strong despite the 
 lack of any sort of multiplayer. 
  
  As you all proibably know, it mainly focuses on trial and error gameplay. Sneaking around is a 
 lot of fun and the fact that you can kill ppl in multiple ways is also a lot of fun. It feels like 
 the game gives you a lot of options. However, I also felt that some things could have been added 
 to spice up the gameplay. Remeber the train level in one of those splinter cell games. Where Fisher 
 had to go outside of a train and hold on. It was a simple game but something like that added on 
 to the entertainment of it. Hitman did not have a of that at all. It was the same formula everytime. 
 Go kill someone. 
  
  Also, I felt that the levels all felt that they were too small. Like Bourbon street should have 
 felt much bigger. Being from New Orleans, I can say that it was a very weak depiction. Did not 
 capture the Mardi Gras feel at all. Also I found the environments not to be very interactive, just 
 plain. 
  
  Also i feel that Agent 47 should have more high tech weapons and gadgets. Like a James Bond. I 
 felt primitive with these weapons. AI has been a complaint but I dont think that it is as big of 
 a deal as everyone makes it out to be. Whenever somone is in a crowd guards/security just cant 
 get behind something and start trying to shoot him. They would clip everyone in the crowd. Watch 
 the movie Collateral when Cruise needs to kill that Korean guy in the night club. That is a perfect 
 example of this. So the fact that enemies come at you in throngs is not the flaw of the AI. The 
 flaw of the AI is what they DO notice as suspicious behavior and what they DONT notice. Also, they 
 have some bad reactions to suspicious behavior. Like when I sniped someone, the rest of them just 
 kept runnning out to the body. Also the graphics ar enot what you are expecting from an Xbox 360 
 console. Would have been nice if the developers just developed a COMPLETLY seperate game for the 
 360. 
  
  I know I have said a lot of bad things about it but the game is still worth playing in my opinion. 
 You have alrready heard the good things about it, but I just wanted to show you the bad things. 
 That is all, in the end solid experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schwah
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Ive really enjoyed this game - I still am as a matter of fact. Its hard for me to put it down 
 at the moment but Ill try not to let that sway my review. 
  
  If youre looking for a fast paced action game this could be it but youre going to be disappointed 
 by the length and the difficulty.
  
  If youre looking for a fast paced stealth game then this could be it but youre still going to 
 be disappointed by the length of the game.
  
  If youre the kind of person who likes to immerse yourself in a role, likes to take time to explore 
 wonderfully designed levels with numerous avenues to success or failure, likes the Hitman premise, 
 AND you have a sense of humor then this game is certainly for you. 
  
  I havent played a Hitman game since the original in the series, and unfortunately I picked that 
 up long after its release and was disappointed by the clunky interface (PC) and the outdated graphics. 
 Shame on me for not giving it more of a chance but thats another story. This new addition to the 
 series has made me a fan and you can count on me purchasing any future releases. 
  
  For me, the fun is this game has not come from rushing my way through it. The fun comes from returning 
 to familiar levels time and again to explore different ways to accomplish my objectives, or just 
 to have fun and see what kind of trouble I can stir up. Its really been a blast. 
  
  It took me roughly 25 hours to finish the game my first time but Im sure thats on the long side 
 by far. I really took my time to get the most out of each level my first time though, but Im sure 
 that wont suit everyones gaming style. I can certainly see a type of gamer out there who will 
 say to him or herself, What? I have to hide here until that person I need to kill makes his way 
 back into this room in x number of minutes? Boring! Personally that just helps me get into character, 
 but everyones different. 
  
  The game is not without its troubles for sure. The AI can be a little strange from time to time. 
 It can be disappointing when strange character behaviors break an otherwise involving experience. 
 Character models are repeated a bit too frequently. You could walk into a crowded room as see up 
 to 6 or 7 of the exact same model, up to 15 of the same model with minor differences, or even more 
 if were talking about some of the outdoor environments. Ive also encountered a few animation 
 problems when attacking someone from behind. On a rare occasion the individual Im attacking wont 
 line up with the actions the main character is performing. So yes, there are problems for sure, 
 but none worth fretting over unless youre the type whos not willing to let anything slide. I 
 consider these problems no more meaningful than the minor issues Ive encountered in most of my 
 other favorite games. 
  
  Buy or rent? Is that your question? This game is great for either option. You could certainly complete 
 the games story line and get the gist of each level in a weeks time, but theres also a lot of 
 replay value. There are a wide variety of ways to complete each mission, and an equal number of 
 ways to challenge yourself in terms of the equipment you bring along with you. You can also replay 
 early missions at any time using the weapons youve upgraded thanks to money earned on later missions, 
 thus adding even further to the replay value. On top of that, I must admit I have as much fun playing 
 this game as I do watching other people play it for the first time. Its fun and interesting to 
 see how other people approach objectives compared to your own initial approach. Ive been inviting 
 my friends over to play while I sit back, relax and enjoy the show. Its great!
  
  Last but not least a note about the content. The premise is rather dark but for the most part youre 
 killing bad guys. Everyone else you kill just happens to be in the way! The game manages to avoid 
 becoming too dark and serious by adding quite a bit of humor. To elaborate any further on that 
 would spoil the fun. Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money has recently made its surprising debut on Microsoft's Xbox 360, and it is pretty 
 damn good!
  
  Hitman: Blood Money has a 12 mission campaign that will take you all over the world, from San Diego, 
 to Las Vegas, to New Orleans and Paris. The location detail is outstanding. AI is believable smart, 
 some moments in the game look next-gen (I'm not kidding) , and audio sounds pretty good. The storyline, 
 or plot, is real interesting, and the ending is one of the greatest video game endings I've ever 
 seen.
  
  Hitman also has a good combination of stealth and run-and-gun. In past Hitman games, you can quite 
 easily pull out your Hardballer handguns and blaze thru every mission. The developers went back 
 and changed that, but in a good way. Now on every mission, if you choose to run-and-gun, there 
 will be a lot more enemies on the map now (50 minimum) , who are more aggressive than normal, and 
 will not let up until you are dead. 
  
  Weapons are great. The weapons you start out with at the start of the game are okay, but as you 
 progress thru the game, you can buy more upgrades for your weapons. Your pistol... by the end of 
 the game... will be... the best weapon... in the game.
  
  The achievement system is nice and evened out. In Eidos' last game, Tomb Raider: Legend, that game 
 offered easy points in like 6-7 hours. Hitman: Blood Money like give you some nice spending time 
 you you and your game. Some of the achievements are like... complete campaign on a certain difficulty, 
 accomplish 5 Silent Assassins on a certain difficulty, or buy all the upgrades for a certain weapon.
 
  
  Hitman: Blood Money is a nice big step in the franchise. If you ask me, this game is worth as much 
 as a bar of gold, it's that good. This game is a must-have and is definately worth the $60.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is the latest hitman release in the franchise, and I would have to say it is 
 indeed a solid one. It seems as though the developers went out of their way to fix most of the 
 things fans had a gripe about. Its as different from the last one (contracts) as Splinter Cell: 
 Pandora Tomorrow was from Chaos Theory.
  
  The graphics are not amazing persay, all the male models are built from one, yet certain textures 
 are very convincing. The AI still occasionally just freaks out and opens fire, and it would be 
 nice since a majority of this is in the US if they instead tried to detain number 47 instead of 
 opening fire on the streets of mardi gras. They must have gunned down at least five innocent ppl. 
 
  
  However for those of you wondering if the suspicion meter is the same as it was in Hitman 2, its 
 not. Hitman 2 had nearly impossible points due to that ridiculous meter freaking out all the time. 
 This one is pretty manageable so long as you avoid doing stupid things. 
  
  The Ability to upgrade your weapons (some of them) is a really nice touch. However I dont understand 
 why you would put a scope on a spas 12 shotgun...
  but the upgrades for the M4 carbine, MP5, and Silverballers are very entertaining. Other cool weapons 
 featured are the Bull .408 (non upgradeable unfortunately) and a variety of other MP weapons. 
 
  
  The missions will keep you on your toes, and boggle your mind when you realize how easy most of 
 them are, especially early on. Once you figure out where to go, (thats the challenge, and it is 
 a challenge) missions can be over in 10 - 15 min. However with the new newspaper features and the 
 notoriety system Hitman has plenty of replayability. And trying to figure out your own ways to 
 score an assassination without the whole world coming down on top of you is extremely exciting. 
 There are of course countless ways to get things done. 
  
  The sound is very well done. The guns sound very good, especially the m4, and the music fits with 
 the gameplay as well. 
  
  All in all, if you are a fan of the hitman series, or even new to it, this is a great game to get. 
 It will keep you coming back for more time and time again. 
  
  *NEW FEATURES*
  Upgradeable weapons
  notoriety system makes for more challenge
  AI improved from last two hitman 
 games
  Newspaper tells your story after the hit
  Shoot locks to open doors
  new body disposal system (back of a garbage truck anyone?)
  there are a few more, but you will 
 have to play the game to discover what they are. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  When I heard about this Hitman game I thought to my self this: hmmmmm a new Hitman game it sounds 
 like a lame linear stick to the storyline game. But man was wrong this game is so cool. I will start 
 with the new features featured in thi game.. My first and my coolest is the new customize all the 
 weapons that 47 can get his hands on! I know it sounds cool and it is really cool, This is how u 
 get the money to even customize ur weapons, by completing missions, If u beat a mission in a silent 
 way u'll get more money. Theres one more cool feature that I love is the new "Accident" System is 
 based on how u kill ur target for example one time my target was weight lifting and I sneaked up 
 behind him and pushed the weight down on his neck it was awesome!!! If u like the Hitman series 
 u owe it to urself to pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  First of, I'm a big Hitman fan so this review has a positive tilt to it. I love the idea of a game 
 as a contract killer and while the previous games have all been great, I'm sure most Hitman fans 
 would agree with me that they've represented something of a unsatisfying lunch. You still feel 
 like there's a little more that you want.
  
  I risk blowing my review straight away but unfortunately as soon as you start playing Hitman you 
 realise it's not going to be exactly what it should have been. The graphics while improved are 
 not what I'm expecting from Next Gen titles. It's possible I'm demanding too much from 'next gen' 
 though.
  
  The superb sountrack is still there courtesy of the excellent Jesper Kydd and really feels like 
 it adds drama to a situation. Some of the speech patterns could be improved, the sheik for example 
 how just keeps repeating 'This is a large casino'. Oblivion has already shown the way in this area.
 
  
  Also still there is the satisying feeling as you work your way around some impressivesly sized 
 maps, strangling and shooting unsuspecting victims on the way. The usual array of costumes are 
 there, highlights being the clown and santa, also Hitman looks surprisingly gay in his sailors 
 uniform! 
  
  The learning difficulty is just right. At first you might give into temptation and just shoot your 
 way through the levels but as you do you'll spot things, pieces of puzzles, and as you experiment 
 you'll gradually learn how to achieve Silent Assasin for each level.
  
  There's great replayability as you go back and play through levels in different ways, either trying 
 to ratch up the achievements or just for the fun of killing people in different ways.
  
  The problem is that I don't think there's been enough added to the game to justify it's next gen 
 billing. The notoriety system is a lightweight concept that I found didn't affect my gameplay much 
 at all with the exception of when I was going for the 100 achievement.
  
  It's a good game, it's good fun, I will never tire of playing Hitman games; byut yet again I feel 
 as if there's something missing. This will keep me going though until IO come up with the killer 
 game we all know is in this brand.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlimitedkiller
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is more indepth than Grand Theft Auto... many things you could do in one level, tons 
 of motives... make the wrong move, try to live... make the wrong move, die and watch how your guy 
 dies... stealing people's uniform, disposing their dead body, trying to be a secret agent... that's 
 why one could love this game...
  
  it might not be, the best game in the world... but I personally think it's one of the best games 
 out right now... it may not be The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, or Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter... 
 but, it's definitely better than Table Tennis... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I have loved this series since the first one... it really unlocked the sadistic cold killer in me.
 
  
  With the exception of Contracts, we have not really seen a poor Hitman game at all... they may all 
 be less than great but they seldom fall below expectations. This one offers us some new gameplay 
 options and smoother controls to allow for faster response to bad situations.
  
  The Graphics are amazing on the 360... they are not setting the bar any higher than GRAW or anything... but 
 they really add to the feel and flow of the game, the way the shadows and light look, the way you 
 can see the fibers of the clothes... gives it a less plastic look like the others in the series.
 
  
  The ability to pay off the press and upgrade are welcome... they give you more control over your 
 style and allow you to really set how you want the game to play.
  
  I am sorry for the short review... this game is really good... not great but really good and even 
 better if you are still trying to wash out the bad taste of Hitman contracts.
  
  Mike
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Hitman game before, but after playing this one for a few minutes, I've decided 
 I'm going to pick up the previous versions. The first level does a great job of introducing the 
 control scheme, which otherwise would be difficult to master, especially for a noob to the series 
 such as myself. 
  
  A few things could be improved on, I don't really like how the frame rate slows down when you get 
 killed, but little things like that I am willing to sacrafice for great gameplay, and in Hitman: 
 Blood Money, there is plenty of great gameplay. 
  
  The story is very well told, and the mission briefings give you all the info you need. I love the 
 added feature of the newspaper at the end of levels, which give you a third person perspective 
 of the chaos you cause. 
  
  All in all, this is a great buy, one of the few 360 games worthy of the $60 price tag! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake159
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the first hitman to reach the next-gen counsoles, and possibly the most inovative game 
 ive ever played. Aside form the training level you can kill someone in whatever way you want to. 
 New to the series is the "accidents" where you make your mark look like they jsut died. Each mission 
 offers something different, and the games difficulties set it so your playing style will match 
 it. The game makes you feel like you are the hitman and you can assinate the target in whatever 
 way you wish. If the stealth/shooter game are your type, go out and buy this game right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AviticusDSS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical because there was always something missing in all the Hitman games, but 
 I gave the game a shot because I'm a fan of the series and I was completely pleased.
  
  First of all, the game is $39.99, a great price for what you are getting. Granted, the game is 
 short, but the detail of the levels that you go into are AMAZING. I beat the game in a day for 
 those of you who are wondering. It took me about 14 hours to complete.
  
  The movement and controls are WAY better than the previous games. The controls don't feel sluggish 
 at all. They feel smooth and it's easier to sneak up on people now, granted if you do it right 
 and depending on the difficulty settings. Graphics are definately better.
  
  The best part is that you can upgrade your weapons with different things like scopes, silencers, 
 different bullets, etc. I love this feature and the weapons just look so freakin' cool after their 
 all decked out.
  
  The best part is how you are rated on the missions. There's so many different ways to kill people, 
 its fun to try and find them all. Should it be from an acciden't, a push off a cliff, a barrel 
 falling on someone, etc. etc. etc.
  
  There's so much to write about but I won't bore you. The bottom line is that this is the best Hitman 
 in the series and if you love the first three games, you will LOVE this one. The best part for 
 me in the game was the story. I had to finish the game to find out the story because it was so 
 INTRIGUING. Not to mention that the ending was probably one of the most interesting and coolest 
 endings I've ever seen in a game.
  
  I can't wait for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugbygod
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game controls smoothly and points you in the right direction. For fans of the series they 
 may find it a tad on the easy side, however it does offer pretty cool visuals, clear objectives 
 and ok graphics. 
  
  
  Strengths:
  
  -Excellent controls and intuitive direction.
  -Mission objectives are clear and you have more than one option.
  -Weopons "feel" realistic and 
 powerful.
  -Story line is pretty basic, but it flows and keeps you immersed.
  
  Weaknesses:
  
  -The graphics are slightly tweaked current gen..... nothing mindblowing.
  -Character 
 models are still a bit blocky and 47 looks a bit ridged.
  -Character models move a bit like they are skating... animations could and should have been a bit 
 better for the 360.
  
  Overall, the element that makes this game good is it is emmersive and fun. Lack of next Gen graphics 
 aside, this is a good game worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  the game i feel is good but not great. it is kinda kool the way you are able to kill people in 
 different ways. The achievment points are kool and all but i am still happy that i just rented 
 it. For modern day standards this game doesnt have a whole lot of game play value. Once u beat 
 it u put it in the corner. but i still wont shoot it down, its just that no online and no coop 
 and nothing for me its way to short for a game that has nothing extra then the straight campaign. 
 The graphics are alot better then what i had heard it was going to be but the problem is, they 
 werent what they could have been. i like they way everything happens does but it didnt jump out 
 and grab me it was just kept me playing but then again so did tomb raider. I feel this is another 
 example of what hurts the 360 we need games for the system and not for last gen. We need games 
 like table tennis or pgr3. But it ws an ok so i say rent it and if u read this when the game is 
 29.99 i say grab it but not before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mightyguapo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is by far the best title in this series, and it has come a long way from the 
 first installment. There has always been something about the hitman games, be it the style, dark 
 humor and creativity in its settings that make you want to keep coming back to the game, and if 
 you havent played it yet, you need to go play it... now.
  
  Graphics
  
  Pretty good for a multi platform release. In a way I was hoping for a bit more, but if you play 
 this game in HD, everything is nice and sharp. The one area were the graphics reallly do shine 
 is in its shadows and lighting, which at times can be absolutley stunning. Overall, while not groundbreaking, 
 they do the job quite nicely.
  
  Sound
  
  All I can say is after the intro, the soundtrack did me in. I love the theme song for this game... 
 Oh the rest of it is pretty good to ;) . The sound effects are well done, with each gun sounding 
 unique, to the way the noise muffles from a loud room to an adjacent hall. A lot of nice little 
 touches in this department.
  
  Gameplay
  
  If you have only touched the demo level of this game, it is a far cry to how the rest of the levels 
 are played out. This is a game where you can start a level, and if you want to be creative, you 
 could easily spend 15 mins before you even do anything besides walk around and case the level out. 
 There are a lot of entertaining moments in many of the levels, and so many times where you have 
 so many ideas about carrying out a hit, you will find yourself replaying them many times. The AI 
 isnt to tough on the games normal difficulty, crank it up to professional and you will see it react 
 a fair bit sharper. Overall the AI gets the job done quite well, despite the odd glitch here and 
 there.
  
  The bottom line
  
  I played through this game twice already and it is still stealing my 360 time. This is a game with 
 a very high "tilt factor". This is one of those games that while the presentation is good, it will 
 be the sheer amount of fun you have playing it that will keep you coming back for more. You could 
 easily rent this game, and play it through (which is almost a must.) . If your like me, you can 
 easily justify buying it as its one of those games that you can play a lot when you get it, and 
 even after you have done everything you can still come back to it from time to time down the road.
 
  
  Sorry if the review was a bit quick and not to in depth, but I had the urge to play it again after 
 typing the second sentence...: P
  
  Hope it helps though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like the old versions of this series, but thanks to the 360's smooth graphics and immersive 
 free roaming environments, i get lost in the game and i love every minute of it.
  
  thank you eidos and io interactive. you can see they put alot of effort into this masterpiece. 
 for $60 you can play out a fantasy of an actual hitman with dead -on graphics and smart AI.
  
  I like the training mission to get you going. Just the right amount of training.. not to long, 
 not to short.
  
  Then you're on your own, which is when the fun really begins.
  
  Worth every penny and more. BUY it. Don't rent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Hitman Blood Money is the best Hitman game of the series. Anyone who's into stealth and I mean 
 stealth will enjoy this game. Hitman Blood Money must be played with patience and coordination 
 on the harder levels, especially if you want to achieve the silent assasin title, but what makes 
 this game great is the number of ways to accomplish your mission. You can run n gun which I find 
 dumb or the realistic stealth way. You see, a real Hitman does a mission in a quiet, stealthy and 
 professional way, leaving no witnessess or alot of bodies behind, and this is what you can do in 
 this game. You want to go retarded and stupid and shoot everything on site, you can do that too. 
 The game allows alot of ways to finish your mission which makes your creativeness more worthwhile. 
 The AI is sometimes questionable but it's to give the gamers a better challenge. If you still find 
 the game easy, try playing it drinking a twelve pack and on Pro level and watch your ass get challenged. 
 This is how much you need to think before approaching a mission. The graphics are great although 
 not up to Call of Duty or Ghost Recon level, but enjoyable to watch with outstanding attention 
 to detail, great shadow and overall atmosphere. The sound is equally great although sound level 
 tend to shift every once in a while and it provides comical expressive sketches that'll make you 
 laugh. Alot of idiots don't give IO props for the graphics and AI standpoint, but these are the 
 spoiled ones who want everything perfect cause they think they're perfect. Point is Hitman is all 
 about being creative and not just gun everything you see. Yes, the game has flaws, but all games 
 have some flaws, you just have to play around them, and Hitman is one of those very few games that 
 you'll quickly forget the small flaws. Bottom line is if you're patient, smart and skilled, you 
 will enjoy everything Hitman offers. I love stealth games and it doesn't have to do with Solid 
 Snake of Sam Fisher. Agent 47 is one bad S. O. B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  one of the top 10 games to the xbox 360 for me ..
  
  you are free to do what ever you wont on any level the game only makes you do one thing kill your 
 target if you are going to only get them and kill no1 or go in kill everyone and leave it is up 
 to you. You can get in any clothes you wont there is tons of guns some can be moded which you can 
 put alot on your gun then games story is great the ending is great each level on this game is huge 
 and there is tons of says to kill your target this is a must buy for all hitman fans and not hitman 
 fans but if your not where have you been. This game is on my fav list of 360 games next to oblivion 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: a lots of cool weapons, the graphics on especially the xbox 360 version or on a pretty 
 high-end pc is just really great the textures, the lightning the shadows and the huge enviroments 
 is pretty good, too. the sound is also really good everything from the voice acting and the weapons 
 effects and other stuff with sound is really good. and the weapon upgrade system is also really 
 good and there is a lot of other stuff to say about this game, which is good.
  
  The Bad: some bugs problems and problably other problems, kinda thing.
  
  this game is defiently 
 a great game that worth cheking out for both non-hitman fans and hitman fans, you should buy it 
 especially on xbox 360 or if you've have an high-end pc, but the ps2, xbox versions looks also 
 really cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  agent 47 is back, and better than ever. And quite possibly younger. I realize he is a clone, but 
 he looks 10 years younger in this installment, then he did in the previous titles. that aside, 
 can i say WOW. My first impressions were not soo good because the demo on live, but the demo does 
 not do it justice. AT ALL!! Once you get past that cumbersome "trainig" mission, the game turns 
 into a action packed rollocoster ride. You could litteraly spent hours on each contract, finding 
 out different ways to complete them. Its still not quite up to "next gen" standards as far as game 
 play and graphics, but the story makes up for it. Dont get me wrong, the game looks great, but 
 it could be better. you have tons of wepons to choose from, and a million and one different ways 
 to achive your goals. If you are the "run-and-gun" type, you can run in and kill everyone. (that 
 will give you a sloppy rating) , or if your the MGS, splinter cell type, you can shoot for "silent 
 assasan", and unlock achivement points. you even have the option to play the game in first person 
 mode. all and all, this is a grat game for someone who play another quallity hitman game, or perfect 
 for the person who has never played one at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klm1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Bad: This Games A. I. Is Horrible, The Guards In Most Of The Missions Are Not Acting Like They Should. 
 I Also Believe In The Saying; "If It Ain't Broke, Don't Fix It." I Liked The Old Suspicious Meter, 
 Because If Someone Was Curious The Meter Blinked To Let The Player Know The Enemy Is Close, In 
 This Game The Meter Jumps To Red Without Warning. 
  
  Good: I Like The New Methods 47 May Use To Kill His Contracts And The Upgrades He Can Use For His 
 Weapons. The Graphics Are Great The New Places You Can Hide Are Good And The Missions Are Good... Gives 
 The Game Some Replay Value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  The blad guys back and this time hes making some money. You play as Agent 47 a cloned super assasin 
 to put it simply and you job is to kill people. The whole story is being told through files as 
 a Journalist comes to interview the ex vice president so every mission is a flashback leading up 
 to one of the best endings iv seen in a game.
  
  Gameplay all the basics are back for those familliar with the series while they also throw in a 
 money management system and notority system. The great thing iv always loved about the hitman games 
 is the ability to choose run and gun or sneaking around and the ability to switch between the two 
 styles of gameplay mid mission. The new ability to upgrade your weapons is very nice allowing you 
 to slowly progress. As you get further into the game and buy more upgrades you will notice how 
 mutch they do help and are not just added on for show. The notority system was one thing that was 
 talkd about alot leading up to Blood Moneys launch and i have to say its kinda pointless on every 
 mission if you leave behind a witness then your notority goes up about 5 points per witness. The 
 bad thing is unless you run through the level shooting into the sky you never get a witness. And 
 if you do its very easy lower your notority and the end of the mission even if you let your notority 
 go up it never seems like it does anything even a 50% i didnt notice any change in peoples reactions 
 to me. The AI is at sometimes good and at others just stupid and i found at sometimes i would get 
 seen when i shouldnt be so AI is off and on. The achievments make the 360 version the better buy 
 where as it adds more replay value and better graphics.
  
  Graphics wise this is a very pretty game the lighting is very vibrant and character models look 
 great. Framerate is the most note worthy thing in the technical department which you will notice 
 the most on the Mardi Gras mission as the streets are full of hundreds of people and not a single 
 drop in framerate the bad thing is all these people are just kinda like nothing as they in no way 
 block you are make things more difficult there just kinda there. 
  The graphics look the best on 360 with better lighting effects and it runs a tab smoother.
  
 
  Sound is good but nothing to brag about sometimes sound dips low in cutscenes and high in gameplay 
 and vise versa. The voice acting is good but you begine to notice alot of the people sound alike. 
 The voice actor for Agent 47 does a good job as well as the voice of Dianna. Sound effects them 
 self are great but sometimes dont show up when you stealth kill some enemies.
  
  Overall there is alot to be had with Hitman Blood Money with its great graphics, gameplay, and 
 very high replay value i recomend it if you can overlook its off and on AI and some minor sound 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maziarm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Though very similar to the last two games in the series, the open-ended stealth action gameplay 
 offered by Hitman: Blood Money is still just about as tensely exciting as ever. A few new twists 
 to the formula, an intriguing story, and a memorably diverse, cinematic sequence of missions further 
 make Blood Money worth it. More bad people in high places need to be murdered in Hitman: Blood 
 Money. 
  This is the fourth game in the Hitman series, but previous experience with the past games isn't 
 assumed or required. In fact, you'll probably be more impressed with the game if you've never played 
 one of these before. Returning players will be in for a comfortably familiar experience. The previous 
 games' stories are alluded to during the course of this one, in which 47 discovers that he and 
 his employer are being threatened by some other mysterious agency. He'll learn more of the rival 
 agency's motives as he completes his own jobs, all leading up to a surprising and climactic conclusion. 
 The starting mission leads you by the nose through one of 47's typical assignments -- to eliminate 
 a shady theme park operator, whose negligence once cost the lives of many innocent people. This 
 man, called the Swing King, even entered the drug business in the wake of his theme park's collapse. 
 47's employer has asked that a photo of a deceased loved one be the last image that the crook ever 
 sees... but when you finally reach him, he's just this sad worm of a man who grovels at 47's feet. 
 Despite the number of armed thugs you'll need to get through before putting the Swing King out 
 of his misery, this mission is easy, provided you follow the step-by-step instructions you're given. 
 Subsequent missions are substantially tougher and less linear, but this first one still is representative 
 of the types of moody, affecting scenarios you'll encounter in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tushiq
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  the game is awwsome any hitman fan will love it {like me} the customizable weapons is a great feature 
 and the themes are gr8 {my favourite las vegas} the graphics r nice on the 360 but could have been 
 better {not taking full advantage of 360} lol a nice game highly addictive .this time it has come 
 out with a kick u have to compete with different agencies plus there r guys and gals who will try 
 to kill u in the same manner u kill your targets so the game always keeps u excited. the slow motion 
 die-ing sequence also rocks plus the locations r excuite the gameplay is unique u feel like u r 
 agent 47 as u decide how to kill your target ,u can do it with or without guns well in all its 
 worth your time but the 360 version is not worth the cost 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  For real though, this game is lots of fun. If youre a fan of the Hitman series or just like cool 
 games in general this is a must have. Beautiful graphics are just a small sampling of what makes 
 this game so much fun. You could either finish a mission in 8 minutes or think about what your 
 going to do and take as much time as you want. All i can say is the opera stage gives you this 
 huge rush if you take out the main target the stealth way, i wont say how but its awesome. The 
 controls are fine, the camera never gets in the way and the menu system does the job. Very satisfying 
 game to play.
  
  The only bad things are the save system and the AI isnt very smart but dont let that stop you. 
 I highly recommend this game to everybody 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a cool game. If you are unfamiliar with the franchise, basically you are 
 the result of a cloning experiment, trained as an assassin. In this newest installment of the game, 
 you are given various targets to kill while a plot unfolds in between each mission. The bottom 
 line is, people are on to you, and are trying to kill you.
  
  Each mission you are able to review the objectives and any other information, and choose your weapons 
 for task at hand. You can also upgrade your equipment heavily, however, more powerful items for 
 purchase are unlocked as you progress through the storyline, so you will only obtain the best gear 
 at the very end of the game, a common problem with many FPS games.
  
  However you are free to repeat missions at any time if you like, which while unrealistic, is surprisingly 
 fun. There are alot of ways to kill people, and many players might find it fun to accomplish a 
 mission with maximum or minimum body count. So feel free to bring your new silencer and extended 
 mag to that newbie mission!
  
  Difficulty is basically making the AI more suspicious of you (detecting disguises faster) , and 
 reducing the number of times you can save the game during the mission. On normal mode, you get 
 a ridiculous 7 saves, whereas on pro (the hardest) you get none, which can be quite challenging.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful. The scenery of each level is very well done. There are lots of complex 
 shadows and other lighting effects such as fog and bloom. The system requirements are pretty decent. 
 I'm running an AMD 64 3700 with a ATI x700 pcix and 1GB of RAM and I get about 30-40 FPS in most 
 areas.
  
  The AI in the game is both good and bad. Good from a perspective that everyone seems to have some 
 scripted behaviors that they perform. For instance in an opera house, security is walking around 
 checking on different areas or perhaps heading into a security control room to watch some monitors 
 for a while, repair and maintenance men are walking around doing different things or maybe stopping 
 at the john for a wiz. I'm not a big fan of heavy scripting, but with all the different things 
 going on it seems almost seemless. For this reason the AI is very good. But then the action starts...
 
  
  When people hear gunfire they react in different ways. Some will run towards guards and notify 
 them. Some will cower in fear. Some will run towards the source of the shot to investigate. Security 
 personell will attempt to find the source of the shot and, if you are detected, will start shooting 
 at you. The problem is they will approach often from the same direction, allowing you to create 
 a choke point as they all run in to their imminent headshot doom. I can't really think of any other 
 way to do this with today's technology, so it's forgiven, but boy does it look silly.
  
  A cool hitman AI experience is clearing an area with silenced pistols and having some unknowing 
 security guy come waltzing in later to discover the problem but still be unaware since he didn't 
 "see" it happen.
  
  A bad hitman AI experience is sniping someone with a silenced sniper rifle about 200 yards away 
 and having the 50+ people surrounding him instantly RUN DIRECTLY AT YOU. (I killed em all :P)
 
  
  It's a give and take I guess. Ultimately, the game is a lot of fun. Part of the fun is exploiting 
 the wackiness of the AI sometimes too. For instance planting bombs in suitcases of unknowing tourists 
 and setting them off when they reach an area of dense population, watching everyone go haywire... 
 priceless.
  
  One of your tools is your ability to dress in the outfits of your victims. You may suit up as a 
 security guard for access to a specific area for instance. Basically you approach a body and change 
 suits and your character bends over the body momentarily and instantly switches "skins" to the 
 new clothing. Though this is a bit herky jerky, I don't want to have to wait for my character to 
 strip down to his skivvies, fasten buttons, tie shoelaces, etc.
  
  The sound of the game is awesome. Tons of voice multilingual voice talent for the characters, lots 
 of cool weapon sounds, etc. The music is also quite nice, changing as different circumstances come 
 about.
  
  Replayability is really dependent on the person. I've beat the game twice (once on normal, once 
 on pro) and have enjoyed both times through. I've also played through a few of my favorite missions 
 a few more times just for kicks. Ultimately I'm about done with the game though, I'd say I've invested 
 about 20 hours in it.
  
  Hitman really brings the cold-blooded assassin motif up very nicely. If you want to whack some 
 people, this is the game for you.
  
  Gameplay - 9 - Playing through each mission how you want is very open ended, making the game alot 
 of fun to play.
  
  Graphics - 9 - They are superb.
  
  Sound - 9 - Nice music, great sound effects, fantastic voice acting.
  
  Value - 8 - Decent 
 long game with some replay value in there. High quality game over all with very few bugs.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 9 - Though I'm a bit Hitman'd out having played through twice and then some, 
 I'm sure I will be back when the urge for killin' calls again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Hitman : Blood Money is a great achievement to the series. In this game, they seem to give Agent 
 47 a new look at things and how he is seen not only by the people in the game, but by how we look 
 at him. The sole purpose of many missions is to assassinate a specific person that you have been 
 assigned to kill. This concept gives the game quite a lot of originality.
  
  The gameplay of the game is very good. It is fun doing lots of different moves and killing people 
 and sneaking around all over the place. The problem with the gameplay is that even if Agent 47 
 pulls off an awesome kill against someone, all you do is just press a button and it doesn't make 
 it feel as special. It would have been better if they added a system maybe where you press buttons 
 that are indicated on the screen to stop the person from struggling or something like that.
  
  The missions are nicely set out and the things you need to do to get to the end of it is always 
 cool but the problem is that it feels like you are too constricted. You don't have enough freedom 
 of doing something else. You have to follow the path that is assigned to you and you can't change 
 that. It would have been better if it was your decision how you approach the mission. The controls 
 are a bit tricky at first but you get quite used to them in about an hour or so.
  
  The graphics of the game are actually pretty nice and in some areas the touches are really quite 
 sleek. The areas are rounded and have a good deal of shades, the walls are solid and the animation 
 of the characters is good in that it makes them feel more real. It is quite quick and it has a 
 good frame rate in some places.
  
  The sound of the game is good mostly but quite a lot of things are repeated. The voice acting is 
 decent but sounds like gun shots and just natural sounds are not so great.
  
  The lifespan of the game is not bad at all because I feel that you will go back to the missions 
 because they are so cool. You could do one mission in a style that you want it and what also adds 
 some more playability to the missions is the brilliant feature of the newspaper at the end of a 
 mission. The newspaper has an article written and it is written on how you performed in that mission. 
 It's a very clever idea.
  
  Overall this game is a very good one. It has most elements that a game needs to be really good 
 and Hitman : Blood Money pulls off to be a game that will be remember as a good one in the Hitman 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  The Hitman series have been known to allow the gamer to take a double-sided approach. You can play 
 stealthy (which you should) , or you can play "guns ablazing".
  
  The fun factor in the series is that the game allows you to take on different disguises, different 
 weapons, all sorts of tools to eliminate your target. This is the kind of game that is played while 
 leaving your conscience at the door.
  
  Blood Money offers the same basic concepts to its previous installements, but somewhat improves 
 on the formula- or should i say tweaks it for the better.
  
  The 360 version is the best looking one although it barely whimpers as a Next-Gen 1.5 game- not 
 truly next gen, nor lagging behind as an old gen game.
  
  The only aspect of the game that might turn off some, is that it sports the "trial-and-error" style 
 gameplay. Some might be frustrated, whereas others find it very entertaining.
  
  Overall this game plays as a huge puzzle, where the gamer must figure out the best way to reach, 
 antagonize, and kill each target.
  
  Personally I love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Most of you who read these write your own reviews and give your own opinion. I to read your reviews 
 and choose whether to recommend them or not. For the most part, everyone is getting it wrong. This 
 game is just like Hitman 2 with some minor upgrades but still plaguing AI and game code. 
  
  Now, if you don't agree with that, do you agree that this game has four years of improvement 
 from the prior installment? Look at Oblivion for example. They have improved their latest installment 
 100% compared to Morrowind and it was all done on a new system. Hitman Blood Money is a good game, 
 but it's basically the same gameplay, horrible AI and crummy environment code Hitman 2 was 4 friggin' 
 years ago. I know good games and I won't review a game according to the overall opinion. I spent 
 59.99 on this game, and I would love to say it rocks, but the truth is, it doesn't and agent 47 
 will have to wait for his true next gen introduction just a little longer. 
  Ohh, and for the ones who will argue that the graphics look 360 quality, play either GRAW or Fight 
 Night 3 in HD and you'll see the 360 blazing full power with still some to spare. This game doesn't 
 even come remotely close to tapping into the 360's graphical power and the true next gen games 
 prove that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  If you're into third person video games and stealth action games than this is the game for you. 
 You can do all type of action with just a tap of a button. You can access the menu screen with 
 just a click of one of the button on the screen. They brief you with all the necessary things you 
 need to accomplish when you're on a mission which is cool. This is my first time playing a Hitman 
 game and for being my first time it's kind of easy to adjust to the mechanics of the game. The 
 graphics look but I don't think you can tell the differences between the current gen and xbox360 
 version maybe little things here and there. If you're looking for a game to hold you out for a 
 couple of weeks than you should definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The missions are still the same as the older missions , still open ended , but most 
 of the missions require you to go stealthy , you don't really get an option for just all out gunning 
 everyone down. The A. I is very smart , on all difficulty levels . But there are only about 8-10 
 levels , defintly leaving a lot to desire . You never really benefit from making money on jobs 
 , you can't go into barley any level with a bought weapon or you will be shot immediatly. You spend 
 tons of time figuring out what your targets do , and spend tons of time waiting and waiting. There 
 is hand to hand combat but it is just a couple moves , if your in front of them you'll knock them 
 out with a punch , and if your behind them you will push them , you can push people down stairs 
 and push them into stuff also. 
  
  Graphics - The models are very detailed , but what really makes the graphics stand out is the lighting. 
 The lighting is stunning and really makes the enviroments believable. 
  
  Sound - Each gun has it's own sound , when a body hits something you hear it , but when you use 
 hand to hand combat the screaming of the person is always the same which get's annoying .
  
  Value - No multiplayer , no co-op , and as far as I know there won't be new downloabable maps 
 , there hasn't been for any hitman yet
  
  Average Tilt - Dumb and pointless storyline , i'm a long time hitman game fan though 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: decodergrizzly
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Hitman has always been a niche game, since the very first entry. I think its made for certain people 
 and those people look past the few technical problems that have always plagued the game and just 
 enjoy it for what it is. The fact is that there is no other game out there that lets you truly 
 live like an assassin and does it so well. Blood Money is definitely the best one yet and they 
 fixed a lot of the issues that the previous games had. The NPCs really act right for the most part 
 this time around, the AI is pretty stable, there really aren't random alarms (if they're shooting 
 at you, u must've done something wrong) . Amazing scenarios as always, better than ever ways to 
 carry out the objectives, incredible music as usual, gorgeous graphics finally, and brilliant idea 
 with the weapon customization. Great game and I'm really happy they pulled it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmadrigal
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Awsome graphics. Great game. I have always like the previous games. Add one more to the books. 
 Some who may not like the previous games should just rent it. I have the collection, so I reserved 
 it. Can't wait to get home to play iot again. As you will see in other reviews. first level is 
 fairly easy. Introductory if you may. But it helps those who are new and those who are rusty we 
 can get the hang of it in a few minutes. 
  
  Some glitches need t be worked on. For example as mentioned before, some scenes especially when 
 in combat with an enemy they sort of pause as you are in combat. Good featre now you can hide bodies.
 
  
  Final say again,
  
  I like these games so bought it, if ou are ot familiar rent it first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevibe
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  No doubt, walking through a rave is fun, but this guy needs his own city. I mean, walking around 
 is fun and all, but can you imagine a GTA style of hitman (no not hot coffee) with 47 roaming as 
 he pleases but unlocking buildings and stuff as the game progresses. well thats my idea. Game is 
 fine. Graphics are fine. Sound is fine. Overall, good
  
  I have found that the notoriety thing tobe a big pain in the arse, because i have spent so much 
 time trying to conceal my identity, everybody still knows who i am. B*** S*** Mother***** SOB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Ah, Hitman a great series of games. But by far this game takes the perverbial cake. Combined with 
 stunning visuals and gourgeous enviorments all you could hope for is to kill someone. This game 
 has brought a high level of detail to the Hitman series. New ways to get things done, more ways 
 to kill, a focus on stealth. Hitman Blood Money is all that anyone could hope for in a game and 
 this game defineatly delivers. But when you combine this great game with the awesome power of the 
 Xbox 360 you are bound to get a game that causes your eyes to melt from their sockets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callofdutycheat
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I love all the hitman series and have been supporting them for ages! I have got all the hitmans 
 in the series except blood money now, but this is a must have, I have downloaded the demo and the 
 gameplay is absolutely superb! This is the best game compared to all the other long and boring 
 games. This is the best because of all the options in it. For example you can go in guns blazing 
 or do it the stealthy way! I love stealth games but I love the hitman series the best!!! There 
 are all new game-play improvements for example you can push people out of windows, hide their bodys 
 in a dumpster and make some heavy objects drop on people and you can practically use anything as 
 a weapon!
  
  A must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Although a frequent critic of the past Hitman games, due to the lack of games for 360 (and the 
 advice of a friend) , i went out and bought this game. All in all, i am impressed for the most part.
 
  
  It's open-ended gameplay is surely its best feature, along with the cool weapons and spifey upgrades 
 for them.
  
  The plot isnt amazingly intriguing, but the levels i've seen are immersive and exciting. Although 
 for a next-gen game, it falls short in the graphics department (like many of the 360 titles) .
 
  
  The character AI isn't as good as it should be, and maybe they could have taken a few tips from 
 Oblivion as far as interaction with them goes, but it doesn't ruin the expierence.
  
  I think that it is a worthy purchase thus far, so check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_wutang
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is a very good game and the best danish game ever.
  Hitman Blood Money have the best controls ever.
  
  Hitman: Blood MOney is a very good game 
 and it can keep you playing a long time. 
  This game is so good and i love the hidden mission in the last mission.
  
  The Xbox 360 version 
 is the best with all the achievements you can get from completing the game on all the difficulty's.
 
  
  The Stealth mode in this game is much better then in the other games in this series. 
  
  And all the time you have waited for this game to arrive is all worth it this game is the best 
 hitman game to date.
  
  It is worth Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightright
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is simply the best Hitman game ever. It features the (reinstalled) blood money 
 system (which was originally in Hitman: Codename 47, but was removed in Hitman 2 and 3) .
  With Hitman now moving freely from the camera, you get to see your disguise in full show and see 
 47's face whenever you feel lonely.
  The crowd system and hand to hand combat system make this game so much more amusing than its frigid 
 predecessors.
  Weapons and equipment are upgradable and bodies are disposable, Hitman 4 is truly a feats to behold, 
 well worth the additional 10pounds over its XBOX and PS2 conterparts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Livewirez
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  The hitman series has never appealed to me really untill now, they were good to start with but 
 the hits were so linear and got boring after a while. Hitman 2 was the worst i've played and it 
 was that game that put me off the series but when Hitman: contracts came out i decided to give 
 it one last chance but only to be sadly dissapointed again. I think i was looking for more freedom 
 of choice in the ways to make the hit, bigger levels and storyline and that's exactly what blood 
 money delivers. I had promised to myself i would not buy another port for the x360 again but because 
 of the lack of new releases out this summer I gave in and decided to buy it out of boredom. Boy 
 was i surprised when I played it.
  
  This game is much better than it's predecessors because it's gameplay is so much more better and 
 graphics are good too, for a port. There is alot more freedom in choice in weapons and ways to 
 kill someone. The levels are alot bigger than previous hitman games, and the storyline was decent 
 enough to draw me in. One level that i really liked and really put a smile on my face was that 
 'death of the crows', there were hundreds if not thousands of people on screen at once in the crowd 
 and not one bit of lag. There are other levels like these that look great but there are some levels 
 that don't look as good as they could have done like the clinic level for example. It's as though 
 they have not worked as hard on these levels to touch them up as they have on others, but despite 
 this the great gameplay that's so easy to pick up on and use keeps you playing the game. This game 
 is more difficult than it's predecessors and enjoyable, if you like the first hitman and contracts 
 you'll like this, if you didn't like them then you'll still enjoy this game, if you have never 
 played a hitman game in your life then you'll definately like this. I would recomend this to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danhr
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money beats all the other hitman games by far. The stealth might be the same as most 
 of the other Hitman games, but you are not playing as Sam Fisher in Splinter Cell, you are a hitman 
 and you don't necessarily need to stealthfull all the time. There are several methods to successfully 
 complete your mission.
  
  Also, the new melee fighting makes the game alot more fun and more unique from the other Hitman 
 games. The graphics are also quite nice but you are playing it on the 360 though, so it could have 
 been better if you ask me.
  
  But I think it's worth the wait and it 's definetly the best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHOWTIME_SBR
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is one of the best additions to the Hitman series. I think it's better than 
 the other Hitman games and also performs best on the Xbox 360 if you have an HD supportable TV. 
 The graphics aren't the best but that doesn't matter, what matters is how good the gameplay is 
 and it's SUPERB. I hope there's more Hitman coming up like Hitman: 2D. Hitman: 2D is currently 
 a work under production by a website for Htiman fans, they currently are looking for an animator 
 and I think this will be another good addition to the Hitman series. Hopefulyl by 1007 there will 
 be a sequel to one of the Hitman games either, Codname 47, Silent Assasin, Contracts, Blood Money 
 or 2D. I really got into this gmae when I first tried out Hitman: Codename 47, I thought it kicked-@$$ 
 and it did and over the years it got even better, graphics, sounds, AI, realism but most of all 
 the gameplay. Now you have A LOT of variety of ways to get the job done. Once again, Blood Money 
 is the greates addition so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I love so many things about this series, Agent 47 is a great character, the devious scenarios are 
 packed with intrigue and tension, and you your host of deadly gadgets and abillities give you a 
 number of cool ways to approach every mission. 
  
  However, there are still too many serious flaws with this game for me to give it a glowing endorsment. 
 For a title thats requires precise stealth , pulling off basic actions is way too tricky. Also, 
 the laws of AI that govern the NPC's are extremely suspect. Sometimes, you can walk circles around 
 you target without raising their curiosity, other times, you will walk into a room and be instanly 
 targeted by the gaurds. 
  
  Also, like all the other titles in this series, you spend far too much time looking at the real-time 
 map, waitng for the right moment. So far I just dont see a huge leap in the series form the last 
 release.
  
  Definitely go out and RENT this one, I truly don't see it being worth the $60 and the replayablility 
 isn't there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  When I saw a Hitman game, I couldn't believe some one would sell this game, I didn't liked it, 
 but when I played Blood Money, my opinion changed, this game haves lots of replay value, because 
 everytime you play a mission again you can kill the dudes a different way! I all just depends on 
 how crazy and sadic you are.
  
  Also it haves great graphics, a good gameplay and also a good sound. This is a must have if you 
 own a 360, if you are new to the series, like me, if you like, rent it first, or buy it, but you 
 won't be disappointed, this game haves
  lots of things to offer, try it, you will enjoy it just like me ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Athrack
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Though Hitman2: Silent Assassin has always been pointed out as the pinnacle of the franchise so 
 far (and it propably was) , I have been a fan of all the games, actually. Certainly, some were better 
 than others, but still. 
  
  That said, I will try not to let that guide my hand here. The fact is that this game is great. 
 It is still a matter of how you play it, as many will be tempted to go in guns blazing and gun 
 down everyone in sight to complete your different objectives. I will strongly urge all of you to 
 play it as the creators intended, since this game, as its predecessors is about stealth, observation 
 and planning.
  
  Yes, this game demands a fair bit of patience from the player, and you will be handsomely rewarded, 
 as your employers will pay you more money if you do the job with little or no collateral damage, 
 and whether you were noticed by bystanders or not. This money can in turn be used to upgrade your 
 ever expanding arsenal with custom performance-enhancement.
  
  Another aspect of the game is the new notoriety function. The more times you are seen doing any 
 of your shadowy deeds, your notoriety increases, which can make your next missions harder, since 
 people might recognise you more easily.
  You can use your hard earned cash to make a number of bribes though, to decrease your notoriety 
 rating.
  
  On the technical side, the game plays pretty good (x360) , though Ive had some frustration with 
 the aiming at times. There is also a new contact-sensitive system which works great and helps you 
 to easily perform the various movements of Mr. 47. 
  
  Although the graphics certainly are not state of the art, I do not think the game suffers from 
 this at all, as it still evokes all the great mood and ambience weve come to expect from the Hitman 
 series. And in the now famous scenes with a LOT of people, the framerate stays consistent, and 
 it all looks really good. Animations are well done, though you sometimes could wish for some more 
 character models for the "extras" as they tend to look similar at times.
  
  The sound is great, the voice acting is good, and the music is even better in this game than in 
 the previous installments, which is saying a lot. It all just really sets the mood. I think you 
 will also enjoy the storyline, which is quite good.
  
  The AI is improved, but not perfect, and you will see the different guards and such do some strange 
 things at times, but all in all it works, and it works great.
  The game has a pretty good runtime. Think I took about 16 or 17 hours first time through (but then, 
 I like to take my time and plan out) and there is alot of replay value here, as you can take on 
 each mission in numerous ways, and try to optimize your results.
  
  If you are already a Hitman fan, just run out and buy it. If you like stealth games in general, 
 do the same. If you are more of a fan of actiongames or perhaps havent gotten around to Hitman 
 yet, it is still worth both your time and your money. At least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksoup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The Best Hitman game yet, worth the wait, So fun and mucho mucho replay value. You could play through 
 each level 6 times completely differently. But the upgrades really make the game: Take the Silverballers. 
 They could be the ultimate silenced weapon for the Quiet Assassin or the fully automatic, Mass 
 Murderer's tool, or even better mix them both! this goes for any of the 5 custom weapons: Silverballer 
 Pistols, M4 Rifle, Spas 12 Shotgun, Mp5 Smg and W2000 Sniper also the standard kit can be upgraded 
 such as longer range explosive detonator, pain pills and multiple bulletproof vests. But all the 
 other weapons you find on the missions unfortunately cannot be customised but they can be taken 
 with you at the beginning of any mission, as long as you had them when you finished a previous 
 level.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jknight15
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Those of you who have played any of the last Hitman games may have felt like something was missing 
 but couldnt quite put thier finger on it will be happy because the problem has been solved with 
 Hitman: Blood Money.
  
  There are a few new features such as the Blood Money System. This system rewards you after each 
 contract by how well the execution was done. The less evidence of foul play on the client and more 
 signs of an accident will give you more money to upgrade your weapons and lower your wanted rating. 
 However if you go in guns blazing, leaving bodys where ever you go and just use no precision what 
 so ever, people will recognise you on future contracts and just make the whole contract much harder 
 .
  
  Those including myself will probably get influenced to work harder to get the job done. If you 
 get caught, your more likely to restart the whole mission on the fact that you will want that money 
 and plus security is never far away to pop a few into you.
  
  Locations include a rehab clinic and a vine yard but your going to have to experience the game 
 yourself to see all the contract locations.
  
  In my opinion this is the best Hitman game and if you enjoyed any of the others then this game 
 will just blow you away, especially on the 360 with the graphics all suped up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 28, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  It's so grea to finally be able to kill whoever you like, in whatever manner you like and get paid 
 millions of pounds for it. My whole childhood has been leading up to this.
  
  Every kill is different, every level is original. You can poison people, strangle them, shoot them 
 or use and environmental hazard to destory them. It's completely up to you.
  
  The notorieority system is good, but somewhat ruined by how you can just reset it for a paltry 
 sum of money. Graphics are good, sound is fine.
  
  The main catch is the AI. This really really holds the game back. Apparently
  pushing a civilian 
 or climbing a drainpipe is punishable by death. The guards make no attempt to stop you unless they're 
 killing you. And then you can do something very very obvious and no-one will notice, like kill 
 someone, take thier clothes and walk away, and no-one will suspect the mean looking dude with a 
 barcode on his head.
  
  It's a very cool, trendy game with good ideas and twists on original formulas, but is held back 
 somewhat by the jumpy AI
  
  +Excellent variety and diversity
  +Some interesting twists on basic shooters
  
  -Apalling AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonrave
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I Have just downloaded the training demo for this off xbox live and from what i have been able 
 to play, i think this game is fantastic! easy to pick up on and very addictive. And all this just 
 from the short demo. Definately a must buy. Graphics also very detailed. not the best 360 can offer 
 though XD loving the way you can toss people off the egde of railings and the cheesey gangster 
 music the crack-heads are listening to LMAO! yo, yo, yo, mutha!
  
  One last thing, i must admit i was never a fan of the old games. But for anyone who is the same, 
 try this on for size and you will come to love agent 47 :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Hitman: Blood Money is simply the best Hitman game ever. It features the (reinstalled) blood money 
 system (which was originally in Hitman: Codename 47, but was removed in Hitman 2 and 3) .
  With Hitman now moving freely from the camera, you get to see your disguise in full show and see 
 47's face whenever you feel lonely.
  The crowd system and hand to hand combat system make this game so much more amusing than its frigid 
 predecessors.
  Weapons and equipment are upgradable and bodies are disposable, Hitman 4 is truly a feats to behold, 
 well worth the additional 10pounds over its XBOX and PS2 conterparts. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
