-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hour of Victory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/hourofvictory/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Thankfully, no one is forcing you to play this game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Entire game is full of bugs, ranging from clipping issues to full-on crashes.
 Ugly graphics make character faces look like hideous zombies.
 Easy, short levels do not give the game lasting value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 3.7, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 2.4, 2,555 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Nfusion
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hour of Victory is practically broken and has no business being on shelves in its current state. 
 

  With a generic name that sounds like it was pulled out of a hat full of "World War II" words, it's 
 easy to feel like Midway's Hour of Victory is nothing more than a shameless attempt to trick people 
 who already purchased Call of Duty or Medal of Honor games. But Hour of Victory utterly fails at 
 this attempt. On the disc lies a world where tanks clip through the ground, where the game randomly 
 decides to stop working, and where clubbing someone with the back-end of a rifle is far more effective 
 than actually firing it. Hour of Victory is broken in several spectacular ways; and no one, under 
 any circumstances, should play this game.  

           There are different guns to use, but the melee attack is by far the best way to go.   
    

  A scattershot story ties the action together, but you embark on multiple campaigns that seem to 
 jump from one part of the war to another, so it's hard to tell exactly when the game is supposed 
 to take place. The advertising for this game invites you to "fight the famous battles of WWII," 
 but you'd be hard-pressed to find one memorable or even historical battle here. At one moment, 
 you're helping a scientist escape from a castle, but in another, you're attempting to prevent German 
 soldiers from overloading a nuclear reactor and turning Berlin into some kind of radioactive disaster 
 zone. The game's impossible to follow.  

  You'll take on the role of three different troops, each with their own specialties. Before most 
 levels, you can choose to play as a sniper, a stealth guy, or an upfront fighter, and each has 
 his own unique abilities. The sniper can deploy a grappling hook in a few spots, while the stealth 
 guy can hide in shadows to become mostly invisible and pick locks. The commando can take more hits 
 before he dies, and he can also push a few heavy objects around. Due to the game's many problems, 
 the commando, being the most straightforward character of the bunch, is almost always the best 
 choice because the ability to soak up more damage before going down is more useful than the occasional 
 shortcut or high sniper spot you'll get with the other characters.  

  What else makes the commando the best choice? Well, all of the characters have melee attacks that 
 eliminate enemies with one hit, which makes getting up close and personal with the game's idiotic 
 enemies the fastest approach. The artificial intelligence is one of the many aspects of Hour of 
 Victory that just feels broken. Enemies will ignore you completely, or sometimes they'll activate, 
 fire a shot or two, and then stand there waiting for you to club them. Sometimes they'll just aimlessly 
 run around in circles, waiting to die. While there's some unintentional comedy to be found in the 
 enemy behavior, it's not enough to make the game worth playing. The game's levels are short, and 
 even though there aren't enough checkpoints, it's easy to cruise through the game in a few hours. 

           How does a game so broken end up appearing on store shelves? We may never know.      

 
  To accompany the nearly unplayable single-player mode, there's also a nearly unplayable multiplayer 
 mode that, in theory, allows up to 12 players to play three team-based modes. So far, the sparse 
 online population means we have yet to play a game with a room with more than six players. Team 
 deathmatch, capture the flag, and devastation are the three modes. Devastation is a bomb mode, 
 where players fight to control a bomb and use it to blow up five enemy targets. The player movement 
 in multiplayer feels skittish, and levels with drivable tanks are exceptionally broken because 
 the tank control is nearly unmanageable. On top of that, tanks seem to occasionally drive up walls 
 and get stuck at a diagonal angle. We also saw a tank get stuck in the ground, where it just sort 
 of continually vibrated. If you got up close to this shaky tank, you would fall over dead for no 
 good reason. The levels are designed with doors that are barely wide enough for your character 
 to get through, causing you to constantly get hung up on walls or edges and such. It's a mess. 

  If you toss in an array of sound bugs and extremely ugly graphics, you've got an absolutely terrible 
 game on your hands. It's sort of disgusting that Hour of Victory managed to make it through both 
 Midway's QA department and Microsoft's approval process because garbage like this belongs in the 
 gutter -- not on shelves.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (169 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paseko
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:03 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth your money; the entire game is full of bugs and on-screen game play issues. 
 It looks as though they left the graphics and artwork slip, into a deep ditch. A 2-year old is 
 probably behind the works of poorly animated and zombie like creatures who are meant to be soldiers.
 
  
  Midway has let me down by releasing such an unfinished and downgraded version of Call of Duty. 
 The game must have taken 2-3 months to complete, by a team of moppets who are robbing people of 
 their money if they ever make any sales. The game is a clear example of what not to do when trying 
 to release a FPS.
  
  The game has poor sound effects and bad graphics, it also lacks any depth to the game. I'm still 
 not entirely sure what the blue bar is you'll find bottom left of the screen in the interface. 
 The interface itself looks very unique, in a bad way - it makes you feel as though you are testing 
 a PS2 game in 1998 or even a PS1 game!
  
  The background music trumpets away as if you were in a ghastly horror film, it doesn't stop either. 
 There is a soundtrack constantly playing in the background with shots fired, people screaming and 
 planes soaring overhead. This sounds appealing, yet the noise does not apply to the scene whatsoever; 
 the sound you hear is almost always completely insignificant to the place you're in.
  
  Moreover, the voice playing which is meant to be you is played in a terrible accent and far too 
 loudly. The idea of this game being a clone of Call of Duty or Medal of Honor is justified when 
 taking a glimpse at it. It looks like a PS2 game. Full stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  and now i'm too embarrassed to return it for a $5 trade in. ouch. this game worked badly. clunky 
 controls, glitches. no fun at all. it made fighting World War 2 into a chore, when we all know 
 it was good times. (kidding) . 
  
  to summarize: it feels like i met Nfusion at a party. thought they were my friends. got drunk and 
 woke up to find they'd stolen my wallet and pants.
  
  
  i really don't have anything nice to say about this game so here are a whole bunch more words to 
 bulk up my review. nope, still nothing. play MOH: Airborne or COD WAW or Hell's highway or something... 
 ok, so here's something: Hour of Victory is better than Marvel Alliance. got that one for free. 
 spent 20 quality minutes scoping out one of the most disfunctional games ever. so there you go, 
 Hour of Victory. you're better than that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bone_Eater
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 24, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you want to wast 1 to at least a single minute go a head but let's say i tried to warn you! 
 this game is like Turning point but even worse! I think the graphics are extremely horrible and 
 don't get me started on the game play. You have to choose 3 people for one campaign to play as 
 an American, British guy, and a Russian dude i believe. Hours to victory makes That cheesy game 
 Turing point better then all war games NOT but if it did hell would freeze over. Please people 
 if want to waste 1 second on this horrible game from hell go ahead. My ratting for this game would 
 be 1.0 for a lot of reasons and please don't comment and say why because ill cry from all the bad 
 horrifying memories of me playing that game. If hell were to freeze over it bring Hours to victory 
 2 to the world and make it so bad a noob from every game would be good at it. But thank god there 
 won't be and not for a millions wait what am i syaing NEVER! If i saw Hours of victory 2 i swear 
 ill start playing games made from phillops like hotel mario then that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is easily the xbox 360's worst game. Yes, worse the Bomberman: Act Zero and Sonic 
 the Hedgehog. This game shouldn't be picked up, rented or even played.
  
  First off almost everything about Hour of Victory tries to rip off Call of Duty 3 and Medal of 
 Honor Airborne. However Hour of Victory fails at any attempt of trying to copy these games. The 
 storyline is boring and forgettable so really there's no point in even mentioning it, the AI is 
 laughable stupid I'm serious, its actually one of the aspects of the game that is fun to mess around 
 with, the AI will sometimes just run around in circles aimlessly and ignore you for some reason. 
 But the gameplay mechanics are TERRIBLE!! First off the controls are awful, they feel stiff and 
 even though it uses the Medal of Honor sprint system and the Call of Duty 3 aiming system, the 
 controls feel flat out broken. You can pick between a Snipe, spy or commando before every mission 
 but you might as well always pick a commando because there really is hardly any difference between 
 which guy you pick apart from the commando can take more hits before dieing. There are a lot of 
 guns to choose from but there's no point in even firing a round because its much more easier to 
 just melee everyone, because of how ridiculously dumb the AI is they usually stand in open areas 
 in the middle of the battlefield aiming there gun at you doing nothing were as you can just quickly 
 sprint up to everyone and melee. The hit detection is also broken because you will witness some 
 silly things in Hour of Victory. Sometimes It will take a full clip from a machine gun to put down 
 from close range and sometimes you can shoot someone from 50 yards away with a pistol and kill 
 them, you can destroy tanks with a hand grenade but not with 3 shots from a bazooka. Its just STUPID.
 
  
  Multilayer is also broken. Seriously if you wanna play a game online this is a game to avoid, it 
 as generic online game types and there is nothing special about any of them. Not to mention that 
 most of the time everyone is glitching the game like crazy making it unplayable. Speaking of glitches 
 this game as plenty of them, there are loads of clipping problems like tanks falling through the 
 ground, ive witness some inhumane glitches like once i sore a tank do a back flip off another one. 
 Ive seen troops floating in the air and loads more. Not to mention that occasionally tanks can 
 drive up walls and off the map.
  
  The presentation doesn't fair much better. The graphics are horrible. It looks like a PS2 game 
 and voice acting is pretty bad with bad dialogue as well. The audio is generic but dull and repeats 
 a lot. 
  
  Well anyway Hour of Victory should be avoided by everyone, this is one of the worst games ive ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - This might help you to choose twice before playing a game
  
  Negative
  - Unstable frame rate
  - Hideous graphics
  - Misplaced music
  - Confusing story
  - Non-existence 
 level of challenge
  - AI is poor
  - Broken, and sometimes frustrating
  
  I just rented Battle for the Pacific and wrote the review just before. Both are bad. I can just 
 re-write the review I wrote before 'cos the 2 games are just as bad. Still I preferred more this 
 than Battle for the Pacific. Still it's a terribly bad game and not worth checking out. 
  
  There are tons of shortcomings in the game and in understandable things in Hour of Victory. Story 
 is almost impossible to follow, at least HOV has a story unlike HC: BFTP. Still it's bad and awful 
 is the best way to describe it. Frame rate is incredibly unstable and the game is too buggy and 
 sometimes unplayable. Enemies AI are idiotic and erratic somehow. You might shoot an enemy and 
 he won't even notice you. Graphics are extremely dated. Music is misplaced or missed in some spots. 
 The game is short about 5 hours to complete. 5 hours? This is embarrassing. The game is far too 
 easy and can be beaten effort less. Sound effects are horrible and the game is very repetitive 
 and you might get the feeling that the creators started the game and stopped creating this game. 
 
  
  Sometimes you get the feeling that creators create these games as a joke, a cruel one. Once again 
 I'm lucky 'cos I just rented it. I'm not a big fan of war game or shooters, but a lot will say 
 no to Hour of Victory. It's incredibly when you think that a game like this can be even put on 
 shelves to be sold to people. Good things there are people who give there opinions on game and 
 our opinion on Hour of Victory is that this game is terrible and should be left alone, same with 
 Battle for the Pacific. Think well before even renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory sounded like a very fun game but it turned out it was a very bad game! It just 
 doesn't feel right compared to other first person shooters. Some people might like it!
  
  The Good:
  
  - Okay story.
  - Pick from one of three characters with different powers.
 
  - Some vehicles.
  - Tanks can blow up buildings.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Graphics aren't too great.
  - Feels wrong compared to other first person shooters.
  - Gets 
 very boring really early in the game.
  - Might lag a little bit for you.
  
  All in all, this game isn't great at all. It would be better if it had better graphics and if it 
 felt like Call of Duty or something. When the price drops a lot, maybe go buy it. If you want to 
 see if you like it, download the demo of Hour of Victory on the Xbox Live Arcade. Then again, you 
 might actually like this game but this is just my opinion. But I can't really see a hardcore gamer 
 liking this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Terrible... 
  
  This is extremely easy. If you go thru on Hardest or whatever it supposedly is, you can walk around 
 and just bash the Germans faces in. The weapons do not look realistic. The Kerak 98K is like a 
 musket, and the Springfields scope is like a spaghetti noodle that is bulging on two ends. Your 
 charcter choice is sooooooo lame. Their voices, are the equivalent to some cheap budget movie voice 
 acting. Taggert is soo lame. His Sten has like 1 clip. The bullets are like bbs, you have to load 
 the Krauts with TONS of bullets.
  Bull is even worse. His springfield is like a BB gun. he shoots like an ape. and he looks like 
 he took the biggest poop in his pants. When your enemys fall, their spines and backs should have 
 spilt, and been snapped. because they do backflips. if you kill a crouching enemy, the pop up when 
 they die.
  Seriously, DO NO BUY THIS! Im in the clear, I rented it!
  
  There is 1 good thing. NO ONE HAS A GUN TO YOUR HEA AND IS SAYING PLAY TH FRIGGIN THING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  hour of victory????? you gotta to be kiding me hour of victory now i got something to tell you 
 this did you know this was the very first game i hade on xbox 360 ever i hope your shocked well 
 i cant say that the gameplay is very disapointing game from midway now i thought that this one 
 was ok i meant they tried there best to make this game i meant it does anyone care about this godawful 
 game i thought it was ok i played the recent call of duty 4 now that was ah great game but this 
 one of those games that makes want to slap your self upside the head now plot in this game you 
 play as three characthers ross bull and taggert well ross is the more like the brawns like guy 
 can push objects and even be imune to attacks in battle bull is the sniper that can jump and even 
 climb ladders and taggert can hide in shadows and is the stealth guy and can also pick lock doors 
 this one of those games that stink now the plot is them trying to take out i dont what the plot 
 is im stuck in like this level were you drive ah tank tanks are cool but not in this game the controls 
 are horribley awful thanks to the terrible tank controls to make things worse theres the graphics 
 in the game they try to be realistic but there not so good they look like zombies you know brains 
 brians brians ok ok you get and to make things worse the missions arent there often repetitive 
 and not fun at all.... ughh i cant beleive that midway made ah crappy game based on war well to 
 make things worse the graphics are horrible now if you like war games your goanna hate hour of 
 victory its short not fun and some of the worst stories to ever be made your better off having 
 your grandpa tell you stories.
  
  overall i give this game.
  
  6.0 out of 10.
  
  The Good: some decent ok gameplay.
  
  The Bad: awful story with lousy graphics and enemies 
 you wont care about long terrible tank controls and the awfuly terribly anoyying missions there 
 not fun your better off playing medal of honor or any of those games out there.
  
  The Ugly: the a. i. is not very good its too short with only 4 levels so lame and never buy this 
 game i REPEAT NEVER BUY THIS GAME BUY GOOD WAR GAMES BUT NOT THIS ONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeperMessiah44
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say, I'm not a fan of WWII First-Person-Shooters. Call of Duty is enough 
 for me. But of WWII shooters, this is the worst. Hour of Victory is uninspiring, poorly-made, unchallenging, 
 and an overall pathetic attempt at join the trend of add another title to the already extensive 
 WWII video game franchise. This game has, poor AI, poor dialogue, mediocre gameplay, and a setting 
 that unfortunately milked it's self dry. It's not quite as bad as everybody says, but that's not 
 saying much. The only reason you should play this game is if you are an achievement whore. If you 
 are an advent WWII shooter collector, I would wait until this game hit the $10 mark in the used 
 section at Gamestop. Just, stick with Call of Duty, and prey that there will never be an Hour of 
 Victory 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopdroproll001
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Payday. My favorite day, it only comes once every two weeks. I pick up my somewhat meager paycheck 
 from the local KFC, expecting my usual 290.24. I am shocked by 314 dollars. I almost cried, a small 
 victory. Feeling on top of the world, I went to my local Hastings store (for those that don't know 
 Hastings is a close approximation of Heaven) .
  
  A new employee, smelling of cheap perfume. Short and portly, I meekly request to look in the case 
 of XBOX 360 games. She loudly grabs her keys off the counter and utters a small "what game chu 
 wanna lookat?". A little taken aback by her accent, I request a new World War II FPS. Hour of Victory.
 
  
  I eagerly scan the back of the package, and as a World War II aficionado, all I can think of between 
 fits of over-salivating is "I must play this game."
  
  With some Russian language books I speedwalk towards the checkout, wanting nothing more than to 
 tear into this game and enjoy the fruits of my chicken-fried labors. The car ride home was the 
 longest.
  
  Home. After spending 15 minutes looking for the remote, I pop this into my console, and right away 
 somethings amiss.
  
  I could've cried Gamespot, I honestly could have. Right from the start the intro videos freeze 
 and jolt. The main menu screen, showcasing snowfall, has an incredibly poor framerate, as the snow 
 jolts and jiggles to the ground. It is a close approximation of what to expect from this game.
 
  
  The opening cutscene was somewhat promising, however. Outlining the story and such. And then the 
 mission starts. You know how people say "better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to 
 open your mouth and remove all doubt?" The same is true for this game.
  
  Gameplay is incredibly repetitive. The button layout is also incredibly poor and hard to get the 
 hold of. My eyes became heavy as I battled through some North African town, poor sound effects 
 and ps2-worthy graphics. One shot anywhere on an enemy instantly drops him, and you don't even 
 have to be aiming at him. All guns do the same amount of damage and a Thompson is inaccurate unless 
 you're 3 feet away from an enemy. Same goes for any automatic weapon.
  
  After close to 15 minutes, I dug out my receipt and plan on returning to Hastings. As of this moment, 
 I am waiting for a ride to take me back to Hastings to hopefully exchange this 60 dollar nightmare 
 in for Vikings: Battle for Asgard or one of the Guitar Hero's.
  
  It made me want to cry, my fellow gamers. It really did. My hard earned money, wasted on this polished 
 turd. Don't believe a word on the packaging. It is not innovative. It is not fun. It can not even 
 be called a game. The only thing keeping me from clamping it into my target stand and letting loose 
 with a 20 gauge is that Hastings allows me to exchange it.
  
  Boo Midway. Boo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- the only reason i gave this game a 5 is because of the guns, the atmosphere, and the settings 
 but other than all of that the game is pretty much crap!!!!!!!!! but no offence to the makers they 
 seem like really nice guys but really bad game makers lets hope the pc version is much better.
 
  
  BAD- The bad things about this game is that its full of bugs that take most fun out of the game, 
 and the graphics are good but when you look at someones face you yell AAAAAAAAAAAA zombie!!!!! 
 also the graphics are really bad when you look off into the distance, oh and jerries can blow up 
 tanks with  and also the germans they will hit you and they wont 
 even be aiming at you they will aim at there partners and hit you!!!!!!!!!!! and that is all the 
 crapy stuff about this once again makers please make the pc version better i beg You!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 this has been another one of my reviews so thanks for reading!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, Hour of Misery, uh, victory, sorry. It was sort of a surprise for me, i didn't see any commercials 
 for it or anything, However I thought it may be a pretty innovative and well done shooter that 
 came out of nowhere, ya know the kind. I WAS WRONG, It has cheap characters, horrendous storyline, 
 complete inaccuracy all around the spectrum, terrible, sounds, Horrid voice acting, tragically 
 pathetic A. I, (brain-dead) , the A. I has perfect aim, you literally get shredded by enemy fire and 
 often don't even know it, because of the terrible sound, It is so bad that the A. I look like they 
 have faces that are something made of wood or concrete, on the "Castle Festenburg" level, as you 
 first start to ascend the ski-lift, the first two Germans actually look like their faces are..... 
 GOLDEN, seriously, it scared me pretty good. however if you do happen to catch an enemy draining 
 your health, (just listen to a faint woodpecker sound, that's them shredding your flesh) , you can 
 attempt to shoot back, although suppressing fire and flanking does not exist in this game, it's 
 pretty much run&gun, and act like an invincible superhero. The weapons have horrid sounds, and 
 terrible recoil, but surprisingly pretty good skins and avatars. they have terrible aiming due 
 to the games unbelievably sticky controls, it's so bad that it's a challenge to even point the 
 weapon at an enemy. No Realism or research was done AT ALL, The music on the main menu was actually 
 pretty nice, but you cant turn it off, and it gets VERY annoying in-game, it is almost to the point 
 to drive you insane, like psychological torture, it keeps repeating itself over and over and over 
 and over, like a broken record player, except there is no way to turn it off, it will eventually 
 get so bad you start to hear it in your sleep and start to have nightmares about 12 foot clowns 
 in your room about to kill you with the music in the background. it has no historical significance 
 and is an all round broken game that should not have even made it out of the development building, 
 let alone, into our game collections, it's more of a plague than a WW2 shooter.
  The "Story" is completely fictional, and the characters are nowhere near believable. You will, 
 like I did, only get to the command post in the center of town on the first level and say, "This 
 PIECE OF CRAP!!. 
  
  
  DO NOT BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 1
Date: May 13, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok there is nothing good about this game. Where to start off. Ok you can get 1 of 3 charecters 
 which really doesent matter because you will drop any gun you get because you run out of bullets 
 fast. You can be a sniper, solder (regular) , and special opp. So I get what the designers where 
 going for and that game would be good but they faild so so bad. on one mission your sopposed to 
 assainate some guy but when you get to the location everyone is shooting at you from every where 
 and all you can do is get down. When somebody is shooting at you its sometimes easy to tell where 
 the are because the bullet moves in slow mo wll not exactly but not really fast like it is soupposed 
 to. You can run through the game for real tthere is a sprint button and youi can just run throuht 
 the level the enemy will be shoothing at you but what do you care you can heal so so fast that 
 it doesent matter any more. When your shooting out of a window the enemy can come through the door 
 you wont even know because when a lot of people are shooting at you there are lines on the screen 
 pointing everywhere. Ok before i tell you my review i will tell you the only 1 thing good about 
 this game nothing it is repetitive and after an hour of playing you wanna through up.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  So i give this game a 1.0 and the other thing bad for me 
 personally I bought it new and could not return it to game stop waste of 20 bucks it would have 
 benn better to through it out. So if you want to get the game go head get it but my advice is not 
 to event think about it or buy it used and see what i am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Quej
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  I would be embarrased to be associated with the company who released this game. This is by far 
 one of the worst games I have ever seen on the 360. I recently downloaded the original DOOM on 
 Xbox live and I would rate that higher on everything from game play to graphics.
  
  Hour of Victory would be more suited as a GBA game. The graphics are laughable in this day and 
 age, the movement is slow and frustratingly draggy. You feel like you are running and turning in 
 quicksand. On top of this, the in game physics are disgraceful. You can shoot someone with a pistol 
 from 30 yards away and watch their body leap forwards into the air like they have just stepped 
 on a land mine. I think they must have used Bill and Ben for thie motion capture because thats 
 what it looks and feels like.
  
  This game is not even worth wasting the money on even when it is available in the bargain buckets. 
 I only gave it a 1/10 because it would not let me give it 0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgh93_29
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok....... I about covered it in the title. Abysmal AI makes it all but impossible to be killed, 
 gameplay is boring and.... bad. The only thing good about this game is it is over quickly and apparently 
 the achievement system is in your favor. If you like laughing at other peoples expense and wasting 
 money this game is for you. Melee for some reason kills enemies in one hit. The story makes no 
 sense whatsoever and seems like a very very bad mixture of call of duty 2: big red one and medal 
 of honor airborne. The gunfire doesn't always make a sound. You can't kill a tank with another 
 tank but you can kill it with a grenade anywhere in the tanks vicinity. Tanks at points tend to 
 randomly apparate in different spots of the map. As soon as you get in a tank all enemies magically 
 have panserschrecks. If I was going to tell you all of the bad things about this game this would 
 be way to long so I will just tell you if you buy it keep a gun handy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master-dude
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:   how do you describe this game when there are so freakin many 
 of them? a piece of crap? an utter mistake? something really, really profane? so hard to choose. 
 if I could give it a 0 rather than a 1, i would. if everything has a purpose, this is the horrible, 
 horrible exception. and if i were more creative, i would come up with a lot more negative things 
 to say about it. but i have better things to do than spend time even thinking about this disastrous 
 piece of horse crap anyway. so, im gonna get this over with as fast as I  
 DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT !!! DONT 
 BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT !!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!! DONT BUY IT!!!
  
  
  now, I hope that the message of DONT BUY IT!!! is totally burned into your mind so that you NEVER 
 BUY IT!!! have a nice hour of victory- free life. now dont do drugs, or you might decide to play 
 it when you're high and cant control yourself. so dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themadddog54
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Oh do i need to say more! Its terrible! If any game can get worser then this, this game sucks! The 
 graphics are bad, the gameplay is just terrible, and the value is not worth it. It is also very 
 short. Its a basic CoD rip-off and wannabe. If you see this game on the shelves or something, avoid 
 it. The Enemies are just waiting to kill you. They may hit you, but then they just stand there waiting 
 to die. The allies sometimes may also do nothing and there lazy. The controls may be a little akward, 
 and Its just plain terrible. You will also achive Achivments very quick and it is called "The Worst 
 game of all TIme" by most gamers. In Fact, it was even nominated for The 2007 Worst Games of all 
 time! If your looking for a good shooter, then get Call of Duty 2 or Call of Duty 3 or the new CoD 
 4. Now thats good fun. Avoid this game at all Costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  do yourself a favour and go and buy this game it is well worth it and will bring HE a solid HA 
 exp.... HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA ohh i couldnt write that with a straight i was joking about that sentence 
 really im dead serious dont even hire or buy this game dont even look at the cover just play call 
 of duty 2 or medal of honour or brothers in arms world war 2 games that are acctualy really decent 
 and offer a unique experience i feel sorry for anyone who had to play this game espaically game 
 critics you have it bad when a **** game comes out.
  ive never played this game but from reading other reviews and looking at screenshots this game 
 looks like it was made by a bunch of monkies, a retard could make a way better game (no disrespect) 
 just Burn it or feed it to your dog hell dont even do that your pets shouldnt even go through the 
 misery of this game just burn it yeah burn it.
  
  BURN
  BURN
  BURN
  BURN IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  youll thank me later
  now if you dont mind i should 
 be getting back to COD 4 i think ill just stick to the good games alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion383
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Holy hell. I rented this game and thought "Hey lets give it a shot it just came out". I put it 
 in and i dident expect a character select screen. First person shooters shouldent have selectable 
 characters. Plus most of there abilities are retarted. Especialy the coward who avoids battle by 
 picking locks and hiding. The enemys are worse. They would mostly just stand there and recieve there 
 avoidable fate. Few made the attempt to duck for cover when I was coming. There cover skills are 
 horrible. Usualy you wana avoid the bullets coming in one direction. So youd move behind something 
 away from there path of flight. But theses guys would just duck right in front of you. There were 
 so many glitches to. Id get stuck, killed randomly and texture glitches would appear to. Never buy 
 this game unless its price tag is under 1$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Holy **** i cant believe i bought this game. I got it when it came out and i personally thought 
 it would be a great game (maybe a new cod) but no. the game sucked nuts, the faces looked like 
 zombies talking too ya and the bugs and just poor grahpics. some of this stuff is real annoying 
 like when on the level barbarians at the gate the guy at the building just kept on sayingkmon 
 lad, kmon over here, kmon lad... shut the fuk up i heard ya. i didnt even bother to get back on 
 this game. its so bad and wheres the sound? is that i peashooter oh nope thats a thompson, some 
 real $. h. i. t. y sounds i mean anybody could make better sounds than that. this game was made of 
 piss poor companies doing a piss poor job at its best and really think they should make a award 
 for the worst game of the year because of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Hour of victory has many good points, but unfortunately this is not enough to save it from the 
 terrible AI gameplay and horribly designed levels. this game when you look at in on the box looks 
 really good but the gameplay between characters is hardly interesting as you can take a sneaky 
 violent and the sniper way between three different people but there is hardly a difference except 
 for their weaponry and one can be stealthy and one can be fast and powerful while on sits at the 
 back with one of the worst sniper systems to date.
  Overall i am not saying this game doesnt have potential its just let down by so many things and 
 even more starteling is that it uses the unreal engine! Lets just hope the pc version has some 
 major changes with the AI, Levels and the power of some guns and most importantly the ragdoll physics 
 as i shot one man with a rifle and he flopped all over the place like a piece of jelly but the 
 point is avoid this game like the plague whatever you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Now you don't even need to play this game to know how bad it is. I'll tell you, this game is just 
 a cheap way of tricking people that it's "ZOMG! ANOTHER FRICKIN COOL WORLD WAR II SHOOTER!" Now 
 you shouldn't even consider playing this game, why? simple, it is basically a game that has every 
 single bug you can possibly think of and, MORE. but even if other shooters have bugs, they are 
 minor, and don't cause problems. This has so much bugs that It's better to watch grass grow. If 
 you're bored during the holidays, go watch the grass grow. It's MUCH more fun than playing this 
 "game".
  
  So i was testing out the 360 at a shop, and saw this game. I saw Jeff's review on this game and 
 wanted to know what's so bad. So i asked the shopkeeper whether I can test it out, he said OK so 
 I tried it, and thank god I didn't pay a single cent for this game. After only 15 minutes, I stopped 
 and now I'm here to tell you all about this game.
  
  This game? why did I gave it 1.5? first of all, I could give it a zero but gamespot ratings doesn't 
 have that number, I gave it a 0.5 more because the only redeeming quality is that the developers 
 made an effort to make such a bad game. 
  
  The graphics are totally in the 90s, those are freaking PS2 graphics! This is the 360! Actually, 
 there are a bunch of PS2 games with WAY better graphics than this.
  
  The AI is so dumb it's not funny. They will just stand there waiting to be killed. They might try 
 to hide, but all they will really do is have their left leg in safety while the rest of their body 
 exposed. After firing 3 or 4 shots, they simply stand there, and now you can take your time to 
 examine them, as you melee them to death. The AI is so dumb that you can never die! Even if you 
 try! because they will shoot 3 times, all will likely miss, and they will just stand there.
  
  This is definitely the best birthday present for someone you hate most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Okay, the reviews of popular magazines and websites are what usually makes or breaks a game, and 
 I believe that Hour of Victory received an unfair advantage here. 
  
  First, it's a WWII game that is not, and so should not be compared to the Medal of Honor, and Call 
 of Duty series. And second, this game is not about being in an infantry of soldiers; it's all about 
 playing your part as one of three elite fighters consisting of a Sniper, Stealth dude, and a straight 
 on up-in-your-face Gunner. I'm sure that if other reviewers played this game with this mindset, 
 then the score would have been a lot higher. 
  
  The one thing that makes Hour of Victory stand out above all other WWII shooters is the sheer aggressiveness 
 of the Nazi soldiers. I have played all the other games and none of them as an enemy this tenacious 
 and deadly! They will keep coming at you, and you will feel like a rat trapped in a cage with the 
 only way out is to shoot for your life. 
  
  Want to see realistic weapon fire and recoil action? Then play this game. As a military specialist, 
 I have used every weapon you can imagine, and none of the other games (except COD4 of course) in 
 this genre comes even close to the realistic gun play found in Hour of Victory.
  
  The graphics are done with a different game engine than the Call of Duty series and so the results 
 are realistic animations, that really kicks up the action a few nudges. And the sound and music 
 are appropriate enough to draw you in. 
  
  All-in-all, Hour of Victory is a great game that does not deserve the harsh reviews it has received. 
 Also, its new lowered price tag makes this a classic not to be ignored.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is just terrible! Firstly, the enemies AIs are the stupidest, most predictable things 
 you will ever fight. Secondly, you can kill the enemies without aiming at them because, half the 
 time the bullets bounce off the wall; the melee attack is the only good offense for this game. 
 You can destroy tanks with regular puny frag grenades, and landscape spawns out of nowhere! Also, 
 it is almost impossible to die and one might say, that is probably the only fun thing to do in 
 this game. It's also a rip-off of your money too. Don't bother playing it because the only good 
 element in this shooter is the sound track and that's it! A 3-year old could play this game blindfolded 
 which is why the difficulty for this crappy FPS is very easy. Finally, the story line doesn't even 
 add up and half of the time the friendly AIs are just randomly speaking out of nowhere in the battle 
 field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  I don't know how this game made it's way to the x360 well anyway in short this game just plain 
 sucks the reasons are simple.
  
  reason 1 the graphics are crap and they using the unreal 3 engine and this could be so much better 
 but the only good bit about the game is the motion blur besides from that the game has graphics 
 that would make you dive for cover.
  
  
  Reason 2 the ai is as dumb as a rock at least they know how to shoot you but that is all they do 
 they don't take cover they don't flank hell when they do take cover it is often the time you can 
 shoot them easy compleaty brain dead.
  
  The final reason well you can play as three different roles in the game one guy ross can withstand 
 a hell of a lot of bullets and then there is bull the sniper and finally taggert stealth attack 
 pick locks and thats it nothing more it is like every role it like playing the same person only 
 differnt paths to choose that sucks.
  
  in short the game is just a bloody rip off this game lost the war to call of duty 2 and medal of 
 airbourne wave the right flag. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Well let me start this out saying, this game is totally Underrated. Granted it is a bit buggy, 
 the Audio is crappy, & There is sometimes you get glitched in certain areas. It's over all not 
 that bad.
  
  I'll start with OFFLINE, then proceed to ONLINE.
  
  OFFLINE:
  
  The game is fun at first, some levels are a Breeze. I find that Taggert & Ross are the better two 
 for most of the Campaign's missions. Then comes the TANK missions which are a little more confusing, 
 especially MAELSTROM. I find that to be the most difficult level with a Tank, thus far.
  
  I have not beat the game, but now i will direct the rest of my Review to Online.
  
  ONLINE:
 
  
  This portion of the game i find to be Fun, theres a total of 7 or 8 maps i believe? Maybe more...
 
  
  I find that the blur is a little more realistic in a sense that if you're 20 yards away, the blur 
 is much greater, except when you zoom in on your weapon scopes. Then stuff begins to get much more 
 clearer. 
  
  The bad part about online, that i noticed Yesterday, is that when i was sniping in one of the Corner's 
 on top of the broken buildings in the Trenches level. I could get out, i was stuck there. This 
 also happened to me in RSV. Where i was stuck in a tunnel. It was prolly due to lag issues. Anyway, 
 it only happened one time. So I'm not complaining. It is really, really, fun though. I played some 
 people who were in their 20's that also enjoyed it.
  
  I think if your coming from games like CoD, GoW, MoH, You prolly will be disappointed. 
  
  
 But if you're a WAR GEEK, like me who feeds off these games. It might be fun for you.
  
  All in all, outside of the Minor stuff i talked about, i really am enjoying the game.
  
  The 
 achievements are also easy to get. I find that to be a big part of the reason gamers will want 
 to play this.
  
  If you want to purchase HoV it's $20.00 at a local Gamestop, or EBGames. 
  
  But yea, defiantly 
 check it out. Don't believe all the hate, till you at least played the FULL GAME, yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaver1991
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  One of the first notable things about Hour of Victory is the visuals, and not in a good way. While 
 they are mostly bland, they are rendered with Unreal Engine 3.0. So you can expect impressive explosions 
 and very smooth surfaces - maybe too smooth. Even rock and sand are polished with shoe-shine smoothness. 
 Furthermore, though character models are fine, their movements are amazingly stiff and their eyes 
 are completely dead.
  
  Marching across Europe and North Africa, players have the option to play as one of three soldiers 
 who each possess specific skills. You can infiltrate, snipe, perform silent kills with Major Taggert; 
 climb conveniently placed ropes with Sergeant Blackbull; or go in guns blazing with Lieutenant 
 Ross. The ad copy will have you believe that these three separate characters lend to three separate 
 experiences. Wrong!
  
  Each level begins and ends pretty much the same despite which soldier you select, apart from several 
 short alternate routes. For instance, while Ross walks up the street laying waste to everyone; 
 Taggert can pick the lock on a suspiciously glowing door, sneak around the fracas, and reappear 
 on the same road a few doors down.
  
  Sgt. Blackbull's path is usually the high ground, but it's not much different than the same path 
 as the other two. Worse yet, he can't even carry his own rope. You have to keep an eye out for 
 unlikely ropes, strategically placed around the battlefield. Seeing all the alternate routes and 
 knowing they all lead to the same place just a short distance later destroys any replay value this 
 gimmick may have had.
  
  But really, what's the point? Splitting abilities between three soldiers leaves each one hamstringed 
 for no reason I can figure out.
  
  Each of the three soldiers can carry just two guns and a grenade, so why can't one guy do everything? 
 It's not like they're deciphering enemy codes or flying airplanes. In fact, the game features tanks 
 that all three can operate. So they all received tank training but only one knows how to climb 
 a rope, and he's not even skilled enough to bring his own? Moreover, if the rope is already there, 
 tethered and all, why can't the other guys climb it? Are they allergic to rope?
  
  I wouldn't be surprised if this game began with the idea of one playable soldier across the single-player 
 campaign. It seems someone had a "cunning plan", hoping to add phantom replay ability and the illusion 
 of complexity by dividing up that one soldier's abilities into -- and I quote -- "Three unique POVs".
 
  
  Now, this wouldn't be such a problem if battles were intense and required lots of strategy, but 
 sadly, the enemy AI is about as dense as the game design. Sure, enemies duck for cover and fire 
 while hiding behind objects. But they always come out and not always for you. Often, it seems they 
 come into view just so you can get a better shot at them. Why else would a hateful Nazi come from 
 behind his safe cover with his gun lowered and just stand there?! 
  
  Also, the game's bark is much worse than its bite. The sounds of war are all around you - too bad 
 the war isn't. Sure, firefights can be frenzied and tense at times, and sprinting causes the screen 
 to jerk and sway providing the frenetic experience the game lacks. But enemies are few, and after 
 they're dispatched, you'll spend a good deal of time just trying to figure out which way to go.
 
  
  However, this is an exercise in the inevitable, because Hour of Victory is a brutally linear affair. 
 
  
  Online play yields little redemption. The multiplayer was nearly impossible to test as I found 
 no other players to get a game going. To its credit, you can play Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, 
 and Devastation, where each team must destroy a series of bombs before the other. Sounds interesting, 
 but apparently not that much, since no one is playing it.
  
  Hour of Victory is seven hours of virtual failure. The end result is empty, hollow, and more like 
 a free demo download than a solid retail seller. Appearing as a no-cost or even a five-dollar download 
 would've saved Midway much money and much scathing from game editors. Dismissed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Hour of VIctory is a horrible game. I have played many WW2 games but this is the worst i have ever 
 played. I think the orginal medal of honor game is better. The real only good things are weapon 
 models and the soundtrack. That is it. The game is full of flaws. First off AI is really bad. The 
 enemy will stand in the middle of the fight zone and just stand not shoot. They also go into cover, 
 come back out and repeat over and over again. You can shoot and kill Nazis through cover/walls 
 and they can do the same to you too. You can kill any enemy in one shot including tanks. If you 
 shoot a Nazi anywhere they automactilly die. Levels are short and very easy. Even the hardest level 
 of difficulty is easy. Sound isnt that good and grahpics arent. Controls suck all around. Aiming 
 is the hardest espically for the sniper rifle. There is a online multiplayer feature which still 
 isnt good. I really dont recommend buying or playing this game. It is not worth the $30 you can 
 buy it for. It should be for the first Playstaion or original XBOX. So dont buy this. If you have 
 it, destory it. ITS THE WORST WW2 FPS GAME EVER!!!!!!!!!! \,,/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  With Hour of Victory, Midway and N-fusion had a vision. What that vision was we will never know, 
 but suffice it to say it was most likely due to hallucinogens. It's the most logical explanation 
 I can come up with as to the existance of this game. For the record I'm guessing the vision was 
 of crap.
  
  Turns out that crap smells funny.
  
  Hyped up as yet another mediore, generic WW2 FPS, the fact that it failed to reach the expectations 
 came as an unexpected shrug to most people as no one really gave a ****. But for those willing 
 to dig into the cesspool that is Hour of Victory, you might find a golden log floating around. 
 There is quite a lot of comedic value to be found in this game if you're in the mood.
  
  First of you have the pure badness of the game. Mostly everything's so bad you have to laugh at 
 it.
  
  The pisspoor story is stitched together incoherently and generally makes no sense at all. "Sodding 
 Jerry's are at Blahbla! You're the world's only hope and must singlehandedly kill everyone!" is 
 the gist of it, and then you magically appear at Wherever. Rinse and repeat for every mission. 
 There is voiceacting too, and the dialog is terrible. Granted the story isn't the point of this 
 game, but it has one and it sucks. And whatever the point of the game is, it surely sucks too.
 
  
  More importantly, the aiming is freaking weird. I don't know what they did, but aiming in this 
 game feels really off. Especially when it comes to the sniper rifle. For some inexplicable reason 
 the aiming gets ridiculously sluggish when an enemy is in the crosshair, effectively making the 
 whole thing impossible to use. Doesn't really matter though as according to Hour of Victory, hitting 
 people with weapons was a far more efficient way of getting rid of the enemy than shooting them. 
 This is due to a combination of the sloppy aiming and the moronic AI.
  
  The AI is pretty much non-existant. Mostly they're just kinda standing there behind cover, but 
 quite often they spazz out and randomly run around like a decapitated chicken. No sense of direction, 
 it's like they're completely lost when they're not standing behind cover. I almost feel sorry for 
 the poor things.
  
  I've found the most effective way to engage the enemy in Hour of Victory is to run sideways while 
 closing the distance until you're close enough to smack them in the face with your weapon. You 
 see, the AI shoots at where you're at, not where you're going. Either that or you can outrun bullets. 
 Just like in the real war. And what's funny is that due to the aforementioned crappy aiming, the 
 tactic of moving sideways works in multiplayer too. I ran and jumped around for close to two minutes 
 without getting hit, until one of them caught up with me and, you guessed it, smacked me with his 
 weapon. I laughed my ass off. Also because the sound the characters make when jumping is entertaining. 
 And that's about the only things I have to say about the multiplayer. Didn't play much. Because 
 it's bloody awful. I feel bad for the people who do play it.
  
  Furthermore the sound mix is shot to hell. Explosions make really low *booof* noises while things 
 like tanks ocassionally make loud *SCRCSCTCHRR* noises. Yeah, ocassionally. Sometimes you barely 
 hear them while all of a sudden the volume gets boosted tenfold. You will always hear the terrifically 
 awful music though.
  
  The graphics are quite great too. People's faces look like they were constructed out of paper mache, 
 some of them look hilarious. And the particle effects used for things like snow and sand getting 
 blown around are fantastic. It's exactly like what snow and sand would've looked like had it looked 
 like a single animated sprite placed in front of you.
  
  But it's not always the badness translates into comedy... more like mental anguish.
  
  I'm currently 
 stuck at the second tank level at the castle thingie. The tank often refuses to cooperate because 
 of the shoddy, unresponsive controls, you often get stuck in the scenery, enemy tanks can shoot 
 through buildings, it's impossible to evade projectiles in this clumsy tank, you don't know which 
 of the red dots on your radar is an RPG until you've played through the level a couple of times, 
 the framerate is hovering around an estimated 18FPS, and the best thing is that for some reason, 
 unlike the rest of the game, this level does not have checkpoints. Why? I imagine their reasoning 
 went something like this: "You know what, we should have goats instead of checkpoints! No wait, 
 that's a dumb idea, remove the goats." And then they forgot to put the checkpoints back in.
  
  But back to the funny. The second thing that makes this more than just a regular piece of crap 
 you should avoid is the plethora of bugs infesting the game. I'm just gonna provide some examples 
 of the bugs I've come across so far.
  
  * During the above mentioned tank level, infantry continue to use cover which you've blown away.
 
  
  * I shot a nazi so hard he fell down and started to breakdance for a whole minute.
  
  * One guy ran up to my tank, crouched down in a corner next to it, then went left, by crouchsliding. 
 Then he crouchslided back, stood up and ran away. He was like Captain Speirs in Band of Brothers, 
 only crouchsliding sideways.
  
  * In the first level some colonel-looking dude is supposed to knock down a fence by kicking it. 
 Well, this time he had gotten stuck at a low wall instead. Then the fence magically fell over, 
 after which colonel dude walked over to its location and kicked the air. "That should do it." he 
 said.
  
  * Also in the first level I managed to sneak past the nazis undetected so they instead focused 
 purely on the other allied soldiers who kept respawning. The thing is their AI never kicked in, 
 they just ran to a waypoint and stood there until a nazi went up and hit them dead with his weapon. 
 This cycle repeated itself for all eternity. Eventually there was a pile of like 40-50 corpses, 
 and the FPS had went down about as many frames. It was so bad the game had started to skip animation 
 frames. It now looked like the nazi hit the allies by turning his back against them and then turning 
 around whilst whipping his torso between his legs somehow. I luld.
  
  * One nazi had taken cover behind a wall of sandbags and must've climbed into one of them cause 
 when I rounded the corner he was gone. WW2 was an era of magic and wonder apparently.
  
  And so on. Bugs don't always happen, but it's enough to spice things up and keep you entertained 
 despite of how awful the game otherwise is. It's what keeps me going, knowing that soon I'll laugh 
 my ass off at how poorly put together the game is.
  
  I'm conflicted when it comes to scoring this game. There's no doubt it's a terrible mess, but it 
 has its unintentional values. I'll give it a high score to attract attention to those values. Check 
 your bargain bin. I reckon it's worth $20 or so to find out if you appreciate its badness. It's 
 the best bad game I know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  So about a year and a half ago i seen a picture of a game the game was called hour of victory and 
 the images looked amazing i was so hyped for it. But i didnt hear anything about it for about a 
 year then about 6months before realese i finally heard something else and it was mor images and 
 they still looked great but was a little died down the in every gaming magazine i received i saw 
 advertisment of it then one month before realese i played the demo.............. IT SUCKED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So 
 after a whole two months of crying i finally read the gamespot reveiw and they didnt like it either 
 so about to months later i just said who cares lets rent it and i did and you just read a whole 
 bunch of bable here is where the reveiw begins....
  
  PROS: um.... nothing i dont guess.......... no wait u start out with alot of grenades weeeeeeeeeee
 
  CONS: explosions suck even though you get alot of gernades
  horrible graphics horrible ai even worse player animation
  no multiplayer teamates act like they 
 should be in a nursing home
  dumb levels $60 for this seriously 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifflegerbpiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why everyone is complaining so much. The graphics may not be the top of the line 
 but seriously, they aren't horrible. They look like COD2 or COD3 which have decent graphics. The 
 game plays like most WWII shooters so there isn't much to say about that. The game also has a level 
 where you fly a WWII plane and shoot down the enemy which is very fun.
  
  The sounds are horrible. When a grenade explodes it sounds like a cat meowing... literally. But 
 it's not that bad, it adds some humor to the game.
  
  The graphics resemble COD2 and COD3. They aren't the best buy to me they seem decent. Remember, 
 graphics aren't everything.
  
  The physics engine is like Call of Duty 2. Nothing is really movable or interactive which is a 
 bit of a disappointment since the creators said that it would have life-like physics.
  
  Overall, this is a great game if you like the Call of Duty series or a few other war type shooters. 
 Really, this entire game reminds me of COD2. The only difference is that it doesn't have the same 
 amount of pasta calamari as most other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belfento
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  With a name as generic as Hour of Victory, you may think that this is just another shooter. However, 
 this game is anything but that. It is one of the most broken games you can find. The storyline 
 is impossible to follow, the AI stupidity is legendary, and bullets seem to have a mind of their 
 own, able to ricochet off walls and change direction at will. Sure, the game has easy achievement 
 points, but the pain and suffering you must endure to obtain those points is not worth it. There 
 are many problems with this game, but for starters, let's go over the storyline.
  
  I'm just assuming that this game has a storyline, based on the fact that it has cutscenes. I have 
 yet to truly understand exactly what is going on, or why we're even here. However, the game characters 
 do possess this knowledge, making the storyline even more confusing. I think the main antagonist 
 is some guy named Steckler, and that you're fighting to prevent some sort of massive, last-ditch 
 self-destruction sequence that the Nazis have planned, should they lose the war, which may or may 
 not have anything to do with Steckler. The advertising campaign for this game claimed that you 
 would "fight the famous battles of World War II." Well, you don't get to storm Normandy. You don't 
 fight Rommel's troops in Africa. You don't valiantly defend Stalingrad. You don't raid Berlin. 
 Instead, you get to fight the Battle of Some British Outpost, the Battle of Some Random German 
 Castle to Rescue Some Dude, the Battle to Disable Some Reactor Core, and the Battle to Kill This 
 Guy Named Steckler. Have you ever heard of these battles? Neither have I.
  
  To be honest, the opening cutscene is actually pretty decent. However, all my hopes and expectations 
 were completely shattered when the game actually began. When you start the game, you are able to 
 choose from one of three characters: Ross (who can move heavy objects and has a health bonus) , 
 Bull (a sniper who can climb ledges with a rope) , and Taggert (who can hide in shadows and pick 
 locks) . However, you'll notice that there are just as many ledges to climb as there are locks to 
 pick as there are heavy objects to move, so the best choice is clearly Ross, since he gets more 
 health.
  
  The enemy AI in Hour of Victory is horribly broken, but it goes beyond that. Both armies seem to 
 possess enchanted weaponry. To give you an example, I will tell you of this encounter I had with 
 a Nazi. First, I ran up to him, and started shooting. His response was, of course, was to take 
 off. He ran right past me, completely ignoring the fact that I am shooting him, so I chased him 
 all the way down to the end of the hallway. When I got there, this magical hail of bullets mysteriously 
 appeared, out of thin air, and took him out. What I think happened is that an ally was loaded into 
 the level incorrectly.
  
  Of course, there's more. On another encounter (in the same level) , I came across another Nazi, 
 who was taking cover behind a desk. I ran into the room, stood in front of the desk, paused for 
 three seconds, fired my gun, watched as he stared me in the face, shot hit helmet, and ran behind 
 him... unnoticed. While I was still behind him, he went back into cover, went back up, and with 
 his gun facing the opposite direction, fired several shots. Those bullets left the gun, traveled 
 one inch, somehow reversed direction, and hit me. I did not survive this encounter.
  
  Not only do they have magic weapons, but they apparently also have the ability to teleport into 
 the battle. All too often have I been exploring the terrain, only to have Nazis somehow materialize 
 before me. Sometimes they would shoot at me, and sometimes they would just stand there, admiring 
 their rifles. All too often have I cleared a room full of Nazis, only to have five more inexplicably 
 appear behind me. These Nazis are truly masters of stealth. It's also fun to destroy a tank, and 
 watch its remains disappear before my very eyes.
  
  The final boss fight is, without a doubt, the most broken, frustrating, abhorrent boss fight I've 
 ever experienced. First, the boss attacks you, and then he runs into a room behind him. You cannot 
 get into this room, because your path is blocked by waist-high rubble that any normal human could 
 scale. Then, he teleports to the other side of the map, into another room that you cannot enter 
 for the same reason. Then he pops out, takes a few shots, and goes back into that room to teleport 
 once more. All the while, Nazis are swarming you. Should you kill a Nazi, another one will spawn 
 to take its place. Sometimes, the boss will teleport as soon as you shoot him. It took me forty 
 minutes to beat the boss, not including the failed attempts. With a single-player campaign this 
 bad, it's up to the multiplayer component to salvage this wreck.
  
  As expected, the multiplayer component is absolutely atrocious. There are only three multiplayer 
 modes: Team Deathmatch (there is no standard deathmatch) , Capture the Flag (up to five on one map) , 
 and Devastation (defuse random generators) , and just to add to the frustration, you cannot start 
 a match until you have at least six players. You're lucky if you can find one other person, let 
 alone five. Team Deathmatch is exactly what it sounds like. Capture the Flag is a bit interesting. 
 Instead of two flags, one placed in each base, being captured over and over again, you have 1-5 
 flags for each team scattered about the map, and you must bring them to your base. Good luck finding 
 where your base is.
  
  Devastation is probably the most embarrassing of the three modes. The object of this mode is to 
 destroy the enemy generators, while protecting your own. You do this by locating the one bomb on 
 the map, obtaining the bomb, walking into an enemy generator, at which point the bomb will teleport 
 to the generator, ready to explode, with a fifteen-second fuse. If you succeed, then you go get 
 another bomb, and repeat. Should you need to defuse a bomb, simply walk up to it, and watch it 
 teleport into your possession. The worst part is where these generators are located. They are not 
 in any logical position; they are simply placed in random locations throughout the map. The most 
 offensive instance is the Manor map. There's a generator in the wine cellar, in a shed, in another 
 shed, in a bedroom, in the kitchen, in the middle of an open field, etc. The bomb, of course, is 
 placed neatly on a bed.
  
  To add to the frustration of playing multiplayer, you don't get to choose a class, or even your 
 weapons. You will always start with an M1 Thompson/MP-40 and an M1911/Luger. Should you tire of 
 those weapons, you may pick up any of the weapons lying on the floor, for whatever reason. It's 
 also very easy to get stuck on objects, and it's even possible to get stuck in another player. 
 Also, for some reason, the shotgun does not fire a spread shot, like every other shotgun you've 
 used. Instead, it fires a single bullet, and, yes, it's exactly as ridiculous as it sounds.
  
  Even if you can look past all the game's faults, the single player campaign takes roughly 4-5 
 hours, and there are approximately two people online at any given time (remember, you need six 
 people) . Do yourself a favor, and say "no" to Hour of Victory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTriviumx
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I would give this game a 0 if Gamespot let me. this game is horrible and i can't believe that i 
 thought of buying this junk. This game serioulsy made me feel like puking because of its horrible 
 attempt to move a charachter looks like he is trying to get it on with a door. This game has no 
 story and could be in any time period because of the lack of any information to you about what 
 the heck your supposed to be doing. Its kind of like putting a blindfold on your head, spinning 
 around 10 times then trying to run across a freeway and not get nailed by a semi. I gave it to 
 my friend who then thought that i was trying to get him junk and then called me a horrible person 
 and screwed up my life. Thanks alot Hour of Victory. If you buy this game you must go and get psychiatric 
 help. Please do not buy this and waste your life away trying to play with a piece of crap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptUnderpants
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games ever made. The money spent on it to produce such a piece of trash 
 is utterly unbelievable. I guess that someone out there gets paid to check this game's not broken 
 before it goes out, they should be tracked down and hung immediately.
  
  "I knew a man, who knew a man, who met someone once"
  
  That sentence is more entertaining 
 that the whole of "Hour of my life lost that I won't get back escape to Victory"
  
  People have been killed for less, it's so bad it makes me want to go out and buy it.
  
  Oh 
 I hope they do a full conversion to pc, we wouldn't won't people to miss out on such a gem!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  I'm very angry that they can charge money for a game like this, someone should teach them a lesson.
 
  
  I'm sticking with my marbles for entertainment in future.
  
  Now where did I put my gun?
  
  ps. I'm so glad I haven't played it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  The game uses the Unreal 3.0 engine which makes you think, 'Cool, the graphics should be like Gears 
 Of War, this game might not be so bad!' wrong! Hour Of Victory is the worst game made for the Xbox 
 360, if not for every console ever made. The game has obviously had no thought put into it and 
 has been rushed to be put on the shelves. The graphics are good, but when the textures keep popping 
 up, it can get rather stupid and annoying, but it is put down even more due to horrible shooting 
 and reloading animations, and the models themselves look terrible too. And just when you think 
 that's bad enough, the AI try to attack you... yes i mean they TRY to attack you because for some 
 reason they hit you, run away behind cover, see you again, shoot you, run away, get stuck in box 
 because of some glitch, then eventually die. Terrible. BUT THATS NOT ALL! The voice acting is hidious, 
 when told to do something by someone, they will keep repeating it over and over until you feel 
 like throwing your controller at the screen. But don't do that, just wait until you get Call Of 
 Duty 4 which is MUCH, MUCH, MUCH better than this. 
  
  If you've bought every game on the market available for the 360 and you just want one more to add 
 to your collection because you have money to waste, then id recommend you buy this... no wait, 
 don't it isn't worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Between the years of 1939 and 1945, many soldiers were killed in a legalised massacre known as 
 the Second World War. Certain films, such as Saving Private Ryan and The Longest Day, and games, 
 like Call of Duty and Medal of Honour, have done well to convey the sense of violence and intensity 
 of the conflict. But as far as Hour of Victory is concerned, the War never happened, and this game 
 simply revolves around a trio of military misfits who wound up being in the wrong place and the 
 wrong time ... in the wrong game.
  
  So what differentiates Hour of Victory from other high profile World War II shooters? The first 
 thing is how generic the game plays, looks and is. With a name like "Hour of Victory" (which cuts 
 extremely close to the name of another WWII shooter called "Day of Defeat" by Valve) it's really 
 hard to see some, if any, originality in it's premise (being a war game, this can be challenging, 
 but no effort was put into character development or any form of plot) . There is one crucial flaw 
 in the story of Hour of Victory. Save for the inconvenience of a certain tank mission (there being 
 only one) , the story lasts around 2 hours, which is INCREDIBLY short, the first campaign can be 
 finished in 20 minutes, the second in about an hour if you don't struggle with the glitchy Maelstrom 
 level, the third will take about 30 minutes and the final campaign will take about 10 minutes. 
 But since Hour of Victory is such a pain to play, it's nice that it's over very quickly.
  
  Another thing that Hour of Victory fails on is gameplay. If one played the demo a while back, you 
 will know of the huge furoar of insults regarding the clunky controls and awful AI. All the weapons 
 are weak and sound bad, with the butt of the gun doing more damage than actual flak, and the inaccuracy 
 of the AI enemies, it is incredibly easy just to mosey on upto the enemy and club him round the 
 face with the wooden stock of your Thompson and send him flying. Along with the poor AI is the 
 controls, which are unresponsive and totally wrong for the genre.
  
  Before each mission you may choose one of three characters (save for two missions where the choice 
 is pre-made) , but unless your in it for the achievements, there is almost no need to play as Sniper 
 or Scout, as Commando can just cut through enemy fire and club them all to Paradise. These characters 
 are simply generic, tough guys fighting for the good of the nation and all that, with absolutely 
 NO character development or background along the way. The story basically revolves around the three 
 tough guys who are handpicked by a military officer, who must fight to stop the Nazi war machine, 
 and take down the main "antagonist" (besides him only appearing once and being mentioned about 
 twice) . The cutscenes are also very poorly made to boot. Early on, in the Al Shatar campaign, the 
 Scottish sergeant is badly wounded, and simply boasts, "Give 'em one for me" and the screen simply 
 returns to the player's control, there is no mention of him henceforth, leaving the player to assume 
 he died, but no actual referrences hint at this.
  
  The sound in Hour of Victory is one of the view things that aren't totally wasted. The soundtrack 
 is solid, if unremarkable, but can sometimes sound out of place in certain spots. Flak and German 
 voices just sound off at all times, and the voice acting on every other character is plain abysmal 
 as well.
  
  Poor level design also hampers Hour of Victory even further. With small corridors and small doorframes 
 which are too small for the player to advance through, overcrowding of enemies in some places and 
 a total sparceness in others, out of control spawning and lame spawn points, shortcuts that lead 
 to deadends or back to where you just were and a distinct lack of atmosphere in every mission.
 
  
  To accompany the abysmal single player, there is an equally abysmal multiplayer, which lets up 
 to 12 players laugh at the horrible textures (the players hands actually looked thatched) and terrible 
 lag issues. Also worth noting is the distinct lack of grenades in multiplayer, which would at least 
 add some "bang", pun not intended.
  
  So there you have it. If this review, accompanied by every other scathing review hasn't put you 
 of Hour of Victory, then go ahead and buy it. You may even like it, just don't forget to pick up 
 Big Rigs, Superman 64 and Land of the Dead while your at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  ok this will be quick
  
  gameplay
  
  mind blowingly bad the guns feel weird aand the game does not even let you zoom in with the left 
 trigger you have to use the stick it feels weird if you have played COD but in this game it will 
 annoy you the whole time thats if you can stand this game for more than 5 mins.
  
  The ai is the only good bit because its so bad you can walk by them and they may not even notice 
 you its so embarassing and it may make you smile.
  
  multiplayer emmm it sucks
  
  graphics wow the worst on the system possibly
  
  
  verdict
  if you....... DONT BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Just hearing the title of this game, you can essentially decipher that it has to do with World 
 War II. Following a line of successfull WWII games such as Battlefield 1942, and the Call of Duty 
 series, Hour of Victory is however a hopeless, chaotic, and sloppy mess. Hour of Victory shamelessly 
 fails at its genre attempt with the terrible rag doll effects, random game failures, and the butt-end 
 of a rifle being more effective then actually shooting it.
  The scattered story makes it difficult to keep track what exactly your doing and where you are. 
 In one mission your in a castle, another you are attempting to divert a nuclear disaster. It's 
 all over the place. The game's levels are short, even with checkpoints too few in between. Despite 
 this, its far too easy.
  To accompany the brutal single player is the almost equally unplayable multiplayer. Movement is 
 rather skittish, and getting into a tank is the wrong decision. Piloting these 40+ ton beasts is 
 almost impossible, and the vehicle can do some very akward things, such as driving up a wall, and 
 getting stuck.
  If you toss in a bunch of sound bugs and some tasteless graphics, what you have is a truly terrible 
 game in your hands. Absolutely nothing feels right in this game. Hour of Victory is unfinished, 
 and unrefined, and has no business to be on shelves in its apocalyptic state. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Hour of victory is a decent game but boring , pointless, short, bad graphics and horrible glyches.
 
  
  Its 1 person shooter , that turns out to be pointless. it doesnt tell u much about the story: pointless. When 
 u use some1 vehicle it becomes so easy , U PLAY AN 1HR IT BECOMES SO EASY.: boring. The glyches make 
 the game so horrible when u shoot some1 the fram rate changes and also som grapics suck when u 
 blow up something.: Horible glyches and graphics.
  
  
  Its still a fair game that totaly doesnt desrve a 2.0!! It uses te same value as Call ov duty, 
 but much worse but still its a decent game: decent 6.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what happend whit the world, why the people can accept this is the best game ever made, 
 i dont know, maybe they try to dont see the truth, but the truth is there, this game is great, 
 i knowww,, i knowwww, this game is great,, is a really fun gameee, i dont know what to say,,, no 
 words, this game is amazing,,, the best Fps game ever created,, dude you have to buy, you have 
 to see the light behind the wall, they try to you dont see the truth, but the truth my padawan, 
 the truth is there,, you have to take,,, takeit boy is yours,,
  
  
  i think this game have to win the award of the best game ever, dude, is amazing,,, just think about 
 it for a sec
  
  
  And the prize for the best game of all history of the humanity goes for
  
  Hour of Victory
 
  
  yes congratulations,, this game wins a lot of greats games, like, all games of batman, and thats 
 great games of digimon and all that,, yes baby, this game is the great,,,
  
  
  Im Not a winner, this game yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw_and_wet
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  WWII is always a popular topic among first person shooter genre, quite a lot of them are great 
 such as COD series and MoH series. So far, WWII first person shooter hasn't let me down until this 
 awful game come out.
  
  Hour of Victory is completely broken. The graphic is definetly not up to date, I really doubted 
 the engine is unreal engine, the shooting and gun fight is unsatifying and painful. Sound effect 
 is bad and the AI is retarded. And the worst of all, the story line is not engaging at all.
  
  The 3 charactors with unique abilities is somewhat creative, but again, their abilities are 
 just broken and not fun to play. Overall, hour of victory is just nothing but a disappointment. 
 If you are a crazy-die-hard fps gamer that will play every single fps games in the market, get 
 it a shot. If you are not, you can just stop by the store and completely ignore the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korn420
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is the latest game by midway to try and cash in on the ww2 genre. Ok it's alright 
 and I fine the only thing that's wrong with this game is the graphics so here's an overview of 
 it. Presentation is kinda bad the graphics all admit are bad. They look like awesome PS2 graphics, 
 and for what we saw with COD 3 it's almost unacceptable. The music though is very well done almost 
 as good as MOH but not quite, still it gets the job done effectively. Voice acting though is a 
 different story it's bad and it makes you want to put your tv on mute when they talk but it can 
 put up with. The gameplay is good but really from other war games it brings nothing new to the 
 table. For replay value the got an online it helps as well. Also I read gamespots review on this 
 game and it never crashed on me so that's why probably giving it a ok review. In conclusion Hour 
 of Victory is a solid fps with some problems but I've played worse games than this such as Civil 
 War. So people rent this game for now because of the price tag. When it goes down though it will 
 be a much better enjoyable purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you take your eyez of lame stuff in this game , it might be fun to play , when I saw review 
 I thought hell nah I woun't buy it , but somehow I bought it and I can say it's pretty fun to play 
 it , no , but realy it's good , it isn't very good it's nice .
  Graphics : Nice visual , I play on AV Cable TV and it has better graphics than bioshock , thats 
 true , well maybe on my TV . But still it's bright I can see everything and I like it.
  Gameplay: I have xbox not for long and shooting is hard for me with gamepad , so for me it's hard 
 to hit , but I can play like that .
  It isn't good as call of duty or medal of honor , but if you don't have nothing to do , you can 
 take your time and try this game , I'm not saying that is good , but I say that if you are avarage 
 guy you can try ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is really decent in my fact. The reason why people hate this game. Because of the 2.0 
 has the problem. If it has a 9.0 everyone will love this game like nuts. I think this game a 10.0 
 Because this game is so entertaning to play. Who ever hates this game. You guys are missing out 
 the fun.
  
  Graphics look excellent
  
  Sound realistic
  
  Value is worth every penny
  
  The Online play is really fun. It's 12 players. At least it has 
 a higher Xbox live price point than Call of duty 2.
  
  This game is rock n rolling my Xbox 360. There are better games That I know, But that's not stopping 
 this game. Good job Midway.
  
  This game is not perfect, But it stands up a First Person Shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SneakyDan
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Having your d*ck snapped in half and balls stamped on repeatedly for 4 hours, while being raped 
 by 10 men is better than playing this game.
  That's how bad it is.
  
  The graphics were the ONLY thing that was moderately ok about this game, and even then they weren't 
 anything impressive.
  The AI sucked more c*ck than a cheap hoe on a busy night.
  They ran in the middle of the corridors and just stood there, waiting to be shot.
  The guns are 
 terrible. As others have said, running around using melee is better than shooting them.
  
  The controls sucked pretty bad as well.
  
  This is probably the worst game I have played. Transformers 
 entertained me more, and I could barely play that for half an hour.
  That's saying something.
  
  Avoid this game at all costs!
  Unless you like being ripped off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory enters the WWII big shots, and tries to be a copy cat of those great WWII shooters. 
 Well its safe to say its failed at that. The game is so unbearable and makes you wonder why they 
 released the game when it wasn't polished at all.
  
  Hour of victory's story is. Well to tell you the truth the cut scenes in the game are so boring 
 and done so badly you don't even want to know the story. But what I can tell is three special ops 
 men, one British and two American. Have to do some special mission that is supposed to be difficult. 
 But if this is how WWII was then i don't think anyone could of won that war.
  
  The game play in this game, is broken. At first it seems that people were over reacting to that 
 game. But by half way through the first level you learn that you can get stuck in door ways and 
 the three character you have to pick from are all so retarded, so you don't want to be any of them. 
 One thing that really bothers me in the game is the health system. Its the recharge health system 
 were your screen will become red around the edges when your hurt. It sounds good. But it takes 
 to long to heal and not to mention when you get to hurt its hard to tell a German from a door. 
 Another thing i find stupid in this game is the weapons. They seem good at first, but the weapons 
 are pretty much perfectly accurate when running around. Why would you add a iron sights zoom if 
 you have perfect accuracy to start with? The controls are just next to broken.
  
  The graphics in this game are actually bad. And its running on URE 3. So you look at the guns. 
 They look detailed and good. But the environments are last gen looking.
  
  By the end of the game. You get a good amount of achievements but.... i dont even think its worth 
 the pain of going through the game for that.
  
  This is Next Gen. This game has no right being on the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Midway's jumped on the ww2 band wagon with Hour of Victory. Great, Midway's only success was slugfest 
 and Mortal Kombat. This is actually a series of games for the 360 and PC. Starting with this and 
 ending in (and i am not kidding here) The Last Hour of Victory. But enough about that, the review:
 
  
  Weapons: You select 1 of 3 men to play in the mission, each have a big gun and a small gun, or 
 a knife if covert. But besides that there are only 5 weapons to pick up from germans. And yes having 
 a knife is cool. You can finish the whole game with the damn thing. You'll also notice that when 
 aiming at the gunner in the first level with any long range weapon, after killing him the gun just 
 replenishes with a new soldier, no it doesn't end.
  
  Story: Boring and short, there is no character development, no real plot and for some reason that 
 german doctor youre trying to keep alive won't shutup.
  
  Graphics:
  Only Black Hawk Down has delivered worse graphics in this. What awful graphics!
  
  Achievements:
 
  An easy 900 points with out playing any multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football-lover2
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  gameplay 1/10
  graphics2/10
  sound2/10
  value1/10
  
  the good
  i can get money for it
  
  the bad
  horrible gameplay
  boring
  horrible graphics and sound
 
  worst gamei ever played
  and everything else
  
  ok now this was the worst game ever played. the graphics and sound and gameplay sucked. each level 
 was so intensely boring i quit before finshing it. its broken and it has major defects. 60 bucks 
 down the toilet. i couldnt even rate this piece of crap a 2 out of 10. definetly the worst game 
 ever made. save ur self some money and never buy this picec of crap. 60 bucks i wouldnt even buy 
 it if it was 5 bucks oh wait yes i would then id trade it in and get 20 bucks for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwolfsniper14
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Well there really is not much to say about Hour of Victory, other than it SUCKS! This game misleads 
 you with the demo. The levels the demo had you play on were the best in the game, but when you 
 move on its all downhill from there. For example, the enemies in the demo actually shot at you, 
 ya I know, it's amazing. However the very next level the Germans just stood there while you just 
 ran up and slit their throat. The story mode is lame. I think you had to stop this crazy German 
 from building and using this new type of weapon. Who am I kidding, I really don't think anyone 
 cares... Well, there is an online mode, but that is the same as single player, a load of crap. 
 They have a shotgun on most of the maps. I picked it up and SHOT SOMEONE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE 
 MAP!?!?! What? How is that possible? It's better not to ask those questions i guess. Ya I am done, 
 there is nothing good about this game. I made the mistake of buying it. I feel like I have to whip 
 myself now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohan_kou
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  It is the baddest game ever made.
  BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  So I got this game for 10 bucks, thinking it was going to be like call of duty, and not playing 
 the demo...
  
  so ya...
  I really don't have much to say about it
  the graphics are pretty, the Ai sucks, the levels are not very replayable (even though you have 
 3 different characters with different abilitys... but it doesnt help) its not very fun, and I only 
 played he first 2 levels before putting the game away... and not touching it...
  
  I can't really explain why this game sucks...
  if you want to collect as many crappy games as 
 possible please.... go ahead and buy this one...
  
  trust me, its not worth 50 bucks...
  
  just avoid it... this is more of a warning than a review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plix3110
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  NEVER BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!
  i seriously wanna kill myself for buying this game
  i just wasted 60 dollas on this and it doesnt ever work bugs ALL over.
  i mean i can blow up 
 a tank using like 1 nade and i can run around with my knife and win// just melee ppl and ur all 
 good. My friend came over later and played it and he started laughing with tears cause i wasted 
 60 bucks on this and that it is super nintendo graphics no lie.
  Midway WHAT WERE U  i dont think i will ever buy a midway game 
 after that TERRIBLE first-person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellblazerUSA
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Sigh... I can't believe I played this game. Did you ever do something you truly regret? Something 
 so heinous, you contemplate time-travel to undo the wrong? Welcome to Hour of Victory.
  
  Whilst the concept of playing as one of three unique characters, each with different abilities 
 and level approaches, is a fine idea, Midway have a created something that throws out any idea 
 that games should be 'fun' or even 'good'... Let's begin:
  
  Controls- Were these designed at the last minute? Does Infinity Ward hold the patent on a fantastic 
 control layout? If that's the case, then I can maybe forgive the layout for this game. What I can't 
 forgive is the sluggish movement- the default setting should at least be playable.
  
  Sound- Maybe I'm spoilt by previous WW2 games, but the sound effects were terrible. Ugly gunfire, 
 lackluster explosions and voiceover work that shames anyone with a voice. Having your AI squadmates 
 shout 'over here' fifteen times in a minute doesn't improve my outlook either.
  
  Gameplay- Could be improved if they took this game back to the drawing board. If the controls were 
 revised, this game could be halfway playable. As it is, it seems like the AI are somehow masochistically 
 drawn to my gunfire- suicidally running at me and standing behind cover, despite my pointing at 
 gun at them from the side of said cover.
  Not the worst AI, but certainly counter-productive when your trying to produce immersive gameplay. 
 This game certainly tries to be as unrealistic as possible- is this a design feature
  
  Graphics- Decent. The only part of this demo that shines. A nice sheen to the bullet-ridden textures 
 and the ability to throw a lot of explosions and lighting effects into the mix help the chaotic 
 atmosphere. However, it could also be said that, had this game been released prior to Gears of 
 War, then we would have been doubly impressed by Gears. There seems to have been no effort to try 
 and maximise the look of this game. I realise that this is just a demo, but it just seems like 
 the devs were happy to use the bare minimum graphical quality that the Unreal 3 engine offers.
 
  
  In conclusion, this game plays bad, sounds bad and looks good. Thankfully, I paid a budget price 
 for this game and some people might think that this might be worth a look if they find it in the 
 bargain bin. Avoid at full price- despite the graphical sheen, to be expected from the Unreal 3 
 engine, this game isn't worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1988
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand anyone who gives this game a 10/10. Its a bad, very bad. The only good thing 
 about this game is that it helps you appreciate all the other good game out there. I tried to play 
 this game, but could only play it for about 20mins, I really tried to push on but was afraid I 
 would get eye cancer. I will say it was good for a laugh... on the mission that i tried I used the 
 spec ops guy, taggert was his name, and taggert has a knife with which you can run around the whole 
 level just running up to the brain dead german just cutting at them till they dropped and sometimes 
 they would just drop dead for me. PLEASE DONT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Imagine if Call of Duty 2 came out today. The graphics were the same, the gameplay was worse, and 
 they made the single player game boring. Got a good picture? Ok now you have an idea about Hour 
 of Victory. While I was playing this game all I could think about was how this game was just like 
 Call of Duty 2 only a lot worse. The sound in this game is the only decent part of it, and the 
 only reason that its not getting a 2 out of ten. One thing that just kills me about this game is 
 how the controler will just randomly get away from you. For example you will be in the middle of 
 a battle and then all of a sudden without touching the analog stick the aim reticule suddenly starts 
 to move, and it will lead you to curse this game. Heck I'd even rather play Call of Duty 3 than 
 play this (the 360 version, this game is just as bad as the Ps2 game) . Skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazer1234
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the worst games i hav ever seen i gt a demo of it and play a second of it and had 
 to turn it off i felt like killin myself for even givein it ago lol sobad ppl look like crap and 
 graphics look like they were made in ww2 i would never ever tell any one to buy this its a complete 
 let down worst ww2 game ever i h8 it anyone says different is weird and clearly cant tell crap 
 from gd its so bad i cant belive xbox even want it on there system all ppl involed in makin this 
 game must b about 2 bcoz they hav no idea how a ww2 should be look at call of duty look at moh 
 lol at brothers in arms and learn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I am SO glad that i only played the Demo, because it just simply plain sucked. From the biggest 
 bug in the world to the most simple little pixel that was supposed to look like an NPC on my TV! 
 I chose the commando from the start because i am mostly the straight forward guy, and 10 seconds 
 into the game i already was unhappy, why? THE F***** POOR CONTROLS!!!! It takes like a minute just 
 to turn 90 degrees, and by that time, you should already be dead, second thing, you can take an 
 amazing over realistic amount of damage, while your enemies drop dead with a single shot. This 
 is without doubt possibly the worst game EVER, with the biggest lack of innovation, imagination, 
 sense and feelings... You can feel right from the start that this was Midways most desperate attempt 
 to make a buck. If there was a lower rank than Abysmal it would have been called Hour of Victory 
 
  
  ***************Never have so few owed so many an apology********************* (and its got to be 
 good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frosty789
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game having played the demo and even though it was appauling i needed something to 
 pass the time, so i forked out &pound;35 and took it home, first thing that caught my eye was the 
 graphics, which made it look like people, guns and even buildings were made out of putty. The most 
 annoying thing was the catch prases each character said at the selection screen that made it seem 
 a bit to childish, and the cut scenes to climb a rope (honestly who cant climb a rope or move a 
 cart that has wheels on it?) . I havent completed the game because to be honest i cant be bothered, 
 but its the worst game ive played and probably always will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalmatt
Rating: 1.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Im sure 99% of everyone reading this will agree. This is in awful game and after reading the gamespot 
 review i agree with everything that is said. I rented this game to see how it was and the only 
 thing i seemed to get joy out of was getin the very easy gamerpoints. The characters look like 
 they've just taken a shotgun to the face and to be blunt the whole look of the game looks like 
 it's been covered in sh*t, everything seems to be dirty and misshapen. The thing i find absolutly 
 stupid in this game is the fact that you can KILL the enemy with one melee strike from your gun. 
 Even in Call of Duty i thought this was rather strange but then this may take upto 3 hits which 
 i think is more on the right lines 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you here, everyone. This game is unbelievable.
  
  Unbelievably good that is. I wish no other video game franchises tried their hands at World War 
 Two, because this one excels ridiculously past the others. The fact that you can melee every single 
 German you see is cool, especially the fact that it is more effective than shooting. Utter genius 
 because I have always wanted to hit someone with a gun, rather than shoot a gun. It's obvious. 
 Alright, let's start with the story. The story could make Stephen Spielberg cry. It's that good. 
 I cared about each of the men I played as, especially the Rambo guy, because he was cool. He could 
 take thousands of hits more than any of the other two, making the others really retarded. The sniper 
 though, it feels real. From the guy clipping the wall and going through it, to my clunky reload, 
 I felt like I was there. It was better than a burger from Sheetz. The graphics already excel into 
 the next generation of gaming, well beyond anything the 360 and PS3 have to offer. I think this 
 is on the level of PS5 or PS7, along with Xbox 720 or Xbox 1080. I have never seen so many beautiful 
 explosions, faces, and guns. It is truely unbelievable to be in this game's presence. You almost 
 have to kneel down to it, you can't even look at it, it's graphics are so good. So don't, because 
 this beauty will burn your eyes.
  
  Gameplay. I played for hours on end. I've gained over 200 pounds off of chicken and other various 
 food rations, all authentic to WW2. Why? Because of this game. I felt like I was there. I turned 
 my room into a war room. I played for not only hours, but for days, weeks, and months. Well to 
 sum this up, this game is fantastic.
  
  Oh yeah, I never played this game but I'm sure it sucks. I'm only kidding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locust_King_001
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is a really bad game last generation graphics and bad gamplay where u can chose 
 stealth, sniper, or soilder. all suck the sniping is not that bad but when you do get a chance 
 to snipe there are only 3 to 4 guys to snipe. The stealth is also bad u have no sneak attacks and 
 as the soilder your route to more people is limited you actualy spend more time ducking and getting 
 cover so u wont die in the middle of the game. This game is really a waste of money i will just 
 stick to call of duty its more fast pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyranger147
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game would have to be the worst game I have ever played. It makes WW2 look like a joke. Midway 
 should be ashamed of this letdown. They should not have put this Game on store shelves just for 
 poor people to bleed there eyes out. The game is worth probable 5 bucks max. It just plain sucks! 
 So word of of advice save your d**n money. Dont even rent it to try it out. Save that money too. 
 All in All, a very...... very........ very, disapointing game. So again I say if you see the game 
 on shelves, take it off the shelf, slame on the ground, and beat to a pulp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Well where do i begin.... the visuals, sounds, gameplay... it makes no difference all 3 important 
 parts of the next gen world are all put togeter brutally, im not 100% sure but the developers were 
 possibly licking toads before they threw this mess together in ill say about a week because it 
 looks like they took no time at all. Soooooo many glitches just piss me off, i thought i would 
 have to put my foot through the TV screen. I'm just goin wrap this up now because even reviewing 
 this game is making me mad. Basically dont buy this game because it is about 60 bucks that is definitly 
 not worth what ur paying... This is the worst next gen WWII game to date... ill stick to Hells 
 Highway and Call Of Duty 4 when they come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is poorly done and looks like someone straight out of high school made it. The AI are 
 dumber than all hell and the game has several glitches ex. the characters will freeze up and stand 
 stil. It doesn't bring anything no to the plate except a fustrating time with the AI and the dumb 
 objectives sit ahead of you. This one is not Quagmire approved, please don't even rent the game 
 because your contributing to the awfulness. I played it for about an hour and a half and had to 
 return it. The only real good thing that comes out of this is the achievements which are pretty 
 easy but in order to get them you have to actually play the game which is a hassle when the gameplay 
 is so awful it's hard to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HanSolo353
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have played my fair share of WWII games. But this one has got to be the worst.
  
  Clipping issues, sound is horrible, graphics aren't great but they aren't horrible. They are just 
 bad. At a glance the graphics look great but when you really look at them, you have some muddy 
 textures on the walls and the peoples faces look horrible. They look dead. The only thing that 
 I would say looks nice are the gun models.
  
  This could have been a good game. I mean, they have nice little details like the smoke crawling 
 on the ceiling and sand coming out of sandbags when you shoot them. The problem is that the game 
 isn't fun.
  
  The missions are boring except for one or two that are somewhat entertaining for like for a minute 
 or so.
  
  I like the score. I really did, but it just didn't fit with the game. You would have this great 
 music playing in the background that was soft and calming while your having a firefight. But the 
 sound was horrible. A lot of the guns have weak sounds and some of the explosions literally sound 
 like firecrackers. What a shame.
  
  AI is horrible the enemy will litetrally stare at you and wait for you to kill them.
  
  Gun 
 models look nice but they just don't feel right. The BAR and MP44 have no recoil at all, very unrealistic. 
 None of the weapons are fun to use unless you are using the melee attack which is by far the most 
 effective way of killing your enemy since the controls don't feel right. They are very clunky and 
 the auto-aim is horrible. You can throw knives with one of the characters, which is interesting 
 to see in a WWII game but the knives just bounce off the enemy, but still kills them in one hit. 
 ?!?!??!?
  
  Multiplayer is broken. You can't play. Don't pick this up. The only reason I did is because I get 
 free game rentals where I work.
  
  The only thing this game has are easy achievments, but then again they are extremly difficult to 
 get since you have to play this horrible game to get them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Just to say i really enjoy WWII games, but this one.... this one is be on belief.
  
  Thankfully i didn't buy this game, one of my friends gave it to me for a week.
  At first i thought 
 it was going to be a change, fighting in castles, choosing
  who u can play with. But I was very disappointed in the gameplay, sometimes the screen went white 
 after an explosion, sometimes when u get hit to many times the screen goes black and quite often 
 after passing a checkpoint the game just randomly crashses. And that horrible theme tune when playing 
 the game! I also noticed that every single allied soldier had the same face. The levels u play 
 in are very small and there are too many restricted areas. Everyone would probably go for Ross 
 cause he can take the most hits (all u have to do is run towards every single enemie and melee attack 
 them) . Sniping is also usless in this game. I thought being traggert would be fun but no it's pathetic. 
 U also run out of ammo very quickly, but that doesn't matter cause all u have to do is melee attack. 
 This game is simply full of bugs, glitches and 100% clipping. The artificial intelligence is rubbish 
 enemies do not know what the hell is going on, they sometimes shoot their own mates and they die 
 in stupid ways. Multiplayer can be fun but its completly deserted. In conclusion if ur a big WWII 
 fan then get COD3 or wait for MOH airborne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaGamer20
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Now about this game its screwy. I am a WW2 gamer and i can tell you this game is one of the worst 
 buys i have ever did. Yea it came with a micro phone if you pre ordered it but that doesnt help. 
 The gameplay is no fun, you die to easyly, The story seened screewy, The AI was horrible, but this 
 game can be fun.... sometimes. Most frustranting game too. The graphics actually made me like a 
 little better and the multi was not bad. But the downright word of saying this game is....... SUCKED.... sorry 
 midway you can do better. So you people reading this reveiw....... save your self $60 and wait when 
 it is $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It was terrible once the game had started. I wanted to bang my head through the wall. It was like 
 watching an educational television show. It was so bad that i almost threw the game out. Was banging 
 my head up against the wall once i got started. It was so bad that I started to get a headache. 
 Hated it so much, never waste $60.00 on a game like that. If u want to play a war game, play Call 
 of Duty or some other game like a Tom Clancy game, or whatever, just not this game. Was banging 
 my head up against the wall once i got started. It was so bad that I started to get a headache. 
 Terrible!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junja1121
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game has everything wrong with it... weapons are boring vehicles are boring... the game is 
 overall BORING... Its not even worth renting.. dont even try that. The graphics were terrible, sound 
 wasn't that great either, and the gameplay sucks!!! Your better off getting something like Barny's 
 Hide N' Seek... Well anything that isn't this game you'll have ALOT more fun with. If you want 
 to suffer its horribleness just go rent it, don't buy it you'll be MAD. This game doesn't deserve 
 the name of Hour of Victory, I would personally name Hour of Dissapointment. Like a said before 
 i give it a one because i can't give it a ZERO!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodyink
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  id rather slam my d!@K in the door repeatedly than play another 5 minutes of this crap!!! lol wow 
 its amazingly horrible. it was funner writing this review than it was playing this game. i had 
 a lot more fun puking violently off tequilla. so save ur money. if u did buy this game...... write 
 a review..... it helps deal with the pain. id rather play homebrews over this game. the game checkers, 
 solitare, or even 52 card pick up offers more fun and replay value. do not waste ur time or money 
 on this  the people who 
 made this should b fired........ @ by a 357 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Hour of victory... Tssss... Hour of dissapointment... Less than a hour! If there would be a price 
 of the best way to annoy a person with a game, than it was this game!!!
  
  Another bad game in my collection... Waste of money... CONGRATULATIONS!!! This game is number ONE 
 of the top three of most annoying games ever programmed!!!
  - Hour of Victory
  - Dino Crisis 3
  - Conspiracy : Weapons of Destruction
  
  Based on Unreal Engine 3??? Hm, 
 I liked Engine 2, but if Engine 3 has to look so scrap on my screen, leave these progressions... 
 Xbox360... Even Chronicles of Riddick - Escape from Buther's Bay looks better! And that's played 
 on the normal Xbox...
  
  I even gave the game a chance to prove itself, so I played 5 missions... No, sorry, this game is 
 a failure... I feel sad for the programmers... Hoping that you haven't spend too much time in building 
 this game?
  
  Now I'm gonna await for The Darkness, I think this might be another great game, but for me OVERLORD 
 is the best game (for my taste) for the month JULY 2007!!! Keep it coming!!!!
  
  I will judge this game accordinally. The game is a fault, but playability was there (although it 
 wasn't handling nice) , graphics are there, sounds were good (total shame if the sounds were bad 
 as well) and personal (also a shame that I can't say a ZERO)
  
  Greetz,
  Vantazzy (a. k. Sardax) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater81st
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game. Im one of those guys that loves first person shooters so even if its not 
 a great game, i wouldnt write a bad review for it, but this game flat out blows! Never after the 
 first hour have I felt like I have to force myself into playing. The graphics are not that great, 
 the sound files straight up blow and omg the gliches this game has..... If u do end up buying the 
 game and just want to see how the story goes, be tanner and run around just using your knife, you 
 can get threw the levels faster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOD-NEOX
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Worst game that i have played since Pimp My Ride on the PSP, if only the developers would have 
 given a half-rats ass about the game it would have been ok. Midway should be ashamed of releasing 
 this game as broken as it was, too shame Midway to SHAME!!! The only thing that i found enjoyable 
 about this game was that u shot people, when the aimer worked or if u were 2 feet away. The only 
 time i found the bullet hitting the enemy was if i was piont plank, i found that i was listening 
 to my iPod most of the game, objectives were retardedly easy to complete, graphics looked like 
 they were designed for the ps1 and i found it abnormaly har to manouver. If i ever play this game 
 ever again it will be too soon, DONT PLAY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a9l8e7n
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  the game is not that bad. i mean its just a regular shooters game. although it may have bugs and 
 screw ups, i wouldn't rate it so low. ok, ok its a bad game but its not horrible. i can't right 
 more than a hundred words here because there is nothing more to talk about. i can only submit will 
 a hundred words or more so, a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveHill2392
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Honestly No matter how diverse a WWII game its Still a WWII game its Like Calling A Toyota Tom's 
 450 and a Lexus 600 the Two diffrent cars because of the logo. I Didn't Think its was too bad untill 
 the level ended about 20 min. before it was supposed to. Still I the kinda guy that doesn't mind 
 a short easy level its kinda satisfying. The Guns Are typical and the ai has down syndrome but 
 its all the game and theres nothing i can do to change it so im not gona Bi**h. My Friend that 
 i played this with thought that some of the scenery that could be shot through was urealistic. 
 Quote It was historically inacurate because they never used JU 88's (Junkers (Planes) ) to bomb cities 
 in afica Un-Quote 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDemos
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Let's all be honest, WWII adaptations are great and some inspiring. However, this is the most retarded 
 and bug filled game that you can play. This game seems like it came straight out of the bargain 
 bin for four dollars. My grandmother can play this game in her sleep- and mind you, she has never 
 played a videogame in her life.... Honestly- I recommend playing call of duty- rather than hour 
 of victory. This game is nothing but an hour of boredom. The graphics look like a bad PS2 early 
 title. (I have nothing against PS systems because I own them.) The graphics are glitchy and the 
 explosions are just.... Odd... The snow environments look like hugh snow clunks, which distort your 
 line of sight... I'm sorry- but games like this you have to be realistic and give it what it deserves.. 
 And this is the most uninspiring game I have ever played based on WWII.... Like I said- play Call 
 of Duty- or even Resistance: Fall of Man. Although the last title is an alternate version of WWII 
 its great fun... Hour of victory can't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cborowik
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game full of optimism, yes the levels are short and the graphics aren't superb, but 
 what I want to know is where are all these glitches people are talking about, 'cos I haven't run 
 into any of them, I mean it's a good game if you like your War games to be easy and ugly, me I 
 prefer COD 3 to this but I'll play it through to the end then probably trade it in, or trade it 
 in before I finish it, oh and stop whining you decided to buy the game so your at fault for buying 
 it before reading any reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitekiller1172
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  This game sucked so muched, i downloaded the demo i automatically hated dis game. I dont like the 
 gameplay, graphics are okay but dis iz the sorriest WW!! game eva. This is not worth buying and 
 everybody in diz game is ugly. HAHAHAHA. If u want a good game buy Medal Of Honor when it comes 
 out or just buy call of duty 2 or 3. Just dont buy this game, or if ur just wanting to play a good 
 war shooter wait and get Call Of Duty 4. Those are some good next gen game. Just to say again This 
 is the worst game and not well worth the money. If u want to see how diz game is just try the demo, 
 and then delete it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Ive played quite a few FPS and so when i see a new one on the shelves i play it but now after playing 
 it for a bit i wish i never went to the store and rented it. Midway tries to make a great WW2 and 
 fails miserably. The gmae graphics are terrible, with glitches every few seconds. The sound effects 
 are horrible the guns sound just like some is throwing pieces of metal at alluminum. The enemies 
 are just plain sad as well you can stand infront of them for 10 seconds and all they will do is 
 cower behind cover even though your right infront of them and the story line is well......... disgusting. 
 If can only hope people read this before they go and rent the game cause dont.... if you feel like 
 playing a fps then there are hundreds of other titles that will quench your thirst for a FPS 1000000x 
 better. This game should be free or something cause once you play it for over 10 minutes you want 
 to throw the disk out the window. If you want to do some WW2 killing then just get call of duty 
 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlandeiro
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Sgt_Fribble, if you own this game and spent your money, I am sorry you did. If you indeed enjoy 
 the game I am happy for you. If somehow you had something to do with the development of this game 
 and you are trying to make money off it you should be shot. I see that you have chosen Marcus Fenixs 
 face as your profile image and I can assume that you have played Gears of War. You should try comparing 
 the two games and based on that comparison tell me if this disaster of a game still lives up to 
 today's advancements in technology in the video game industry. This may be a bit unfair, since 
 the comparison is that of two different types of games. Then compare Call of Duty 3, both the single 
 player and multi-player modes to this game. You will notice a substantial difference. In addition, 
 take Activisions versions of Call of Duty 2 and compared to Call of Duty 3 it appears to be more 
 of the same. However, if you do a just comparison of both of those games you will notice that Activision 
 improved the franchise enough to give the public something new from the previous version. Hour 
 of Victory tried to copy these games and genre with dramatically poor results. The game is many 
 steps in the wrong direction.
  
  I am sure you will have an argument that will support the rating you gave Hour of Victory . Nevertheless, 
 I would love for the advertisements for this game to cease and for the remaining copies that exist 
 in circulation to be pulled off the shelves. No one should be enticed into buying garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahzoo
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  OMG. My friend bought this game thinking it would b fun i went to his house to play it. Only 1 
 word describes how good this game is S***. Pretty much every thing about this game is bad, so bad 
 that its hard to describe. It just sucks id rather drop a brick on my foot. IT SUCKS....... A LOT. 
 Possibly worst game of this gen. pretty much all to say this game is just plain s***. No it worst 
 game ive ever played. no worst game ever. putting the game in is more fun than the game itself. NEVER! 
 I REPEAT NEVER BUY THIS PIECE OF CRAP IT IS A WASTE OF MONEY IT SUCKS AND..... IT JUST SUCKS!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Fribble
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is the best World War II shooter that you can buy with your money. People seem 
 to hate this game but they obviously can't tell a good game from a not so good game. The sound 
 effects in Hour of Victory are good as so are the graphics. The story keeps you wanting to find 
 out what happens next and the voice acting is nicely done. I have always had a sense of where I 
 am in the game, i may be escorting a doctor or fighting off the germans but it is always fun. Another 
 cool feature in this game is to be able to choose who you use for each mission, this does act as 
 the cherry on top of the icing. For those of you that choose not to like this game it's your problem 
 because it's you that is missing out, not me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boohoe
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Even though there are many bugs and the nazi's usually look like monsters,
  I had fun playing this game. The easy thing is just using Commando and running up to people and 
 smacking them with my guns. The campaign was easy and so was getting achievements. I have not played 
 Multiplayer yet because of the low population Online, so i dont know how it would be. Yeah, i hear 
 all the other reviews say that this game is a very very big waste of money and time. But as long 
 as you have fun with it, why not. Stealth kills were fun too :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_big_fat_clown
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game instead of Buying Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter 2...... and man do I feel 
 like an idiot for buying this game.
  
  First of all this game was AWFUL, absolutely horrible I cannot believe I spent $60 on it right 
 after I popped it in and played it for 30 min I took in to Game Crazy right away to trade it in 
 and atleast get some of my money back.
  
  Secondly the games graphics Horrible for a next gen game and the way the game plays as far as the 
 sniping and shooting just Terrible I may as well had taken a lighter and just burned $60 instead 
 of buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  i honestly cant think of a nice thing to say about this game. nothing seemed to work right and 
 after a bit i stopped killing everyone that i didn't need too just because they weren't a threat. 
 poor graphics, outrageous bugs, pathetic game play, a plot so weak that had the enemy offered me 
 a mentos i would have switched sides in a heartbeat. what did I ever do to Midway that they would 
 send such a vile game to me? run away from this game, run far, run fast, and never look back. if 
 someone mentions its name to you, cover your ears and howl to block out the sound of their voice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  In all my years of playing WWII based video games, I've never, ever played a more atrocious, more 
 unbelieveably sucky WWII-based game than Hour Of Victory. On second thought, Hour Of Victory?! 
 More like Hour Of Suck if you ask me!
  
  The game is about (what else?!) World War II. You get to play 3 different people, ranging from 
 a stealth operative to a commando, to even a sniper. Honestly, hitting an enemy with the butt of 
 your rifle is MUCH STRONGER than actually shooting them. Wait a minute?! Shouldn't that be the 
 other way around?! Actually, that's the truth. No lie. But actually, the game is littered with 
 bugs and glitches, hindering gameplay. My game got so f****d up it almost made me throw my Xbox 
 360 out my window with Hour Of Victory in the disc tray. Okay, maybe not... no reason for me to 
 take out my frustration on my Xbox 360 console. Now I use the Hour Of Victory disc as a coaster.
 
  
  My god, that was a painful and frustrating Hour Of Victory. A victory alright, but not a victory 
 to be proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyphoidZFlash
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i thought it would be terrible but i was wrong my friend told me 
 it was great so i played it and indeed it was i dont even like WW2 games infact i hated all of 
 the call of duty games but this game was awesome sure the graphics werent perfect but the game 
 was just fun and the story was much better than CoD or medal of honor point is if u like unique 
 shooters that also happen to be WW2 games then buy it if u dont have money then atleast rent it 
 its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeve92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  this game rocks i am a big fan of fps games and this is brilliant although levels are extremely 
 short i still think its brilliant it has great graphics and great gameplay sound aint the best 
 but its good it looks brilliant on hd tv well worth money people only say it sucks becuz everyone 
 else says it sucks cuz gamespot says it sucks dont listen to them and play it properly its really 
 good just a shame my crappy xbox controller broke crappy microsoft junk but i got a good hour and 
 a half gameplay on single player and its brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyhale
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  I have never wrote a review on any game, but this one is so bad that I just wanted to gripe about 
 it to the world. As you can see, most people have beat me to it. This game is terrible at all levels. 
 I made this assumtion after playing about 3 levels. Fortunately, I rented the game for 5 days and 
 should have it done within 2. This game is worse than any launch title and I was shocked to see 
 Midways name on it. What a truly poor effort with game glitches, bad character movement, AI that 
 looks worse than original nintendo, and awful graphics for a next gen console that has been out 
 over 2 years. I mean, at least the launch titles gave us better graphics, this doesn't even do 
 that. My mother always told me to look for the positive in every situation. The only positive about 
 this game is the achievements. They are easy to accomplish and plentiful. You usually get 15-25 
 points after each level and then some token grenade kills and melee kills that are all easy. If 
 you want a quick 300-500 achievement points and have a free weekend, then rent it. Otherwise, look 
 at it and laugh because we are here to tell you.... THIS GAME SUCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Allow me to summarize Hour of Victory quickly and succinctly, so that you don't waste more time 
 thinking about it than the developers did making it. The graphics look like they came from a Playstation 
 1. The sound is better left on mute. The storyline and gameplay are so bad, you'll wonder if the 
 developers had secretly plotted its awfulness on purpose, if for no other reason than to test Microsoft's 
 standards.
  
  If you like World War II shooters, you won't anymore after this game. It's a turd. And not even 
 the kind of turd that comes wrapped in a pretty bow and whose smell is masked by perfume. Hour 
 of Victory is a simple, in your face, turd -- with no window dressing or nothing.
  
  You are given the choice between three characters. One is a sniper, one is supposedly stealthy, 
 and the final guy is a commando type that can take a lot of damage. The game makes a very shallow 
 attempt to alter the gameplay depending on which character you choose. The sniper can access high 
 areas, such as rooftops, to shoot down on enemies. The stealth character can cut through fences. 
 And the commado'esque character, well . . . he can't do those things, but he can eat a whole lot 
 of lead pellets.
  
  Inevitably, it doesn't matter who you pick, because the differences between the characters are 
 soo poorly thought out that the game basically plays the same. If anything, pick the commando guy 
 because he can take more damage.
  
  I should add, gunplay is not very satisfying in the game. The obnoxiously difficult aiming control 
 in the game doesn't help. Your default sensitivity settings cause you to turn excruciatingly slow. 
 Even if you crank them up, it will still be difficult to aim. And the guns really don't do much 
 damage to boot. Throw in horrible A. I. (most enemies just lumber around waiting to be hit in the 
 face with the butt of your rifle) , unresponse vehicles (tanks that clip into walls and can barely 
 be controlled) and the unsatisfying storytelling, and you are pretty much left with a stinker.
 
  
  Don't ever buy this game, even for $2 in a bargain bin. It's just not worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdogg519
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks. call of duty blows this out of the water. the tank control sucks the graphics 
 suck the weapons are no where near as authentic as call of duty. the aiming cursor stays where 
 it is the whole time. this game is a joke i waisted my time and money renting it. well at least 
 i know it sucks. when i first heard of it i was going to go buy it but i read the reviews and decided 
 to rent it instead. i playd one level where you have to use a tank and i couldnt control the damn 
 thing. the artifishal intealigence is not very inteligent at all. the germans will just stand there 
 in the open and shoot at you and they wont even take cover. this is one of the **** games ive ever 
 played. call of duty finest hour for ps2 is exactly like this but i had more fun playin call of 
 duty for ps2 than hour of victory for xbox 360. this game SUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OXM-Madman
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Hour of Victory, the new game from publisher nFusion, creators of the critically acclaimed games 
 Deadly Dozen 2 and Line of Sight: Vietnam. The main idea around it is every level you can choose 
 between a sniper, a commando, or a Sam Fisher style player. But what about the actual game?
  
  -----------------------
  Gameplay
  -----------------------
  
  Rating: 6.0
  
  Plain. 
 That is all I can say. Nothing at all is innovative about the gameplay itself, other than a very 
 basic FPS. But although this may be the case, the game can still be quite enjoyable for those FPS 
 addicts, as most of the game you'll simply be pumping bullets into 10 Nazis at a time.
  
  ---------------------
  Graphics
  ---------------------
  
  Rating: 6.3
  
  A game powered 
 by the Unreal 3 engine. It HAS to look good, right? Right? Wrong. This game is quite a bit ugly 
 compared to nowerday next generation games, but they are more advanced than PS2 or Xbox graphics, 
 just not using the Unreal engine as good as it could be. There are also some graphical bugs that 
 lower the score.
  
  ---------------------
  Sound
  ---------------------
  
  Rating: 6.7
  
  Probably the strongest part of the game, the sound is fairly good for the weapons, 
 but is clearly under par with other games of the same genre. The music is good though, trying to 
 show that the game developers are going for an action blockbuster type game. Most of the voice 
 actors are British though, so it wouldn't hurt for a bit of variety!
  
  ---------------------
  Value
  ---------------------
  
  Rating: 6.1
  
  Not much value 
 for your money: You'll complete the campaign in about 6 hours, and once you get around to the multiplayer, 
 it's not very different. It has a particularly interesting multiplayer mode, which is kinda like 
 Capture the Flag reversed, but other than that, a graphically &amp; gameplay-washed down version 
 of Call of Duty 3's multiplayer.
  
  --------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt
  --------------------
  
  Rating: 7.0
  
  No tilt: Neutral review.
  
  --------------------
 
  Overall
  --------------------
  
  Rating: 6.4
  
  A very disappointing shooter from nFusion, considering their previous games. But, as a first next 
 generation title, and as a first title in the last few years, it is not a bad game. I would recommend 
 a rent from Blockbuster to see if you like it or not if you want to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I've become increasinly confused by how wrong the reviews have been on GS 
 lately, with this and Scarface for the Wii being painfully off the mark. I appreciate that reviews 
 are subjective but when I saw the review for HoV I just had to have a go! Now whilst the game does 
 have it flaws they are NOWHERE near as bad as the GS review stated. There are 360 games that MUCH 
 worse in hte graphics and gameplay etc dept. Those being, CoD3-The Outfit-Fifa Road to the world 
 cup-Brian Lara cricket 2007 to name a few. Its a FPS WW2 shooter, which in itself was not a new 
 or fresh concept, the graghics are almost as good as any other of the 1st person shooters out there, 
 with the emphasis on 'Almost'. I certainly had NO issue running, shooting, driving tanks etc. There 
 were the odd graphical glitch but again nothing to shocking. There's a fair amount of variety in 
 the game. Its reasonably challenging and has a satisfiying amount of achievements to work for. 
 No it doesn't blow you away with its state of the art visuals and yes the AI is a little amusing 
 at times but so what! We've got COD2 or any of the GRAW for that. The sound effects etc again are 
 standard and fit the game well enough. Certainly the explosions and the larger mounted machine 
 guns sound spot on. Granted there are better FPS to buy. But to give the game such a slating as 
 a score of 2 is a little unjust. I enjoyed HoV and i suggest that you rent or buy, and return within 
 shop returns policy should you need to, to see for yourself. It reminds me of Beach Head 2 for 
 the next gen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jugg3rn4ut
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, I guess it was bound to happen... You know what I'm talking about don't you Mr. Average Xbox360 
 Gamer?! It was only expected that a trully abysmal game would make it's way onto the Xbox360 platform, 
 sooner or later it had to happen. I am only glad it happened in the form of a WW shooter, instead 
 of a game I was actually anticipating to be good; it spared me the dissapointment. What I am not 
 OK with is actually spending 60 USD on this pile of donkey cr@p! I am not even going to grace this 
 game with a normal review, it is just not worth my time writing and it is not worth your time reading. 
 Let's just say that this game is broken in pretty much every aspect, it is in a word a DISASTER! 
 I sympathize for everyone who spend their money on this game expecting more, I sure hope gamers 
 will get to read the reviews, written by gamers, so they can avoid this terrible game. I don't 
 recommend this game to anyone... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomono
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  As I already said, this game is horrible. Add up all the bugs, glitches, bad graphics, and terrible 
 sound and you've got something that i could have made on Blender 3D in a couple of days. The single 
 player is abysmal, crashing and getting stuck is not very fun (maybe the guys who made it think 
 differently from everyone else) . The multiplayer is even worse, although I've never had the tank 
 get stuck I did find the melee attack to be far superior to pressing the trigger. If you can avoid 
 this thing then please do so at ALL COSTS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Waring Spoilers
  
  I wish this game was better, it looked promsing, but it has bad graphics, AI, Game-play, and sound. 
 I played the demo of it and people's faces were pretty damn creepy looking and some parts in the 
 game are glitched so don't waste time buying this game, Hour of Victory is the worst WW2 game, 
 play Call of Duty instead of this piece of junk; it tried to copy Call of Duty but failed very 
 badly. I wish you would understand how terrible this is because if you think this is good that's 
 then that is simply astounding. To make matters worse it seems to have copied the beat downs and 
 health exactly from Call of duty. The glitchy vehicle controlling doesn't matter much because the 
 enemies will be glitched and do nothing, except they actually fire their guns sometimes but they 
 fire at nothing and they are so stupid they try to beat you down inside the tank or when you are 
 far away. This game has no redeeming qualities to think of, and to be honest I would rather kill 
 myself rather than pay $10, let alone $60 for this game. The multi-player might be fun but I don't 
 know just don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimalDeathX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  i dont no why people insist this game is so bad its not really i mean its nt a buyer due to the 
 online being horrible but the story is fun but people act like this game is like 50 cent bullet 
 proof its worth trying out the graphics are pretty good but the ai are pretty stupid BUT! its ok 
 its still fun so if u want to try something like a call of duty then u might wana play this an 
 see how u like it dont listen to people who say this game is horrible because everyone has differnt 
 opinions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00phead
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Hour of victory is a pathetic example of world war 2 games it starts bad and ends bad why the missions 
 are to damn short the graphics make nazis look like crap its got so many bugs by the way the only 
 good thing about this are the achivements. this game is basically superman 64 for world war 2 games 
 so avoid this game for ever, but the wort thing about this is multiplayer there are no frekin grenades. so 
 all call of duty and medal of honour fans when you see this at game stop put behind a copy of the 
 darkness because this game dosent deserve to see the light of day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst game Ive ever seen on any new next gen consoles this is an inbarisment to 
 the unreal engine and the 360. you dont wont to even get near the case much less touch it what 
 was wrong with these people its a Wanna be Call Of Duty bt they screwed up badly . When yu pick 
 the sniper when you fire its like your guy blinks/ (CENSORED) . Ok that ticked me off and its like 
 they ran out of button Ideas theres like 2 run buttons and 2 melee buttons ok. I think im done 
 showing the world how much they never even wont to pick up the game EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadshotDavido7
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I call blasphemy on anyone that would rate this great game anything below 1000000 out of 1000000 
 if the scale would allow it. No one in their right mind would scold this game.
  
  Graphics: Suffice to say, this game is beautful in an ungodly way. Just stunning. A definite breakthrough 
 in the industry from which everyone can and needs to learn if they wish to compete with this juggernaut. 
 Take the zombie appearance of characters for example, the lack of life in the character's features 
 simply strengthens the realism of a WWII game like this one, i. e. the general fatigue induced by 
 running around in circles and squeezing through doors.
  This game is worthy of your money, even just to ogle at it's marvelous graphics, as we might never 
 see something like this on the market ever again.
  
  Sound: This game sounds like a military orchestra performing in the street whilst the surrounding 
 blocks are under an air raid, everything sounds genuine and realistic. You could easily make multi-billions 
 and platinum gold mithril thorium records if you just record one second of the action on low quality 
 even.
  
  Gameplay: This game is BRUTALLY difficult, and nonetheless BRUTALLY enjoyable. It took me nearly 
 48 hours to work out how I reload my weapon. No repetitive missions; this game is bloated with 
 innovations level after level. Fun guaranteed for the whole family.
  
  AI: You can't do anything but appreciate the accurate portrayal of the training Nazi troops receieved. 
 From the extremely economic use of ammunition, to their bewildering tactics. The cold stare they 
 give you while you point your gun to their face, standing still, not reacting in the least bit, 
 while their comrades cry for help and/or are getting slaughtered.
  
  Character: Badass on the level of Chuck Norris. Trained to the point of using firearms as clubs 
 to instant deadly effect. Can't ask for more than that.
  
  All in all, this game IS worth your money. Sell your house, your basement, your wife, your kids, 
 your parents, your manhood, because you + this game = eternal happiness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  The Good: The shooting mechanics aren't completely broken, the consept is kinda interesting, easy 
 achievements.
  
  The Bad: Extremely glitchy, blatent Call of Duty rip off, poor voice acting and sound effects, 
 ugly graphics, extrememly dumb a. i., laggy multiplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The WWII shooter has been around the block of video games. It's had it's ups and it's downs. Midway's 
 Hour of Victory is definately one of it's downs.
  
  In the single player campaign, you play as one of three Brittish soldiers who must do whatever 
 it takes to take out the Germans, Each character has different abilities, such as one is a steath 
 player with a combat knife and one has a sniper rifle and can climb ropes. This consept is interesting, 
 band the achievements are easy to earn, but that's about as much praise as I can give Hour of Victory. 
 In all honesty, it's a mostly broken pile of crap that has no business being on store shelves.
 
  
  First off, the game is running on Unreal Engine 3, but it's by far the ugliest Unreal powered game 
 I have ever seen. The characters look deformed. The environments look ok, but the deformed looking 
 enemies will turn you off pretty quickly. The sound effects are poor as well. The voice acting 
 is very cheesy and baddly done, plus the diolog the voice actors had to work with was very bad. 
 Who wrote the script, a 12 year old?
  
  By now you may be thinking, ok, so it looks and sounds bad, that doesn't mean it plays bad too, 
 right? WRONG! Hour of Victory is the single glitchiest game I have ever played. I've encountered 
 everything from glitching through walls to my death, to getting killed with no enemies nearby. 
 Grenades are very poorly animated, and bounce off the walls like you through a super ball. What 
 makes the game even worse is the dumb as nails a. i. I've had enemies run past me to find cover, 
 run into walls, stand in the open and reload, use cover in a pattern, and never break it. They 
 even kill their own teamates constantly with grenades. The stealth missions are very poorly consived. 
 Basically, you can get through the mission by slashing everyone's necks, but you have the option 
 to be stealthy by hiding in a stealth zone and waiting for an enemy to pass you, then you can kill 
 them from behind. There are also exclusive areas that only one of the three playable characters 
 can access, so you will have to find a different rout each time. Ok, so maybe the single player 
 is aweful, what about the multiplayer? It's bad too. First, the lag is horendius. You barely have 
 time to move before you die, the objectives for an objective based game aren't explained before 
 each match, you have no grenades and you must stand completely still to heal. Not only that, but 
 it's quite hard to get a clean shot off on someone who is jumping around thanks to the lag. In 
 case you didn't pick this up, there are virtually no redeeming qualities to this game. It sucks 
 beyond belief. It is a game that should have never been made that degrades the 360 library.
  
  Overall, avoid this game at all costs. It is very bad, and not worth your time. Achievement 
 hogs may like the achievements, but everyone else should avoid this game with a 10 ft. pole.
  
  Gameplay: Glitchy, practically broken a. i., laggy online, baddly done stealth missions, shall 
 I go on?
  
  Graphics: This is by far the ugliest Unreal Engine 3 powered game I have ever seen.
  
  Sound: 
 Poor voice acting and a very lame script.
  
  Value: If you got this for free, don't play it.
  
  Final Thoughts: The Hour of Victory, is 
 the hour you spend smashing this game into tiny bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yospike13
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  From running through entire levels only using a knife, to cleaning the blood off the floor that 
 poured out of my eyes and ears, this game took me on a ride! ... on a bullet train to hell!
  
  This is the worst WWII shooter that has ever been made, do not play it. If you like WWII games 
 you will be shocked and appalled at the horrible gameplay that resides on the $60 silver disc. 
 After ten minutes of playing this game, I turned off my xbox 360 and sat with my head in my hands 
 feeling depressed and sad inside, this game makes you wish that you were not alive any longer, 
 stay away from it at all costs.
  
  DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has decent graphics, ok gameplay, and this game feels like a cheap Halo, COD, and black. 
 I think this game is ok but it has a kinda cheap story. Been done like 50 times. I think that just 
 shooting people in this game is kinda fun but it needs more effects like maybe better blood. This 
 game would have been alot better if they kept it for anouther 2 months. I think that this is a 
 cheapo version of COD 2. It needs more time but it is a great game. Buy this game if you want easy 
 achevements!!! No other reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicens17
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  God help us all. What the hell were the developers thinking when they released this crap among 
 us? With the worst next-gen graphics ever to grace the generation, and some of the worst gameplay 
 imaginable, its hard to recommend this game to anyone. If your a fan of WW2 shooters, this game 
 is still not for you. It has the same guns from Calls of Duty 3, but with less detail, even with 
 an unreal engine . The game litterally is UNreal. This game is nothing more than a hilarious rip-off 
 of Call of Duty. Believe what you read on Hour of Victorys' page. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColonelWilks
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Midway was releasing yet another WWII game, I was skeptical. Thankfully, Hour of Victory 
 delivers.
  
  ===========================================================
  
  Gameplay- Playing Hour of Victory is like racing your Jewish Grandmother to the last slice of raspberry 
 cheesecake at your sister's Barmitzfuh; a pure adrenaline rush. As the main character, you are 
 given an ability called The Nazi Deathblow , a technique that calls upon the power of Jesus Christ 
 to smite the fascists, adding an unexpected religious element to the game that just seems to set 
 it apart from other crap in its genre. Also, the shooting in this game is handled extremely realistically. 
 The controller shakes just like a gun! Wow! Finally, the core game experience remains one-hundred 
 percent historically accurate, right down to the final showdown with Karl Marx in his futuristic 
 hovering wheelchair.
  
  ===========================================================
  
  Graphics-
  Hell, after playing a couple hours of HoV, I was calling the graphics in real life 
 pixelated! They're that good. Tanks look green, not yellow, not red, but a realistic hue of baby-barf 
 green, an element rarely seen in other WWII shooters. Upon closer examination, you'll find that 
 you're able to see the individual beads of sweat on a Kraut's moustache, further glorified by Midways 
 patented Stache v 1.6 integrated game engine. Additionally, Hour of Victory introduces a brand-new 
 graphical effect called Sun Glare. That is, when you look at the sun in the game, you see glare! 
 Revolutionary. As for the rumors of clipping, dont believe a word you hear. When you kill a man, 
 his head is supposed to go through the wall behind him! Try it.
  
  ===========================================================
  
  Sound-
  With the cracking 
 of gunfire and the whistling of falling bombs, you'll feel as if you're actually on the battlefield. 
 Nazis scream obscenities at you in real German, at least my crazy Austrian Grandfather thought 
 so. The sound is so realistic that he dived under the futon upon hearing German snipers attempt 
 to pick off my character. Amazing. Also, it may be worth adding that guns make a Bang Bang noise 
 when fired, just like in real life; truly a feast for the ears. The acoustics of HoV are simply 
 so good that after playing this game, even a symphony by Yo Yo Ma will sound like a dying cat. 
 Truly Remarkable.
  
  ===========================================================
  
  Value-
  For any other game, $60 would have been a steep pricetag, but having the entirety of 
 WWII in the palms of your greedy hands is more than worth it. So hop on your ass (donkey, not buttocks) 
 and ride it to your nearest videogame store to purchase this gem. ===========================================================
 
  
  Last Word-
  Gamers looking for a gritty, fast-paced, adrenaline filled, meaty gameplay experience should pick 
 up Hour of Victory without a second thought. So sell your body on the streets until you can afford 
 this wonderful game. I did, and it was definitely worth it, even if it does hurt when i sit down 
 =)
  
  ===========================================================
  
  -Your Friendly Neighborhood Colonel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toritofine
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  It was over before i could even notice. Thank god i didnt buy it, me and my cousins went to blockbuster 
 to rent it. And, well... let me put it this way: GET AWAY FROM THIS GAME!!!! seriously... make 
 yourself a favor and go rent call of duty 3, or graw, a REAL war based shooter.
  U want me to explain the game? nah, its not worth it, read the gamespot review, cuz the game is 
 exactly as we and they say... it simply sucks
  
  shame, no game can have a 0 ranking... this one deserves it
  
  so, u know wut to do........... 
 if u see this game on the shelves............. get away from it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vakrium
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute crud. I can't believe they actually released this, and no matter how many 
 patches they apply, the game will still be junk. I've played many Midway games, and I still have 
 trouble believing that Midway put this out. Someone over at HQ must have pushed this one out on 
 purpose to just meet some sort of game schedule for releases, because to see this game in action 
 makes me want to watch a K-Fed marathon instead. I've played bad games before, but this one wins 
 worst game ever made or damn near close to. If you bought this game, I would mail Midway and demand 
 a refund. This game is only meant for those who have too much money, and too much time on their 
 hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tzmir
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Actually im not gonna waste so much time to review this POS.
  
  You can expect crap game from.
  
  Low budget titles.
  
  Unknown developers
  
  Title 
 with no advertiseing.
  
  This game is a full 60 dollah priced game from well known Midway as the creators. There's a tons 
 of ads around the net. I feel very very soory for those John Does who dosnt use gamespot and just 
 buy something that looks cool. OR the poor mom who worked overtime to get sonny a new game.
  
  What were they THINKING??? There is a guy called The Angry Video Game Nerd who reviews crap 
 titles. He could rip this title to shreds in a few moments. And i hope he does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  The Good: If you're into self-induced torture and self-loathing, you will be very happy with this 
 game. Also a great gift for your worst enemy.
  
  The Bad: Everything else...
  
  I have to admit up front that I didn't play the full game, and ordinarily I like to get 3/4 of 
 the way through a full version of a game before I feel justified in writing a review... but the 
 demo (available on Xbox Live Marketplace DO NOT BUY THIS GAME WITHOUT SEEING FOR YOURSELF how bad 
 it is) is the worst gameplay experience I can ever remember having on any next-gen system, so I 
 felt compelled to write this and maybe save someone from wasting their money.
  
  Not only do the graphics look like PS2, we're talking the lower-quality graphics end of PS2 graphics. 
 This is absolutely the worst looking game for the 360 yet, by a mile. It's enough to give you a 
 headache. Just looking at this is real punishment especially if you've played a beautiful WWII 
 shooter like COD3.
  
  At first the gameplay seems like it's going to be like the COD games, with the exception of the 
 graphics. Various guns, shooting at Nazis, WWII environments. That lasts for about a second until 
 you realize how bad the enemy AI is, how there's blockades everywhere (forget about using tactics 
 like flanking) , aim is poor, and what's going on is lame and doesn't make sense.
  
  Compared to good shooters like COD3 and the Tom Clancy games this game is an absolute DISGRACE. 
 If you want to just mindlessly prod through a shooter with bad AI, horrible graphics, bad gameplay, 
 and lame story, with no need for tactics, thought, or real skill, this game may even seem mediocre. 
 For any gamer who likes GOOD games not only is this game not worth a buy and not even worth a rent, 
 it's not even worth your TIME even if you could get it completely for free, unless you're willing 
 to torture yourself for the sake of some acheivement points.
  
  Please, please, play Call of Duty 3 or 2, or play them again if you've already played them, if 
 you need a WWII shooter fix. Do yourself a favor and do not endure this atrocity unless you are 
 a glutton for punishment or someone has you chained up in a dungeon looking for ways to torture 
 you.
  
  Look if you don't believe me, at least try the demo first. I guarantee if my review, or Gamespot's 
 review don't make up your mind the demo will. If they wanted to guarantee low sales figures then 
 making that demo available was pure genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil725
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  HORRIBLE!! GARBAGE!!!!  
 
   
 
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HOR IBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBHORRIBLELE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE
  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLEHORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
 HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertwelsh2
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After a long selection of World War II shooters including big hits like Call of Duty and Medal 
 of Honor, even Company of Heroes, people instinctively routed to believing that Hour of Victory 
 could be a decent if not good shooter. Those people were sadly mistaken
  
  Hour of Victory has to be the saddest excuse of a Military Shooter to of ever come out in 2007. 
 I don't even think that it should even be called a Military Shooter, on account of what a piece 
 of @#$! it is. Maybe it can be called a Manure Shooter.
  
  Veteran gamers immediately complained about Hour of Victory as soon as the X box 360 Demo came 
 out before summer vacation, we have even warned people to avoid eye contact with this game! It 
 saddens me to look at the vital stats and to see 17 people Now Playing . On account of the abysmal 
 graphics, gameplay, sound, voice acting, and the full price value, this game deserves an abysmal 
 rating.
  
  I won't even give this game the privilege of a full length review!
  
  -Review by Robert Welsh, Robbie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Nexus3367
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at the store for 1 hour and trust me, it is hard to describe how much it sucks. So 
 where to start..... The graphics are horrendous and ugly. The gameplay is broken and very boring 
 compared to other WW2 games. The online is just as broken as the single player. The game is very 
 glitchy and full of bugs, and the online, while i have not played it online, i have seen videos and 
 demos of it, and the game is LAGGY.
  
  The story is pretty straightforward and simple. The levels are designed horribly and have no creativity. It's 
 very easy to pick up but the bugs and glitches make this so difficult to play it wouldn't matter. Whether 
 it's the scarce online community or the tanks that can shoot through walls, this game is an overall 
 disaster. This game is the worst in a genre that is already crowded with WW2 games, if you haven't 
 played some WW2 games, I suggest getting any Call of Duty game, Medal Of Honor European Assualt, or 
 Battlefield 1942. You have been warned, stay away from this piece of garbage that was crapped out 
 of some lazy developer's behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnie123456789
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me say after playing the demo on my 360, I immediately deleted it. I'm the sort of guy 
 who usually takes some time to play a demo, but in this case, I just had this feeling of un-reprehensible 
 disgust. It felt like Call of Duty meets Big Rigs Over The Road Racing (points to anyone who knows 
 what that is) . It's a sad, broken clone. Period.
  
  In a world where there are already so many WWII shooters, even a high-quality one would be too 
 much. But this is truly E. T. all over again. Even in the 70's, I'm sure people would have appreciated 
 Pong more than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkfish
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, I haven't played the full game. I did however play the demo and thankfully it was 
 fairly short ! The AI was awful, the graphics look like first generation Xbox graphics or even 
 PS2 graphics ! From my experience of the demo, I knew this was going to be dire and from what I 
 have read of the review, I will not be buying this EVER !
  
  Trouble is, there will always be some people out there that do not or will not read reviews or 
 recommendations before parting with their hard-earned cash and its those people that I feel sorry 
 for.
  
  You would do well to stear well clear of this steaming turd.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunTzuJJ
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Its hard to believe that in this day in age.. something this bad could be given the stamp of approval 
 by anyone. If WWII was anything like this.. in any respect.. one guy could have won the entire thing 
 himself. Incredibly BAD AI that no sooner would wave at you and offer a cigarette instead of shoot 
 you. No semblance of teamwork or unity among the enemies exists in this game. Walk up, smack them 
 with your rifle.. rinse repeat.. finish level... Now occasionally there is the random fire fight.. and 
 yet even more surprisingly some of the enemies will successfully shoot you. But couple in the ridiculous 
 clipping issues ( if i have to back up and try to go through a door again in another game I will 
 toss my 360 ) Horrible graphics ( this must have been developed on a 386 not the 360) and you have 
 a fps that just cries for you to go take it out to the wood shed and get your dads belt. If you 
 like to suffer, and have some weird S&amp; M thing for painful to play video games,,, this is the 
 title for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingPoint8
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  I honestly don't know what to say, this game is disgusting. There's nothing I can say that hasn't 
 already been said 100x over. Just do not buy this game, I don't know if I can find it in myself 
 to play another World War 2 shooting game after this. Do yourself a favor, never play a game developed 
 by Nfusion either, I know I won't be. The AI is retarded, (But to the developers I'm sure they 
 seemed normal) The sound gave me a headache in the first five minutes.
  
  Honestly would have rather played Bullet Witch then this piece of garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winterwound
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  imagine being a soldier in world war two. play this game, and you basically are that soldier. what 
 i'm trying to say is, this ain't your grandma's cup of bed-time tea that she drinks before napping. 
 this game is for hardcore leet bada$$ players who want to singlehandedly win WW2..... and do it 
 in 3 hours. the moment you pop Hour of Victory in and pick up your game controller, you have this 
 ability in the palm of your hands. graphics: what can i say, you just have to see them for yourself. 
 the graphics are right on your television when you play the game. you will see them with your eyes, 
 and then believe it when you see it. right in front of you. as you are playing the game. i am not 
 joking, your eyes will literally see things appear. a visual cornucopia. the graphics utterly destroy 
 everything i've seen on the sega genesis platform. the graphics engine is the infamous no-moustache 
 one (all nazis are clean-shaven or have beards) , and bloom effects only occur in the crotch areas 
 of nazis, which is a small disappointment. sound: wow. simply ..... sonic. gunshots ring out as 
 the nazis fire at you, you hear the sound of a nazi tank engine when a tank is near by. your character 
 makes realistic footstep sounds as he walks. lots of other sounds. too many to remember. that means 
 we're good on sound, move on.
  
  gameplay: GREAT graphics. nazi symbols all over the place. swat-stickers.
  
  multiplayer: multiplayer.
 
  
  the bad: game crashes, character can't really fit through doors, can win game with one attack repeated 
 from any character you choose, AI is, to say the least: glossed over (understandable because it 
 takes effort) . developers forgot to make the game look good or work right.... really not much else. 
 oh, one more thing.... on the rare occasion that the intended game play/mechanics function properly, 
 they operate on the most infantile and  possible, creating a new 
 low standard previously unprecedented in the history of game design. HOWEVER: these are just minor 
 flaws the mona lisa that is Hour of Victory.
  
  summary: [this game] is an important part of america's history, and will never be forgotten. world 
 war two was a significant era of our past that proved our nation could stop evil fascists from 
 taking over the world. - me, 7th grade history class, final report - 8 pages - America vs. Hitler 
 in World War Two - grade: B- (failure to cite sources, which is because i couldn't cite the embellished 
 BS my dad told me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  When I read Gamespot's review of this game all I can think of is what happened to all the stuff 
 they said in their preview. I just read the PREview of the game and they talked like it was great 
 and then read the review and it stank. And they actually played part of the game in the preview. 
 Anyways.........
  
  YOu can choose from three different soldiers......... a stealthy, knife-packing dude, a commando 
 guns blazing dude, and a sniper. Each one can perform differently at certain situation-specific 
 points in the game that only that person can perform such as climbing a rope or opening doors or 
 moving large obstacles. The first thing that strikes me about the game is the graphics. They are 
 good clear clean sharp looking. It's running on a version of UNREAL enginge if I'm not mistaken. 
 Personally, I like getting the achievements in this game. It's a good achievement-getter game. 
 If you liked the Medal of Honor games or the Call of Duty games I don't see how you could NOT like 
 this because it's pretty similar but it's also different enough and unique enough to peak my interest. 
 That's why I like the game. I actually had purchased the Transformers game but was so disappointed 
 I exchanged it for this and was extremely glad I did. It's ten times funner and ten times a better 
 game than Transformers. And the ONLY way Gamespot could give Transformers a higher score, IMO, 
 is maybe because they did alot of advertising or something with this website. I dunno. Im just 
 trying to think of a reason they would score Transformers so much higher than this game. Obviously 
 Transformers is a crappy crappy game in my opinion.
  
  Try this game. Forget the bad reviews. I for one like Hour of Victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok i still dont know how they even got to release this game its just pointless you get people spawn 
 behind you and to say its meant to have the unreal engine more like a windup engine the graphics 
 are ps2 standards or just about might not reach that far lol but anyway im so glad i played this 
 at a mates house and didnt blow &pound;45 on it not when you can now by call of duty 2,3 for cheaper 
 and they are miles better theres just nothing good to be said about hour of victory the only hour 
 you spend with the game is the time it takes for you to buy take home put it on see how crap it 
 is and then trade it in thats the hour and its not even a victory if you want the latest best 1st 
 person shooter get darkness that game has great graphics great gameplay.
  
  Think thats all to be said of the worst hour of your 360 life i still cant believe someone has 
 voted it perfect 10/10 they need to get a life or something or play call of duty 3 thats a real 
 war game.
  (thats gotta be a fix maybe the creators of hour of victory signed up to promote there crap game 
 lol not like it got it past a 2/10 anyway) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Well another one of my crazy reviews again. But this one is just going to be negative feedback 
 on this game.
  
  Hour of victory isn't the best world war 2 game out there but there is the list of others that 
 make this game aleast decent which is pretty scary lol. Anyways Hour of victory places you in world 
 war 2 but places you throughout different locations such as the Desert to some other location around 
 the world war 2 timeline I think the game doesn't really tell you where you are or have anything 
 that can give you a hint of what town or location you are on the map like call of duty series they 
 give you a few hints of where you are in the world war 2 timeline and location wise.
  
  The gameplay here is pretty bad such as enemy ai is well.... Stupid the enemy will take cover but 
 when you start running at them they leave cover and stand there trying to shoot you or if your 
 hiding they will run for you.... no one sees you but they seem to know where you are lol. Most of 
 the enemies can be take down by melee attacks which is pretty sad just running around beating them 
 down with a fully load gun :P. Your allies aren't any better most of them that follow you die from 
 just walking to a box.... or disappear once the battle starts... I know there were cowards in wars 
 but serious I never heard of soldiers being about to take off in a flash of light.
  
  They also added 3 characters for you to pick... But really most of them aren't really useful. They 
 all have special abilites such as one opening locked doors , another pushing objects and another 
 to be able to ..... use a rope.... like the other 2 soldiers wouldn't have the training to use a 
 rope.... Each character starts with their own guns but you can switch with the dead but the downfall 
 is ..... the guns disappear right after you shoot them so finding ammo and another gun is hard even 
 on easy settings lol. The special abilties the classes use basicly are for you to get pass enemies 
 or sneak by them to take them out from behind... problem is the enemy knows your going that way 
 and even if you walk as slow as a mouse your going to be engaged into battle no matter what so 
 stealth really doesn't exist.
  
  Graphics are not bad but could of be aleast better, characters are pretty bad pushing their faces 
 into a zombie look but I guess that's better then a faceless soldiers.... wait I think that would 
 be better for this game lol. The missions are short I mean so short you really don't have to think 
 about anything just shoot or melee through the map are you will done in less then 1 min. Thats 
 how short they are. There are some drive tank missions but most of them are either annoying because 
 the enemy uses rockets left and right or they is really noone around to cause you harm.... ya point 
 less
  
  In the end really this game is nothing much more then a paper weight, if you want to buy it wait 
 until it reaches the 2 for 1 bin or $10 because right now its not worth it even if your the one 
 that wants gamer score points for your 360 or just want to play a ww 2 game this isn't worth your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantheman111490
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as there are so many faults in this game, and no redeeming qualities, here is a list of 
 the shortcomings that will serve as my review (the hardest part was focusing on 3 main faults) :
 
  
  Bleeding STUPID AI- possibly the easiest way to run through this game is to never fire your weapon, 
 and instead run out into the open and around behind the barrel that guy's hiding behind and beat 
 him to death. this works on pretty much every enemy and you may never even get shot. Not to mention 
 the times when they will stand in the open doing absolutely nothing, waiting to be killed.
  
  Extremely easy- You could probably make it through the entire game without ever shooting an 
 enemy
  
  Terrible control scheme: everything feels clunky and broken, and don't even get me started on the 
 tanks
  
  And since this just has to be mentioned: the visuals burn my eyes with their hideousness
  
 
  To sum it all up: This game's only purpose is to collect dust on the shelves of any store stupid 
 enough to stock it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  [This is my first review with GameSpot's new rating system, so to mark that, I shall now use my 
 own de-merit system :) ]
  
  THE GOOD:
  This may cause you to look at Call of Duty 2 or 3, hopefully making you buy it, and leaving this 
 game on the shelf.
  
  THE BAD:
  Muddy and lifeless graphics :: Clumsy controls :: Broken gameplay :: Achievements require you to 
 play each mission three times, the first time is more than enough :: Busted and barren online multiplayer 
 :: Tank physics are floaty, unrealistic and bad :: The game decides when it wants to work :: Constant 
 glitches and freezing :: Poor weapons, melee attacks are more effective :: A generic feel to the 
 menus, HUD's and everything else in this game :: No personality to the characters.
  
  ---BUSTED GRAPHICS / PERFORMANCE
  ---BUSTED ARTISTIC GRAPHICS
  ---BAREBONES / UNFINISHED
 
  ---GENERIC
  ---BAD MUSIC
  ---BAD SOUND FX
  ---POOR VALUE
  ---COPYCAT
  ---BROKEN GAMEPLAY
  ---SHOULDN'T EXIST
  
  Ever since Medal of Honour started out on the PS, 
 many sequels and other other WWII franchises were spawned. When Medal of Honour: Underground came 
 out, the WWII shooter had hit it's peak. Then for a long time, nothing happened. Medal of Honour: 
 Frontline brought all new meaning to the word intense , the beginning mission was a defining moment 
 in WWII shooter history. Call of Duty then hit the PC, promising an exciting ride, and it delivered 
 this. The series was then brought to console, which expanded the series to console gamers, but 
 it didn't compare to the PC version. Brother's In Arms may currently only consist of two games 
 (which are strikingly similar, and released within 8 months of each other) but they were great 
 nonetheless. Following the success of the Call of Duty series on the Xbox 360, Midway took a crack 
 at the genre, and the result, a broken, generic knockoff of much better WWII games.
  
  Let's start with the graphics:
  The trailer promised intense graphics, and they were right, the 
 graphics are intense on the eyes, so intense they make you want to switch the console off, and 
 you should, but hear me out first. The character models are blocky and lifeless, the environments 
 look nice, but not as great as ther Call of Duty counterparts, but the detail stems as far as including 
 the scenary, nothing more.
  
  The sound is even worse than the graphics, voice acting is flat, bullets sound like those of a 
 pellet gun, and everything else is just tinny or so flat it's not worth paying attention to. The 
 lack of a vocabulary off sound effects just drives the experience into the ground.
  
  Probably one fo the largest faults in the game is the attrocious articial intelligence. You can 
 easily avoid all of the enemy flak (almost literally a holf-a-doznes worth of ammo!!1!) and beat 
 them with the butt of your gun. The game's physics are floaty and totally unrealistic. Moving on 
 to tank control: There is as much to driving a tank as this sentence.
  Tank's glitch constantly glitch and the actual driving of a tank is just broken.
  
  Overall, 
 Hour of Victory is definately the worst 360 game to hit shelves at this time, and we are unlikely 
 to encounter anything worse, and this console is capable of much, much more. Save your money and 
 buy Call of Duty 2 or 3, or save for Medal of Honour Airborne or Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway, 
 anything, just not this tripe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is another World War II shooter for the Xbox 360. The graphics on hour of victory 
 are pretty decent, but when you look at a character models, there faces looked deformed and ugly. 
 The game has nice environments buy ugly character models. The game tries to be intense, but it 
 isn't and the Artificial Intelligance is as stupid as ever. Another thing is that it's hard to 
 die since bots always miss shots at you and rarely move from thier spawn point. The tank and vehicle 
 controls are sloppy and makes them hard to drive. The online multiplayer isn't much fun or tactical 
 and I found plenty of bugs and Lag on most matches I played. At the end Hour of Victory is boring, ugly, 
 and certainly not worth $60.00 of your hard earned money or allowance. Go buy something more better 
 Like The Darkness or Ninja Gaiden Sigma instead of this load of game crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin20
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I LOVE WW2 games, i love fighting the great historic battles, and i love killing those damn jerries, 
 BUT when it comes to Hour of Victory its a MAJOR let down.
  
  Whenever I play a game, I always check out the Multiplayer first, to see how good people are at 
 the game and how much I must work to be at the same level as other players are, when i entered 
 into the game, in what looked like a French Village, I immediately realized that this might be 
 cool, until I spawned and was immediately killed by a tank on top of me, then i spawned again, 
 with the tank on top of me again, this went on for 2 mins until I got frustrated and quit.
  
  Things didn't get any better in the Single Player, where i went for the stealthy player, because 
 Im a big fan of Splinter Cell, its then i realized that the enemies can see me behind walls, they 
 can shoot me behind walls, and sometimes they don't even bother to shoot at all
  
  I always rate games on there money to fun value, and for $60, please don't bother, maybe a year 
 from now when its $5.99 used you can pick it up and just go for the achievements, but don't spend 
 $60, not even if you REALLY wanted it or if you like WW2 shooters, just go through the Medal of 
 Honor or Call of Duty campaigns again don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zentrixu
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Sometimes it will be a bad hit if retards make a game!
  Midway experience was, buy Unreal 3 Engine, buy a lot of monkeys from the Zoo, show them World 
 War 2 Movies and Call of Duty 3 and then the Monkeys have to make their own World War 2 game, and 
 its called Hours of Victory.
  The experiement was succesfull for the Zoo but failed for the people who loves World War 2 games.
 
  
  Ohhh more words to that, that piece of 
 
  
  Funny things and irony, A Masterpiece, game of the year, greatest Vomit i ever played, great work 
 Midway, great work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I remember when this demo hit XBLM a couple weeks bACK. i WAS looking to the fact that maybe the 
 developers of this WWII disaster would try something new. After playing that demo It did in a very 
 crappy, abysmal, pathetic, and disastrous sort of way. I never got those 20 minutes of my life 
 back
  
  Hour of Victory basically dies in your system before it even boots up. The graphics resemble first 
 generation xbox titles (not 360 mind you) with an extra coat of paint and 3 coats of dog S%^T. 
 T. The characters faces look like constipated zombies, and the animations are stiffer than beef 
 jerky. Guess what your in luck. If you like the bad graphics you'll love its crappy sound effects. 
 Your guns basically sound like farts coming from a fat man's anus, and explosions will sound like 
 toilet flushes. As a plus to the horrid visuals and ear-piercing sound, the A. I in this game is 
 non-existent. You'll constantly have enemies running in to your line of fire so they can rid themselves 
 of their virtual prison that is this game. The game also is altogether broken in game play letting 
 you breeze through each mission by meleeing the crap out of your victims. So if you like playing 
 your WWII shooters with the butt of a rifle than this is your game
  
  Many of you might think I'm just reviewing the demo here, which in fact is not entirely false. 
 The game is a tech demo of an already atrocious game, not even complete I don't know what the developers 
 were thinking releasing this in stores. Thankfully for me I rented this steaming cow pile, but 
 I still feel really depressed I let those 7 bucks to waste. Do yourself a favor avoid this monstrosity 
 at all costs I would only recommend purchase if you don; t like yourself that much or to use as 
 a torture device for your enemies. Don't say I didn't warn ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  The inital idea of having three characters, each with specialties, go on some historically ambigous 
 WWII mission seemed fun at the time; and when I saw an achievement mentioning a castle, my subconscious 
 thought Castle Wolfenstein (a far superior psuedo-WWII game, even with its dated graphics/sound) , 
 and then they mentioned the Unreal3 engine...
  
  Basically, what they did is put a nice little bow on a dogpile, and wasted everyone's time and 
 money.
  
  The graphics aren't worthy of an HDTV, the default controls feel like something for the old-school 
 Playstation (B to crouch? When 99% of FPS/TPS games nowadays use the LS button?) , and most of the 
 levels are absurdly easy- if you thought the Spartan from Halo had a stiff elbow, you should see 
 the kinda Melee these guys can execute.
  
  Midway has made such wonderful contributions to the XBox Live Arcade market-maybe this game is 
 an example of why they should stick to re-releasing older titles and leave the big guns to developers 
 like Bungie.
  
  This game isn't even worth a rental, lest you really want those easily obtainable achievements 
 in the beginning.
  Once you have to start using tanks, the game is going to get a whole lot harder, slower, and more 
 repetitive as you retry the same missions over and over from their beginning trying to control 
 a tank that moves like a garbage bag loaded with bricks and barbells down a snowy field.
  
  You can exit the tank in mid-mission, but for some reason regardless of the tank's condition when 
 you left it, it will explode shortly thereafter, ending the mission in some cases.
  As a matter of fact this is one of the first games I can remember thinking Wow, I really wish I 
 could get out of this huge tank and complete the rest of the mission on foot! because its handling, 
 in the face of a well-equipped German infantry loaded with Panzerschreks (rocket launchers) is 
 absolutely horrific, I really hope tanks weren't that slow and outnumbered by RPGs in the 1940s, 
 lest they were really just moving suicide cages!
  
  Every aspiring videogame designer should play this game and take notes about how _not_ to make 
 a World War II game.
  
  The multiplayer is a ghost town, and rightfully so; most people would rather play one of the abundance 
 of better WWII games out there than this.
  
  I can see absolutely no point to playing this, apart from earning achievements; again, most of 
 the achievements are easy, with the obvious exception of Good Citizen ( Host active multiplayer 
 games for 20 hours , 20 Gamerscore)
  How on earth can one host multiplayer games for that long when noone is playing?
  
  Avoid at 
 all costs, there's not a person on the planet that is going to enjoy playing this game.
  I'm giving the Difficulty a Very Hard because the game in general makes opening the disc tray and 
 placing the disc in seem like a chore-yeah, it's that bad of a game.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2forever
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  now i can close my eyes and say that the only wwii games that i will play from now on are call 
 of duty. this game dosen't even worth the 60 bucks, i shoudln't even be in stores. i'm very disaapointed 
 in this game. i played the demo and thought i was pretty cool. but once i got the game , i started 
 to get stuck between boxes and skipping from one place to another. graphically it's ok,, but it 
 dosen't sparkle like the graphics on call of duty. also . the game does a pretty bad, job of telling 
 you or giving u the outline of the mission. i wish i can say something good about this game.. but 
 for now. this game is heading back to gamestop and trade it for money atleast i can get a better 
 game with value like this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Hour of Victory went through a long enough time in developement to *not* suck this much. This game 
 is terribly flawed and is at best a preview of a game the first day in the making. I'm not sure 
 if Miday and Infusion were confused on which systems the game was being made on but it reminds 
 me of something from the playstation ( not playstation 2 SILLY) , This game offers Standard FPS 
 gameplay. There is nothing here to make you buy this game.
  The Small Time hype wasnt deserved, there is really nothing else to say about this game, this is 
 a wolfenstein rip off and doesnt even earn the name (Wolfenstein Ripoff) . The point is do not buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FXLambo
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  **** dkfjdkfjd fjkfjdfjfj jkdjfkdjf jkdjf dfjdkf j jfkdjf jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk jk 
 jk jk jk k k k kj k j kj kjjij i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eljefe91199
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  What else can I say about this game other than its %100 complete steaming poop! Midway should be 
 absolutely ashamed of themselves for releasing something like this. I'm sick right now that I spent 
 $ $ $ to actually rent this game. I did download the demo and hated it but gave Midway the benefit 
 of the doubt and rented the game anyway. What a complete waste of time, money, gas and life. I 
 did get a good laugh watching the unrealistic character models run around the screen but that's 
 all it's worth. Definitely the worst game I've played on the 360. Don't buy, rent or play the demo. 
 The only reason why I'm spending the time writing this is to save you pain and anguish. $.99 bargain 
 bin maybe but $59.99........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes1709
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  i think this game is one of the worst games that i have ever played i liked some of the game play 
 but the every thing elss was pretty bad this is something midway needs to take a good look at before 
 they make a new WW2 game just so they dont make the same mistakes that they did in Hour Of Victory 
 the graphics were ok not great but ok mostly i thingk the game isnt worth $59.99 if it where like 
 $30 or $20 maybe but mosly i think if u want to play it go rent it first and find out for your 
 self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cydamac
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been watching this game for months now, and I was soooo looking forward to the release. 
 I made the mistake of purchasing the game before playing the demo. I submitted to the hype, as 
 a lot of people did I'm sure. My heart is hurt by this release : (
  
  The graphics were ugly. The AI was, well, like watching a monkey trying to mount a football... just 
 silly! I LOVE WWII FPS games, but this one makes me want to hurl. Can it be worse than Medal of 
 Honor: Rising Sun on the original XBOX... oh yes... much worse.
  
  I expected a lot more, especially considering the game engine's potential, the experience of the 
 publisher, and the lessons learned from previous WWII FPS releases. The information was out there, 
 but apparently the developers of Hour of Victory did not look for it. Sad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuk3r3
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  The games graphics are truly a master piece to told of. Allmost level with GoW with graphics. The 
 button placement could have been more better for example the B button should have been for nades 
 and the right thumbstick should be the crouch. The L Trigger should have been used as the zoom 
 in. Gameplay is just terrible. Tank missions pit you against a seemingly unimganible number of 
 enemies. The AI is terrible. Constantly the AI is respawning piting you against an even more larger 
 number of enemies than imaginable. It may have been WW2 but that doesnt mean that there was like 
 4 guns of each side. The lack of weapons also takes down on the games fun rating. Now not all games 
 may be strong with single player and ive played ALOT of those! So when that happens you most often 
 turn to the online gameplay. The online is even more horrible. There is a constant lag so worse 
 than others. Some with you press the melee button and its allmost 2 minutes till your guy swings 
 his gun!!!! If you manage to find a non laggy game then you might be in for a bit of fun. Though 
 being forced to start out with only a MP40 on the German side and a Thompson is highly annoying 
 seeing as the thompson is a better gun. OVERALL this game is only for WW2 fanatics who can stand 
 hordes of dum enemies and laggy online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  THE WORST GAME IN YEARS TO COME
  
  What an awful game ,this is so terrible for the gaming industry.
  The only good thing about this 
 game is the box. WHY this has to happen I have seen my share of bad games but this one, O my god, 
 this is the peek for bad games. The programmers deserves to meet a terrible faith after this abomination.
 
  
  They are trying to deceit people by buying this games after medal of honor or call of duty. So 
 stay away from this one. Thank god this game I played because of my friend made the mistake of 
 buying it. You been warned so that is it my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anabiosis
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  That's the kind of game which has no special demerits. It's just plain bad. The sound is bad, the 
 visuals look like CoD 1 (howdy! it's year 2002 or something?) , the AI is bad (borrowed straight 
 from Quake 1 I presume; the Germans look and act like zombies) , the cutscenes are bad, and, finally, 
 the very gameplay sucks [censored] . You know, after a flop like that, I am not so sure that Blacksite 
 :Area 51 (Midway as well) would not become another don't-even-rent-it-kind of game.
  
  Do not buy this game. It sucks. Even if you like wwII, spare your money and purchase, I dunno, CoD 
 2 (you haven't already bought one?:) ) . Or wait for another wwii-themed game Medal of Honour: Airborne 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainova
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Recently, this game has been bashed by many critics for having poor gameplay, no clear story, bad 
 graphics, and game-crashing bugs. They are wrong.
  
  Lets start with the most important part of the game: the graphics. It is clear that the developers 
 spent a lot of time making the groundbreaking graphics engine, and it really shines. However, some 
 people try to take cheap shots at this game and say it looks worse than every other 360 title (a 
 lie) . However, what can you base the graphics score on? Well, when I compared this game to the 
 high-end Half-Life 2 on PC (800*600 resolution, lowest graphics settings) and it looked slightly 
 better, and the framerate was almost as good! Also, while GS complains that the characters look 
 like zombies, they probably didn't realize they were supposed to, as this games art direction tries 
 to take a darker, violent look at WW2, and all wars in general.
  
  Graphics:10
  
  As for the sound, this game uses it to really bring you into the battlefield. As I heard the one 
 song from the first couple of levels over and over many times, I realized that it was very wonderful, 
 upbeat music. I made my friends listen to it, and they all agreed that the music ijn the game could 
 be sold on a standalone CD and sell literally a billion and a half copies. Literally. And don't 
 even get me started on the sound effects. Although GS complained that the sound effects sounded 
 tinny (whatever that means, were playing with videogames, not tin cans) , I think the sound direction 
 is beautiful. Instead of making loud bang! sounds like most guns, the guns in this game make a 
 softer, peaceful sound, likely meant as a symbol for peace itself.
  
  Sound:10
  
  And although it is the least important part, the gameplay is spot on. The aiming is so good that 
 one time I was sorrounded by like 300 or so enemies and I turned and killed every one of them in 
 5.000967 seconds (I used a stopwatch) . Also, the enemy AI is genious. They sometimes yell at eachother, 
 and although the enemies just stand there doing nothing (to confuse you, of course) you can assume 
 they are saying super intelligent Nazi-plans. Even in the longest levels (the longest one is like 
 5 minutes or so, WOWZA!) the action never stops.
  
  Gameplay:10
  
  Overall, this is a fabulous game which I expect will continue to sell well for 30 years or so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkheath
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the demo. It didn't seem THAT bad, but I'll leave that determination up to people 
 who've played much farther into it than I did.
  
  But I did want to point out that even HALO has that super-duper melee attack! I remember thinking 
 that was pretty ridiculous when I played that game. I can't remember how many times I saved my 
 heinie in a crazy Halo firefight and I just couldn't lock onto a guy, so I'd run up and clunk the 
 guy and he'd be down for the count.
  
  That's certainly not to say this game is any better, but I thought that was a pretty lame point 
 to focus on when the same thing is done in a game that's rated a 9 or whatever.
  
  toodles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  my little cousin just bought this pice of trash and i was watching him play it. i told him these 
 graphics are dated, there's zero creativity, why didn't you just buy call of duty 3?! but as always 
 with almost everyone who wastes 50-60$ on a video game he was in denial that this thing sucked. 
 i honestly cannot express how bad this game is and how in the world game developer's would even 
 consider putting this out there. i mean seriously?! all your doing is losing money and making fun 
 of yourself -.- overall. just don't even waste a second glancing at this game if you see it on 
 a tv screen, i'm dead freakin serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  For the past couple of years, World War II based shooters have been somewhat of the hit for the 
 gaming world. The first great WWII game to come out was Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault; by my opinion 
 of course. Then came Call of duty, Company Of Heroes, and now... HOUR OF VICTORY. This review is 
 not going to be based on the actually game-play itself, but the things surrounding the game.
  
  TITLE:
  This has to be the most unoriginal and boring title in gaming ever. Hour of victory? 
 Please, this game does make you feel victorious in anyway. Not at any time in the game did I jump 
 out of random and go I AM VICTORIOUS! . Which disappointed me greatly because of the fact that 
 game said Hour of Victory , so I had to assume there was Victory, somewhere. But It was not in 
 the game, The victory was turning off the game, and putting in call of duty 3.
  
  Story:
  I got a great idea, why don't we create a WWII game... -Bill Bill, thats crazy, there are too many 
 out there now -Leeory
  No no no, you don't understand, we will be different! -Bill
  How so? -Leeroy
  We will make it so you can play as three different people, and choose different 
 paths! -Bill
  Thats great Bill! We should make it authentic to! Create real life battles, that you can fight 
 the way you want to! - Leeroy
  Yes! But one problem... I dont know anything about WWII -Bill
  Don't worry, I know everything 
 about WWII - Leeroy
  Like what? -Bill
  Well, there were these bad guys, I believed called Nazis, they spoke German, and um... they built 
 uber-rockets to blow up stuff -Leeroy
  Good enough, lets make this game right now! -Bill
  This game will be amazing -Leeroy
  ***AFTER READING GAMESPOT'S REVIEW***
  Leeroy, I think we 
 screwed somewhere... -BIll
  I know I know... not enough shouting Nazis or Rockets. -Leeroy
  I think this gamespot site is madness... -Bill
  I think that this... is....- -Leeroy
  please 
 dont -Bill
  Okay... -Leeroy
  Well, I have this new idea... -Bill
  Whats that? -Leeroy
  We make a sequel, and instead of 3 guys, 5... -Bill
  Your on crazy son of a- -Leeroy
  END
 
  
  BUGS:
  I guess that in WWII people died from crazy shaking tanks that if you touched them, they would 
 kill you. Talk about harsh...
  No wonder Hitler killed himself.
  
  Well, to be honest... this game did have its moments of victory...
  like turning it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puckhead778
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Can we just say what was going on in the heads of the developers for this game? I think Mario is 
 more intense than this load of crap. Wow I'm not even going to go in depth. This game flat out 
 sucks. The enemies stand there and look at you if you're almost quite literally ontop of them, 
 the graphics blow, the features are unoriginal and old, totally TRIED to ripoff CoD and wasn't 
 even successful at that. Don't even rent this game. It's embarassing!! And to think, people actally 
 bought this. Well the only good thing about this one is that it is now an example of what not to 
 do for a next generation game. Pfft!! I'm just speechless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to sum it up in one statement: this game sux. It is really really really really 
 bad. If u are unlucky enough to purchase this game i have pitty for you. There is really no part 
 of this game that works wel. The controls are terrible, the graphics are hideous, and the framerate 
 makes me cry. To all that havent bought this game take it from me we are not missing out on anything. 
 After playing this game for 40 minutes i nearly threw my controller at my tv. Sooooo Sadddd. Taking 
 from statement that a gamespot reviewer used. At least the game case and game can be recycled. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Lemme start off by saying it's not quite as broken as GS makes it out to be, but yeah it definitely 
 feels unfinished. I was unimpressed by the demo, so I played it safe and just gave it a rental. 
 Unfortunately it's not even worth one. That's right. This game isn't worth your time at ALL. Apart 
 from it being a generic WWII shooter, it does EVERYTHING wrong. Sure, the graphics seem fine at 
 first, but spending a lil' time with the game you'll realise it looks like a shinier crappy-looking 
 ps2 game with NO personality or finesse. The soundtrack and fx are as generic as they come (complete 
 with horrid voice acting) , but they're not what make the game so bad. Just everything you do in 
 the game, every weapon, every mission, it all feels DONE before. This game fails to do ANYTHING 
 to set itself from the dozens of other WWII shooters. And on top of that, it's pretty buggy to 
 boot. Multiplayer sucks too. Do yourself a favor and stay away from this lackluster turd, and stick 
 with the CoD series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyfox-101
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  This has to possibly be one of the worst games I had ever played! Gameplay: May have been good 
 in the 90's but it is bland with terrible A. I and even worse voice overs. This game also has bad 
 physics and very linear gameplay. Even though you can choose different people you still go down 
 the same path with a few little side paths specific for each character. The controls are bad as 
 well.
  
  Graphics: I guess this uses the Unreal 3 engine.... the same one that was used in GoW but Call of 
 Duty 2 looks better which is quite old now. Actually I could name a bunch of last-gen xbox games 
 that look a lot better: Chronicles of Riddick, Splinter Cell, and Half-Life 2 just to name a few.
 
  
  I can't believe that they are actually selling this game for $60. I feel bad for anyone who decides 
 to pay that much when you could be buying Rainbow Six: Vegas or Ghost Recon for an equal amount 
 or less. This game is one you'd expect to come out at like $30. I feel bad for Midway though because 
 they seemed so proud of it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacknitrof
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This is not a game, this is a bug
  I don't understand company like Midway making that kind of game and Microsoft approving it
  Don't 
 even rent this game
  Call of Duty and Medal Of Honor are far far away over this
  Impossible to put off the horible music in the options settings just get even worst on your nerves.
 
  No tutorial or trainning zone like we usualy see in all those kind of games
  AI is horible Is this supposed to be for a next gene consol.
  Go back playing Pac Man will be 
 a better idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigXten
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't THAT bad, seeing as how the graphics are great and the sound ain't half bad. Everything 
 else falls flat; the tilt was horrible, the value is pitiful, and gameplay = disastrous. Put up 
 a nice, non-rushed sequel. Make us wait 5 years if necessary. Just give us a better game than... 
 whatever you call this! So... please... don't play this game unless you think WWII games are way 
 too repetitive. Oh yeah; rent it only to kill some time in the summer heat. No, wait, that's why 
 they invented bumper pool. So now... yeah... you get the point. Why am I writing a review? Cause 
 I think this game is better than a 1.2. It's a 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braddok
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  After seeing all the previews, the videos, and well, looking for a FPS to shoot people around, 
 I landed my choice on Hour of Victory. You got to admit, it sounds good; 3 types of characters 
 to play each with their own abilitites, multitude of weapons, even the abilitiy to get in a vehicle 
 once in a while.
  
  Hell, your average WW2 shooter, but with that Unreal 3 engine, and done by Midway (Who did the 
 excellent 'The Suffering' game serie) . So hey, it's all good right?
  
  No, not really.
  
  It all started 15 seconds into the game; The Germans are attacking your base, but wait, it's 
 not your regular German Soldier... IT'S THE NAZIS! Because in North Africa, Rommel's Afrika Korps 
 was full of them... Well, actually no, Rommel hated those guys.... but hey it's WW2, if you're not 
 from the Allies, you're either a Nazi or a Jap, so hey, it's not the first game that made that 
 mistake (the only game I saw that they did point out the diffrence was 'The Outfit') So anyway, 
 the first level begin. you get to choose one from 3 specialists: The Ranger, who is the sniper. 
 He can jump higher than the others and climb walls with his grappling hook. There's the Commando, 
 he can take more punishment than the others, and he can push heavy objects like carts to clear 
 the way. Then, there's the Covert Operative, equipped with a silent Submachinegun, he can cut barb 
 wire, pick locks and hide himself in diffrent places. Since the commando was the more 'standard' 
 of the 3, and we were under assault, I picked him.
  
  You begin in a small guard post, where you cross a British soldier.. who was armed with an American 
 Garand. Sure just another detail and all, but if they managed to get a Webley-Scott revolver in 
 the game, what's so hard about having a Lee-Enfiled rifle?.. But hey, can't blame them for that; 
 most WW2 gamed only put emphasis on American and German Weapons, so I brush off that little detail 
 and when outside to get me some Nazi scum.
  
  The health system works on the same basis than in Call of Duty; if the screen goes red, get cover, 
 and wait a bit, you'll get back to full health in no time. Un fortunately, the AI wokrs the same; 
 enemies move toward you, hiding behind the same 3-5 cover spots. After a while they stop comming, 
 and you go foward.
  
  Then, in the middle of some warzone, in some desert city, I landed on a padlocked door. Even with 
 my weapons, I couldn't just shoot the lock, I had to picklock it, which, of course the Commando 
 can't do. So I when running, shooting, melee my way to the command post. Melee is quite useful 
 in the game, one hit and the enemy goes down. Melee attacks are also automatically activated when 
 you're close to an enemy, which cause so trouble, especially when you have something (like some 
 sandbags) between you and the other guy, which blocks you from hitting him.
  
  Reloading a weapon didn't work well to; I had to either hold the reload button, or push it a few 
 times to get my weapon restocked with fresh ammo. In the middle of a firefight, it becomes quite 
 the burden. You also have some grenades, but you can only throw them at the same distance, there's 
 no gauge or anything; whan to lob one just below you where there's a few Germans? Sorry bub, you'll 
 get it at the other side of the room, wasting a 'nade, and not killing anyone.
  
  As for your default weapon, in my case the Tommy gun, after shooting my 5-6 clips that I started 
 with, I had to rely on German weapons, who were much more abondant than the Allies'. sure there 
 was the odd gun lying around, but you'd better switch to an MP-40 or a Gewehr rifle.
  
  I got to the point where you rescue a dutch scientist, but I had the fun kciked out fo me. Enemies 
 were spawning out of thin air right in front of me, some got stuck in the graphic, not to mention 
 remains perfectly still, despite being just a few feet from me, but have no trouble spotting me 
 from miles away and managed to hit me with a pistol.
  
  Overall, I was very disapointed with that game, lots of hype, lots of intresting concepts, but 
 it seems that it was release a bit too soon, trying to get out there before another game managed 
 to sweep the stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talibantot3602
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I did not get a mediocre WW2 shooter, but a terrible, broken game that is Hour of Victory. This 
 game has more flaws than just about any game to come out of this new generation.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. The games graphics feel like they quit caring about half way to the 
 alpha stage of production. It feels like everything is 2d, and that all the distant objects blend 
 into one larger object. The detail was done very poorly, and my eyes were about to bleed about 
 one half of the way through level 1.
  
  Next we have sound. The sound isn't too hot, and had too many glitches for me, I was about to cry 
 from all the repetitive things I heard.
  
  Now lets do the core of what really matters, overall gameplay. One word describes it: terribly 
 easy. Thats right, this is the most easy game I have ever played on the Xbox 360 up to date. The 
 AI is terrible, and the levels are just dull. The game has absolutely NO lasting appeal whatsoever.
 
  
  If your into bad games, this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connell66
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is a terrible, terrible game. It has a god-awful frame rate, horrendous graphics, 
 out-of-place sound and music, and truly atrocious gameplay. It disgusts me that such games even 
 exist, but quite frankly, they most certainly do. This is, without any dimension of doubt, one 
 of the most horrendous video games to have ever seen the light of day and if you spend money on 
 this game then redeem yourself and throw it into fire. Or better yet, go play Gears of War or Tom 
 Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas. They're way better than this hopeless piece of garbage.
  
  Look, there are loads of shooters out there. There's GOW, Rainbow Six Vegas, Call of Duty, SOCOM, 
 and Splinter Cell. WIth all those options, why would you even consider this game? Take it from 
 me and don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 shooters meet the shelves of the stores every year. Sure, they are different, when 
 it comes to characters and plot. But that's it, same weapons, same gameplay, same old Nazis. This 
 world has seen one-too-many WWII shooters in its life. Hour of Victory is the last straw. The games 
 has no point. Why it was developed, I do not know. The developers were most likely trying to throw 
 together a game and rack up some extra money from people who trust Midway. The weapons are the 
 same as everything else, the game is so unrealistic it's not even funny, and the graphics are pitiful! 
 For Xbox 360, these graphics blow! I have Nintendo 64 games with better visuals. Call of Duty 2 
 was an outstanding WWII shooter because it had phenominal visuals, multiplayer, and it was extremely 
 realistic. Still, it was a bit of a risk, because of the other 2 million WWII shooters out there. 
 However, that was an Xbox 360 launch game. Now, two years later comes Hour of Victory, and its 
 not even close to the way COD 2 plays and looks even though it was in development years after COD 
 2 was developed. Something is wrong here. Hour of Victoy is a blatant WWII shooter that has absolutely 
 no distinguishing attributes from previous WWII shooters, and if anything, it was down-graded from 
 preceding games of its genre. The game serves no purpose, and is a mere recycled scrap from a cancled 
 game in development by Midway years ago thrown together by developers to keep their budget up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman120
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  When i first looked at hour of victory i thought that could rival call of duty and medal of honor 
 but how very wrong was i, it's not a really, really bad game but it is brofken in so many aspects 
 example enemy's spawn right in front of you, it's slow unresponsive and very dull. And i thought 
 the graphics would have been excellent considering it was powered by the unreal engine i thought 
 they was going to be something special how very wrong was i yet again. There is a good game lying 
 under the dull linear levels and repetitiveness. Midway as well releasing this as the full price 
 tag they must be joking, because it should have been a budget release because many people will 
 be wanting there money back! THIS is a fact hour of victory is a call of duty rip off.
  
  Many of the gameplay element's are terrible because it's a fake war game. You just go it alone gunning 
 loads of germans down with no allies alongside you or squad your just a lone gunner. And the three 
 character's don't differ from there strenght's and weaknesses enough. Hour of victory is like shattered 
 glass, broken. There are plenty of other shooters on the market, and do your self a favour and don't 
 buy this!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimedoutson
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  I am soooo glad i didnt buy this game. This game is just amazing! I was actually a little hyped 
 about this game since i love FPS. But this is a joke. This should of just went straight to the 
 Wii. Maybe that would of explained why this game is such a piece of......... Even using the Unreal 
 engine did nothing for this game. Theres just no way of fixing it. Its more like a sick joke. It 
 kind of reminds me of Big Rigs. The graphics suck for a 360 game. The gameplay is a joke. I mean, 
 theres 3 characters to choose from. One is a basic war gunner, another is a sniper, and then you 
 have the stealth char. Ohh my. Lets just try to sneak up on every one and stab them in the back. 
 What a great idea in a WWII setting. I cant even explain it. Its a tragedy that i have to give 
 this game a 1.0 because it doesnt even deserve that. DO NOT PURCHASE THIS GAME!!!! Not even worth 
 a rental. Dont even look at the trailers. Might as well go play Superman 64 cause you just might 
 enjoy that better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphimRequiem
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I didn't waste my money on this game, I only played the demo... and that was painful enough. The 
 graphics are the only decent thing about this game. Everything else is pure and utter garbage. 
 It's games like this which make me incredibly happy that you can download demos on XBox Live before 
 you make the mistake of purchasing such garbage. Much better options are available if you're still 
 wanting to try out the played out WWII setting. I'm really curious to see what Gamespot gives this 
 game... If they give it anything above a 2.5 I'll really start to question the integrity of this 
 site. ahah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I am going to try to be constructive with my review. WHAT THE HEC WERE THEY THINKING WHEN THEY 
 MADE THIS GAME! Look the WWII FPS genre is really played out and. If you are going to build an 
 FPS game this is the market that is going to be the most difficult to interest. You really have 
 to do something special, new and/or innovative. BIA worked because they found a new angle by integrating 
 squad based tactics into the game. They also had a very rich story line. The graphics and special 
 effects were no where close to the graphics of Call of Duty and yet they suceeded because of their 
 innovative approach. Look the FPS genre is thick already. With games like Gears of War and Rainbow 
 Six Vegas setting the standard you cannot help but remember that whatever the setting an FPS game 
 is about the excitement and drama of real shooting combat. This game has no elements that make 
 it worthwhile. I believe that even in the FPS WWII genre room for innovation exists. You need a 
 unique hook to rope people in. When I played Gears for the first time it was a really fun, wild 
 and wolly experience because of the passion that the designers put into the game and the great 
 story that went wi; th it. Maybe next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homie-Gman
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worst games i have ever played. I only played the demo and I don't 
 need to play the real game. After I played it the first time I thought it was ok. So i played it 
 again as a different class thinking it would be better, it was the same thing. All the classes 
 feal the same The only thing I've found that was actually good was the tank battles. Like i said 
 this is just a bad mock of call of duty. Plus i think that WWII shooters are getting very old. 
 It's time to get out with the old and in with the new. Looks like the unreal 3 engine failed!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, here is another lame WW2 game, like we need them anymore. Hour of Victory isnt a horrible 
 game, but the fact that its WW2 and nobody cares for it anymore, that just makes the game suck. 
 What makes the game even suck more though is the boring and unoriginal gameplay. The gameplay is 
 nothing you have not seen before. The controls handle just like any other FPS. You run around in 
 a field or world and shoot guys. The graphics, even using the unreal 3.0 engine, still look dated 
 by todays standards. The levels look pretty decent but just about everything else looks pretty 
 bland. The sound is the games best thing. The action doesn't sound as good as other war games such 
 as call of duty, but it sounds pretty decent actually. The voice acting isn't the best either though. 
 The game has a pretty lengthy campaign though your not going to want to go through it all the way. 
 Then there is the online play which is surprisingly pretty fun but it will get old pretty quick. 
 Overall Hour of Victory had just so much potential especially that the dev team and a beast engine 
 to use but they just quite didnt know how to use it well. WW2 is really getting old and they just 
 really need to stop makiing them. Now all that there is left is EAs MOH which lets just hope is 
 good. If you want a really good WW game then just skip this one. Your better off with COD. If you're 
 looking for just another lame WW game besides COD, then just try renting it and save some money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidussnakem
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste 60 dollars to buy this game. It's crap and your better off with call of duty three. 
 I am waiting for a great game like the new medal of honor airborne, I'd rather play that then this 
 piece of trash game midway decided to cook up. I'm sorry midway but this is the first time in a 
 long time you guys have disappointed me. I can't actually believe that this game was hyped up as 
 much as it was, and the promotions for it were a waste of time if not any. You guys really need 
 to step your game up for saying this is the most anticipated WWII game of the year. I'll stick 
 to Gears of War thank you very much!
  
  Don't buy this piece of crap game and like i said before enough said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshadows11
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  i am a huge ww2 shooter fan. i am on the complete other end of the spectrum. i dont think that 
 theres enough ww2 shooters on the market right now. so after first hearing about this game i thought 
 about time a new ww2 shootercomes out after all, call of duty has officially left the theme, and 
 medal of honor hasnt had a great title since frontline, (although i thought all moh games were solid, 
 even rising sun,) so maybe this one couldve been a new challenger. but after playing the demo, 
 i felt like it had all gone downhill, but i just said, just a demo, no big deal then when the game 
 came out, i drove to the nearest blckbuster and rented it. i was severely disapointed. all it was 
 was the same old recycled formula. except worse. they try and give u a comandos: strike force-ish 
 setup where u pick ur class. sniper stealth or run and gun. gameplay is same old run here, shoot 
 this guy, snipe theese dudes, plant and explosive, defend this position blah blqah blah repeat. 
 graphics are dull and dark and when u have help from ur squad, theyre so retarded they just run 
 around and get shot, cod: big red one for the xbox 1 had bettere graphics, although not as shiny. 
 sound is pathetic. i can do a better british accent than some of those voice actors, and music 
 is the same epic ww2 soundtrack that is incredibly generic. overall this game is just really bad 
 and do urself a favor. just wait till hells highway or airborne comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1sTDaCuffS
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  so, you say its unreal 3 engine, i would like to know why anyone would destroy a good game with 
 a complete train wreck. then i decided to see it first hand, ofcourse my friend is dumb enuff to 
 buy it. to be honest i could'nt even get past the graphics. it has to be the worst next gen graphics 
 ive ever seen for a fps. this game has cod 2 graphic like graphics that are no further then the 
 first orginal xbox fps worst game. i really dont understand how this game even got made to be honest. 
 all i can say, it looks like infant made it. you'll get so sick you'll have to turn it off. they 
 should have mad this game a ps3 exclusive and saved face they would have loved it. but, as far 
 as the xbox 360 community goes, this has already been done, but, much much much better. it was 
 almost like playing black hawkdown for the orignal xbox. that and this game, i dont know which 
 one scared my memory for the worst fps ever. i m really lost for words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadez_is_back
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Hour of Victory are fairly good, but unfortunately the games content and overall 
 game play comes up short.
  
  The game play... Where do I start, its a generic WW2 game that feels no different than any other 
 shooter you have played. The game also does surprisingly little to distinguish itself from the 
 other cliche war games. As you will find out, in the game there are three different classes. A 
 snipe, a commando, and a spy. Although this may sound like a good way to break apart the pace of 
 the game and add some replay value, its not. All the classes are the same, except you start off 
 with different weapons. The games story is also unacceptably shallow. Midway obviously didn't place 
 the plot as a high point in the game. The game play feels slow and the AI is a little poorly done. 
 The AI will act normally, but not realistically, making it another downfall of the game.
  
  The music is laughable. It is so generic, the same music you've heard in the thousands of bad WW2 
 movies from the 70's and 80's. If you've ever seen the horrible movie When Eagles Strike you would 
 understand. Its just a bland orchestra that loops on and on and on, it doesn't stop, the same repetitive 
 tune chiming on until the mission is over. After the loading screen its back! And it doesn't have 
 much variety either so it all sounds the same.
  
  Overall the game wont last long, if you can bare to play it through the entire story then they 
 should just give out a 1000 point achievement because this is the type of game that once you beat 
 it... You wont come back for more because throughout the entire single player, there is only a 
 few fun parts, other than that its all repetitive and mindless shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratler111
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  When downloading the demo I already had a feeling that this would be just another run of the mill 
 WWII FPS but oh was i wrong. At first you choose the soldier you want which made the game seem 
 cool, but once gameplay began all types of crap dropped the value of this game. I felt like I was 
 fighting against Nazi's from the special olympics. They stare but dont shoot and shoot but dont 
 hit. OMG it was the worst thing I have ever seen. I tried everyone from the character selection 
 and each time I was hoping for a different storyline or something but everything sucked. Shooting 
 guns gave me no joy and instead of wanting to kill the Nazi's, I was looking to kill Midway for 
 such a retarded game. I can't bash on this game enough the graphics looked like an Xbox game's 
 and the crappy music caused me to just mute the TV. Well it is safe to say I deleted it from my 
 hardrive but that was not the end of it. My lil' brother went out and spent friggin' $63 on the 
 game and I was on the verge of killing him. I wanted to take the CD cut it up and hang it on the 
 trees outside to deter birds. Well I didnt but the game is not worth even playing the demo, Midway 
 should be ashamed to even think about putting the game into production. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say, that I didn't get a chance to download the demo via Xbox Live Marketplace. Man, 
 was I stupid...
  
  I picked this game up at my local EB Games today, because I had actually been looking forward to 
 this game. I love WWII shooters, and I figured this would be another good addition to my collection. 
 Well, after playing just 10 minutes of the Campaign mode and no more than 5 minutes online, I actually 
 feel sick that I spent $63 on this piece of crap.
  
  I mean, there is like nothing good about this game! First, it feels like a mix between Call of 
 Duty and Medal of Honor, with the second fact that it sucks. I don't even know where to start talking 
 bad about this review?
  
  Hour of Victory puts you in a fictional account of the Nazi Army building an atomic bomb, and armed 
 with the 3 best men the Allies have, you go on a series of missions to foil the Kraut's wishes. 
 First, let me say that you do control the 3 best men in the army.... because these are by far the 
 stupidest Krauts I've seen in any game! Trust me, I've played many WWII shooters, and I've seen 
 a lot of stupid Krauts, but none of them even compare to this game's AI. I started the Campaign 
 on Normal, like I always do, and it was just so easy getting through the first stage. I tried bumping 
 it up one notch to Hard, and it was still a breeze. The Krauts literately sit there, let you get 
 a chance to shoot them 3 or 4 times, and if you're a bad enough shot not to kill them in those 
 3-4 shots, then they start firing at you! Lol, I was like Cmon already! 
  
  Not only was there stupid AI, but the music that plays over and over throughout the levels is just 
 an utter annoyance. So I went to Options to turn music off.... Oh wait, you can't! You have to 
 listen to the music loop and loop over and over throughout the entire game! I couldn't bear it... 
 0_o;
  
  The aiming sytem is not all that good. I don't know if it was just me, or if it was my gun that 
 kept twisting and turning just as I was getting a good lock on the enemy... and when the enemy 
 hits you, it knocks your aim all over the place. It made it nearly impossible to get a good aim 
 down sight , so for most of the level I was just shooting my gun from the waist hoping they hit 
 the Krauts. I don't know why Midway bragged about this game using Unreal Engine 3.0? The graphics 
 are mediocre to now-a-day Xbox 360 games! Call of Duty 3 looks MUCH better than this game does, 
 this game would even have a hard time beating old Call of Duty 2's graphic system!
  
  The voiceovers are annoying, and I wish it were only the subtitles after hearing a few of their 
 voices. The action is very bland... I mean you are partnered with maybe 1 or 2 other soldiers and 
 fight maybe 4-6 Krauts in one area.... you move on to next area.... another 4-6 krauts to kill.... 
 etc. It isn't very exciting and was very dissapointing!
  
  I got on Xbox Live after I gave up on Campaign mode figuring, Oh well, maybe the online play will 
 be good? Lol, I pity my speech! First off, let me say that out of all the game modes and levels, 
 I found a mere 2 Matches available, each having only 3-5 players in them. The gameplay seems slow, 
 and the levels seemed small and closed in, with no realistic value to any of them. And what is 
 up with that music that plays whenever someone on either team dies? It's enough to make you throw 
 a controller! Completely dissapointed, and after playing for 5 minutes on a disgusting looking 
 map with only 4 people, I gave up and took the so called Hour of Victory out of my Xbox 360's disk 
 tray.... it did not deserve the honor of being played in such a great system.
  
  I don't know how more I can bash this game...? Just another wannabe of the greater WWII shooters. 
 If you're looking for a WWII FPS, DO NOT get this game! Buy Call of Duty 2 or 3, which is cheaper 
 than this and a lot more enjoyable.
  
  I am kicking myself in the place where sun don't shine for not playing the demo or listening to 
 the people before I bought this horrific game. Like I stated before, I hate myself for spening 
 $63 on this game when I could have bought Overlord or Pokemon Battle Revolutions... 2 other games 
 I wanted but picked THIS over THEM... : ( There is nothing great about this game, and if any of 
 you others buy it, I promise you will most likely be just as dissapointed as me! - Jared Langston 
 (Tyek1230) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  This is a rental game at the very best. Not next generation at all! The reason companies come out 
 with bad games is because people still buy them because they want a good game so bad? YOu will 
 find this game lacks in all areas, most importantly Gameplay and Graphics . Save your money! This 
 game looks like a first generation Xbox Game. After about 15 minutes you will wonder why this was 
 made and released. One of the other problems you will encounter is the physics just dont look right 
 and flow in the game. This game must have taken about a month to make.... Thank you and good luck! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is the first thing that comes to mind when playing this. Never before have i played a game 
 with such stupid A. I.
  
  Seriously, you'll see enemies spawn and run at you, then come to a dead stop and let you shoot them. 
 During the first 3 missions i saw: Enemy crouch out in the open, stand up for about 10 seconds then 
 crouch again. All the while i was no more than 3 feet away and he never fired a shot at me.
  
  Another instance: enemy takes cover behind wall, step out and take a few shots than go back into 
 cover. Sounds like most other games.. right? Well, when the guy is taking shots more than 1 foot 
 away, and keeps missing me, then we have a problem.
  
  Seriously, the A. I destroys this game and takes any and challenge away from it and there's just 
 no point in even trying.
  
  One last thing.... this game uses the Unreal 3 engine. If so, it doesn't look like it.
  
  AVOID 
 AT ALL COSTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonbirdi
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Not bad - not good - just unnecessary. Eventhogh I only tried the demo I had expected much more 
 thrill and feel. But no luck. There is obviously some AI - but with the mind of ants. The graphics 
 is year 2000 and the feeling you have after a few minutes is... None. Just nothing. If the real 
 thing is better - the development must have been VERY impressive from demo to final product. I 
 choose to not buy it - 'cause no-one will post a bad demo and ship a perfect product only three 
 weeks later... Just too bad :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  this game is an absolute rip off of other ww2 fps'. while it makes it seem like there are 3 different 
 paths to take, based on whether you are a sniper, commando, or a ranger, none of these, except 
 the commando is any fun. often times, there arent many places you can sneak through as the ranger, 
 which makes the game really pointless, because you will just run straight into the enemies which 
 will kill you.
  
  the a. i. in the game is also lackluster. sometimes, they will kill you in an instant, and other 
 times you can stand right next to them and they will miss or not even notice you even if you are 
 shooting at them. even if you forget the single player campaign, the multiplayer also sucks.
  
  its basically the same old ww2 team-based modes.... the only problem is that its really boring, 
 there is so much lag and a ton of crap that obstructs you from enjoying what little value there 
 is..... you cant even throw grenades, which gets really annoying because i like using a little tactics, 
 but the game gets rid of that too..... Not recommended unless you like crappy games!
  
  DONT BUY IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamst3r
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  ok so i got the demo and it sucked really bad it was so bad it freaking meleede for me and switched 
 weapons for me i was yelling at the tv ''HOW HARD IS IT TO UNDERSTAND I WANT MY SNIPER NOT MY PISTOL!'' 
 lmao it takes the hole choice awaay from the player i only played the demo but the demo sucked 
 maybe that thing where it mellees for you isnt there in the real game but if it isnt then man i 
 dont want this game!!!!!!!!!!1 no way and i dont think anyone should get it instead get c. o. d. 
 or something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamermike21121
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  .. the idea to make a World War 2 first person shooter. Sure theres Call of duty, medal of honor, 
 brothers in arms which all have come out with many great games but no one has really captured the 
 essence of world war 2 and then finally a good World war 2 game comes along.... by midway. Personally 
 I think this game is incredibly realistic. Its about time a game is released where you can throw 
 five grenades in a matter of seconds. Its also great how you can play as three characters, i personally 
 love the sniper. Honestly being able to play as a sniper in firefights where the enemy is 10 feet 
 from you is realistic because we all know that snipers dont hide, and that also gives the game 
 an added feeling of realism.
  
  Im so sick of World War 2 first person shooters, this games sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Hour of Victory is a WWII based First Person Shooter made from Midway and Nfusion. Yes, you're 
 probably thinking Yeah, like I've never heard that before. Well you have, and mostly everything 
 in this game has been done before, and its all been executed so much better.
  
  Hour of Victory pits you in the shoes of three soldiers, each having their own special abilities. 
 You can choose during each level who you would like to play as. Ross, the commando, is basically 
 your run-and-gun type of guy. He absorbs the most health, and he uses weapons like the Tompson 
 submachine gun. Taggert is your covert ops agent, and his special ability is being stealthy and 
 can take out enemies without other enemies knowing. he carries a silenced machine gun and a knife. 
 Your third guy, Bill, is a sniper. He carries a sniper rifle and a pistol. His special abilities 
 are climibing up buildings and being able to take out baddies from a distance.
  
  You're probably thinking this is a new twist for WWII games, and, it sort of is. The problem is, 
 this does not make up for its problems, or does not make Hour of Victory distinguish itself from 
 the WWII fps pack. The game is also loaded with tons of problems, and all are very noticeable.
 
  
  Hour of Victory is either very easy or very frustrating. The enemies in the game are totally brain 
 dead. They either stand out in the open, or they take some cover but then come out and let you 
 shoot them, basically running out of cover. You can even run through a horde of Germans and you 
 won't die. The game is even frustrating. In a part where you're owning a bunch of dumb****s, you 
 die. Its annoying, stupid, and boring all together. What else is frustrating are the controls. 
 They're very clumsy, hard to get used to, and could use some work.
  
  Mostly, the only redeeming qualities in the game are the destrutible environments. The only problem 
 is, when the environments are destructible, its when your in a stupid tank, and thats it. Nope, 
 grenades don't do a thing. Man developers really need to promise more destructibility in games.
 
  
  You're also wondering if the graphics are good. The answer: NO!!! The graphics in the game, while 
 they use the Unreal Engine 3.0, look ugly and the environments look drab and characters look like 
 plastic figures. Explosions are OK, but don't manage to make up for anything. I even thought games 
 like Over G Fighters looked better than this!
  
  The sound effects are decent, some sounds are good, others are pretty weak. Voicework is OK at 
 best, but its not top notch or Oscar Winning. The voices of Germans are OK too, but not that great.
 
  
  The overall value of the game is lousy. If you like games that are fun, then, don't buy this game. 
 Don't buy it even if you can't get enough of blowing up bombed out villages or shooting up more 
 and more and more Nazis. The multiplayer in the game is nothing to be proud of either. Death Match 
 and Team deathmatch aren't that great, and devastation is not that great either. Despite the multiplayer 
 being team based, its still not very fun.
  
  With all in mind......... well whatever, 5.3 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
