-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Import Tuner Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/importtuner/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gives you plenty of rivals to race against.
 Car upgrades and tuning make a noticeable difference in your car's handling and performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Practically unplayable until you earn enough money to buy a decent car.
 Online options are inadequate.
 Not enough road to race on, so it gets old fast.
 Weak audiovisual presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 5.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 584 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Genki
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Sep 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Import Tuner Challenge does few things right and faces stiff competition from other racing games, 
 but if you sink enough time into it, it can grow on you. 

  Don't let the bland name fool you. Import Tuner Challenge is another game in the long-running Tokyo 
 Xtreme Racer series. The Genki-developed racing games have been kicking around for close to a decade, 
 but they've never attracted much of a fan base here in North America -- probably because they've 
 never been all that great. So the game that came out in Japan as Shutoku Battle X is now known 
 as Import Tuner Challenge. But one thing that hasn't changed is how slowly this game starts. If 
 you can make it through the first few hours, you'll find a passable, if repetitive, driving game. 
 But those first two or three hours are such a grind that you might not bother continuing, given 
 that there are plenty of much better racing games available on the Xbox 360.  

          Import Tuner Challenge starts out so slowly that you might give up on it right away.   
   

  Import Tuner Challenge isn't about import cars at all. You'll be racing Japanese cars on Japanese 
 highways. But a game called Japanese Domestic Tuner Challenge probably would have turned even fewer 
 heads, so let's just ignore that from here on out. The whole game takes place on a few different 
 stretches of Tokyo highway. You'll start out on the turn-filled C1 loop, eventually unlocking routes 
 that take you through Shibuya and Shinjuku, as well as another big loop called the Shinkanjo. Your 
 goal on these routes is to become the fastest racer around by taking down what seems like hundreds 
 of different rivals. The most common race is an SP (spirit points) battle. When you roll up behind 
 an opponent and flash your headlights to challenge, the race begins. Each car then gets a life 
 meter that loses a chunk whenever the car collides with anything or slowly drains out when the 
 other car gains a lead. Your goal is to make sure the other guy's meter drains before yours does. 
 The game also lets you challenge racers that hole up in parking areas along the highway, and some 
 of these races are simple point-to-point affairs. There's also the chain battle, where you have 
 to take out a series of opponents one after the other, or a gang battle, which is just an SP battle 
 against multiple opponents. Each win earns you credits, which are used to purchase new cars and 
 parts.  

  Each win also crosses that rival off your list. When you aren't out racing around, you can check 
 out a rival list that shows you all of the different racing teams out on the metro, what time of 
 day they tend to be out and about, and which part of the highway you can find them on. That may 
 sound like a hassle, but with the exception of a large, secretive team called the Wanderers, finding 
 your rivals is pretty easy. Once you've taken out all the members of a team, you can race against 
 the leader of that team. And once you've taken out a number of teams on a given section of road, 
 the champion of that road will come looking for a battle. While this all sounds like a good stage 
 for dramatic, over-the-top voice acting, the game doesn't give the racers different personalities 
 or anything. You can get a brief line of text from racers that you encounter in the parking areas, 
 and the boss racers usually talk about how you remind them of a mystical racer called King Speed, 
 but that's about it. Giving more life to every racer would have probably made the races feel a 
 bit more special. Instead, you just buy the most powerful car and parts you can afford and blow 
 the doors off the opposition over and over again along the same stretches of road, and it gets 
 tedious fast. A neat little touch is that your name changes as you drive to reflect your driving 
 style. If you quit races early a lot, you might be called a chicken. Other names include Blast 
 Samurai, Bullet Noble, Serious Worker, and so on. Considering you'll be going up against racers 
 like Silent Cassiopeia, Rolling Guy No.1, Snake Eyes, and Skull Bullet, the names make some sort 
 of sense in context.  

  Import Tuner Challenge contains licensed cars, including the Nissan Skyline, the RX-7 and RX-8 
 from Mazda, a handful of Toyota-made cars including two different Supras, and more. None of the 
 cars take any damage from collisions, though since traffic is awfully light, most of your scrapes 
 and scratches will come from hitting the wall. Because of the small amount of money you start with, 
 you won't be able to afford a particularly fast or maneuverable car in the beginning, but that's 
 OK, because the first teams you encounter are pushovers. This also makes most of the early races 
 incredibly boring. Once your winnings start to stack up, you can invest in a number of different 
 car upgrades and begin to tweak the settings of your car. That's good, because the opposing cars 
 get faster, but the computer-controlled cars never seem to get much better at taking corners. So 
 once you get good at aggressive cornering, the racing gets really easy.  

  There's a simulation-like depth to car tuning, but the game does an awful job of explaining to 
 you what the settings do. It'll tell you that you can purchase something called "LSD" for your 
 car, but unless you already know what that is, you'll have to wait for the right loading screen 
 to surface to figure out that it's talking about a limited slip differential. The manual is lengthy 
 but offers no real information. The upgrades and car tuning may not be intuitive, but it's nice 
 that things like lowering the ride height have a good impact on your car's ability to grip the 
 road, as they do in real life. But regardless of how many settings you tweak, the game never feels 
 like a simulation. The steering and drifting seem to straddle the line between simulation and arcade, 
 and the result probably won't please fans of either style of racing.  

  In addition to playing the quest mode to take on rivals, you can go into time attack mode and try 
 to set records on various stretches of road. There are two time attack modes, one for offline play 
 and one that will compare your times against the rest of the Import Tuner Challenge-playing world. 
 The more interesting online mode pits you against another player in an SP battle, but it's pretty 
 tough. Until you play all the way through quest mode and build out something close to the fastest 
 car in the game, you're not going to have much fun online. It seems that almost all of the people 
 bothering to play online have extremely built cars, and attempting to search for games close to 
 your rank when you're first getting started usually gives you an "unable to find a session" message. 
 While the fastest car should probably always win, some sort of handicap function or car class matching 
 would have probably made for a more interesting online experience.  

          Import Tuner Challenge is a decent game in spots, but you'll have to overlook a lot of 
 problems to truly enjoy it.     

  The visuals in Import Tuner Challenge are drab and are definitely a clear step or two below where 
 the Xbox 360's other driving games are. The car models are passable, with plenty of visual customizations 
 available, but unimpressive overall. The sense of speed only really works when you get into the 
 game's faster cars, making most of the game seem sluggish. The scenery isn't too impressive, and 
 the road itself looks mediocre. Of course, Tokyo's highways aren't the most interesting things 
 to look at in real life, either, but it's still clear that this game isn't anywhere close to games 
 like Project Gotham Racing 3. The audio is a real throwback to the generic car racing game noise 
 of the original PlayStation. The menus and in-game action are accompanied by a series of very generic 
 tunes, and the exhaust notes and sounds of racing are underwhelming.  

  If you can force your way through the early part of the game and get to where the cars don't seem 
 so sluggish anymore, and if you can handle the limited amount of road you'll have to race on, Import 
 Tuner Challenge is a game that grows on you. It may not offer personality, but there's a certain 
 thrill to taking out all of these other racing teams, upgrading your car, and moving on to the 
 next batch of teams. But it's still a repetitive and often tedious game, and considering its full 
 $59.99 price and the many better driving games available for the Xbox 360, Import Tuner Challenge 
 is very difficult to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: versions
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game because the box looked nice and all, but the game sucks.
  
  The physics are horrible, and so is the gameplay. You have one highway, which is round, and there 
 you race people. The races are too hard, because you don't get enough money from the races to upgrade 
 it. 
  That brings me to the only good part about this game, the customization, it's actually pretty damn 
 good. But then you hit the streets again and it starts sucking. 
  
  You touched a wall at 150 mph? Too bad, you lost the race.
  
  Another thing I noticed is if 
 you actually manage to pass the opponent, you have already won, it is so easy to keep them behind 
 you, but getting past them is extremely difficult.
  
  The grammar is also horrible. Here's an example "he acquired cars for cheep" no, that is not a 
 typo, it says cars for cheep. 
  
  Playing this game makes you think that Need for Speed Undercover is an amazing game, even though 
 it is not.
  
  Don't buy this game, the cars are not for cheep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  When i read some of the reviews i wasn't shore i this game would be worth my time but i tell you, 
 it pleasantly surprised me.
  It may not have the graphics of the gt5 or customization levels of forza2 but it delivers one thing 
 that most racing games fail to this day's pure addictive fun.
  It doesn't have a great story line or realism but if you can get trough first 10% of the game you 
 will most likely be hooked, you are a new street racer on Jap high ways battling you way to the 
 top to finally challenge the legendary racer known only as ???.
  ??? Racer will only race the best there is so you will spend hours racing your way up the food 
 chain.
  Once you finish the game it gives you option to continue playing or you can start over but you 
 can keep your cars and the money you have won.
  
  This game is the example how simple racing game can be made fun and very addictive it's got 5 main 
 ingredients
  
  1 Illegal Street racing on Jap high way
  2 Simple 
  3 Easy to play 
  4 Lots modification to choose from 
  5 Lots an lots of races to battle in 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icemanmanic
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is what street racing was suppose to be. the tokyo extreme racer series is always compared 
 to nfs cause they want somethings shiny. txr is for technical racers not show. look in the details 
 and youll find alot of fun and addiction. i still have my dreamcast and pull it out so i can play 
 the games from early in the series. for the ones who dont get it have fun with nfs but remember 
 they play like the arcade. however if anyone wants to play multiplayer let me know. i understand 
 that some people get discouraged easily but if you give games a chance for their playability sometimes 
 youll surprise yourself. though the one grip i have is the lack of DLC. they could have released 
 more sections of highway to expand to the level of txr3 and more cars or parts. but even with the 
 draw backs i found this game enjoyable cause i still break it out when i want to have fun and increase 
 my perfect record. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beel-kun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  so yeah! that's it =3
  it's not like what we was thinking it could be looks like, because tokyo xtreme racer 3 has come 
 with alot of japanes, us, europe cars & so on but I like this game more because of the graphics 
 & the cusomization are actually quite cool, but I wished there will be more cars in the game because 
 it only had japanese cars so I think the problme with the vars? maybe but who cares?
  I just noticed that there is also a cars you can versus but they are not in the shop never. why 
 the f**k is that?
  it's not like need for speed & not like midnight club but it's sure still fun to play, Omg why 
 I rated this 10?
  
  oh well it just was an opinion & I hope this review will so useful for some people...
  
  Omg 
 I wrote alot! XD
  
  but in other words I think this game rocks all the way!!! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott90s
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  this is a good game at the start it is a bit hard. but when you start wining races. It gets better 
 and better there is only a cople of car makes avadeble. such as toyota, nisan and mazda. it is 
 briliant the way you can tune the cars. you can macke them just theway you want. like changing 
 the wheels and the way the doors open. some parts are expensive like tuning the engine and body. 
 i like this game because i like tuning cars. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 11 111 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 a a a a aa a a a a aa a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a s s s s s s s s s s s a a a a a a d d d d d d d n d 
 d d 2 2 2 22 2 2 2 3 33 3 3 4 44 4 5 5 55 5 5 5 5 5 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Tokyo Xtreme Racer series and this is a fun game. It brings back 
 what was good about the series from the Dreamcast lineup. There are well over 300 different opponents 
 to race in order to beat the game. Wanderers and team opponents make up the majority of the battles 
 you have. Bosses are here as well but only come into play when you have defeated all the team racers.
 
  The graphics are ok , not the best, but they do an alright job at presenting the streets of Tokyo. The 
 lighting is great though. And the addition of daybreak and nighttime make the game a bit different. I 
 just hope that in the next installment they add more body kits and different mods to put on the 
 cars like Forza 2 has. That is one of my pet peaves of the game to be honest as well is the ability 
 to have only 10 cars. NEEDS MORE CARS.
  All in all its a fun game that is overshadowed by NFS and Forza, but has been around for a while 
 and hopefully keeps getting better (no more drift series) . But most people may find it too boring 
 and not fast paced enough to find fun or to where you could come back too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekomimi-chan
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Tokyo Xtreme Racer is a long standing series that started off small and simple, peaked at TXR: 
 Zero for the PS2, and since then seems to have slid back down toward its earlier days with the 
 first installment on the Dreamcast. This is the latest game in the series, and I was admittedly 
 a bit excited about getting to see a TXR title on a next gen console, whether or not Genki had 
 been slipping up a bit with their more recent racing titles.
  
  Most of the old teams, rivals, and bosses are back along with a bunch of new ones. But to my dismay, 
 they're all crammed onto a very cut down length of highway compared to the previous games, with 
 the exception of the first one on the DC, of course, which only gave you C1 Inner and Outer. This 
 game offers you C1, Shinkanjou, and a couple new offshoots from the C1 loop. Disappointingly enough 
 though, the Wangan and Yokohane lines are gone, and the new offshoots just don't match up to those 
 in comparison. Even so, the graphics are in my opinion, a little underrated on this game, as the 
 highways look pretty incredible, and to be able to see all the buildings around you for once and 
 to be able to see the entire Rainbow Bridge coming up on the right of the screen while traveling 
 around the clockwise Shinkanjou loop is something I've been waiting for since Zero. Although, the 
 draw distance still isn't what I was expecting for an X360 game, as the second half of the bridge 
 pops up suddenly once you get a little closer to it. There's also a little too much bloom, so things 
 kind of end up blending into each other and it can sometimes be difficult to tell where you're 
 going. Since I know the roads with the exception of the new lines, it didn't cause much of a problem 
 for me, but for someone new to the series, it might be a little frustrating for awhile until you 
 get used to the layout of the highways since you'll be a bit blinded by pretty much everything. 
 ( Then for the final touch, some bloom. Not real yet? More bloom! Oh we're not done yet. More! 
 More! More! Shazam! -Aeris) There's a quite intense sense of speed with the game also, even with 
 the slower cars, but only from the outside of the car view. Because of the way the cars move when 
 you steer, this is really the only drivable view in the game anyway. The other views will disorient 
 you and make you feel a little sick.
  Another big letdown is the tiny roster of cars, which comes in at around 20, plus a bunch of already 
 customized, but non-upgradeable boss cars. It's sad when you think about how many cars were in 
 some of the previous games like TXR2 for the DC and Zero for the PS2, but a lot of the big names 
 are there, Skylines, RX-7s, Supras, and the like, so it's somewhat tolerable, though depleted.
 
  
  The sound is okay at best. The different types of engines sound different, and they change as you 
 install different engine and exhaust upgrades on your car, but none of them are really all that 
 mean sounding. The crashing sounds, the special effect sounds such as running over breaks in the 
 road, and the car backfiring are the same, not good but not bad either. The only sound effect that 
 bugs me is the sound of the misfiring systems that get installed on the turbocharged cars with 
 the later engine upgrades, which sound like those plastic toy machine guns that we all used to 
 play with when we were younger. I thought the music sucked at first, it's even more repetitive 
 than it was in TXR3, but after awhile, like the music in TXR3, it grew on me until I liked it.
 
  
  The control is iffy, but tolerable once you figure out what makes it tick. Unlike in the previous 
 games where I would like to set my car up for a bit of oversteer and less stability, I find it 
 easier to drive on this one if you set the car for a little understeer and high stability, which 
 means dropping the suspension as low as it can go, because the cars like to randomly start sliding 
 through the corners. You can't play the game like you would with most racers though where you're 
 constantly all the way on something. It works better to steer gradually and brake half way so the 
 car doesn't lock up or spaz out on you, and only hit any given control all the way down/in a direction 
 when you absolutely need to. If you can train yourself to stay calm while driving you shouldn't 
 have too much trouble with the controls.
  
  The style of gameplay is pretty old school, and hasn't changed much at all since the beginning 
 of the series. There are some new types of battles like point to point races, but since the AI 
 is so slow, the PtP races just feel dragged out. The difficulty is far too easy, there's no challenge 
 to the game at all when it comes to winning races. I only lost twice in my playthrough, both times 
 because I zoned out and crashed into something and got stuck, then had to wait 15 seconds to get 
 past 25 mph because my turbo wouldn't spool up from a low engine speed. Even in the second to final 
 boss race, (I say second to final because there's an unknown boss after you beat all the Wanderers 
 in addition to all the teams and bosses, but everyone who's cleared 1, 2, or Zero should know what 
 boss that is) I cruised to victory in a dragged out PtP race, finishing literally a mile and a 
 half ahead of him.
  A nice addition to the game though is the ability to enter the pit areas and talk to your rivals 
 to initiate races, get tips, or just to listen to them (read: read) babble about something weird, 
 yet strangely interesting.
  
  Most people will probably get bored to death of the game quickly because of how dated the style 
 is, but for the old school players and long time fans of the series it's the same idea as always 
 so it will probably keep you busy. Personally I like the game despite its vast list of shortcomings, 
 but for all you darn kids these days that need 50 modes of play and brand new never before seen 
 innovative elements in every new game, this probably isn't the one for you. (I'm way too young 
 to feel old...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UC0080
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Import Tuner Challenge is the newest in a series of Shutoko racing games from Genki dating back 
 to the Sega Dreamcast. This latest edition, however, far surpasses any older versions.
  
  Before I say anything about the game, let me say this: if you are a fan of American cars or don't 
 care about driving on an exact replication of Tokyo's highway, chances are this game isn't for 
 you. Being a JDM nut and a bit of a geek when it comes to the reality bit, as well as the series 
 it's from, I found the game to be absolutely fantastic.
  
  The gameplay itself takes a bit of getting used to, but nowhere near that of the old games on the 
 PS2. The car handling has been greatly refined from the old games and feels much more natural. 
 You can feel that upgrading your car actually makes a difference in how it performs. And not just 
 in ways like adding 75HP to your engine, but in smaller ways as well, such as putting in a new 
 clutch or changing the angle of your spoiler.
  
  The graphics as well have recieved a HUGE boost for the 360. This game has to have some of the 
 most detailed car models I've ever seen. In this, when you change out the muffler, you can see 
 the difference in the piping underneath the car, all the way up to the engine. Also, this is the 
 first racing game I've found with a customizable interior that can still be seen even when in an 
 exterior view. Also, upgrading your engine not only increasing your power, but in an addition NO 
 OTHER RACING GAME I've found has, actually switches the parts on your engine. So if you buy a level 
 for engine mod, you'll see that hood pop up and the factory parts be replaced with new racing ones.
 
  
  The sound is one area where this game does, unfortunately, slip a bit. Though the engine and tire 
 effects are excellent, the background music is a bit annoying. However, this is a problem easily 
 remedied, as the game supports custom soundtracks.
  
  This is also one of the longer games I've been through recently. I've put over 20 hours into it 
 and am still only around 45% completion. For a street racing game, that is excellent. Unfortunately, 
 the amount of available cars is pretty small, but the sheer amount of customization nearly makes 
 up for it.
  
  In summary, Import Tuner Challenge is a game that doesn't try to compete with other street racers, 
 because it's funamentally different. If you're a fan of the Tokyo Extreme Racer series, or have 
 an interest in Japanese highway racing, I'd suggest giving this one a look. It's one of the few 
 games you can probably use as a map, should you end up on Tokyo's C1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttots08
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Iwas prety mad when i got this game to find out that it sucked ... The cover made it seem so exciting 
 and alive, it sucks. Plus you have to stay on the same tracks and go around on a highway in circles 
 over and over again ... its ridicuously bad .... Plus the views to choose from when driving suck, 
 the only good one is the in car one .... I dont even know why they bother putting this game on 
 the market with the NFS franchise just there to blow it out of the world .... i recommend never 
 buying this game, unless its for your children or little ones then most lkely they will enjoy it 
 ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foodclubdrinks
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks, the difficulty is extremely hard, handling the car that is. This game gets so 
 boring so fast, I wouldn't mind playing an adventure game featuring Barney over this piece of crap. 
 The achievements are so ridiculously hard to get it's unbelievably. Everyone who participated in 
 the making of this game... kill yourself. If your getting paid to make a good video game, then 
 do it. The only good this about this game is the graphics, that is it, not the sound, not the racing, 
 the graphics, and that is it. The driving physics suck. The races are damn hard to win and the 
 prize isn't even worth the time and customizations to your car to win the race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DUB-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  What are u guys talking about!! The graphics are grear it may be that youre TV isnt in High definition!! 
 stupids.... The game is a great experience and it feels like its real all those extras for youre 
 car its like ur making and customizing youre own real car!! The game is a great value for its money!! 
 But a bad thing about the game is getting the money there arent to many races to get enough money 
 from to customize all my cars (alot of cars) it's not like the money drops down from the sky!! 
 Also the game could have some more cars there arent to many to choose from!! And if youre custmizing 
 youre car there are only 4 levels of styles for for example the rear bumper or the side skirts 
 but they do have alot of cool rims and extra's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjapanzer
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I don't know if anyone has ever seen those old movies about the time trials around the city highways 
 but this has that exact feel and I love it.
  
  Given there is no damage model or 200+ vehicles. There is enough in here to make for a long and 
 enjoyable racing experience.
  
  The tuning is great even though it give you very little low level control on parts. The tuning 
 settings are very nice and have a subtle feel to them. Making the game about driving rather then 
 being fast. Many times I was able to take out a much faster opponent with proper drift and cornering. 
 Also a great plus is that if you are passed in an SP battle that does not automatically mean race 
 over. It is possible to overtake and still win. That is probably the part of the game that keeps 
 me playing. I am not instantly failed for tapping another car or wall.
  
  All in all this game is a lot of fun to play. Little shallow on meat but learning about the elusice 
 king speed is a tasty diversion from driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay isnt for everyone but fans of the Xtreme Tokyo Drift series will love the 
 way this controls, whereas fans of the Need for Speed series will probably dislike the way it plays. 
 The best thing about the game is probably the feeling of speed because unlike most games it actually 
 feels like you are going fast. The tuning options are great and very deep so you can set up your 
 car to your style of racing.
  
  Graphics- They are nothing special but they are better than you would probably expect. The lighting 
 kinda sucks at some points but overall pretty decent.
  
  Sound- The music sucks and its really annoying. Otherwise the cars sound good as they should. There 
 is no voice acting so if any of the racers are talking to you its pure text and its cheesy as hell.
 
  
  Value- The quest mode will provide you with 20-30 hours of pure awesomeness. The online community 
 is very small so the best way to find people that play online is to look in forums preferably the 
 Xbox. com forums then you will have people to race with easily. Tilt- Considering its down to around 
 30 used I would say pick it up you will not be disappointed at all. Just make sure if you are going 
 to race online that you have a maxed out car (trust me I would know) .
  
  P. S. dont go by the Gamespot review for this game its absolute crap. 6.4? Come on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 30, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  I have played plenty of racing games (especially street games) to know that this game is completely 
 awful. I was racing a guy going at least 150 mph and touched the wall for less than half a second 
 and my car goes all the way to 85 mph, I mean come on I barely touch the wall and it acts like 
 I have just completely wrecked my car. The only good graphics in this game is the cars themselves 
 everything else is nothing to be desired. The only great point in this game is the multiple custimizations 
 you can make to your car. The game itself gets really repetitive, especially after racing the same 
 type of race for 3 to 4 hours before you get race a different type. You can't even tell their is 
 even music playing during the racing. It also has no sense of speed what so ever. If you do not 
 recommend my review will you please send me a message telling me what is wrong with and I will 
 try to improve my later reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getsetgo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  This a seriously fun game. Graphics are not the best i have seen on the 360. Single player is repetitive. 
 It doesn`t have a lot of modes. Basically, you tune, you race, you race you tune and that`s it. Crashes 
 are bad. Racing offers nothing more than racing. But guess what? i really like this game. I am having 
 great fun playing. It is seriously addictive. This game is as basic as a basic racer can get. I 
 have played all the NFS series, TDU and so on. I know and accept that all these games are technically 
 superior and offer more than ITC does, however, i am having more fun playing this than the games 
 i just mentioned. Whislt i accept that in terms of option choices this is not the best arcade racer 
 for me this is the most addictive and fun of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da1truehomie
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  When I 1st saw this game on here, i seen the user rating and i have to admit. i was disapointed 
 to see the user rating, but anyway i looked at the screen shots to see if the graphics was good... 
 and they looks worse than the sort of graphics you would expect from a PS2.
  
  But im addicted to customizing cars and tuning them up. ive completed all the NFS games ever released. 
 But i thought what the hell, i got it anyway.
  1st of all the main let down is the music... it's terrible, and the gameplay is slightly on the 
 kiddy side. but the graphics are better than any other racing game. and you know it's true!! the 
 tuning like everyone else said is better than anyother!!! and the body work like vinyls if you 
 good at it, you cars can look like pro jobs. but hey thats what i do for a living so mine would 
 look good lol.
  
  and being able to go 200mph + and actually feel it. is class!!!!!! gr8 selection of cars even though 
 i agree there could have been alot more. but the ones you get are far good enough. you can upgrade 
 the engine, muffler, cooling module, nos, transmission, brakes, suspension, lsd, weight reduction, 
 body kits, lights, tires, seats, dials inside the cars, interior, neon lights, number plates, ah 
 baby this game is amazing... you got to buy it.
  
  what makes this game more exiting than any NFS is that thier are special requirements to do the 
 wanderers, like having 4 threes on the number plate ect.... (the full guide is on the xbox live 
 forums) check my gamer score. ive got 800 gamerscore plus on it. personally i think this game is 
 far to underated due to ppl not being honest coz they couldnt do it. thats my opinion....
  
  buy it and please leave a review GEZDAGR8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darntee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  not bad :| the modifying side of the game is great but the actual raceing side could be better 
 a decent game though, but not a must buy if u have some spare cash then it might be worth looking 
 into as it is pretty cheap to buy now.
  and i am just writing this so i will let me submit this review as it has to be over 100 words. 
 y that is i dnt know??? so i must keep writing rubbish hahaha hahaha oh my god still cant submit 
 yet .
  .. darn tee.. .. darn tee.. .. darn tee.. .. darn tee.. .. darn tee. .. darn tee.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  When I first played game I was a little disappointed, the graphic is not the best, NFSU2 has better 
 graphic, and the steering I realy had too get used to, but I purchased my first car, and began 
 to style the beastm.
  
  Thats the part I love in this game, there are'nt that much bodykit, but the whats under the hood, 
 you can do almost any thing, adjust the gearing, suspension, brakes, spoiler and so much more.
 
  
  I spent lot of time doing that, and the car is going great, but to the the sad part.
  
  There're only 2 kind of races, so after a while I got borred, the only thing that made me go 
 on with the game, wherer only to unlock new cars, but I got disappointed, only 18 cars plus the 
 ones you win from bosses from the other teams.
  
  This game must be for the people who like to change the motor and all there's got something to 
 do with performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydrageon778
Rating: 2.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't offer you hardly as much as a game such as Forza or the Need for Speed series, 
 the game play get's more and more boring as you play it. I don't reccommend buying it or renting 
 it' it's just a down right disasterous game. It's way too old school and doesn't offer any substence. 
 the tokyo extreme games are good arcade games, this one would be good in an arcade aswell, but 
 as for real gameplay it's terrible, huge dissapointment. I thought it was going to be sort of cool. 
 But I was really wrong about that. again don't waste your time with this game it's very cheesy 
 and the controls aren't very realistic at all. The psysics of the game is terrible, the only thing 
 I would say is alright is the sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhettoPuppet
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Import Tuner Challenge was a very enjoyable game, while it lasted. Since i currently don't have 
 xbox live (i'm in iraq) i can't really say much about the multiplayer portions of this game. I 
 can however say that i was able to beat most of this game in a matter of less than 2 weeks. It 
 was very enjoyable, and i do enjoy going 200+ in my skyline (swoons) but i think the crashes are 
 somewhat weak. in a racing game i prefer to have some gnarly crashes if ur going 200+ and you slam 
 into a median... you should at least have to pay some wrecking fees or SOMETHING! another thing, 
 WOW! could you guys make it more challenging to build up a car? gimme a break! i have the most 
 expensive car in the game, due to extreme amount of patience and self control... (almost broke 
 my controller...) and i'm struggling to upgrade other much cheaper cars... i give this game one 
 thumb up... just one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Import Tuner Challenge (ITC) is a great example how lazy developers can release half-baked games 
 for full price.
  
  Simply put: ITC feels like and plays like a PsOne game. The cars do not damage, the cars handle 
 unrealistically, the enviorement is poor as ever along with the draw distance, no voice acting, 
 et cetera et cetera.
  
  First, let's start with the gameplay: you're a street racer. And you race. Yeah, that's about it. 
 Except, you race on the highway, not the streets. This may sound cool, but it's not. Although the 
 game is built on 'free roam' concept, it's as limited as in Gran Turismo: you can't exit the highway 
 actually. They call it free, because, you can cruise on the highway and invite rivals for a battle. 
 Now it may sound exciting, it isn't : there is simply not enough road to race on. There are about 
 3 different highways, and that's it. Plus, one circle around a highway is about 10 minutes with 
 a stock car. So it's really quick. Although, there's one thing that saves the gameplay: the battle 
 itself. It's nothing revolutionary, it's basically an outrun challenge (sometimes with more rivals, 
 but mostly with one) but it's simply fun. Racing through traffic has never been so fun ,especially 
 if you use in-car view. However, there's NO steering wheel, which is redicilious. Graphically, 
 the game is a mixed bag. The cars look good in the garage, but when you take them on the highways, 
 they look pretty low-poly. Very much like in GT4. Of course, GT4 looked good, but that was on PS2... 
 The enviorment is, on the other hand, simply DISASTROUS. The buildings are huge boxes with bright 
 holes (windows) . That's all. The road texture is pretty average, the traffic cars are detailed, 
 but they don't damage....
  
  The sound is... not even worth talking about. There are about 4 different music in the game, and 
 all 4 are very boring and repetative. The engine sounds are weak too, and the collision sounds 
 are laughable. One big positive about the game is the car customization system. You can adjust 
 engine properties, just like in Forza or GT, do all kind of body-mods, add spoilers, neon, stickers, 
 vinyls, and many more. Of course, you can also tune the cars. Overally, this aspect of the game 
 is amazing, and easily beats it's rival (NFS series) .
  
  Overally, I don't recommend this game, unless you are;
  a, a millionaire
  b, can rent it
 
  c, get a pirated copy
  
  although the racing IS fun, and the customization options are endless; by the time the game starts 
 to be fun, you'll get bored cruising around the highways... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THCpariah
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Hollywood's habit for cranking out street racing flicks at a high rate may have dropped out of 
 top gear in the past few years, but the gaming industry continues to keep its production pedal 
 stamped to the floor. Saddened as I am that we won't see Vin Diesel in 8 Fast 8 Furious: Mexican 
 Drift making its way to the silver screen anytime soon, titles like Midnight Club and Need For 
 Speed Underground have helped fill the void for racing fans who prefer some style with their substance. 
 In the same vein, Import Tuner Challenge is a game tailored to those of us who aren't content to 
 simply make laps with the same ol' stock vehicles. Developed by Genki, a studio that's always catered 
 to its domestic demographic in Japan (but has a few releases that slip into the states a each year, 
 like Kengo and Jade Cocoon) , ITC is a continuation of its Tokyo Xtreme Racer series, which last 
 graced the PS2 in three iterations. Though it has received a much-needed name change ( Xtreme is 
 so 2003) , Import Tuner is right in line with its predecessor, though being on a next-gen console 
 for the first time offers it the opportunity to upgrade. If you're a fan of the Tokyo Xtreme Racer 
 games, you'll know what to expect in ITC: rivalry-based bouts against local drivers and racing 
 teams played out on stretches of urban Tokyo track, along with a garage full of customization and 
 tuning options. Instead of racing in loops or even point-to-point, nearly all of the driving you'll 
 do in Import Tuner is challenge-based; you'll roam the Japanese highway, eyeing competitors from 
 your car, flashing your high-beams in their rear-view mirror if you'd like to issue a challenge. 
 You'll also visit parking areas located along the highway to mingle and chat with other drivers 
 (in text, at least) , as well as issue challenges to racers. On the road, what replaces racing for 
 time or distance are spirit points, which are allocated to both you and your opponent. The points 
 are a kind of a life bar that represents your driver's mental vitality, and it degrades if you 
 ram into obstacles or lose position with your auto adversary. The mechanic might sound a tad complex, 
 but it's nothing you can't wrap your gearhead around  it's still just a matter of out-driving 
 the other guy. There is a wealth of auto-enthusiasts ready to match your motor in Import Tuner, 
 most of which ally themselves with one of more than 200 racing teams in the game. After you've 
 battled your way through the lower members of a car clan, you'll find yourself matched against 
 boss drivers with flashy names like Azure Sniper or Midnight Cinderella, with naturally flashier 
 cars to boot. Out-pace these aces, and your own street pseudonym will improve  you might begin 
 as a Slow Poke Runner, but find yourself as a Luminous Baron or Tempest Samurai in no time. It's 
 a nice (and distinctly Japanese) detail that charts your progress throughout the game as you down 
 more and more rivals. Conceptually, the combination of Import Tuner's free-roam course structure 
 with rivalry-based racing isn't a bad thing. Unfortunately, Genki's execution of these mechanics 
 dampens most of the unique appeal. Whatever turbocharged engine or daunting moniker your opponents 
 might boast, rival drivers aren't that intimidating simply because they lack the challenge mentioned 
 in the game's title. They aren't very intelligent or creative, and they're noticeably sans a sense 
 of aggressiveness or recklessness that you'd expect from underground competitors. Beating most 
 rivals is a matter of either making a solid corner, or waiting until they change lanes and ram 
 an innocent vehicle while you speed away. Sure, this isn't universal, and there are instances where 
 you'll get beat handily. But by and large, races lack the neck-and-neck tension necessary to craft 
 a worthwhile racing experience. The AI wouldn't seem as simplistic if the roadways you navigate 
 weren't equally as such. Accurate as they may be to the Tokyo streets, there isn't anything especially 
 complex or compelling about Import Tuner's environment, even after unlocking more of the roadway 
 as you defeat rivals. As you're essentially speeding through highways (i. e., areas designed for 
 mass transit) , 90-degree turns, changes in elevation, and narrow lanes are kind of difficult to 
 come by. Because the playing space is generally so homogenous, you're mostly racing in straight 
 lines, dodging the infrequent sedan every minute or so along the way. Some might interpret this 
 as added authenticity; if you've wanted to race on reproduced models of the Shibuya and Shinjuku 
 highways, they're here. Still, casual racing fans should be wary if they're expecting the dynamic 
 gameplay they could find in Need For Speed Carbon or other mainstream racing titles. What Import 
 Tuner does well is its multitude of car customization options. Though there are just 18 vehicles 
 from five Japanese brands (Mazda, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, and Toyota) to choose from (you'll 
 also earn custom versions of your rivals cars by defeating them) , there's a lot of tinkering to 
 be done, both under the hood and in dressing up your ride with your own personal flare. Adjusting 
 gear ratios, changing the camber angle of your wheels, and even tweaking the angle of your spoiler 
 are a snap thanks to the game's simple menu system. But putting out high-end torque won't mean 
 much if your ride is looking drab, especially if you plan on taking your wheels from quest mode 
 onto Xbox Live. Expect to spend a good amount of time swapping out seats, mirrors, or taillights, 
 adding vertically opening doors, fine-tuning your paint job, or even installing neon lights underneath 
 your body. A nice number of decals and sponsor stickers you can stamp against your doors and bumpers 
 round out a solid suite of customization. Visually, Import Tuner Challenge doesn't exactly put 
 the Xbox 360's hardware into overdrive. While vehicle models look passable, they're a tad too glossy. 
 ITC does lay down some nice lighting and blur effects as you're breezing under overpasses and past 
 streetlamps, even if it's a little overused. What's missing is an impressive Japanese skyline to 
 set a convincing backdrop for the gameplay  office buildings and other urban structures in the 
 environment don't effectively inspire or immerse you in the scene. Import Tuner's audio is similarly 
 ho-hum, with generic techno tracks that find their way through every menu and race, along with 
 sound effects that get the job done but don't exactly stand out. There's no voice-acting, either, 
 which would've added some much-needed personality to your allegedly edgy opponents. Online, finding 
 more adept or interesting competition isn't a problem, though it's unfortunate that the Xbox Live 
 modes are limited to battle and time attack, and you'll have to dump a good amount of money into 
 your buggy before it's up to par with online opponents. Overall, we can't call Import Tuner an 
 outright lemon because it does do some things right  namely the array of customization options 
 available to players. Conceptually, free-roaming racing (even if it's better-executed in Test Drive 
 Unlimited) and challenging rival drivers is something that has a future in racing games as the 
 genre experiments with new ideas. For the time being, however, Import Tuner lacks either the impressive 
 visuals we've come to expect from next-gen games (racing titles, especially) , or a well-executed 
 new feature that contrasts it from other offerings in the genre. It may appeal to a group of auto-savvy 
 street racers who delight in leaving relatively simple A. I. in the dust, but Import Tuner Challenge 
 doesn't bring enough visual horsepower or fine-tuned gameplay to make it past its speedy competitors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxIceCold14xX
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, who ever has played this game would know what im talking about. In IMTC the gameplay holds 
 a line or a cross between Grand Turismo and the Need for Speed Underground series. It holds the 
 Liscensed parts and cars title, but it only has the few cars and 2 sets of parts. Rally Art and 
 Curve are the only featured parts that are not wheel rims. With the rims you get the normal licensing 
 that you would get with any other driving game out there. The upgrades are listed as stages and 
 yes there are many upgradeable things on the car but there is definatly room to explore this i. e. 
 could have made a different blow off valve so that every upgrade doesn't have the same sound. Only 
 a few different selections for the car design body wise. On the plus side though the cockpit of 
 the car was very customizable in ways that you can have gauges on a pod like real life and on the 
 side. Also, the cockpit was in fact the real life cockpit. One the NFSU side there is the whole 
 free run Course In mode where your stuck on driving in three different time of days: night, midnight, 
 and daybreak. The driving area is limited to all highway so if your car gets good highway miles 
 your set :D. But, it can get boring so they added UNLOCKABLE TRACKS! There are three decent sized 
 new tracks you can unlock plus there are Parking Areas where you can find tougher opponents. The 
 game play is not bad actually to add plus things races are exciting because you have to deal with 
 high speeds. Handling is like real life its not to easy but its not super hard. You can customize 
 the car alot make it your whip lower the height and rims and neons also a first LEDs paint graphics 
 the whole kit and ka boodle. The game is fun though you can definatly addict yourself to this game 
 but it will seem to bore you sometimes looking for the last opponent. The game is pretty long and 
 that long just wears you away. So this is my review haven't viewed the others hope you like . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is totally worth the $60, even though that's a very high price for a game it wouldn't 
 be to bad to buy, this game's customization is awesome, it's so realistic you can change seats, 
 guages, and steering wheels, this game is pretty hard until you get a really nice car, i started 
 off with a 350z and kept barely winning, i've got a skyline now with 600 horsepower and now it's 
 getting a little easier, but this game is awesome if you like games it takes you a while to beat 
 i have played this game for a couple hours for about a week and i only have 20% done, so this game 
 is really good, and the gameplay is just like any tokyo extreme racer but it does get better, the 
 gameplay isnt the greatest but it is fairly good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cihancizmeci
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  &amp;#304; t's super.&amp;#304; want a only one think for import tuner challenge's.. make it for 
 Pc.. please make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for this game... please make 
 pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for 
 this game... please make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for this game... please 
 make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition 
 for this game... please make pc edition for this game... please make pc edition for this game... 
 please make pc edition for this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Decent car-pimping
  ==========
  BAD: Graphics are weak, recycled and ========== bland // No variety in the races // Bad traffic 
 physics // Always seems to be the same stretch of motorway // Dodgy character names // Totally 
 lacks the sex appeal of games like PGR3 and Burnout
  
  Shotoku Battle X (or Import Tuner Challenge) was first seen as a racing game with potential, that 
 could equal Need For Speed: Most Wanted, and people thought that with such high levels of car customization, 
 that the game couldn't possibly be bad ... those bastards were wrong! Import Tuner Challenge is 
 such an uninteresting racing game that tries so hard to be like NFS but fails so very much. This 
 30 MPH racing game, makes you race around dodgy motorways in skectchy looking cars, and thats not 
 the worst part, Import Tuner Challenge is filled with un-necessary inconveniences, such as the 
 long loading periods, hundreds of messages, which are spread across mediocre looking menu's, and 
 the fact that their is absoluelty NO damage modelling, something that all 360 racing games should 
 have, but wait ... PGR3 didn't have damage modelling, and no-one put it down because of it, because 
 it was good, clean graphics, great sound, and absolute thrill. But this game is so drab, that the 
 only sweet release from the horrififc gameplay, is to try and kill yourself (in-game obviously) , 
 but it denies of that privelidge.
  
  Import Tuner Challenge is a sorry piece of Japanese racing that should be cast aside, along with 
 many many other Japanese titles, and not even be allowed anywhere near the good racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paranoia809
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is very addictive and has a great learning curve. Also one of the first game of racing 
 I played where you could actually drift. Without drifting you really can't beat some of the races 
 in the game. The game is flawed by some of the bugs that tend to pop up when the graphics get really 
 complicated. Overall very good and fun game. Also the vast car customization is a plus for this 
 game and people who are into tuning and modifying cars, this is the game for them. For people who 
 didnt play the series, they shouldn't be so negative about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  i was waiting for my local rogers video to get this game for weeks, when i got it, it was prettyt 
 much grabge. the driving is realy werid and not very much road to race on at all. Not very many 
 cars to pick from and the best part is THE poeple Have No Voices. So get ready to read. the muti 
 player wasnt all the great eather and the audio was a big let down to. The game did have good Customing, 
 lots of stuff to change and what not but it doenyt make up for the poor game. if u r a fan of steet 
 racing or racing in gernal u might wanna rent this, but i realy dont reamend at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hereticghoul
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game that is highly addictive and just plain fun to play. If your a fan of the Tokyo 
 Extreme Racer series this game is for you! It is pretty extensive and it has great customizing 
 options for your car. With over 200 rivals with different driving styles you will always have someone 
 to race. This is one of the most underrated games I have played and I can say that this is one 
 great game! Mutliplayer could have been better, but for the first game of the series to be on a 
 next generation console it gives a great alternative to the Need For Speed series and has a lot 
 more depth. All in all if you like street racing give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pettan82
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I think it's not worth releasing such a game on a console like the 360. One of the crappiest driving 
 game in a long time. Put your money on the table for the NFS series instead! If i have to say something 
 good.. The tuning options is pretty cool. But when you hit the road all the fun is suddenly gone. 
 The boost pressure above the steering wheel was a cool thing to make by the way... I am looking 
 forward to the NFSC. Drove the demo and was glad that they got drifting back to this release! To 
 boost the adrenalin when you race i recomend a steering wheel! I wounder if the 360 will be compatible 
 whit pc steering wheels. That would be awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anco7290
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  The game lay is pretty good and it grows on you with time, it makes you want to keep playing, its 
 a good change form other games, the graphics i feel like are underrated and its a good game overall, 
 its not a game you'd beat over and over, once or twice for most people, but its definitely addicting.
 
  This game needs some things maybe some other race modes, because if you get bored easily, the 
 continuous race mode, may be monotonous. Otherwise i think this game is a very good game, takes 
 longer to beat then other street racing titles, which is good because most other titles are easier 
 than this one, and alot shorter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 5/10
  
  The gameplay in this game is so repeatitive. There are two different types of races Time Attack 
 battles, and SP battles. Time attack is where you race 1 or more cars and you try to get to a certain 
 place on the map before the car your raceing does. The online options are limited and is really 
 laggy too.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Some nice looking visuals in this game and the frame rate is solid.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Some 
 cool sound during cut-scenes nothing else is special though
  
  Value 7/10
  
  Online and the customization of your cars will keep you coming back to play this game. Also there 
 are some hard but not too hard achievements in this game
  
  Tilt 7/10
  
  Check this game out if you have an xbox 360 and you are a need for speed fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkindly
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Import tuner is actually not too bad, but a few things within the game could be better. Once the 
 game gets going it can get addictive, but after a while of playing it just feels like tthere just 
 could be a bit more to this game. What this game needs is more roads (bigger map) and more cars.
 
  
  The good points about the game is the fact that you can tune cars up and it has abit of a realistic 
 feel to it when tuning the cars up. The enignes of the cars also look very realistic and when a 
 part is upgraded you can see it inside he engine. The concept of the game is also ok, basically 
 win races to get to the top, but you've got like cars and be into racing games to understand this!
 
  
  The overall game is quite good, the idea is good, but it just feels like there needs to be more 
 depth to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AccordRacer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Big fan of the series this one doesn't dissapoint. Once you learn the course the game the is so 
 much easierj, so playing the pervious games helps alot, expessially with the tuning aspect of the 
 game. If your new at it just mess with settings until you find what works and gets you the win, 
 just like real life tuning you never get it right the first time so just keep experimenting. The 
 graphics a pretty good, it would be cool if the cars would show damage and also if traffic would 
 change as time goes by. As far as online goes a powerful car helps but you can win with a slower 
 car if you know the course and can block the othe driver from passing you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_killuh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I ran thru the whole game in 5 days, it was fun, challenging at times as well, the wanderers were 
 the toughest part... not beating them... FINDING them! LOL. I think they should have a lot more cars 
 to choose from, unfortunately, I don't think this will have any comparision what so ever with NFS: 
 Carbon's release. It needed a lot more customization features, I mean it had a ton don't get me 
 wrong, but when it came to bodykits and things like that, coulda had a few more, than again, that's 
 just my opinion. I would recommend it to someone to buy though. If you like games like `Tokyo Xtreme 
 Racer` and `Need For Speed` then you will definetely enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbkmbk
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is different. Things happen that you do not see in other games. Upgrading the car is 
 one of the best things about this game cause it keeps you wanting to get that extra level to see 
 how your car handles. The settings you make to your Gear Ratio and all the other things you can 
 set up ( LSD, Suspension, Brake ) have a great effect on your cars performance; which makes you 
 in total control. you can't blame the game engine anymore cause its all up to you to set your car 
 up the way that suits you.
  
  For example if you want to drift on all the turns or want to go on two wheels, its all in ur hand.
 
  
  But i gotta say, I did expect a lot more from this game. It felt like i'm playing Tokyo Extreme 
 Racer 1 all over again. Only new things were the Nos and some removed options. I really hope the 
 developers of the game give it more quality and time in the sequel which i know is going to come 
 out.
  
  Although the game wasn't anything new, I was addicted to it. From the Moment I began playing till 
 I beat it, i played nothing else ( except for the fifa 07 demo ) .
  Online play is cool, you can see other people's car but you can find it hard to find a game session 
 since no one plays the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The 360 has a few racing games, NFSMW, PGR3, TDU, RR6, each focusing on their own style of play. 
 ITC goes for the street racing style, as NFSMW, which often leads to comparasons between the two, 
 which is unfair to both. ITC is straight racing, no real varations are present, your goal is always 
 to beat your opponent to the finish line or drain his SP (your 'life' of sorts) . That may not work 
 well for some games, but for ITC it's just fine. In fact, the focus is almost on tuning rather 
 than racing, the racing being a means of getting the money to upgrade your ride. So in essence, 
 this is a tuning game with a racing theme. It's hard to compare ITC to any other 360 racers, mainly 
 because all but Ridge Racer 6 were really good racers unique in their own rights. ITC seems to 
 rip off elements from all of them, which means the game may look unique, but under that paint are 
 parts of the same games you've already seen. The gameplay is hard to define, it's half arcade and 
 half simulation, when 100 percent of either would have been better. That aside, the tuning is well 
 done, using licenced cars and brand names, and each car has tiers of upgrades that must be unlocked 
 through races. Even the slightest change to your car will show results, ie lowering your ride height 
 will give you more speed. Which leads to the racing aspect, which is ok, but nothing special. You'll 
 race in either time trial or SP battles, where you and your opponent have a life bar that is reduced 
 by crashing or falling behind. It's actually a pretty good system in practice, and it can lead 
 to some tense neck and neck races. There is a sense of speed, but it could have been done much 
 better, however, it works. The tracks... or track rather, you race on is composed of different stretches 
 of the same highway, each of which has different rivals to race. You drive in free mode, find a 
 rival, flash your lights and the race begins. Its nice to be able to just drive around freely if 
 you want to, but really, the whole city just seems dead. For a metro-Japan freeway, you'd expect 
 to see a few hundred cars (especially during the daytime portion) , yet you'll see maybe ten... maybe 
 everyone is just too afraid to drive anymore. Since the handling on the cars is actualy quite good 
 (especially with tuning) , more traffic would have been nice, or at least an option to adjust the 
 traffic levels. The AI can be dirt stupid or superhumanly smart... many of the early races aren't 
 even races, if you can get in front and hold your speed the AI will just fall back slowly until 
 you look back and wonder 'where the hell did he go?' Certain aspects of your car also affect more 
 than performance, some of the racers you meet are just plain stubborn, refusing to race cars with 
 wings or other parts they don't approve of. Graphically, the game is above average of what a standard 
 street racing game normally pushes out. Car models are exceptionally detailed and shiny with countless 
 visual upgrades. And since cars are the star here, that's a good thing, since these models are 
 almost as good as PGR or TDU's. However, the tracks are all bland... which somewhat makes sense 
 for a freeway. Driving past concrete walls is boring though, and the buildings around are all just 
 as boring; big black squares with smaller white squares. With all the shinyness of the cars, it 
 would have been nice to race in a more interesting setting with Japan's numerous neon signs, video 
 screens, advertisements etc. The sound is all average, with standard techno music and engine revs. 
 There is a rather annoying clunk noise every so often, and I have yet to discover what it is (it 
 only sounds in cockpit view) . The engine makes enough noise to tell you when to shift, if you don't 
 want to use the tachometer. It's not the best racer out there, but it is the only one that offers 
 such a level of customization, and in the end, thats really what the game is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_zebra
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The most important thing you must remember about this game is that it is Japanese and like most 
 things that are Japanese it may take sometime to understand and enjoy. Import Tuner Challenge supplies 
 the player with a vast amount of racers to challenge. It achieves this by throwing the player into 
 a racing world that revolves around Tokyo highways and streets. Here you will have to purchase 
 a car and proceed to race and upgrade your car into a street car worth of challenging the top racers 
 on the highway.
  A good part of this game is simply the lack of story. This may sound strange as the current trend 
 would see most racing games developed stories now days but this one takes you back to original 
 days of racing that you would have experienced on playstation one and at arcades. You as the character 
 are thrown straight into the racing society without a back story, relationship or car. All you 
 have is one goal which is to be king of the Tokyo metro. However, despite the fact that you are 
 your car you cannot expect that you won't run into a bunch of egocentric personalities on the road. 
 However in this game that is all you will see of the rival racers as they mainly appear as silhouettes.
 
  The biggest part of this game is purely the car customization. There may not be as many bumpers 
 and spoilers as you would find in NFS. But there are some interesting parts that have been added. 
 For example, instead of just neons to install on your car you can LED's that run back and forth 
 on the car. It's small things like these that make this game different to most.
  The down side to this game however, is the slow start that you receive. It does take a while to 
 accumulate enough money to be able to buy a decent car but eventually you can get moving nicely.
 
  Overall this game serves its purpose nicely with a few little bumps here and there but still a 
 decent Japanese game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  ITC suffers from a real identity crises. It seems to be trying to take some of the Midnight Club's 
 tricks, while adding in a dash of burnouts car combat and a dash of HEY, it's TOKYO so it's COOL 
 right?! huh right? . Wrong. As some others have noted in their reviews, this game is neither a 
 simulation, nor is it an arcade game. It falls into some kind of gaming limbo.
  
  For the nuts and bolts (no pun intended) , the sound is a mixed bag. The car effects are fine, and 
 so are most of the environmental effects. The sountrack is no great shakes however, and the voice 
 acting, such as it is, can be totally dismissed. the graphics are also mixed, but tend towards 
 bland lightstreaked cityscapes and overglossed cars. What I might not have minded in a game on 
 my xbox, is GLARING on the 360 next to something like PGR3. They are not bad graphics, they are 
 just well below par.
  
  All of that could have been forgiven however, if the gameplay were not so tedious and unrewarding. 
 It's true that once you actually accrue enough credit to start making serious modificatons to your 
 car, the performance DOES start to climb in a big way... but when you actually hit the road and 
 drive the subtelties of each item's description all seem to boil down to the very basic Stability, 
 Acceleration, Top Speed . This is where ITC really falls apart. It wants to be a simulation in 
 the shop, and an arcade game on the road, but it just doesn't do either well. It all ends up feeling 
 a bit like an early game of Outrun, where you don't have the craaaaazy physics of a GTA game, but 
 you don't really have the real-world physics of a PGR or hard sim.
  
  Another unfortunate fact of this game is that it tries to make it feel open and free in a kind 
 of Midnight Club fashion by having you go out and challenge rivels, but in practice, you could 
 just as easily have selected them from a menu and hit start. You will be wandering and racing the 
 same loops so often that you almost start to ignore your surroundings, which is ok, since the environment 
 is arguably the least pretty part of the graphical package ITC offers.
  
  Finally, there is my tilt . I don't think ITC was fun. There are three terrific games you can play 
 in a 360 that do racing better than ITC: PGR3, Forza Motorsport (which is compatible) , and Burnout 
 Revenge. If you want to feel like you're in a car, driving in a specific place PGR3 is going to 
 do that for you. If you want to buy parts from cars all over the world (not just nissan and such) 
 and make aftermarket studmobiles and race the hell out of them go for Forza Motorsport. And if 
 you want to bang bumpers and see sparks fly, well, burnout baby. Finally, if you have an old xbox, 
 and want that free roaming gameplay, go for Midnight Club 3, it still looks good alongside ITC, 
 and the gameplay is a hell of a lot more fun. ITC has no niche to fill, and it doesn't make one 
 of it's own. You can find a better way to spend your $60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfrancis99
Rating: 3.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Please don't waste your time on this game. It is repetitive, confusing and within the first half 
 an hour of gameplay leaves you wondering what the designers were thinking.
  
  I am surprised to see Ubisoft (makers of Ghost Recon the best game on the Xbox) brand this game 
 with their logo.
  
  I spent so much time with this game, driving around, and repeatedly participating in the same race 
 on the same graphically bad roads only to find myself receiving petty amounts of money and not 
 being able to upgrade my car to a point where I could enjoy the game. I predict I'd be at it for 
 a good 5 hours before the game even began to be enjoyable.
  
  Plus, half the menu text in the game doesn't conform to the english grammatics. You can easily 
 tell it was designed by the japanese designers who do that other horrible racing game, I forget 
 the name.
  
  Anyway, don't waste your time.
  
  What an embarrasment for the Xbox 360 and 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sage215
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Well theres is a long list of games that people are going to compare this game to most likely Need 
 for Speed. This game and NFS are different which sets them aparts miles of way. NFS is more of 
 an arcade type, also the uprade arent as deep as other games. Import Tunning (Tokyo Extreme) is 
 deep into car custimizations from kits to gear ratios. Genki has always had its series in more 
 of a simlation then an arcade type racer, they basically want you to feel the cars engine mechanics 
 then just buying a bunch of stuff that say upgrade. So its kinda hard to compare a game to other 
 series, you can probably compare it to GT4 just with highways and bodykits. I would prefer this 
 game to car fanatics that want to get into car mechanics likes engines, transmissions, gear ratios 
 and more. I would give this game a 7 for average simulations. Arcade styyle 6.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeingo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Don't take this review the wrong way, it is from the point of view of a fan the series and a car 
 nut, but thats who this game appeals to. If you love street racing on tokyo's highways this game 
 is for you. DO NOT EXPECT A NEED FOR SPEED LIKE GAME! yes this game is free roaming but in a different 
 sence. as you drive the highways you come across opponents and challenge them to a race, you race, 
 you win, you get money, you upgrade your car. this game can be monotonous so if you have any doubts 
 about if youll like the game or not rent it. for people like me this is one of the greatest racing 
 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nate0125RS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Now, I may be biased because I loved the Tokyo Xtreme Racer 1 and 2 games for the Sega Dreamcast. 
 I know for new players who have enjoyed games such as the Need For Speed Underground series that 
 Import Tuner Challenge may seem boring or lacking multiple race modes. However, I know anyone who 
 liked playing the two previous titles in the Genki series will like this game.
  
  First off, the customization options of the cars in this game are awesome. You can do just about 
 anything you could want to these cars, including wide body kits, vertical doors, even down to adding 
 seats and steering wheels. The custom wheels in the game are extensive and look like their real 
 life counterparts.
  
  While tuning the car with such things as camber angles and suspension height, the visual model 
 actually shows those changes.
  
  Someone else here mentioned the selection of cars available as lacking. For one, as you progress 
 through the game, more cars become available. Also, one of the great things about the cars in the 
 game is that they are very close to what you would see running through the streets of Tokyo. You 
 are not limited to the standard late model cars as in most games and there are quite a few sedan 
 models available which is unusual in these type of games.
  
  The sounds in the game aren't incredible, but they do a pretty good job of representing their real 
 life counterparts. I mean, we've all heard an import compact car with a muffler on it, and in real 
 life it doesn't sound that great either. But, when driving a Subaru with a boxer engine, or a sedan 
 with a v-8, there is a good representation there. The sounds change as expected as your engine 
 is upgraded as well.
  
  The gameplay is extremely addictive, even if there is a lack of race modes. Each rival I beat leaves 
 me wanting to tackle just one more, and then one more, until I've been racing for hours.
  
  I have a few gripes, but they don't keep me from enjoying the game one bit. The in-car view is 
 pretty much worthless. The cockpits look nice, but nothing to be compared to Project Gotham Racing 
 3. As stated by someone else here, the mechanics make for a very strange feeling while driving 
 in this view. It almost feels as if the car is floating uncontrollably. Needless to say, while 
 racing I never use this view. If it was fixed it would have potential, especially since you can 
 add gauges and other items to the in-car view during customization.
  
  The second downfall is the soundtrack, which I just turn off and use the music I've loaded to the 
 harddrive. It's a techno-esque style, but not worth listening to at all in my opinion.
  
  I haven't played the multi-player mode, so I cannot comment on the performance or features of that 
 aspect of the game.
  
  Simply put, this game is highly addictive. If you are a fan of tuner cars and want something a 
 little different than the full of the mill, Fast and Furious based game, I would definitely give 
 this one a try. At least check it out once the price drops. You wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redclaw01
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to customizing the cars in this game, its pretty good. It has lots of choices of 
 things to do but here is the problem with it. The choices of cars and manufactures is pathetic. 
 The cars that are available are very great cars but they are missing so many others that it just 
 feels like there arent very many cars. The graphics are average but not very stand out. The environments 
 are very bland (even though they are mapped after the real counterparts) and very linear. The cockpit 
 views are a disgrace of an attempt to make it look like the real counterparts and the driving mechanics 
 are terrible. The sounds in game are very bad from the tires screeching, cars passing by, and the 
 sounds of the engines. Any enthusiast would realize that the sounds of the engines are not of the 
 real cars but just anoying sounds the developers created to sound like engines. The soundtrack 
 has no umph or excitement to it, its almost monotone throughout the entire soundtrack. Though it 
 is an improvement over the previous series its just lacking so much compared to its competitors 
 that you will likely quit playing it after a couple of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwatTeam14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Ive been playing it for awhile, this is a great game, great racing, great speed, 
 great custimiaztion. First off, you start out with 3,000,000 yen (CP) Then you pick you a first 
 car, my was a 180sx, then you head to the highway and race. Great game, I havent tried the muitiplayer, 
 but it would be fun tho. Pick this game up its pretty fun if you like street racing. NFS and those 
 other games, forget about them. But if there wAs one thing i would complain about is. . . Nothing 
 realy. $59? So what its worth it to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaHan05
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game compared to games like NFS MW and Underground, well.... this game jsut seems empty in 
 the racing department... but in the tuning section (if thats your thing) its got all you could wish 
 for... from messing with Gear ratio, suspention, chamber, and even the angle of you spoiler, to 
 tune your car to its maximum... racing seems a little slow, and handles like a arcade racer (which 
 isent all bad) Graphicly this game is worthy of the 360, sounds are good, but music seems not to 
 be very present. This game is worth getting if your into tuning and racing 1 on 1 but if your a 
 hardcore NFS fan.... this game isent really for you. woth only 2 stylres of racing SP (you have a 
 life bar the further you are ahead of the opponet the more their SP bar drops, hitting walls, cars 
 and opponet also drop your and their SP) , and time attack (first one to the finish line wins.... 
 The tracks are made up of one big highway system.... think NFS: Most Wanted ( but only the highway 
 going around the city) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
