-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Infinite Undiscovery
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/infiniteundiscovery/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed character models and world architecture.
 Characters and their stories are engaging.
 Fast-paced battles with spiffy-looking special moves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameworld is lonely and bland.
 Too much repetition.
 Short and lacking in depth for an RPG.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 990 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Tri-Ace
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Infinite Undiscovery feeds your need for narrative, but it's ultimately a shallow, flawed experience. 
 

  Role-playing games strike a tricky balance between gameplay and narrative that is easy to take 
 for granted when everything goes together correctly. Infinite Undiscovery is sadly an example of 
 how flawed design and myriad imperfections can mar an otherwise enjoyable adventure. Square Enix 
 manages to provide the frame of a role-playing game epic that falls short on execution.  

           When the world is in danger, be sure to ask nearby furry creatures for assistance.    
   

  The world of Infinite Undiscovery is influenced heavily by the moon, which is home to a god who 
 is revered as a source of magical blessing. Humans who are born under auspicious moon phases are 
 tattooed with sigils known as Lunaglyphs, which grant power and the ability to cast spells. Everything's 
 in disarray because a group called the Order of the Chains has shackled the moon to the earth, 
 disrupting the normal flow of power and bringing the two heavenly bodies on a collision course. 
 The people's only hope is Sigmund the Liberator, a man with the ability to cut the chains and restore 
 the world to normal. Capell, the protagonist, is a cowardly musician who mysteriously is a twin 
 to Sigmund in appearance, which gets him unwillingly wrapped up in the troubles of nations.  

 
  All of the characters are well defined, and it's easy to come to know and grow fond of them through 
 the game's preponderance of narrative cutscenes (some silly dialogue notwithstanding) . Whether 
 it's Capell getting thoroughly browbeaten by the idealistic princess Aya, the adorable scamps Rico 
 and Rucha chatting in excitement, or the serene priest Eugene offering some sage insight while 
 adjusting his glasses, you're always learning something new about the characters and their motivations. 
 You'll have close to 20 playable characters by the end, and though some are better fleshed out 
 than others, many are likable. The narrative itself is engaging but at the same time feels a little 
 light on depth, some of which is due to the gameworld.  

  Wedged between all of the storytelling mania is the gameplay, which sees you roaming the world 
 in search of chains to smash and people to aid. One of the problems with both the world zones and 
 many of the dungeons in the game is that you're often given very loose guidance about where to 
 travel (such as "south") , and the areas themselves are huge and can be lengthy. Combine winding 
 paths that have multiple nooks and crannies with a mapping system that relies on you discovering 
 areas in very narrow swaths, and the whole thing feels less like exploring a world and more like 
 a way to make you wander around and cut through enemies. With such huge outdoor zones, there are 
 a surprisingly small number of towns to visit, which makes the lands that you wander through feel 
 empty and lonely. You'll also have to retrace your steps quite a bit, which will get tiresome around 
 the fifth time that you've had to cross the same desert.  

  Battle is completely real-time and action-oriented. You'll always be controlling Capell, and you 
 have a few simple AI settings for your party members that you can cycle through using the D pad. 
 Once you're in range, you'll target the nearest enemy -- but it's not an autolock for attack purposes, 
 so you'll have to continually move around to try to score hits on mobile foes. This is somewhat 
 of a pain if you're trying to connect with an ability that involves a lengthy animation. Capell 
 can execute quick attacks and strong slashes, and you can bind two special skills that will be 
 activated when you hold down the A or B button. Attacking an enemy in succession will start a combo 
 meter that you can build through your own hits and those of your friends. Using the connect feature, 
 you can issue orders on the fly to a specific ally to use his or her special attacks, which is 
 good for combo-building or solving some of the game's dungeon puzzles. The X button will play your 
 flute, which lets you perform various tunes that will reveal hidden passages or enemies, or shield 
 your party from harmful magic.  

           Use your connection abilities to assassinate harmless barrels.      

  The action is 
 fast-paced and can be quite satisfying when you're unleashing large combo strings, but there are 
 some problems. One is the camera, which is zoomed in so close that you can't see a lot of your 
 field of action without panning around regularly, particularly if you're hemmed into a corner. 
 Your view is also often obscured by an orgy of sword slices and light effects from special attacks, 
 which can trigger some graphical slowdown. You can use the Y button to call for your party members 
 to use healing spells or items, but occasionally they'll take their own sweet time getting it done, 
 leading to their deaths. If you take matters into your own hands and have to open the menu during 
 battle, you have to run to a hopefully safe location because the menu doesn't pause the game while 
 you're sorting through and trying to find your favorite restorative. Another fun twist is that 
 if you die, you have to just lie there and hope that one of your party members is able to cast 
 a resurrection spell or use an item at some point while your timer ticks down, otherwise it's game 
 over. Once Capell goes down, you cannot issue orders, access the menu, or do anything else until 
 you come back to life, no matter how many of your party members are still up and running around. 

  In addition to normal fights, there are a few timed events in which you'll have to complete an 
 objective while simultaneously fighting against the clock. Frustratingly, these events can be nested 
 in other battles that are already a good distance from a save point, and if you fail then you'll 
 have to restart from your last save. The same is true of boss battles, an archaic bit of punishment 
 that really saps your momentum while you painstakingly retrace your steps.  

  Despite all of the loopy paths and redundant dungeons, as well as the sudden-fail conditions and 
 game-over screens that force you to slog onward and repeat content, and cutscenes that like to 
 cascade over one another every few steps, this game is short by RPG standards. At about 20 hours, 
 it's just not that meaty, even with multiple difficulty settings and a sprinkling of side quests 
 and item creation to tinker with.  

  Visually, there's some nice architecture in the world's castles and fortresses, gleaming marble 
 floors and statuary, and metalworking detail on gates. Outdoor, natural-type environments are a 
 little muddy and bland. Spell details look very nice for your own abilities and those of your foes, 
 with lots of powerful slashes, explosions, swirling shadows, and such. Character models are detailed 
 in armor and appearance, and every so often characters will narrow their eyes and tilt their heads 
 and there's a sense of very natural movement and expression. Much of the time, however, the characters' 
 lips seem to move independently of the rest of their faces in a very odd way; lip-synching is also 
 almost nonexistent. In fact, there are sometimes whole sentences of conversation that go by without 
 the speaker moving his or her lips at all.  

           Could I have the 8-hit combo meal, please?      

  The voice acting holds up very well 
 on the whole; each of the main characters has a voice that fits him or her very well, and aside 
 from some emotionally overwrought moments, they manage to hit the proper tone for their scenes. 
 Some of the secondary roles fall a little flat and wooden, and some of the dialogue is positively 
 dopey. The orchestral score is mostly lovely, with rousing battle themes and background music that 
 does its job of setting tone and otherwise not bothering you.  

  Infinite Undiscovery has all the trappings of a mighty adventure, but it lacks the true soul. Some 
 of that energy is siphoned off by a largely empty and repetitious world, some of it is drained 
 by faulty scenario design, and much of it isn't allowed real depth because of the relatively short 
 length. It's easy to grow fond of the characters and become involved in their plight, but the narrative 
 is only one part of the whole.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Horusalis
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Of course being a RPG, I picked up this game as soon as it came out. I have to say I was glad I 
 did, although I have some mixed feelings about this game. To get straight to the point, this game 
 is short. While most RPGs can take up to 60 hours or more skipping side quests, this game only 
 takes you to 20 - 30 (going straight through) . The story was good but predictable at times, especially 
 close to the end. Battles were challenging and fun, but in my opinion the healing system was horrible. 
 Many times I would find myself and party members dead with my healer left, only to see hes off 
 on the other side of the field doing nothing. Even sometimes calling for healing, my healer would 
 do nothing. I did like the times where there would be a 2nd and 3rd party helping out in areas, 
 but it would've been better if they could work together rather than in their own separate groups. 
 Character voices didn't sync with mouth movement at times which was a little annoying but didn't 
 make me stray from the game. Other than that, I really did like this game and thought it was worth 
 the money. As mentioned battles were fun, story/music was good, characters were cool, and towns/cities 
 were amazing. If you're a Square Enix fan, i would recommend this game, but if you're not or still 
 not sure about this game, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  What were these guys thinking?? Almost everything about this game screams annoying and boring. 
 
  
  First of all welcome to another 360 game with incredibly tiny text that will give you a migraine 
 from trying to read it if you use any kind of non 1080p tv. Not only is there tiny text but alot 
 of the text that does pop up on screen during cutscenes and what not flashes on the screen for 
 only seconds making you miss most of it (usually including how to do things) . Oh and speaking of 
 text how awesome would it be if we out subtitles IN the cutscene and use white letters so they 
 are impossable to read and to make things even worse we will put awesome fat black bands along 
 the top and bottom of each cutscene to show where we could have put the subtitles but chose not 
 to!! The game is totally lacking in voice-overs also as in there are none. 
  
  How about we make an ACTION based RPG where you mash buttons to attack and stuff but we leave out 
 a button to let the player defend himself or block damage?? Sounds great.
  
  Hey well if we are going to let the player get continously pounded into the dirt from being not 
 able to defend himself maybe we could make it so that when he opens the item inventory to use a 
 healing item the game would pause or something?? Hell no!!! Wheres the challenge in that. Make 
 the player use items while stuff is beating on him!!!
  
  People who love rpg's LOVE running around and talking to every single person in every single town 
 so what can we do to make it more awesome??? Hey lets make it so you can "connect" with one of 
 your other party members at a time and get different responses from people depending on who you 
 are connected to!! That way you have to talk to every single person in every single town thousands 
 of times!!! SWEET!!
  
  Who doesnt love sneak attacks and getting the drop on monsters!! Hey better yet lets make alot 
 of stages pitch black and make the monsters get the drop on the player!!
  
  Each time you visit a new map section your mini-map is greyed out with the fog of war which you 
 can undo by walking around a stage like a Roomba vacuum cleaning robot.
  
  I don't know about everyone else but I hate it when you start a game and the character is totally 
 ignorant of who they are and or what is going on all around them and everything in the game has 
 to be explained to you like you are from another planet. Then as you play you learn more and more 
 about your own freaking history. Its an incredibly stupid storytelling method for a video game. 
 I get that its for the benefit of the player so they can be introduced to the game and the character 
 but there are other BETTER ways of doing it.
  
  Not everything in this game was fubar. They have this cool thing you do to unlock doors in dungeons. 
 Basically you trick specific monsters into following you to a sealed door and then the door "absorbs"/eats 
 them. The door I ran into took 2 monsters to get past. Who knows how many it takes later on but 
 it was really cool. 
  
  The only other nice thing i want to say about the game is that in the first big open field you 
 run into that has these tall stone columns with harpies on top the music that is playing in the 
 field was really cool because during a certain point in the song there is this Violin section and 
 it sounds like an exact rip off of some this cool tune in "Terminator: the sarah connor chronicles" 
 or whatever thats on tv lol. I love it. 
  
  I prefer action rpg's over turn based rpg's most of the time because they are way more exciting 
 and actually involve thinking. This game is action based but the combat is boring as hell. There 
 is a connect system where you can hit a button and have one of your party members do a specific 
 attack in battle but its lame and doesnt add anything. I thought the game was going to play like 
 Valkyrie Profile 2 where each person in your party corresponds to a face button and then you just 
 mash the buttons in different combinations but thats NOT what this game was like. This is the version 
 of button mashing most people hate that has absolutely no thought put into it and you just bash 
 buttons. 
  
  The combat isnt fun, the story isnt fun, unless you have a good tv you cant even read anything 
 and since alot of it is told by text thats a wash. This game is boring boring and more boring and 
 you should stay VERY far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  We all know of the relative scarcity of RPGs on the current consoles, especially compared to the 
 incredible library of the PS2. However, in the second half of 2008 the 360 made a number of additions 
 to the genre with games like Fallout 3, Tales of Vesperia, Fable 2 and The Last Remnant. Along 
 with these games came Infinite Undiscovery, an RPG that didn't get a whole lot of attention and 
 for the most part has received mediocre to fair reviews. Being desperate to play an RPG while waiting 
 for Star Ocean 4 I picked up a copy of IU for $20 and gave it a shot. 
  
  GAMEPLAY (7.5) - IU is an Action RPG with a combat system similar to the Star Ocean and Tales games. 
 Encounters are fought in real time, and combat action takes place on the main game screen with 
 no pause in gameplay. Your character will have two attacks, essentially a weak attack and a slower, 
 stronger attack. You can have up to three other party members (fighters, healers, wizards etc.) 
 that will be controlled by the game. It makes things simpler as there's no need to juggle many 
 characters at the same time during a boss fight; especially as the AI is reasonably good. However, 
 you are also worryingly reliant on them as the commands you can give is limited to pressing the 
 Y button to signify healing is required for one or more members of the party. If you die, you lose 
 that power and have to watch helplessly as your comrades continue to fight, and hope that they 
 revive you within the time limit otherwise it is game over. It can get a little frustrating, naturally, 
 but fortunately I didn't run into that situation very often. The real negative to this system is 
 that the menu can only be accessed in real-time. There's nothing more annoying than trying to use 
 a healing item while avoiding blows from your enemies, and hoping that your companions might cast 
 a healing spell in time to save you. It's something you get used to but I'm really not sure why 
 it was deemed to be a good idea in the first place. The game occasionally attempts to try something 
 different, which isn't necessarily a bad thing but the timing might have been a mistake in that 
 IU throws some of these ideas at you near the beginning of the game before you really have much 
 of an idea as to what's going on. Fortunately once you get past a few annoying areas the game does 
 settle down into more traditional JRPG gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS (7.5) - Mixed reactions here. IU does occasionally offer some impressive visuals, including 
 explosions, attack and spell effects, and there are some good looking, detailed environments to 
 explore. Character animations are reasonably realistic; subtle gestures and the occasional facial 
 expression combine to bring each one to life, although synchronisation of speech and lip movement 
 is terrible, and the characters can have a rough, blocky look to them compared to the better looking 
 characters from games such as Fallout 3 and Fable 2. Surprisingly enough the only CGI scene I remember 
 seeing in the game was during the title screen, as everything else used the in-game engine.
  
  AUDIO (7.0) - I came away with the impression that the developers simply didn't finish their 
 work when it came to characters's speech. First, there is unfortunately no option to have Japanese 
 speech with subtitles so you are forced to listen to English voice actors. These are not terrible 
 but certainly not exceptional. There are sections of dialogue where characters can be heard conversing 
 but there's nothing in the animations to suggest this. Also, cut scene dialogue often switches 
 between speech with no text, and text with no speech. On the other hand the orchestral background 
 music is terrific, good enough to warrant a soundtrack purchase.
  
  Value (7.0) - I completed the game in approximately 25 hours, which is quite short compared to 
 most other RPGs. I will say that I spent almost no time level-grinding, which is a positive for 
 me. There are a large number of sidequests available, most of which I didn't pursue so the game 
 could certainly go beyond 30 hours for completionists. Also, at the completion of the game there 
 is an optional dungeon available to add some more gametime. The short time may be a disappointment 
 for people that bought this game at full price but for those of us that purchased it at today's 
 reduced price it's not a bad investment.
  
  STORY/SUMMARY - IU does offer a somewhat unique story, as the good guys are attempting to destroy 
 chains that have shackled the moon and brought it close to the planet. The evil people are harnessing 
 magical powers from the moon, but the close proximity of the moon is causing disasters to the common 
 people. The cast, while typical of a JRPG group, is a decently interesting collection of characters 
 and each has their own unique story to be told. For me this game basically gave me what I was expecting, 
 which wasn't much. If you're a JRPG fan and just looking for an average, sometimes pretty good 
 game to play in between the bigger-hyped titles, Infinite Undiscovery should give you enough enjoyment 
 to make it worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery was a game I did not have a lot of expectations for. I thought it would be 
 a solid JRPG that I would pick up after I beat Tales of Vesperia. Thats exactly what I got. There 
 are times where the game can be extremely aggravating but most of those moments occur in the first 
 two hours of gameplay. More on that later.
  
  Anyways, the story of the game was probably one of the things I enjoyed the most. At most times 
 you were interested to see where it was going. You are in the shoes of a nobody in the game named 
 Cappell. You stumble upon Lord Sigmund and his followers and after some heavy persuasion, you go 
 with them and eventually join them. You join them to save the moon by destroying the chains that 
 are bringing it down. Eventually you start to learn that Cappell is more than a nobody and actually 
 plays some significance. 
  
  The voice acting and the terrible lip synching are two things that I hate in a game. If your going 
 to have voice acting, do it half decent like Tales of Vesperia or almost perfect like Lost Odyssey 
 (damn you children) . And make sure when the characters are saying CAPELL or AYA that their voices 
 are saying the same thing. 
  
  The graphics are alright. I expected much more tho because for some reason I thought the game actually 
 looked pretty good in trailers and previews but maybe I was wrong. There are some technical issues 
 but most of them did not get me mad enough to write them here. 
  
  The best thing about Infinite Undiscovery is that its gameplay is pretty fun most of the time. 
 This was one of the first JRPG I played that had these controls. It reminded me of Kingdom Hearts 
 to a certain extent. Some people will get bored of the controls but I thought they were pretty 
 fun. I had way more fun fighting enemies than walking around in boring cities.
  
  Overall, the game is not very detailed. All of the characters in cities are called "Sad Man" or 
 "Angry Man" or "Saddened woman". Cities have a bar, an inn, a shop, a castle, and if your lucky 
 one house. Theres not alot of detail in the game. There are 4 cities I think and not too many dungeons. 
 The games short but the story is interesting. If your looking for a pretty fun JRPG then try Infinite 
 Undiscovery out but theres no comparison between this and Lost Odyssey or Tales of Vesperia. Those 
 two games are far more detailed in about every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes1709
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  the game is kinda weird and i hate it when they give you little kids to be in you party but the 
 game is good after a while and its not that hard the story is good even tho when you start the 
 game your character is not the coolest person in the world and is kind of boring but just play 
 for a while and her changes a little bit and so do the people around you the thing that pissed 
 me of the most about this game is that when you get to the end make sure you have lvled up the 
 characters you really want to use that way when you get to the final boss he will not kill ypu 
 in a few min and you might stand a chance un like me over all the game is ok and so worth 40 bucks 
 at gamestop but i would recommend renting it first just in case you really dont like it also if 
 you love achievements this game is not for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  I really didn't want to jump on the hate-bandwagon for this game. I really didn't. I wanted this 
 game to be good, I really did. That's why I bought it. However, it just didn't click with me. There 
 was a few things that I enjoyed, I loved mapping out the world, I liked the music alot, and the 
 battle system was ok enough. However, the bad out weighted the good by a ton. I hated the characters, 
 the cutscenes bored me, the art style was bland. The voice acting was terrible, the controls were 
 complicated. There was just so many small frustrating elements too. I could rant all day, but I 
 won't. I don't like the pacing at all. 
  
  This game can also be played like a collect-o-thon. There are a ton of things to collection, however, 
 there are also a TON of things you can skip too. The way the story is paced, you can easily skip 
 things at any moment, so this gave me little reason to care about every chest or no reason to re-play 
 it.
  
  RANT:
  One of the more annoying moments in the game was the lack of direction at times. You could finish 
 a dungeon or visit a new town and they give you no clue on what to do next. The most annoying moment 
 I can think of was when I first visited this one town. You are treated with a crappy cutscene about 
 a woman that lost her friends pet bear. She says it escaped the castle and you must find it. So 
 I run around town, looking all over for a bear. I talk to all the NPCs, and they give me hints. 
 A couple characters say they saw the bear run outside of the town. So I take their word for it, 
 and run through out the gigantic field that surrounded the town. I looked ALL over for a bear, 
 I checked everything, nothing. So I got frustrated, ran back to that town to talk to all the NPCs. 
 I even finally talked to the original woman again, and THIS triggers the bear. Now I have to go 
 back outside to find the bear again. This time the bear is right near the entrance of the town. 
 So this was a total waste of time. 
  
  This is not the end of this stupid quest either. I talk to the woman and give her the bear back. 
 She thanks me, walks away, and there is NO hint on what to do next. So I run around town, talking 
 to all the NPCs, I run into the castle, I talk to all the NPCs. Nothing happens. Then the last 
 place I decided to check, the Inn, is where the storyline trigger finally clicks. This process 
 happens in nearly all the towns. It's stupid, directionless fetch questing that annoys me.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Infinite Undiscovery is a team based Action RPG. You control 
 Cappel only, but you can give commands to the other characters on the battle field with the R button. 
 You do this by "Connecting" with a character. You can set each non-playable character with 2 Connect 
 skills. You can then use them anytime in battle or even off battle if you want. It's actually a 
 frustrating button combination that annoyed me more than anything really. 
  
  Another frustrating moment in the game is the menu and item names. When you open your menu, your 
 character completely stops, and sometimes he sits down. This can be frustrating while in battle 
 and you need to quickly open a menu map to use a healing item. One of my peeves in this game is 
 the stupid item names of everything. What's so wrong with simple terms like "Heal" or "Cure"? Every 
 healing item has a long, exaggerated name and I have to read the description before I use them. 
 This can be annoying when you're getting attacked in the back.
  
  You can set your characters AI while in or out of battle on the fly. This is kinda cool actually. 
 If you press up or down, then you quickly change their AI. However, one frustrating moment is the 
 way you use your "Flute". Capell is a flutest by trade. He can use his flute to effect the field, 
 however, I only found one flute command to be important. There are chests and sometimes enemies 
 that are invisible until you play a certain Flute song. I think the songs are poorly worded, I 
 can never remember which song does what. 
  
  The actual battle system is kinda simple though. You attack low with the A button and attack hard 
 with the B button. It's as simple and buttonmashy as that. You can do various combos to pull off 
 moves, or you can hold down the A or B button to perform special moves. Bam, it's simple and easy 
 enough to jump into, however the rest of the game seems overly complicated. To attack monsters, 
 you first have to unsheathe your weapon. That was one complaint I read about alot, but it wasn't 
 a big deal for me. Another complaint was breaking Treasure Chests on accident, and I never did 
 that at all. Most battles are far from chests.
  
  You gain experience and gold after each kill, and luckily even your overstocked party members gain 
 experience and level up as well. You gain new spells after so many levels, and you can even make 
 new skills for some characters. One thing I love about this game is the loot. You gain loot from 
 treasure chests, you can buy it in towns and enemies drop it. You can turn this random loot into 
 various items from synthesizing. You can make a variety of things though, and each character has 
 their specialty. This can be kinda annoying though. One character might be able to make swords 
 and axes and metal armor, but another character can make robs and leather armor. One character 
 can make food items, while another character can make healing items. Another synthesis trick is 
 to "Enchant", every character can do this actually. This allows you to turn loot into status boosts. 
 I like this idea alot. My only problem is how slow it is to make these items. When I get going, 
 I could be sitting around synthesizing for an hour at times.
  
  While I don't think this game is hard, however you can die really easy in this game. After dying 
 they take you right to the main screen too, which can be frustrating. You can easily die for a 
 few reasons, the worst is when you get stunned or paralyzed and you can't do ANYTHING about it. 
 You can't order your other characters to heal you or nothing. They often run around and continue 
 fighting and don't even think to heal you or revive you. It's so annoying.
  
  You can't team up with all characters though. Some characters are called "Secondary" characters. 
 This means, when you go into a dungeon, your team might separate into groups. You need these "Secondary" 
 characters to make the 2nd and 3rd groups. While you might not ever team up with them, you still 
 need to equip their weapons, armor and accessories, which is annoying. 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Capell, you're a faceless nobody that was 
 locked up in prison for no given reason. You're rescued by Aya, a faceless woman, thinking Capell 
 was the King Sigmund. As they make their escape, they run into the real King Sigmund, and Capell 
 is forced to join their rebellion group. King Sigmund and his group are on a mission to free the 
 world from the Moon, that is chained to Earth. They must defeat "The Order" and break all 9 chains 
 that bind the two worlds. 
  
  Ok, the plot isn't BAD per say. You'll run into a few (predictable) plot twists, and some kinda 
 surprising (if you even care) plot twists, but the story as a whole didn't grab me. I just didn't 
 care for any of the characters. I hated Capell, they gave him NO backstory or purpose. Aya was 
 a completely generic female lead. Sigmund had a good plot twist, but otherwise forgettable. The 
 rest of the characters were just generic, annoying, or combination of both. The only sub character 
 I enjoyed was Vic, who was a little girl that dressed as a boy to act tough after her brother died. 
 They didn't flesh out her story enough, but they had an interesting thing going. 
  
  One of the biggest problems is they gave you WAY to many characters. This was the same problem 
 I had with Eternal Sonata and Chrono Cross. I liked the option I had playing with the characters, 
 it's just a shame that ruined any story or connection you would get with them. 
  
  Another problem I have with the characters are the bad guys. You don't meet any of the bad guys 
 until you actually fight them. There are only two bad characters that have reoccurring roles, however, 
 the rest are thrown at you in one shot moments. The worst part is they try to make them seem important, 
 but why should I care?
  
  The most annoying thing about the this game is the poor dialog, poor voice acting and terrible 
 art direction. It's a combination of all three of those things that bored me to tears during cutscenes. 
 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics are a bit inconsistent for me. For one, I like the battle animations, but they're 
 so over the top, you can easily lose focus on your attacks. The character animations are super 
 stiff.. they look like action figures. They try to make the this game look "Next gen" by spamming 
 a ton of annoying light effects into everything. 
  
  The fields, dungeons and towns aren't great looking. They're actually kinda generic. Final Fantasy 
 XII looks better than the fields found in Infinite Undiscovery. Everything is real... "Samey". 
 You'll run around a dark brown forest, or a light brown desert or a grey castle. There's no flair 
 in this game. 
  
  The characters are painfully boring to look at. Aya looks like a low rent Final Fantasy female 
 lead (you can use any since 7) . Capell is just a faceless loser who has no right being the lead 
 character. I guarantee that I'll forget all the characters of this game within a week of playing 
 it. 
  
  Just like Lost Odyssey, there is an annoy white dotted line that appears randomly across the cutscenes. 
 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I really loved the music to Infinite Undiscovery. The music was one of the best things about it, 
 sadly. I especially loved the battle theme music, which reminds me of the same violin driven battle 
 music from Baten Kaitos and Eternal Sonata. I doubt it's from the same composers, but they are 
 similar.
  
  I despise the voice work in this game though. There is not a single good actor in the game. Everyone 
 talks like creepy robots. One more annoying thing are the battle cries. I love when games use battle 
 cries, for example Tales of Symphonia. When a character uses a special move, they will usually 
 scream out the name of that move, it's usually sparse when the move is used though. In Infinite 
 Undiscovery, you use special moves ALOT, and there are 4 characters spamming their special moves, 
 so it's a constant barrage of your characters yelling. It's a little over the top.
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is just a bunch of connecting areas, fields and towns, 
 much like Final Fantasy XII but not nearly as big. One thing I love about the map is how everything 
 is completely blacked and, and as you walk across it, you slowly uncover everything. This reminds 
 me of alot of Western style RPGs, or even the original Warcraft. Final Fantasy XII and Star Ocean 
 III used it too, so they're also excellent references. I love crawling through the map, uncovering 
 everything, even if I didn't need to do it. 
  
  On the maps are a ton of enemies, and a few treasure chests. That's really about it. Some chests 
 are hidden behind rocks or cliffs, and require special skills to reach them. Some chests are locked 
 and require a special character to unlock them for you. You can smash a treasure chest, and it 
 will sometimes give you whats inside, but it's a risk. You can see enemies before attacking then, 
 you can even sneak up behind and attack them first, which gives you bonus stats. Enemies reappear 
 if you walk a small distance, so if you are back tracking alot, then you'll fight a ton of enemies.
 
  
  There isn't a final transportation device. You have to run on foot the entire game. This is kinda 
 lame if you want to backtrack, but they give you little reason to do so. 
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  26:25:25
  
  After you beat the game, you are treated 
 with a fairly long cutscene (probably the best in the game) . They sum up the characters lives 2 
 years after the final events, which is probably the most character they given most of the people 
 in the game too. After beating the game you unlock Hard mode, which unlocks new areas of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorack2005
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was very excited. I heard that the game would have cool events 
 that monsters will just come out of the trees and attack you from no where. Gave me the idea that 
 the game would have been less scripted and a bit more randomized keeping things interesting. Unfortunately 
 what I got was a very scripted, generic, and broken RPG.
  
  Graphically when you first look at the screens of the game it doesn't look all that bad. However 
 if you take a closer look it seems more like a polished PS2 title that doesn't really look anything 
 next gen. The animation seems stiff and lifeless and the lip syncing is almost non existent. For 
 those of you that may have seen that very HD and pretty CG movie before you hit the start screen. 
 Well enjoy that one while you can because it's the only high res clip that's probably in the game. 
 All the other story scenes use the in game engine and gives you a close up look at all the flaws.
 
  
  The battle mechanics makes it basically a hack and slash and not a fun one at that. The game gives 
 you so many characters during the story line and yet you can only play as this one character. Not 
 only that but this one character is considered an "Unblessed" which means he can't cast spells 
 or anything fun. In fact there is an actual button that you have to press to "request healing" 
 ... that's right you have to "request" someone in your party to heal you. They don't always heal 
 you right away either so you might be pressing that button several times before the AI actually 
 gets to it or you die. Now you can connect to characters and use certain attacks but that's only 
 limited to two special moves you can choose from. There is a block... well actually a parry move 
 you can do but good luck timing the enemies attacks with it because it only lasts a second.
  
  The story is f*in retarded enough said.
  
  The sound track has got that epic feeling to 
 it which is alright its not terrible but it's nothing to brag about either. The voice acting was 
 terrible and corny. Some of the characters were so incredibly annoying it makes you wished they 
 would kill them off. 
  
  Overall the game was a waste of time and not entertaining at all. I am so disappointed with it 
 because it was a game I really looked forward too and it was by Square Enix. SE really let me down 
 with this one and I hope their games in the future are a bit more well thought out than this one.
 
  
  Infinite Undiscovery should be infinitely undiscovered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkgamespot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing IU, I didn't know what to think. The graphics were not that awe inspiring 
 and the controls seemed a little sketchy. Also, the voice acting was not on par with typical SquareEnix 
 quality.
  
  However, after getting past the inital dungon level and learning new abilites, the dark texture 
 and overall quality of graphics improved dramatically. Also, as the game progresses, the quaility 
 of voice acting does improve (which is a VERY good thing) .
  
  Tri-Ace gives you a battle system very similar to Star Ocean games, except everything is in real 
 time. This includes using items, which can be very difficult during hard battles -- over time I did 
 get to understand that paying attention to HP and AP in battles was very important, LOL!!! Also, 
 you can't switch between teamates. You do get to CONNECT with them and utilize thier special abilites 
 to help chain together your combos. Outside of battle, you can customize which skills you use both 
 in your attacks and those of your teamates.
  
  The music and voice acting is very bland and a little dissapointing for a SquareEnix game. As the 
 story progresses, you do begin to get the back story's of all the combatants. This adds to the 
 overall emursion into the game, but sill lacks that Epic feel of most SquareEnix games.
  
  The graphics are good, but not great. They do begin to get a sort of 'artsy' feel to them. Also, 
 the level design is a little bland.
  
  Overall, I was happy with the game. It does give you that RPG fix and provide a real time battle 
 system for those who don't like turn based battles. 
  
  The game could have been better, with a little more umppph put into the overall presentation and 
 quality. I can't wait for Star Ocean: The Last Hope -- where we get to see Tri-Ace really step up 
 to the plate!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makhlouta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  first of all do not turn off ur xbox after like 10 minutes of playing!
  i'm telling you i did that! i actually tuned it off after seeing that smtimes voice as missing 
 or lips weren't synchronized with speech.
  the first part of the game is soo uninteresting ! 
  so i left the game for some time and when 
 i had nothing else to play i continued and actually started to like it.
  
  plz note that i still didn't finish the game lol but i finished a major part
  
  THE GOOD:
 
  
  the story is indeed unique I've rarely seen such creativity
  
  SOME ( and i say some) characters really grow on you
  
  they way characters start using new 
 moves by themselves each time they go up a level is really cool
  
  colorful game
  
  interesting game play especially the way you choose allies to assist you and you divide your party 
 into 2
  
  THE BAD:
  
  lots of beautiful colors but graphics are just okay
  
  the speeches are sometimes missing in the cut scenes which is annoying but you do get used to it 
 haha
  
  many unused options ( at least by me) : item creaton and enchantements.. i used them but rarely
 
  
  NOT ENOUGH SAVEPOINTS! i mean it's an rpg ! you don't really wana die and go back walking like 
 a thousandl miles after that!
  
  TOO TOO TOO TOO MANY characters! 
  
  so basicly all i'm saying is that as much as it has flaws i did liek this game and i still recommend 
 you to get it because... it's an RPG and a really innovative one both in story and gameplay
  so get it and don't turn off ur console lol be patient 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacknite12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  As a of rpg's fan for sometime now i have been without an rpg to play, and when i got my hands 
 on Infinite Undiscovery, needless to say, i had hi hopes for this game. And when i started playing 
 for the first few hours i began to think to myself "This could be the best rpg that I've played 
 in years.". After those first few hours unfortunately, what the game started to amounted to was 
 a game that at best is mediocre. What's worse is the fact that it could of been something far more 
 than the some of it's parts. 
  
  I guess we should start with games most notable feature from the start the graphics. They may not 
 be that best, but a few problems keep it from really being breath taking or truly memorable. The 
 towns in the game are few and nothing special, some are just small while others feel like they 
 were unnaturally lengthened to feel big. There is little to explore and areas feel unnaturally 
 restricted, for example the upstairs in the houses are more like scaffolding blocked by one flimsy 
 crate. Which brings up the games name, Infinite Undiscovery, because of the number of towns it 
 feels like they haven't discovered that the world is round yet. The games dungeons are a little 
 more opened, but can use more variety. These are by no means that bad, compared to where the biggest 
 problems can be seen for that we turn to the cut scenes. 
  
  The opening cinematic of the game is not standard you should the rest of the games cuts scenes 
 by, if you expect to see cut scenes in the game with that level of quality then prepare to be very 
 disappointed. The games cut scenes are done entirely in engine showing everything close up, and 
 it help to show some graphical flaws and then some. The more and more cut scenes that i watched 
 the more i realized that the cut scenes looked like a ps2 game remade to show at 1080p, graphics 
 aren't everything but it could be better. The characters seem stiff, emotionless and lifeless as 
 they move around. While Aya's hair flows and bounces around unnaturally in the cut scenes. And 
 the game the characters suffer from the dreaded blocky man hand syndrome, which is why you rarely 
 see there hands unless their wearing gloves.
  
  But that's not all, watching the cut scenes made me feel like i was watching an old school kung 
 fu movie. That's because 5 seconds after their lips stop moving their still talking. Lip syncing 
 in the game is horrible and at time non existent at times, the voice acting on the other hand is 
 a mix bag. Some are good, others are decent and the rest are show no enthusiasm. And as if some 
 of the voice actors didn't seem lazy enough, in some cut scenes there are no voice overs only text. 
 
  
  The games story seems typical, with the main character, Capell looking just like the leader of 
 the liberation force, Sigmund. But there's enough twist in that part of the story to keep it interesting. 
 That being said the rest of the story is very much typical. You gain a large number of allies and 
 only a handful have a deep back story, the problem is for everyone else you only get little bits 
 from talking to them in the towns. This part of the game disappointed me the most so many characters 
 and their stories weren't as deep and engaging as it should of been. What also bothers me is the 
 fact that at one point in the game there was a chance to change the tone and show a darker story 
 for the main character. But unfortunately it does not get explored.
  
  Well at least with this many characters we can expect some interest game combat, but i think you 
 know where I'm going with this. When it comes to combat or anything for that matter you cannot 
 switch characters, you are stuck as the main character. As this character you cannot cast spells, 
 and be cause of the structure of the game instead of an rpg you get hack and slash. Tapping the 
 A button a certain number of times followed by the B button makes one of three combos, two of which 
 you may almost never see even if you're really trying to do it. Special moves can be mapped to 
 the A and B button and executed by holding either button down, which begs the question why even 
 have a combo system. Like wise, there is no ability to guard as much as parry. Which i personally 
 saw no point in using, seeing that they could of made made you guard after you parried. On top 
 of not having any real guard system, everything is in real time so there is no pausing when navigating 
 the menu to use items.
  
  This is not helped by the fact that the games AI seems competent, but then acts at times stupid 
 really stupid. For example i buy 60 cheap potions and 5 great ones and for some reason more often 
 then not the great ones are gone. Mean while no one ever uses the potions that restore magic points 
 even if magic hits 0. Making matters worse magic users would rather use spells to heal and revive 
 you even if the potions are far quicker. It's game over once your character has been for about 
 a minute or two, and seeing how the AI takes it time it could be a while. 
  
  Although you can't control the other characters you can connect with them to use skills, which 
 seems pointless. Characters will still attack on there own, you're limited to just two commands 
 that you can preset, but if you happen to be in combat navigating the menu to change those presets 
 is a pain. It would of been nice to of seen this used for special combination attacks, but alas 
 it wasn't. Connect has it's good points, it can be used to do crafting with different characters 
 and using the characters to talk with villagers and open locked chest. The problem, it's a pain 
 to walk back and forth from one side of town to the other to find the different characters to use 
 to talk to villagers. 
  
  This could of been fixed by a mechanic that was used about one time in the beginning of the game. 
 Because you have so many characters you can have more than one group in some dungeon, in the beginning 
 of the game the groups were able to communicate, once briefly, using a pigeon. It would of made 
 sense to call characters in the town to you to save you from so much needless walking. 
  
  The game itself is decent, it's just said because i see a great game that was rushed. With a few 
 tweaks here and there, lengthening of the of the story and expansion of the world would of made 
 the game much more than it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is an RPG that comes from the company Tri-Ace (Star Ocean, Valkyrie Profile) . 
 It will seem familiar in was to people who have played the Star Ocean games for the dungeons are 
 similar to the way they looked in Till The End of Time. While The Battle system is Real time imagine 
 it Like Final Fantasy XII where you can see your enemies and there is no battlefield like Star 
 Ocean and Tales series. you fight the enemies as they come to you it is still real-time and you 
 are given the abilitly to do combo attacks like you are in other real-time games. While the game 
 does have some common RPG elements the story is something new and good at the same time. You play 
 as Capell a young boy who has an uncanny resemblence to the Hero Sigmund. Sigmund is on a quest 
 to free the land of the chains that bind the moon. After Capell is thrown in prison he is mistaken 
 by one of Sigmunds allies for being Sigmund himself, there paths cross where the will work together 
 to save the world from the clutches of evil. Star Ocean fans will also realize that you will get 
 multiple party members as well like you do in those games as well. As for the Voice acting it is 
 really not that bad, and to me voice acting just isn't a reason to stop me from playing a game. 
 Infinite Undiscovery is a great game that anybody who enjoys RPG needs to pick up. Great story, 
 Great characters and Great gameplay. get it today 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noctobum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  - Good Story 
  - Great detail on characters and environment
  - Real time battle makes it challenging
  - Character stories and expressions draw you to them
 
  The bad:
  - Large environments cannot be fully explored
  - Some battles are surprisingly easy.
  - Computer AI sometimes is annoying
  - Length is a little 
 bit short, making you want more.
  
  Most RPGs are driven by the length and strength of the story. Infinite Undiscovery barely has either 
 of those traits. The length of the game is too short to make it a great RPG. The story, while good, 
 isn't strong enough to push the rating higher. Granted, this game isn't the worse RPG created, 
 nor is it the best RPG created.
  You play as Capell, a flute player imprisoned falsely by his captors due to a mistake in identity. 
 You get rescued by a beautiful girl named Aya, and together you join with the Liberation Force 
 in order to cut the chains that are pulling the moon closer to the planet, endangering all.
  Graphics:
  The game houses some stunning sceneries and great detail in the environment and characters. 
 Some of the dungeons look great with nice lighting, and objects such as ice and mirrors look very 
 good. The towns and castles in the game feel very medieval, and each town has a different feel 
 to it thanks to the detail and coloring it received. In battle, some battle skills look very flashy 
 and will dazzle you. The only times that it seemed the game became pixellated was the characters' 
 shadows. Sometimes running around town, looking carefully at their shadow on the ground, it isn't 
 as smooth as it should be. Also particles like snow and rain sometimes continue inside a building 
 when it shouldn't. However, overall the graphics of this game is great even with these minor flaws.
 
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay might be where the game experience most of its flaws. Unlike other RPGs, this game has 
 many invisible boundaries that kill your passion for exploration. At first, running through the 
 plains may seem like a large open area that you can explore, but soon you'll end up getting suck 
 because a small ridge or a small rock. As well you'll see an open area that you want to go to, 
 but the game will not allow you. This also applies for towns and cities. Although seemingly large, 
 you can't fully explore as you'd like. There are many houses that are inaccessible and the houses 
 that you can go into, you're restricted to the first floor, not allowing you to the second floor. 
 There is no other form of transportation other than running from town to town, although there are 
 warps and a boat, those only allow you to go to certain destinations and nowhere else. This could 
 either benefit the game, or annoy you. Running around back and forth to town makes the game longer, 
 and if the game allowed for quicker transportation, this game would be shorter than it is already. 
 Despite all of this, the linear play allows the gamer to quickly identify where to go next. This 
 allows less confusion, and less time searching on what to do next. The continuous foot travel also 
 forces the player to fight and level up, allowing the characters to level to their proper level.
 
  The battle system also has its strengths and weaknesses. The battle takes place in real-time. 
 As well, in order to engage battle, you'll see your enemies in the area, and you can run around 
 them or rush into them. As well, you can sneak up on them, or they can sneak up on you. Finally 
 light and shadows plays somewhat or a role in the game where if you stay in the shadows, it is 
 harder for the enemy to spot you first. As real time strategy is great and challenging it will 
 frustrate new players . It is more difficult for you to access your items and give them to your 
 party, as every time you get hit, the menu resets. As well the battle continues so by the time 
 you throw an item to that character, they're probably dead. Now for experienced RTS RPG players, 
 this is a welcome challenge. IU also allows the user to have a "heal request". By tapping the "y" 
 button when you have a party, you can request everyone in the party (if they aren't busy, and depending 
 on their class) if they can heal you using items or magic. Depending on the party you have, the 
 AI will either use items or magic. Since you can't control what they're going to use, it is wise 
 to note that they'll probably rape your stock of items. Of course some characters will always resort 
 into spellcasting to heal, but sometimes that's also bad, because the cast time might kill the 
 others that are about to die. Amazingly, the "heal request" actually makes the battles easier than 
 you think. Sometimes you can just tap "y" forever and never die, and sometimes you just have to 
 run around not taking damage, tapping "y", and letting the computer kill the enemies.
  Pulling the menu up while not in battle, in town, or your sword sheathed, annoyingly makes your 
 characters to sit. Although it provides realism, its painfully annoying in the late stages where 
 you have to wait for them to sit in order to use item creation, see items, or view status.
  Finally, in some situations, you have to use more than 4 characters, with the computer controlling 
 the other parties, thus forces you to shell out more money than usual to equip everyone with the 
 latest gear. Now this is great for realism, and provides a challenge, but people new to this might 
 be more irritated.
  As the game progresses, you begin to understand the story and learn more about the interesting 
 characters. The sad thing is, the game is a little short before you can enjoy everything. In a 
 huge world, one would think there would be other towns, and areas to explore.
  Sound:
  The musical score of the game is good, although it isn't the greatest. It does fit the atmosphere 
 of the game as well as the situations. Each town's music helps make it different from the other 
 as well as the areas of the game. The sound effects of swords clashing during battle are very good 
 and characters screaming things during fights also help make the fight more interesting. Some problems 
 occur with lip-synching as sometimes the audio does not come close to matching the mouth of the 
 characters.
  Extras:
  As with any Tri-Ace games, the game comes with great extras once you finish 1 play through. Harder 
 difficulties come available as well as extra dungeons to play. Item Creation doesn't disappoint 
 allowing you to cook, write, or create weapons and armour. Finally, the Achievements included with 
 Xbox360 challenge the player to attain a perfect 1000 gamerscore.
  Overall:
  Infinite Undiscovery is a game where the potential is great. After playing through the game once, 
 you realise and wish that the game could be longer because the characters are so appealing, the 
 battles are fun, and the story is good. The graphics are great and the sound accompanies it greatly. 
 However, due to some flaws, this game may annoy you, or you may like it to your benefit. Either 
 way, Infinite Undiscovery is a rental for most gamers, and for those that are wanting a decent 
 RPG, consider buying it, as the price for this game should have dropped making it more worthwhile 
 to buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMegaNova150
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  if anyone likes kingdom hearts they'll love this game to the bottom of their heart. all is good 
 for it especially the attack system which seems to be similar to star ocean 3. it looks to be a 
 mix of kingdom hearts and star ocean 3 put together, with the battle system from SO3, and the run 
 around of kingdom hearts. if you have patience to play something like this then it's the game for 
 you. there are only 3 things i would say that made it a bad thing which are of the names Rico and 
 Rucha. those 2 twins had very high voices and always spoke to much. the 3rd thing was the voice 
 overs which when you see the character speak sometimes the voices either come before or after so 
 some lag comes into play. other than that you should be all in for killing, leveling, fluting, 
 puzzeling, chain smashing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flipyap28
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Ignoring the countless critic reviews on this game which seem to focus on its disappointing length 
 and combat system, I decided to give buy this game as there are not many other JRPGs for you to 
 play on the 360 at the moment. (Cant get Tales Of Vesperia here in the UK at this time, which leaves 
 me with pretty much just Lost Odyssey)
  
  After completing this game, I have to say although I can agree with the handful of people disappointed 
 with its short length and not so great combat, it still had me sucked into its nice story.
  
  Story: The story is one Infinite Undiscovery's plus factors, the story starts off in the first 
 few hours of the game about a young boy called Cappell who is locked up in a prison being mistaken 
 for The Order's biggest threat "Lord Sigmund". The Order is an empire which is trying to build 
 chains to the moon to obtain its power and Lord Sigmund, leader of the liberation force, is trying 
 to stop this as the chains cause natural disasters and a rise in monsters. We learn that the world 
 believe in a religion around a God named Veros who spreads the magical power of lunaglyphs to children 
 apart from those born on days with eclipses or when the moon isn't out which are referred to as 
 Unblesseds who are looked down upon by all. Cappell is an unblessed but hides this. There is a 
 lot more to the story and I have probably gone on about a lot of it, but that is because I feel 
 that the story is really good and one the great qualities about this game. The down side about 
 this is that the story is shorter than most JRPGs and the cut scenes are terribly lip synced.
 
  
  Graphics: The in game graphics are quite decent and the character models in my opinion are pretty 
 good. There is just one thing I do not like about the graphics, the characters in cut scenes do 
 not speak while their mouths move on the screen. They obviously weren't bothered to change the 
 movement of the lips.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game may not appeal to the hardcore JRPG fans or the people not 
 interested or new RPG fans but it is still bearable and decent. I wouldn't say it is perfect but 
 to any one with a little patients, they may find it enjoyable. The combat does seem to have a lack 
 of moves and combos but you can get over this with the wide range of characters which you can connect 
 with, to command what moves they should use. Infinite Undiscovery's many characters all have their 
 own talents which you can use to cook, build a variety of weapons, or enchant items for limited 
 powers. The game's many characters may put some people off but it is not too much characters in 
 my opinion. Sound: The voice acting in this game for a start is in my opinion decent although I 
 do not really care for these things. The music is great and what you would expect from the legends 
 of Star Ocean and Final Fantasy's creator.
  
  Value: The game is quite disappointing in length, I got about 20-30 hours out of my first story, 
 however the game does have a four difficulties with achievements to unlock with them and a bonus 
 dungeon on normal difficulties or above, I would suggest that if you are not new to JRPGs that 
 you play on normal difficulty.
  
  Overal its the story which will keep you amused, the game is pretty fun with a memorable story 
 which on the second disk really sucks you in, the game has a main character which I find in easier 
 to relate to as he is normal for his ages (not your usual protagonist which although although never 
 fighting before, picks up a sword and saves the world. Cappell doesn't want to end up dead) . The 
 game may leave you disappointed if you are looking for something with wonderful gameplay and that 
 can last you a long while, but you should like this game and enjoy an entertaining story with a 
 great variety of characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is a RPG game made by Square Enix and is only available on the Xbox 360.
 
  
  Story- The story is not the best but it is also not the worst, but I didn't get into it that much- 
 7.5
  
  Graphics- The graphics in my opnion are pretty good, good textures, character models are alright, 
 and everything else is good- 8.0
  
  Gameplay- The Gameplay is not turned based, its in real-time and is really fun and easy to get 
 use to, I enjoy it alot- 8.5
  
  Length- The length of the game is alright, I would say its about 15-30 hours or around there depending 
 on how good you are or if you want to take your time- 8.0
  
  Sound/Voice- The sound in this game is great and voice is too but sometimes when a character is 
 speaking their mouths are not moving at the same time- 7.5
  
  Enjoyment- The enjoyment in this game is 50/50 some people will like it, some people will not, 
 the game has flaws but every game does its just that this game has a bit more- 8.0
  
  Score- 8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Do I own and play Infinite Undiscovery? Yes
  Do I think I. U. is a good game? No.
  
  I've been trying to think of an analogy to explain how these two sentences can coincide. This is 
 the best I can come up with:
  
  It's like those late-night cheesy movie on Cinemax that make no attempt to be good movies, they 
 just lure you in with scantily clad or naked women (Spiderbabe, Alabama Jones and The Busty Crusade... don't 
 act like you don't know.) It is good? No. Do you end up sitting and watching? Yes.
  
  This game is the same way. I like R. P. G.'s so I'm going to play the game (might even enjoy a little 
 bit of it) , but I can't say it's a GOOD game.
  
  I was looking forward to this one because it's a Square game (FF series) and an RPG to boot. The 
 game has some nifty mechanics, nice customization, a story good enough to pay at least some attention 
 to... and then it crumbles.
  
  There are so many problems, it's tough to recount, but here's an example:
  
  Early in the game, 
 a girl screams "HEY, WHAT ARE YOU DOING??" in a terriblly over-acted voice. It's embarassing. What's 
 more embarassing is the model animation on the screen sits stonewall like a mannequin as she's 
 screaming. Ok....? Mouths don't move, or move not even CLOSE to in sync with the voice acting.
 
  
  The lead character looks about ten years old, he's an identical double to another guy (details 
 not important) . The lead sounds appropriately 10-13 years old. The other IDENTICAL guy has the 
 voice of a gruff 40 year old man. Perhaps your character is a late bloomer. Or the other is an 
 early bloomer. Whatever. Point remains: the voice acting is like the rest of the game: shoddy and 
 seemingly thrown together to make bucks.
  
  Some of the animations are directly drawn out of Final Fantasy XII. A snake pops out of the ground 
 with identical animation to the snake that pops out In FFXII. Exactly the same. I'm not kidding. 
 It's the SAME.... SNAKE. 
  
  These kind of issues just should NOT exist in so-called "next-gen" games! *sigh*
  
  If you're 
 an RPG fan, you might like it. If not, you'll be angry if you did other than rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  There is so much that's right about this game, but for everything you might find to be enjoyable 
 and fun, there are two things you will find to hate and want to destroy.
  
  I'm constantly on the lookout for non turn-based RPG's, and I recieved this one for Christmas. 
 I have a rather interesting review to write on this, so lets get right to it.
  
  First, I'll get the good stuff out of the way.
  
  Graphics: Simply amazing. Characters are 
 detailed, worlds look alive and colorful, nothing I saw was boring or lacking in the graphics department.
 
  
  Story: A slow story to start off with, but it quickly goes full throttle and drags you in, and 
 makes you want to play more to discover what happens next.
  
  Characters: I enjoyed pretty much anyone and everyone I found myself to be partied up with over 
 the course of the game. Quite a great array of diverse and engaging characters.
  
  And now for the rant about the bad stuff.
  
  Combat: Mediocre at it's very best, to downright 
 ugly and frustrating the majority of the time. You cannot choose to guard in this game, but rather 
 Squenix decides give you a parry move that is near impossible to pull off unless you see the attack 
 coming for about 5 seconds prior. Parrying has to be timed perfectly in sync with the enemy attack, 
 but unless you're standing around doing absolutely nothing and waiting for the attack, you'll find 
 you cannot pull off a parry with any sort of effective result. I'd rather just see a guard move 
 on the left trigger to reduce how much damage I take instead of a broken and flawed mechanic like 
 this.
  
  Also, it is simply impossible to use items yourself during combat. If you need to use a healing 
 potion, you must pull up the menu and make yourself vulnerable to attacks, then click Items, scroll 
 over to Usable Items, scroll down to the item you want to use, select which party member you want 
 to use it on, and hit A one more time. This is perfectly acceptable in a Turn Based RPG, but this 
 is ludicrous and absolutely unacceptable in a real time combat system. Some boss fights I had no 
 choice but to suicide because I cannot possibly use a Miraculous Medicine to revive my teammates 
 since trying to do so will get me killed.
  
  Bosses: There is absolutely zero consistency to boss difficulty in this game. Some are little more 
 than cannon fodder and you can just spam your basic attacks and win.
  
  The rest of the bosses are just utterly cheap and will spam the heck out of their most powerful 
 moves and blow you away. It's usually some large range AoE deathwave (or something along that line) 
 that will murder your casters and leave your melee fighters as easy targets for a quick normal 
 attack from the boss to finish them off. I found myself restarting so many times on certain bosses, 
 which I will not name for sake of keeping spoilers out of this review.
  
  And there are even some bosses that Capell cannot damage without Connecting to a party member, 
 stopping whatever they are doing, using Symphonic Blade, unconnecting, playing the flute near them 
 (and hope you don't get interrupted) , then going and attacking a few times to do some pathetic 
 damage until you realize 3 seconds later you must do that entire sequence all over again. What 
 are the developers thinking?! This isn't a clever way to make a boss fight challenging, it's a 
 downright frustrating and unnecessary gameplay mechanic that will more than likely cost you several 
 retries at a boss.
  
  AI: While I admit sometime the AI controlled characters have saved the day, most of the time they 
 are downright stupid and moronic and I end up screaming at them for doing the exact opposite of 
 what I asked.
  
  I won't explain this part anymore, but I'll give a shining example of how broken the AI can be:
 
  
  My party takes a massive beating from a special attack from one boss. I call out to the party to 
 heal up... nothing. I have many items and 2 healers available. Battle strategy is set to Free.
 
  
  Edward goes down. I press Y again to ask the remaining two (both healers) to revive him and heal 
 up. The boss is focusing on me, they are safe and far away, have plenty of time to do this... nothing. 
 Instead, Rucha casts Volt, the boss goes and pounces on her, she dies.
  
  I go down soon after. Eugene is the only one left, and standing clear of a recently used special 
 attack. I expect him to use one of my 30 miraculous medicines to save me... nope. Instead, he goes 
 and bashes the boss with his staff, gets murdered, and we lose. I must now reload my last save 
 point, which is nearly an hour back at the most recent location. Which brings me to my next point:
 
  
  Save Points: They are too far away from every special event and restarting numerous times cost 
 me hours and hours of repeating gameplay when I had saved at the nearest save point. I often found 
 myself redoing 20-30 minutes of running and fighting to try and make it back to a boss where I 
 had failed.
  
  Dialogue: Simply horrendous. Most of the time I found myself trying to understand just what the 
 **** some characters were talking about. They'll sporadically go off and start making joke comments 
 or perverted remarks in the middle of important story advancing dialogue during scripted cutscenes, 
 and I have to wonder who wrote this, because for any good sentence, expect 3 bad, poorly timed, 
 poorly voice acted ones.
  
  Now for the verdict:
  
  Please do yourself a favor and don't get attached to this story. Spare yourself the misery of trying 
 to get through all the bad design decisions and awful gameplay mechanics just to see what happens 
 next. I'm playing through this game once because it's a present and I promised my brother I would. 
 I gave this game a 7.5 because the story, characters, and graphics are all amazing, and I weigh 
 my scores heavily on those factors. If you want to torture yourself to experience a amazing, unique 
 and original story, be my guest, but you're going to be better off pretending this game doesn't 
 even exist and never knowing what you missed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  We've all come to expect some great things from Square Enix and Tri-Ace -- their long line of RPGs 
 have kept fans of the genre happy since the early 1990's. So I was very excited for the release 
 of Infinite Undiscovery -- an action RPG by the Tri-Ace team.
  
  It opens with a stunning movie sequence that rivals or beats just about any cinematic I've ever 
 seen on a console. As the game opens with an in-game cutscene, the voice acting is great, character 
 animations look good, and everything is nicely rendered and detailed in 3d. Your first battle comes, 
 and you're welcomed with about 12 still tutorial screens introducing you to the combat system. 
 It's complex -- this is no button-masher. If you're looking for an action adventure, this is NOT 
 the game for you. You'll need to really get to learn the combat system in detail in order to effectively 
 manage your character and get through the game. Your first battle is short, and easy, but fun. 
 You're treated to more in-game cutscenes, some spoken, some with just text -- the game seems to 
 intermingle them somewhat randomly, as though they didn't have the time or money to create English 
 dialog for everything. No problem.
  
  However, your first action sequence quickly points out the game's faults. You are attempting to 
 flee a tower by climbing a seemingly endless flight of stairs with your female companion, all the 
 while hitting wooden blockades that must be chopped, running into guards with swords and bows, 
 and being chased by a monstrous ogre. Things then become frustratingly clumsy:
  1) Camera -- The camera attempts to swing around to "help" you, and you can quickly try to refocus 
 the camera on your target with the left bumper. Unfortunately, it often will swing down low behind 
 an obstacle or an enemy -- now you can't see your character OR what you're trying to attack. This 
 happens a lot. 
  2) Item use -- Although realistic, you are forced to navigate menus to use items such as health 
 potions, and the action doesn't pause. So you'd better start trying to use that potion while you're 
 above half-health, otherwise you'll be dead before you get it open. Again, this is where you need 
 to know your controls -- if you time a block well, the enemy will pause, giving you time to fumble 
 with the menus.
  
  These two issues prevent what could've been a frenetic fun combat heavy action RPG. Virtually everything 
 else about the game is wonderfully done -- characters, visuals, audio (music and voice) , and the 
 story. A simple option for a fixed elevated over-the-shoulder camera, and ability to use health 
 potions quickly (one button...) would've worked wonders for the game. 
  
  I'm giving the game another chance, because this gorgeous and well-produced two-disc game deserves 
 that chance. I just fear two basic design problems will prevent me from wanting to fight my own 
 console and the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Altair
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  First off this game deserved a far better rating then it was given. I have played many games and 
 this one has become a personal favorite. This game is not a turn-based RPG like most games turn 
 out to be, its real time. The game had great graphics and a rock solid story line . . . in fact 
 I have not seen a story line that solid in many years. Not only was the story rock solid but it 
 was really good as well. And to address the game play. This game has so much to offer you. The 
 NPCs were amazing, they even seemed to learn. Anyway to sum this up for you all this game is not 
 a rental its deffinately a game you want to buy.
  
  Good Graphics
  Great Game-Play
  Great Story
  
  You must play this game because if you do not then you have missed out on it 
 big time. Check out my profile I'm not feeding you crap. Give this a chance and you will not regret 
 it.
  
  If you are not into RPG's then please don't write a review and don't bother playing.
  
  When 
 it comes to games you really can't ask for anything more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungProdigy722
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Don't believe the reviews that say this game is horrible. It's not the most perfect game but it 
 is a good game and does grow on you. The graphics are beautiful, there are genuinely funny moments 
 even if they are a little odd, they still make you laugh. The story is a great concept, but does 
 seem to end a little too fast (I beat the first disc in less than 10 hours) , and doesn't seem to 
 be up to par with Tri-Ace's previous series Star Ocean. It is still a good game that sucks you 
 in and features an interesting battle system which allows 4 people at one time in a party and also 
 features an item creation depending on people's skills. Cooking, Blacksmith, Writing... all different 
 types. I'd recommend renting this before you buy it just to make sure you like it though. Or at 
 the very least, buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  As a genre grows old, it tends to stagnate and become a solid monolithic structure, impervious 
 to new ideas. RPG's, especially their oriental counterpart, greatly suffer from this predicament. 
 Even when something refreshing comes along, fans are quick to distrust it (even if sales usually 
 don't falter) . A quick look through current generation JRPG's shows how much the genre is stale; 
 in between "Blue Dragon", "Lost Odyssey", "Disgaea 3, "Eternal Sonata", and "Tales of Vesperia" 
 there isn't a single innovative concept that breaks away long winding "motifs". If anything, these 
 are some of the more conservative titles in years, "Blue Dragon" is a facsimile of "Dragon Quest" 
 with poop jokes, wait scratch that, it's a facsimile of "Dragon Quest", "Lost Odyssey", an attempt 
 at reproducing "Final Fantasy" outside of mega conglomerate Square-Enix, "Disgaea 3 is 
 well, "Disgaea", and "Eternal Sonata" and "Tales of Vesperia" continue in the same vein of previous 
 "Tales" and "Star Ocean" titles. Mild attempts at revitalizing the genre, are either remarkably 
 flawed, as "Enchanted Arms" was, or completely forgotten despise their aspirations, as "Folklore". 
 "Infinite Undiscovery", despite its numerous flaws, at least seems to have a noble goal: shake 
 things up a bit.
  
  It starts by employing some of the concepts inaugurated by "Parasite Eve", "Vagrant Story" and 
 "FFXII", namely the idea of a consistent game-world, in which there is no transition from exploration 
 to battle. "Infinite Undiscovery" however, abdicates turn-based like battle systems, instead opting 
 for a completely real-time mechanic. Combat is simple and a nice evolution of the system present 
 in Tri-Ace games, with only an attack and special attack buttons used for the unleashing of combos; 
 this surprisingly simple system has an arcade feel that provides hectic brawls with enemies in 
 fully 3D spaces. It's pleasant and fast-paced as with any beat'em up, with careful positioning 
 of your character and the selection of the right combo being the bulk of tactical choices present 
 to the player. Magic is completely relegated to other members of your party, which you don't control 
 directly, so in order to heal yourself you'll just press a button and the rest of the party will 
 take care of the rest. The greatest issue concerning battle in "Infinite Undiscovery" comes when 
 you actually have to coordinate attacks with your party. The game uses a standard tactical order 
 that you can assign (like "focus your attacks" or "save mp") and a "Connect" system which allows 
 you to give direct orders to characters. The issue emerges from the incredibly slow pace of character 
 reactions when you're connected, making it impossible to use the system correctly, as you're managing 
 a gruesome, fast-paced, real-time battle with multiple enemies.
  
  The "Connect Ability" is also used when exploring dungeons and town hubs, and once again marred 
 with problems. Each character has a different special ability; for instance, there is a kid who 
 can talk with animals, so for the player to engage in conversation with an animal, he has to connect 
 with that character. The thing is, you can only connect with one character at a time, and connecting 
 isn't a simple matter of picking a name from a menu, no, for some insane reason you have to physically 
 be in contact with a character to activate the "Connect" system and then go to the place where 
 you want to use its ability. This would be fine if towns weren't gigantic, and had clear indication 
 on where each character is, but no, and if that wasn't enough, characters are spread out randomly. 
 This flaw in design destroys all the attempts at exploration, questing, as well as any tactical 
 nuances you'd want to impose on your party. It's at times like this, that "FFXII's Gambit System" 
 really comes to mind.
  
  Exploring is not only a chore because of the silly "Connect" system, but also because most game-areas 
 are large and, for the most part, vacant. There are wide open landscapes, sprawling in every direction, 
 on the scale of many football fields, enormous castles with many corridor-filled floors and the 
 stereotypical, boring dungeons with meters and meters of dark passages - and in each one of these 
 areas, there are only one or two items to catch, even though they're inhabited by dozens of enemies 
 for you to kill. Not only that, but nine out of ten times, you don't know where you're supposed 
 to go, as characters, cutscenes and maps provide zero clues on where to head in the vast game-world; 
 leaving you two choices, wander aimlessly in hope of finding what you're looking for (even if at 
 times, you don't know what that is) or google the solution and be on with it (my personal response) .
 
  
  Oh well, you can use mindless exploration to enjoy the scenery of "Undiscovery's" strange world, 
 and that pays off for the most part. Each scenic area is beautiful in a fantasy postcard kind 
 of way: mild blue skies, white clouds soaring high, the sun reflected in each small pond and lake, 
 lush green pastures and grassy knolls spreading as far as the eye can see, tall forests of extremely 
 old trees with a golden moon rain falling down from the skies, a hot steamy desert in reddish brown 
 hues It lacks the picturesque and impressionist design of "Eternal Sonata", but is still beautiful 
 by its own merits. The Shirogumi FMV intro is the cherry on top of the visual banquet. If only 
 the dungeons and castles were as good looking: gray, black and brown tinted to the point of saturation, 
 with poor lighting contrasts, and bland architectural details. Some art pieces present in certain 
 sets are definitely worth watching carefully, as this is clearly the case of a "Square Enix" production, 
 the most relevant being the ever looming moon, chained by beautifully ornamented chains to the 
 Earth, glancing surreptitiously in every scenario, its presence constant and somewhat frightening.
 
  
  And therein lies "Infinite Undiscovery's" ultimate failure, by not being able to harness the potential 
 of a powerful concept, which instead of flourishing into an arresting epic adventure, is instead 
 turned into a shallow, cliched narrative. The idea of a world chained to a moon is original (even 
 if the moon as an evil presence is a recurrent theme) , and had the potential to deliver a high-fantasy 
 story filled with powerful imagery; and yet, what we're treated to is an insult to our intelligence. 
 It starts with the characters, all the same tiresome archetypes with the same skin deep details 
 you've come to expect, with Porom/Polom clones of the worst kind, a myriad of under-explored mystical 
 concepts, a handful of predictable twists, and even a shameless copy of the "Prince and the Pauper" 
 tale imbued in the main story-arch. As if it wasn't enough, the voice acting is horrible, making 
 even most Japanese-to-English game dubs seem decent. Super high pitch voices, overly sentimentalist 
 tones, actors doing multiple voices when they're clearly incapable of producing any believable 
 accents, etc, etc. There are even scenes in which voice acting is cut off from the original, leaving 
 awkward silence scenes in the game. And unlike recent JRPG's NO OPTION FOR THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE. 
 Why? Why would you bother dubbing something if not to attempt to do it, at least, mildly right? 
 [Note to publishers: if you don't wanna pay for a proper translation and dubbing, just leave it 
 with subtitles, it's much cheaper and we'll all appreciate it.]
  
  Motoi Sakuraba's soundtrack tries and save the dramatic impact of the story sequences with his 
 signature scores, but as the rest of the game, they're not always on the level. Sad, heartwarming 
 scenes are treated with soft and delightful melodies that are only marred by the obnoxious voices 
 chatting away. Yet, whenever the need for a full, grand epic sounding score arises, Sakuraba's 
 progressive and unrelentingly grandiose style becomes tiresome for music excerpts that are repeated 
 so often. The game's main theme is his ultimate saving grace, a simple harmonic pattern that's 
 catchy and well developed over a series of orchestrations.
  
  "Infinite Undiscovery" is filled with small ideas that are uncommon in the genre. Unfortunately, 
 it gets none of them right, as they're all wasted thanks to poor design choices, an apparent lack 
 of testing and overall polish. This was Hiroshi Ogawa's ("Tales of Destiny" and "Star Ocean Till 
 the End of Time") directorial debut, and though he seems to want to break the mold, he fails miserably. 
 At the end of the day, the only thing that's left is an entertaining battle system - which is little 
 for a game that according to Square-Enix, had years and years of bottled ideas which were only 
 possible to implement in the current generation of consoles. Apparently, it's still too early. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I was personally hyping this game for the high A to low AA range. I was expecting an JRPG that 
 carried with it the tradition of an engrossing story with beautiful senery, but also broke away 
 from the norm with its revolutionary combat. What I got was a JRPG so generic that it was actually 
 worse than average RPGs in the genre and its so called revolutionary combat sstem was so dull, 
 simple, and easily broken that it just felt like a huge waste of time.
  
  Visually, the game looks like an HD PS2 game with some enhanced textures here and there, some weak 
 light and shadow work, a good draw distance, and a huge amount of shine, because apparently to 
 make a proper JRPG these days everything must be shiny. It basically looks on par with Ninety-Nine 
 Nights but with way less characters on screen, and to be honest, NNN's combat was much more entertaining 
 despite being a hack n' slash. At least the combat looks really cool when you watch it, too bad 
 it doesn't play that way.
  
  The soundwork is nothing special. The soundtrack is pretty typical of JRPGs, epic and done with 
 a symphony. It kicks in harder when you're in combat. That's good for the most part but it can 
 get annoying when you're entering combat to kill one or two enemies. It's like having someone follow 
 you with a cello and having them go nuts with it every time you step on a crack in the sidewalk. 
 The voice acting is appreciated, but they did a pretty lousy job with it. Everything that comes 
 out of these people's mouths is so corny and so badly written that it embarrasses me to play this 
 game in public. On top of that, there's a ton of cut scenes where the characters talk, their mouths 
 move and everything, but no sound comes out through the entire scene! That's just downright lazy.
 
  
  The plot is incredibly horrible. On the box description it seemed fine, passable. Once you start 
 playing though, and live through the plot, you realize how ridiculously stupid it is. You end up 
 not caring about any of the characters at all because they're all annoying and unlikable. The game 
 is pretty easy and never really offered me any challenge. The combat is so shallow and boring that 
 I feel like I'm just zoning out and pressing X and B at times. The game really struggled to keep 
 me interested. You can control your teammates and tell them what to do, but luckily the AI is good 
 enough that they can handle themselves most of the time. The only real redeeming qualities to this 
 game is that it isn't a glitchy mess, you get to ride a big red bear thing into battle, and it 
 ends.
  
  I was bitterly disappointed this time. Square Enix and Tri-Ace Really let me down, and I think 
 I 've lost any respect I may have had left for Square Enix. I'll stick to MIstwalker for my JRPGs 
 now, thank you very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maryalex
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well, this is actually my first time reviewing a game, so I guess it'll be a quite short and simple 
 review.
  
  Anyway, reading the review and looking at the score, I thought it would have been a depressive 
 game, as many other titles from developer Square Enix of late.
  
  Actually, I was quite surprised to find out the game was actually fun to play. 
  Yeah, the story's 
 standard, nothing new, but at least it's plausible and it's interesting to follow. 
  Character development is not too bad, at least they are the kind of characters you'd care about. 
 
  I liked the soundtrack, even if at times it can get pretty repetitive.
  If anything, it's too short. I'd really loved to play more.
  
  Now, for the battle system. 
 Once you get used to it, it gets fun, hacking-and-slashing ordes of Order blokes and monsters.
 
  Only blunder is that the flow of battle unravels in real time and it does not pause even when 
 accessing the menu, which can get really irritating, if while you're trying to heal your party 
 you're struck down.
  I like the way you can see and attack enemies on the field map, pretty much like FFXII but without 
 the stupid time delay. 
  A shame there's not a gambit-like system, though.
  
  Now for the graphics. I'd say good try, but it might be best.
  The characters remain quite static 
 throughout the game and at times the voices don't match the face movements. I like the design, 
 though.
  As for the world, it does give off an aura of greatness and the various areas are differentiated 
 enough and each possess its unique quality, but they look quite unrefined, as if the engine isn't 
 powerful enough to support such graphic.
  
  Overall, it's not so bad a game as one might think.
  If one gets over the little flaws scattered 
 throughout the game, it's a fun game to play, featuring twenty hours of solid gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallOfAnakin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Chracters are highly detailed and look great
  Story keeps you interested
  
  Cons: Can be pretty difficult even on easy setting
  Buggy AI in battle and sometimes unresponsive
 
  
  Infinite Undiscovery puts you in the shoes of a flute player named Cappel, wrongfully imprisoned 
 because of mistaken identity. He then gets rescued by a girl name Aya, and with that they go on 
 a journey to liberate the world by destroying the chains attached to the moon destroying their 
 world.
  
  Gameplay: This where the game lacks, you only control one character and no random battles, but 
 your AI can be unresponsive to healing and getting out of the way to enemy attacks. What makes 
 it worse is that when you access the menu during battle to heal your party members the game doesn't 
 pause, so your still being attacked when trying to find that healing potion, only to find yourself 
 looking for those resurrection potions...
  
  Graphics: The game looks great, especially the character models, and from 20+ characters to choose 
 from mixing and matching is quite fun, as some characters perform better with a certain party member 
 with them. As usual with all games some places look familiar but their not very noticeable.
  
  Sound: Good solid soundtrack, voice acting is really good, although it doesn't sync up with 
 the lips it sacrifices that for quality voicing.
  
  Overall if your a JRPG fan i recommend to check this one out, you should find it pretty cheap now, 
 and it's a fun to game to play without the quirky AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wackywillpop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Frist let me say am not a big RPG fan i dont know how picking a commend and repeting is fun but 
 i like real time RPG's but not by much but Infinite Undiscovery is on the 10th place on my top 
 10 list.
  
  You play the main hero called Capell who is was confused by some one called Sigmund after the frist 
 couple of cutscenes you notice that the lip syinc sucks some times to talk to early and the lips 
 move when no one is talking and some times to late where the talk with lips closed.
  
  Also when you turn you camera around some time the sound gets quite but thats all i know of for 
 the problems.
  
  Now for the gameplay everthing is real time even when you healing everthing continues to move so 
 you could get attacked which i think is a good ider for RPG's you always some times get parts with 
 difften partys where you put some of allies to help you (not all the time tho) the boss battles 
 are allright at times and some times to easy or to hard.
  
  Story line now like i said you play as Capell who is in prison and gets saved by a girl called 
 aya who calls Capell "Sigmund" and later the meet up with Sigmund who looks the same as Capell.
 
  
  Muisc all i can say is EPIC!!! (apart from the jungle music)
  
  The game is good and worth a buy if you think you should rent it frist go right ahead if you allready 
 have it and think it sucks okay thats what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is one of Those Games That are Great For RPG Lover's, it's an Experience That 
 Should not be Missed by anyone, That Likes Square Enix Game's, of Course you Should Rent it first 
 to try it out, and then you will see it for Yourself, im not Saying it's Great im just Saying it's 
 Good Average, it will feed your Hunger if you want an RPG and you don't care what it is, it has 
 some good potential in Gameplay and story, the Connect move and Creation move and other stuff like 
 the flute make it a new Experience That you may want to try, don't listen to what people say rent 
 the game try it and if you like it buy it and if you don't then Return it, Because Everyone has 
 Their Opinion and yours may be different from others, it is definitely not a Shallow Experience, 
 and I like it but hey it's your Opinion not mine, if you like it buy it if not then don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has an decent story to be told but the unispiring combat and the fact that the environments 
 are just too big wreck the experience. Traveling from one place to another is too time consuming. 
 A large portion of this game is alchemy to get the good weapons and armor its necessary. The problem 
 with alchemy is that later in the game if you didn't buy the ingredients in the beginning they 
 aren't available until near the end of the game. This kills some of the side quests. A major handicap 
 is that you have to find your many party members to connect with them to do alchemy and quests 
 a couple of the towns are just so big this becomes a big annoyance. As for the combat its rather 
 dull you can only use 2 moves and you end up just spamming the strongest attacks over and over. 
 A major drawback is that while using items combat rolls on. This wouldn't be so bad if there weren't 
 thousands of items in your inventory to sift through to find what you want. This really tubed the 
 game for me. 
  
  To summarize this game is flawed
  
  Area maps and towns are just way to big and slow you down. 
  
  The alchemy is extensive and 
 there are too many items to create
  
  No pausing for item uses is an unnecessary challenge.
  
  There's too many party members and 
 not enough time or storyline to use them. 
  
  I wouldn't recommend the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSlippery39
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  So I bought this game since I needed an RPG fix, and it was being made a square enix so I thought 
 it would be pretty good.
  
  Man was I wrong. 
  
  Now this game is not awful, but its just infested with design errors I don't know where to begin.
 
  
  Basically the game is a Hack and Slash RPG. I don't call it an action RPG, because really I got 
 through the game only using two moves: A-A-A-A (which is basically a 5 hit combo attack) and my 
 hold B move. Add in a dash of pressing Y and hope that your buddies heal you before you die, and 
 ya thats pretty much what happened for the whole game.
  
  Like its not like those were the only moves, you could connect to your teammates and "command" 
 them to use their moves. But really in the grand scheme of things, it was pointless since they 
 are going to attack the enemies anyways.
  
  And thats one of the main flaws of this game, you only really get to control one character. And 
 it gets absolutely boring. Your character can not use any magic what so ever, and if you want to 
 heal yourself with a potion, you have to press select, open up the confusing menus, to use it. 
 Since the game doesn't pause while you are doing so, your enemies would probably attack you to 
 death while you attempt to manually heal yourself.
  
  And its not just that, if Capell (the person you control) happens to die... Well you better hope 
 you have one of the revive potions, or a buddy knows a revive spell cause if they don't.... its 
 Game Over.
  
  Ya, you wait there for about a minute while the screen starts darkening, once its covered the whole 
 screen, its done. 
  
  Hell even when you do have a million revive potions your teammates aren't always quick to use them, 
 in one case it took them almost half a minute to revive me! Thats right I was sitting their spectating 
 for half a minute, helpless really. I almost turned my Xbox off right there.
  
  Another flaw with this game is the complete lack of save points. Hardly ever did they put a save 
 point before a major boss, and if you were to fail against that boss... well you'd have to spend 
 30 minutes trekking the stupid dungeon again just to have a second chance its quite rediculous, 
 and annoying.
  
  Speaking of bosses, aside from a few mini-bosses, and the ones at the end of the game they are 
 all the same. Its always attack him until he is down, then go attack some chain while the barrier 
 protecting it is down rinse, wash, repeat. Absolutely no variety really. It was the same bosses 
 for the whole game except with a different skin. Unacceptable.
  
  This game would have been so much better if you could just switch between characters, instead of 
 having to use the pointless connect system. It would have made for much more interesting gameplay 
 IMO.
  
  But anyways, this game is just a mediocre RPG that is filled with annoyances, if you really want 
 to try it out, Definatley rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I1yodsyo1I
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is that kind of game that should have been great, but could have been much 
 more. You wish it would be better, but it isn't. The story, while interesting, has half of its 
 cutscenes acted out, leaving the others to subtitles. This provides an awkward moment when you 
 see the character's mouth moving, but no voice. Think of combat as a mix of FFXII and the Tales 
 series. The gameplay shines, with combos and special attacks flowing with ease. The "Connect" system 
 could have been easier to use, but it is still fun to use. The enviroments are beutiful and what 
 you expect from a 360 game. Graphics also deliver, but it is annoying when you put all kinds of 
 armor into your character, but still look the same. I am hoping for a sequel that will deliver 
 all aspects of gameplay and story, otherwise play for rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spira_Citizen
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I knew I was going to buy Infinite Undiscovery the second the 1st trailer was released on xbox 
 live. It looked just so so cool. Typical Square Enix: flamboyant graphics, intersting larger than 
 life characters and an ethreal world to explore. Then, a few weeks later- some gameplay vids came 
 out, and wow, it looks like it plays just like FFXII! Which just so happens to be one of my favourite 
 games- ever, an awesome mix of real time strategy and pre-emptive strategy, with a party of characters 
 to manage and equip.
  
  How very wrong I was.
  Now from the offset- let me say that this is by no means a bad game. The point I'd like to make 
 is that this game is no-where near as could as it could and should have been. It annoys me greatly 
 that despite the 360's magnificance no-one has yet been able to create a game that involves and 
 en-trances me like certain RPGs did on the PS2. And this what a good RPG should do, it's what Infinite 
 Undiscovery doesn't do.
  
  I think back to playing FFX for the first time all those years ago, and within 2 hours of playing 
 it, maybe less, I was totally captivated, continually until the end, some 60 hours of play later.
 
  Compare this to Infinite Undiscovery, a game that looked as though it would deliver all the above 
 (and any Square-Enix title on a new platform must IMO) but just didn't. After two hours of playing 
 I find the game annoying. I don't feel attached to any of the characters, partly due to the horrific 
 voice acting and script. The levelling up, managing and equiping side of the game is not that intersting 
 nor involving with the exception of the cooking and blacksmith elements. Also the environments, 
 while they're not exactly an eye-sore, are not exactly rich, detailed and lushous, something that 
 Square Enix have always done well.
  
  The actual battles, for me, just do not work. If I want a button bashing extravanganza, I will 
 by Ninja Gaiden, an old LOTR game, or suchlike. Or a 'Whack-a-Ghost'. Its fun in I. U for about 
 30 mins, but when you've heard the wimpy male protagonist yell 'SPINNING WALTZ' for the 10,000 
 time (yes, after 30 mins) it just isn't. I can see what the game's trying to do in making the button 
 bashing a bit more technical with the 'Connect Skill' (allows you to link your wimpy male lead 
 with another party member to use one of their skills manually, as opposed to auto AI) but you never 
 really have to use this except for odd key moments.
  
  And that's just it you see, even with addition of new characters, and they do come thick and fast, 
 you will find yourself able to plow through huge portions of the game without having to make any 
 changes what so ever, not to items, weapons, party members or skills. And this feels like blasphemy 
 for Square-Enix. Half the fun of previous titles has been the strategy, the thought that must go 
 in to each and every one of your characters. Hell, I even liked to make sure my characters looked 
 good with certain weapons and armour, i liked the detail that much. I. U has no depth or substance, 
 therefore I don't even try that kind of ****
  
  I could go-on being picky. For the sake of an Xbox 'RPG' I guess this game isn't that bad. When 
 I think that it's from the same people who brought us Vagrant Story, FF7,8,9,10,12 etc to name 
 but a few that's when i can't help but feel disappointed.
  
  Buy Lost Odyssey instead, this is better but still no FF and sould keep you satisfied until FFXIII 
 is released. I can only hope to god this does not disappoint in the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlrunions
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  It seems as of late the 360 has been getting all of the RPG love, and this is a good thing. here 
 is another one of these RPGs to love.
  
  Story
  You are Capell whom in a case of mistaken Identity. gets thrown into a huge adventure that he wants 
 no part of. but in that he ends up on a quest to unchain the world from the moon, and of course 
 save the world. This storyline is actually pretty original as far as story's go, and it is a interesting 
 to boot.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are nice though not as detailed as most would like the game play stuff looks like 
 it could be on the ps2, but the fmv's do look awesome. so that is a bonus, and I have always stressed 
 that good graphics do not a good game make.
  
  Game play.
  Take Final Fantasy XII, and Star Ocean till The end of time, and you have Infinite Undisvcovery's 
 battle system. which is fun, and keeps you on your toes. though it can get a bit repetitive you 
 won't care because of the story here. One thing here is that the game really does not give you 
 much direction here I guess that is the undiscovery part, but if you are remotely familiar with 
 RPG's you know what to look for it is not that hard to figure out. And it is defiantly worth the 
 effort.
  
  Sound
  Once again Motoi Sakuraba has written an amazing score to go with the game, and as a unusual twist 
 he does not use his traditional rock, and roll fare here. It is full orchestra, and it sounds wonderful. 
 Not so much can be said for the voice acting. it is okay, but you still want to throttle certain 
 characters.
  
  All in all this is a good game. and should keep most Rpg Players happy, but for most I would recommend 
 a rental due to the games shortness. But for the true of heart it is worth the purchase.
  
  Final Score 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydancerofchao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The game is nothing spectacular and its certainly not revolutionary, but it IS unique in most aspects. 
 The battle system is real-time, very reminiscent of FFXII, but instead of just choosing turn-based 
 commands in real-time, you actually fight somewhat right there on the field. Its a very enjoyable 
 and sometimes hectic form of battle, but always fun. 
  
  The story is good, not the best out there, but unique enough to warrant finishing it and the characters 
 all contribute their own uniqe touch. There is a lot of annoying dialogue, but there always is 
 in a game primarily written by the japanese as translation is always a mixed bag and our cultures 
 are so different in literary style anyhow.
  
  There are plenty of sidequests and more than enough depth in the item creation system and skill 
 system to keep you busy. The skills are somewhat superfluious as you gain them based on levels 
 and many of them (like titles not so far removed from the title system in Tales...) don't really 
 add up to much other than a cool name. 
  
  The graphics are great and most of the world is pretty unqiue feeling in its entirity. It's still 
 your basic fantasy/rpg world, but with its own twist and I found enjoyed exploring it much more 
 than some of the other rpg's of late.
  
  In terms of length, I don't know, I tend to think a lot of people (including the gamespot reviewer) 
 blow thru this game without a second thought and don't invest much time in any of its sidequests 
 or nuances. You can easily spend 30-40 hours completing it in its entirety. Regardless, even if 
 it only takes you twnety hours, do yourself a favor and pick it up cheap on ebay or something, 
 its well worth the time and will definatelly tide you over until games like Fallout 3, Last Remnant, 
 and FFXIII finally make it over here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  On the Xbox 360, there is a lack of good RPGs. The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, Tales of Vesperia, 
 and Mass Effect are probably the only worthwhile ones to play. The other ones (Blue Dragon, Lost 
 Odyssey) tried, but couldn't deliver. I would have to put Infinite Undiscovery in the middle of 
 those two categories.
  
  The story revolves around Capell, the flute playing protagonist of IU, gets thrown in prison at 
 the beginning of the game. Predictably, someone comes to save poor old Capell. Aya, another main 
 character, drops in and saves him, mistaking Capell for the people's hero, Lord Sigmund. 
  
  We soon find out the two look identical, and then the story goes on from there. It is original, 
 and, one of the games redeeming qualities, the story never disappoints. There are plenty of twists, 
 turns, surprises, betrayals, alliances and more. Infinite Undiscovery is very well written game, 
 and that will please those looking for a good story.
  
  Although, if you don't have the subtitles on, you would never know. The Voice Acting in this game 
 is absolutely horrible, beyond any game. You hear words, characters mouth does not move. And vice 
 versa. I almost had to close my eyes it was that bad. It looks like the characters are mumbling 
 instead of talking, and their mouths stop moving after two seconds! Dang that was irritating.
 
  
  Speaking of characters, the animation and graphics in the game are pretty average. Nothing will 
 amaze you like Bioshock, but they won't scare you away. The characters themselves look fine, and 
 the environments are pretty decent, but I found that, in some places, the designers just said "Hey, 
 let's take a break!" and then never came back. You have to look closely for these parts, but they're 
 there.
  
  Now, to gameplay. As soon as you escape, you're thrown into a tutorial. The combat system revolves 
 around pressing the A and B buttons to do combos while attacking your enemies. Sound simple? It 
 is. Capell has certain skills that he performs when he does a certain combo, all musically named. 
 One beef with this system is that the skills that Capell learns by levelling up are used in an 
 extremely frustrating way. Capell learns many skills, but you can only equip two at a time. You 
 have to hold either button down to perform a skill, and it's hard to know what works with only 
 two skill slots!
  
  As many have said before, the first hour of Infinite Undiscovery is a killer, as is the gameplay 
 that you learn outside of the decent combat system. Not twenty minutes in, Capell is thrown into 
 an ogre chase with a horrible mechanic. The ogre is invincible, so you must run away from it. Thing 
 is, there's too many enemies, so you have to run past them all without getting killed, and you've 
 only just put in the disc. Kudos to you that stayed with the game. Mix this with the ancient, press 
 a button to seahte/unseathe your weapon, the horrible camera, and a clunky targeting system, and 
 you're probably surprised that this game got anything higher than a 5!
  
  The gameplay does have some good qualities. Other than the okay combat, the item creation/enchanting 
 system is great. Since you have three other members in your party, some of these characters can 
 create items out of raw material. Rucha can cook meals that heal your party, while Edward can forge 
 weapons. It's a great system, with a reward every time. The enchantment (learned by Capell later 
 in the game) has mixed results. Yes, you can enchant your weapons so they do more damage or do 
 a specific elemental damage, but there's a time limit! This bonus is placed on you for 5 minutes 
 and then it's gone! When I learned that, I almost threw my controller at the screen for a second 
 time after finding I just wasted my precious materials for a five minute attack boost!
  
  That's only on the battle field. There are also towns (as per usual RPG) that you can explore, 
 each filled with hidden goodies to find. Every town has shops that sell weapons, armour and items. 
 One EXTREMELY frustrating thing was the lack of an "equip now" command, so you have to buy a weapon, 
 then exit out of the shop and equip it to your character. Like, come on! That's a standard these 
 days!
  
  Another complaint, the Connect system is horrible. While Capell is exploring a town, your party 
 characters will be scattered around. Hold RB and you can connect with them. Certain characters 
 have different skills. Rico can talk to animals, Vic can open locked chests, and Michelle can woo 
 dudes and so on. Thing is, in some of the larger towns, the character you need is so far away from 
 what you need, and then you finally reach the object with the right character, and find it was 
 a piece of junk! ARGGGHHH! (Controller throwing moment)
  
  Overall, Infinite Undiscovery couldn't live up to the hype. The combat is decent, and the story 
 is enticing, but everything else goes down from there. The camera, annoying game mechanics and 
 bad Voice Acting killed what could've been a half-decent game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shermans_HUD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When an RPG is released on a console, we are lead to believe the game will play like classic Final 
 Fantasy or Dragon Quest. But, when it comes to Infinite Undiscovery we are sent in a whole other 
 direction.
  
  Infinite Undiscovery was released for the Xbox 360 early September by Square Enix, most famous 
 for the Final Fantasy series (if you didn't know that) . The game puts you in the place of Capell, 
 a young warrior who must lead a group of rebels to large monoliths called chains, which are holding 
 the moon to the world.
  
  Design & Detail:
  
  When it comes to the design of an RPG, especially one released by Square Enix, then it has to meet 
 certain standards that the public views as a normal RPG. The graphics in this game are of a typical 
 Square game, with your standard textures and coloring you would see in any Final Fantasy, so nothing 
 really special. The characters faces seem to all be the same, but with some variations based on 
 gender and age. The detail of the game's environments is pretty neutral as well, with forests looking 
 like forests, and deserts looking like deserts, so still nothing special.
  
  Sound & Audio
  
  The sound and audio part of the game is usually what pulls everyone in to 
 the game itself. When you get into a battle, you have your battle theme, which is always the same 
 until it comes to a boss battle, where it's a little more dramatic. Voice work is pretty much down 
 the drain. The game, since it was made first for the Japanese market, the characters mouth move 
 along with the original Japanese voices. Too bad you couldn't put it on Japanese vocals and English 
 subtitles only if But, the vocal work of the American artists is really well done, with no skipping 
 or stuttering to notice, yet it still does not fit in with the mouth movement.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As we have seen with the Final Fantasy series, the way to enter a battle is just 
 walk into a certain spot on the floor, and then the screen spirals into a battle. That's not the 
 case with this game. Enemy's are of course abundant in the game, but the fight system is more set 
 up as a target and slash system, or as most of the gamers know it, a hack-and-slash. If you still 
 don't understand, play Kingdom Hearts or Kingdom Hearts 2, and then you'll get it. The lackluster 
 part of the entire thing is the targeting system, which never locks onto a single enemy. The target 
 jumps from one enemy to the other, so trying to beat a boss with seven smaller enemies around is 
 a challenge on its own, targeting wise of course. One great thing with this game though is the 
 ability to control your party with the simple push of a button. Once the function is available, 
 you can use any party member's ability to your advantage. Plus healing is added as a hotkey to 
 your controller, so no digging through your bag to find that last potion. With your menu options 
 as well, they seem scattered more than they should be. Plus with the addition of combining objects 
 to create better objects, the menu becomes worse.
  
  Final Thought
  
  Role Playing Games have amazed us, disappointed us, and bored us to death in the past, yet this 
 game takes all three and rolls it into a program and burns it onto two discs. Infinite Undiscovery 
 has the potential to be a better RPG, but for the sake of us, it's not a good one to play if you're 
 used to playing the classic way we see with Final Fantasy. I would suggest this to a beginner RPG 
 player, or someone that wants to kill about 20-25 hours of downtime, but avoid this game if you're 
 looking for a more classic-oriented RPG.
  
  Sherman's HUD Rating: 3.5 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tafgrim
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  If button mash fests and the non-story, and non-strategy elements of most JRPGs are your thing... 
 then this is for you. 
  
  Maybe I'm missing something, but after 5 hours of game play (which should be ample to get a feel 
 for the world, and for the storytellers to help you care even remotely for the characters) , I just 
 couldn't take it anymore and took it back to the store as a trade-in. The thing is, the "bin" I'd 
 recommend this game for isn't the one labelled "bargain".
  
  Without re-listing the negatives, I'd suggest that you rent this one first if you're masochistic 
 enough (or have nothing better to do) and wanted to try it. But really, I'd suggest that if you 
 wanted to play a good (newer) JRPG, to stick with a game like Tales of Vesperia or Lost Odyssey. 
 Or, conversely... if you want a good action game... there's a slew of them out for any platform 
 that are worth playing before this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anto156
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:   
 i wasn't so sure about it but the combat system and the characters grow on you really quickly. 
 The only problem is that sometimes (as its a Japanese game) the voices don't always sync with the 
 movement of their mouths which sometimes annoys me for some reason. The story and feeling of the 
 game reminds me a bit of Tales of the Abyss and Tales of Symphonia but hey hats wrong with that 
 they are both excellent games and because of this Infinite Undiscovery will be added with them 
 to my top 10 of all time. Hopefully they can come up with a sequel that is just as good or better 
 unfortunately i'm not sure how they would go about it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo232
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  With a Drought of Rpgs this game was definately worth the wait. The game has good graphics and 
 great gameplay with a good storyline. Being a fan of Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts, I loved 
 this game as much as any Rpg out there. This game is mostly flawless but on some occasions, well, 
 the voice acting was pretty bad, but the music on the other hand, is really great!
  
  The story starts out as the main character, Capell, who is stuck in jail. His captures call him 
 "the Liberator" or they call him "Sigmund", But Capell has no idea what they are talking about. 
 On the third day of his imprisonment, he is rescued by a girl named Aya, who is a member of a small 
 band of warriors. She is looking for her leader, Sigmund, and mistoke Capell for him. Once they 
 got out of the Order of Chains jail, Capell met Sigmund, he finds that Sigmund has the same face 
 as him.
  
  The Controls for this game are quite simple. You use the left analog stick to move the character, the 
 BACK button to open the in game menu, the D pad left and right to scroll through flute music, and 
 up and down on the D pad to scroll through battle tactics. Use the right analog stick to move the 
 camera, and press it down to lock on to your target. Of course, like most games, you can use the 
 START button to pause it. The A button is used for many things. It serves as an action button, 
 so you can talk to people or open doors and treasure chests, or when your sword is drawn, use it 
 for a quick attack. Use B to use a power attack, like Spinning Waltz, or Dancing Rhapsody. Use 
 the X button to play your flute and the Y button to ask your team mates to heal you. The RB button 
 displays the connect guide and the RT button Draws or Sheathes your sword.
  
  This is a very good game with simple controls, good gameplay, and a very good storyline. I would 
 look into it if you really like RPG games like Final Fantasy or Kingdom Hearts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philisdong
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game can not hang with a Final Fantasy title. I like the game, good character design very 
 bad voices in the game. Its fun and holds your attention, My son likes to watch this game because 
 their are lots of cool cinema scenes. Cinema scenes do look good. The creation part of the game 
 kind of sucks because it takes so long to create stuff. Square/Enix could have done a better job 
 for sure.... it's worth a look. Game Fly this bad boy first. I suggest rent it or wait till the 
 game comes down in price. Not worth sixty bucks! Maybe twenty five or thirty dollars. So don't 
 throw your money away wait till it goes down in price. Once Final Fantasy XIII comes out it will 
 be forgotton. Maybe the second one will be better. Square should have made them hold out a little 
 longer on this title it would have made them more money. I bet all they were thinking about was 
 "Get it out before the holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  After seeing the review of the game, I was hesitant to pick this one up. But I've learned from 
 the past that the gamespot review doesnt always matter. They gave enchanted arms a 7.1 and i loved 
 it. i thought it deserved at least a 9. And with Lost odyssey, they only gave it a 7.5, and its 
 one of my favorite games of all time. It easily deserved a 9.5 or higher in my opinion. So even 
 though this had a bad score I bought it, and i was a little dissapointed with the game in the end.
 
  
  The Good: This game does have very good graphics, many of the characters are very well developed 
 and look great. The many areas you will explore look amazing, with a lot of detail put into them. 
 
  
  Sadly that is the only thing that really stood out in this game, everything else is just average. 
 The gameplay is exciting, but gets old fairly quick. Its an action-RPG, but there are only so many 
 combos you can actually use, and halfway through the game it feels like your just smashing buttons 
 and you get the same three combos. 
  
  The story was fairly average too. Im not saying the story was bad, but it didnt really pull me 
 into the game either. You play as Capell, a flute player, who mistakenly looks like the Sigmund 
 (the main character in the game) and he is thrown into battle with multiple characters as they 
 destroy these chains that attach the earth and the moon together. The evil order of the chains 
 group is using the moon to enhance their powers, so it up to Capell and the others to destroy the 
 chains and to stop the Order of the Chains. The story is very basic nothing to amazing. There is 
 a lot of dialouge between the characters, which creates some nice character development.
  
  Speaking of characters, there are A LOT of them. There are between 20-30 characters in all. Which 
 is a kind of good and bad thing. There are some battles where you have your main party of characters 
 and then there are sub parties helping you also in some boss battles. This made some of the boss 
 fights very awesome to see. Because it would the boss against 8 of your characters. But having 
 so many characters was kind of a hassle. Buying armor and weapons was expensive to get for everyone, 
 and eventually i only bought stuff for the 7 or 8 people i used the most. and some of the characters 
 were named "secondary" characters, and they could never be in your main party. Also, you could 
 only use Capell throughout the entire game, which i thought was unfair. It would've been cool to 
 use Edward or Kristofer as your main character... but oh well.
  
  Bad: The voice acting in this game is somewhat tolerable, but the mouths never match what they 
 are saying. Its worse than watching a japanese movie dubbed in english. Even at important and cool 
 parts in the game, the terrible voiceovers kinda ruined the big moments. I laughed sometimes because 
 it was so bad. I honestly think it would've been better if they used text throughout the whole 
 game. I know tons of good games where voiceovers arent used. (Final Fantasy IV-IX, Okami, Zelda) . 
 Also this game was way to short for an RPG. the first disc takes about 7 hours, and the second 
 disc takes about 11 hours. Yes i beat the game in 18 hours. But not all of that is gameplay. There 
 are many scenes between the characters that easily last ten minutes a piece. so really theres only 
 about 15 hours of gameplay.
  
  This game isnt the worst I've played, but its dissapointing when you know it could've been a lot 
 better. They could've easily added extra places to visit to increase the length of the game, and 
 they should've definitely got rid of the voiceovers or tried a lot harder to make them better. 
 And they should've given more variety with the 20+ characters. they should've given you the opportunity 
 to use each one if different dungeons. That would've made this game so much better for me. Again, 
 this game is very average, nothing really spectacular. Check the bargain bin, its not really worth 
 the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djallar
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Hype... hype... hype...
  
  Can't the developers tell when the project just isn't working? Too often, they turn things over 
 to the marketing people who always claim this game is the next best, (put your favorite game title 
 here.)
  
  I know everyone is begging for a killer JRPG for the 360, but come on...
  
  I tried and tried to get into this game, but found more frustration than enjoyment. The graphics 
 are pretty, but the game play is irregular. The syncing of abilities only makes sure you've selected 
 the wrong one at the wrong time and you end up getting killed while in a menu. 
  
  And what about the beginning? This was supposed to be an RPG, not a button masher. There's no option 
 to use stealth... or your mind for that matter... just run and hope you avoid enough hits to escape.
 
  
  Why couldn't you leave the way Aya came in????
  
  I sure hope Fable 2 and Final Fantasy XIII live up to the hype. If not, I'll just wait until I 
 can buy them in the 5.99 bargain bin. That's where this will end up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spazdog
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  IU is a game that looks like another j rpg that was slapped together quickly but in truth its much 
 more then meets the eye. Anyways The game play similar to kingdom hearts but not exactly and is 
 highly addicting once u start to play it. It has a high replay value meaning you will be able to 
 play the game like 2-3 times because every time you play the game you unlock a higher difficulty. 
 For me so far I am still on my first play through currently standing at 16 hrs into it and still 
 increasing. Here's my advice to those buying this game, don't be deceived by first three hours 
 of game because it only gets better from there on. Its one of those games you will never regret 
 buying. However be warned it has some frame rate issues which can be overlooked since the game 
 itself its great. Good job Tri-Ace and Square for making an outstanding game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nate401
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Part 1: I take back what I say about IU in part 2, the original review. The game gets awesome and 
 forces you to think in a way alot of game don't do anymore. When all else fails, just run around. 
 I've embarassed myself enough over this game. If you can afford the startegy guide, buy it. It 
 would be most useful and look cool on your shelf or desk. A very nice game. I was in a bad mood 
 when I wrote the original review. I need a walkthrough for this game and it's nothing to be ashamed 
 of. I'm no great gamer. I'm just wanting to have fun. I should start using the books and keeping 
 it a secret. hahahahahahah
  
  
  
  
  Part 2: I think the story concept itself of unchaining the moon is brilliant, but the writing itself 
 along with the finite detail is severely lacking. It's got great ideas that seem rushed to me. 
 One being the necessary use of the flute and the need for a more elaborate explanation of the instrument. 
 Maybe it gives you hints as to where to use it in the easy mode. The game rushes the player through 
 what you need to know and gives him or her access to the lessons if reviewing them is a must. I 
 would have just hinted in the gameplay itself through a little vibration at the points where a 
 less then usual action is needed. The combat is cool to an extent. Making sure to level up is something 
 I don't like how got engraved into my head when I put on an accessory that negates leveling up. 
 I started to wonder at how I died 9 times at the second boss and then I saw my level was only eight. 
 I then removed the horrid instrument that I find to be the idea of a lazy mind and a low budget. 
 Of course I don't know the details of the industry, but I sometimes imagine it to be something 
 like that. It's worth playing, yet not addictive what so ever to an easily bored person such as 
 myself. I would rent it before I buy it. I say this even though I've been a huge fan of Square 
 Enix for over ten years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkid1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed it, the characters were great and funny, even the side characters like fiena and 
 leif . Gina was also funny she would say anything that came on her mind. I wiped the floor of all 
 the end bosses including those inthe underwater palace. This game didnt have the production values 
 of Lost Odyssey, but it was a very enjoyable experience, and it had a better story than LO, eternal 
 sonata, and blue dragon. This game was awesome i have hope dfor Star Ocean 4 now. 
  My end level with Capel was 70, my party was capel, aya, eugene, and kunochi.
  The ending was 
 pleasent.
  i give this game a 7.5/10.
  
  The story was awesome.
  
  The bad: ugly graphics nothing to get excited for here ppl. The music was iffy but charming, the 
 voices were good but only if they moved consistently with the characters mouth. This game could 
 have been an underwhelming experience, but the solid story and characters made up for it.
  Cant wait for SO4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  More than anything, Infinite Undiscovery proves that Tri-Ace - the Japanese studio behind Star 
 Ocean and Radiata Stories - has a little trouble writing a story. All of the basic pieces are here. 
 There's a world under siege by evil forces and heroes that are traveling to liberate the world 
 those said evil forces. There's deserts, forest, plains, and even a jailbreak sequence. Then there's 
 the requisite pervert - who just so happens to be the game's protagonist, Capell, this time around. 
 The problem though is that Tri-Ace doesn't have a clue as to how to bind all of these pieces together. 
 Infinite Undiscovery lacks a truly cohesive narrative, jumping around from story sequence to story 
 sequence, often forgetting to fill you in on plot elements or even your next objective. Combine 
 this with some pretty glaring pacing issues, a game that's just plain short overall, and perhaps 
 some of the worst voice work you'll ever hear in a video game - and you have an end result that's 
 a little less than stellar.
  
  First things first - Infinite Undiscovery is an action RPG that's very linear. There are no elaborate 
 quests in the game; it's pretty much a straight shot through the entire narrative with maybe one 
 or two side detours, though those never last very long at all and really aren't even worth pursuing 
 as they give you little in the way of rewards. Regardless, the few bits and pieces of the story 
 that manage to come together are actually enough to keep you going, if only because they're presented 
 in a way that's so incredibly simple that it will be impossible for this game to confuse you or 
 make you think. Which, when you think about it, is a blessing in the realm of Japanese role-playing 
 games.
  
  As for the gameplay, this title really shines in its combat and only in its combat. Outside of 
 combat, you'll most likely either be running from point A to point B stopping every now and then 
 to pick up the odd piece of fruit or open a treasure chest, but in combat Tri-Ace really flexes 
 their muscles. As an action RPG, Undiscovery is completely real-time and as many JRPGs are doing 
 these days, there is no transition from field map to battle - you just pull out your sword and 
 start hitting things. One button will do a fast, weak attack that can be chained up to three times 
 and can be followed by a strong attack which is mapped on another button. Different button combos 
 will unleash different special attacks which are divided into the categories of Air and Ground 
 - but to be honest, you won't ever need to use Air combos and you can pretty much ignore them. 
 Holding down the Weak or Strong attack will unleash a special technique that usually involves Capell 
 hitting whatever he's targeting twenty or so times (this usually kills anything but a boss) . These 
 attacks are visual feasts with lots of sword trails and sparklies and neat effects.
  
  Joining Capell in battle are his trusty side kicks - of which there are quite a few, though you 
 can only have three with you at a time. One of the most interesting things you can do with these 
 side kicks is split them up into three different parties. Once you do the other two parties will 
 go off and do their own thing, while you get to control the original one. This is most often used 
 in the more advanced dungeons and while it's a lot more shallow than it sounds, it goes a long 
 way into fooling the player into thinking they're getting a more dynamic experience - which is 
 better than nothing.
  
  Rounding out the things you can do is crafting (wouldn't be a Tri-Ace game without crafting, now 
 would it) . Sadly, crafting is next to useless. You can get some pretty cool items, but you neither 
 need them nor will you want to take the effort to create them by the time you get to the end of 
 the game.
  
  On the presentation side of things, Infinite Undiscovery is straddling a pretty thin line. One 
 one side, the graphics are technically proficient, but they're wasted on bland level design that 
 honestly wants to look good, but fails. You can almost hear the trees in the game yelling, "HELP! 
 Save me from this horrible level designer!" Echoes of potential wasted. The games makes great use 
 of shader effects and rarely chugs unless there's a lot of special attacks being fired off during 
 a battle - in which case, the framerate drop actually makes it look cooler, so I can't complain. 
 The audio department is entirely forgettable, especially the voice acting which you'll have to 
 literally force yourself to leave on. If you can't do that, I'd bet my first child you'll turn 
 the voices off during the first ten minutes. The music is standard JRPG faire and nothing special, 
 and the spell effects and cutscene audio production are barely there.
  
  In conclusion, Infinite Undiscovery is a game that really wants to be great, but suffers greatly 
 from a heavy dose of missing polish. Tri-Ace needs to learn a thing or two about story writing 
 and then get back to us, and they're level designers need to do a better job. If you can overlook 
 these things, then there's a decent game here - but overlooking those things is going to take a 
 lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiagofali
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to try to explain in detail all the flaws that this game has. There are dozens of 
 reviews already detailing it thoroughly.
  
  However I decided to express my indignation with this Square-Enix enterprise. It is nothing but 
 a cheap and misleading way to retrieve mounts of cash. In other words to rip us off.
  
  This game is so simple... Sometimes I think it was made for a 5 year-old. If you intend to buy 
 it because it is a square-enix game and it might be as good as Final fantasy or Dragon Quest, forget 
 it...
  
  Basically, as all the other reviews say, it is a mess of a game, mixing so many different features 
 that you just get lost and end up not using most of them.
  
  The story is simple and shallow. There are in total around 4 cities in the whole game. You don't 
 see the location of them on a map... You have just to wander pre-established paths and then you 
 are thrown in a new city. The connection between the maps are so bad... The geography is ludicrous... 
 From a lush forest, you enter a city where is snowing. It is unbelievable...
  
  In addition, there are so many characters, you just cannot maintain all of them up to date with 
 weapons and high levels... To be honest, you can, if you want, but the game is so boring at a certain 
 stage, that you just want to see it through as fast as you can to not feel guilty for wasting your 
 money...
  
  Of course, this game is not just flaws... It has it charm sometimes... And this little moments 
 that will keep you playing. 
  
  As a RPG lover, I had to check this game out, and maybe, even if a read a bad review previously, 
 I would still buy it. But after beating it, I will sell it on ebay and get half of my money back... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, but was disappointed immediately upon playing it. So essentially 
 you play Capell, a coward lookalike to a national hero-liberator Sigmund, that is cutting down 
 the chains that bound the moon to the earth. He's the only playable character but you can use abilities 
 from others while linked with them. Exploring of the world which is not so big or wast is frustrating 
 to say the least and in numerous occasions you will find yourself traveling without going anywhere 
 thus wasting time. Combat is confusing and rather easy and boss battles don't deserve that term 
 'cause trout the game if you choose your crew wisely you wont have no problems with them. 
  Also there is a question as to why there are two discs when the content of the game is so scarce 
 that could easily be fitted to a single disc. 
  The visual setting and the surroundings look good, but there is a repetitive "quality" to level 
 design that is visible in the cities, castles. 
  Voice acting is horrible and then some, so sometimes you get the feeling that you are maybe playing 
 something that is still being developed.
  Characters that you upgrade stay the same no matter what armor-thingy you put on them only the 
 weapons differ slightly...
  In conclusion if this is what next gen JRPG's are gonna feel like we are in for one disappointment 
 after another, so let us hope it isn't so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexeus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, tri-ace woot. Square-Enix woot. No...
  
  This game is horrible. I expected some halfway decent romp through a magical land. Instead I got 
 a boring game with no point or depth what so ever.
  
  To things off this game is ugly as sin. Im sorry but the 360's been out for awhile now and I've 
 seen ps2 games with batter models. The charecters are all super bland and boring. No emotion what 
 so ever. And the enviroments are even worse. Bland forest and endless caverns of nothing. 
  
  Better yet, if its dark out, you cant see a thing. And that kind hinders the already boring 
 combat. The lock on button is all but useless. The same boring moves over and over. See active 
 battles arnt impossible but it helps to have some way to restore MP. 
  
  Bad review I know. Its late, im tired. I just had to let my 2 cent be known. Seriously tri-ace, 
 your better then this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to spend too much time dwelling on the first hour of Infinite Undiscovery but I hate 
 to say it really is one of the most atrocious hours to ever grace a JRPG. The narrative is poor, 
 everything you do feels clunky and instead of easing you into the overall experience and world 
 the game hurls you head-long into a series of diabolically bad chase sequences all of which suck 
 to increasing degrees. After being chased by a huge red ogre, hordes of guards and wolves in a 
 pitch black forest and finally a fire breathing dragon all the while feeling totally useless it's 
 a blessed relief to get to the first village and properly begin on your quest. Fortunately from 
 this point onwards the game delivers a more satisfying experience albeit one with a few issues
 
  
  Story
  Story wise IU is quite a reasonable title. Bard Capell joins the rebel group working to overthrow 
 another group called "The Order Of Chains" who are drawing energy from the moon through giant chains 
 attached to it. Their leader's (Leonid) plan is to use this power to grant him godlike abilities 
 and unfortunately in planting these chains he is bringing ruin on the world. Joining up with the 
 group headed by the charismatic Sigmund (who Capell looks exactly like) an epic chain destroying 
 quest begins full of some relatively clever twists you probably won't see coming and some good 
 cut scenes to convey matters. The only problem with the story as far as I'm concerned is even when 
 it tries to stir emotion the scenarios don't really deliver emotional impact. The game has plenty 
 of death and supposedly tragic scenes but it didn't suck me in to the same degree Lost Odyssey 
 did mainly down to the direction just not being quite up to scratch. The game does succeed in some 
 good character interactions too which is mainly down to some good strong cast member and clever 
 English dialogue which leads me easily too..
  
  Characters
  When you first start up IU you will immediately be struck by just what a complete unlikeable wuss 
 Capell is, despite our kick-ass, shoot arrows and be a great strong female lead Aya saving him 
 from jail (where Capell is imprisoned after being mistaken for Sigmund) he is not very grateful 
 and whines continually. What is fortunately amazing is that he gets so much more interesting and 
 develops so well over the course of his adventures that by the end of the game he was one of my 
 favourite male RPG heroes and had a lot of depth to him. Aya backs Capell wonderfully too and due 
 to great chemistry between them in both cut scenes and voice acting they work very well as the 
 "couple" of the title and I was practically cheering their romance on it was crafted so beautifully. 
 The rest of the cast varies in depth and likeability from great characters like the wise Eugene 
 and hilarious maid to Aya who has something similar to tourettes syndrome to the intensely irritating 
 Vic and Christoph who I wanted to hit every time they spoke. The cast of around 18 who fight with 
 you plus extras is a bit overwhelming for the games length but the strengths of good characters 
 are to well.
  
  Gameplay
  IU is a real time hack and slash style RPG with you taking control of just Capell but with up to 
 three allies accompanying you through the world. The allies can be given simple instructions and 
 Capell can request healing with a press of the Y button. In general this system works well and 
 allies are intelligent enough to help you, but in a few situations when allies don't seem to respond 
 and your left to die from bad AI things can get mildly frustrating. Fortunately this doesn't happen 
 too often. Combat is a simple affair with A and B being used to do simple slashes while holding 
 them down launching special moves which you unlock as you level up. The most annoying thing about 
 IU is that you can't stop combat to heal or use mana potions and instead must speedily access the 
 menu while getting your arse kicked to do so. The official website seems to bill this as an involving 
 feature of the game, I call it a pain in the backside especially if the rest of the party is dead. 
 Again though this issue can be overcome once you get used to it and for the most part combat is 
 fast, good to look at and works well.
  
  With such a large cast, levelling up could of course be an issue if you want to utilise them all. 
 However characters level up when not even in the party and at times you must split your team up 
 into three groups of four where they move around a dungeon and act independently (often joining 
 you in final boss fights) . Some of the games best and most innovative moments come when you have 
 twelve of you battling to siege a tower with many dozens of enemies joining in in huge fights and 
 despite what reviews of the title said there was minimal slowdown for myself when these huge fights 
 occurred. I'm hoping these battles are a taster of the scale this gen of consoles can manage and 
 Last Remanant in particular seems to be going for even bigger fights. Seeing as the ones in IU 
 blew my mind this sounds most promising. 
  
  IU also tries to be different by throwing in various play styles almost at random as if Tri-Ace 
 is testing them out for the future. You can suddenly find yourself defending a large group of refugees 
 you can't let die, or having to shoot birds out the sky in a time limit as they carry a young boy 
 off or suddenly running from a huge giant centipede after it bursts through a wall. These situations 
 bring real variety to the plate yet at the same time can be confusing and result in instant game 
 over if you don't react and adapt to the situation quickly. This is quite frustrating because save 
 points are often few and far between at times and big chunks of the game can be replayed if your 
 not prepared. Still the game tries some new ideas that with time and extra polish could have a 
 big factor in future JRPGs and for that it should be applauded.
  
  Graphics
  Visually IU isn't that great, some parts of it could be done on a PS2 for sure and while the cut 
 scenes look nice enough everything feels a bit flat. The explosions in particular look like they 
 were hand drawn then scanned into the game and were laughable at times. One of the most annoying 
 visuals flaws (which I suppose is also an audio flaw) is that the lip sync is miles out from the 
 actual dialogue, to the point it's REALLY obvious. Sometimes a character can be speaking and their 
 mouth opens for a second in a six or seven second piece of dialogue. Still again it's not a huge 
 detraction from the game play just a flaw in the games quality indicating how it's evidently been 
 rushed out.
  
  Sound
  Again this is a mixed bag. Music wise nothing is going to stick with you or having you humming 
 along but they aren't bad background tunes or anything just generic. The main area to talk about 
 here is the dialogue. Some of the voices are great some are rubbish and in such a large cast this 
 is something you really should expect, unfortunately some of the cut scenes are dubbed and some 
 aren't occasionally finding yourself listening to silent scenes that feel they should be brought 
 to life by vocals. Again it isn't a major issue and there are less and less of these instances 
 as the game progresses but once again it detracts from the game having an overall finished quality 
 to it.
  
  Lastability
  The game has a fair bit of content with the main story spanning a sensible 20-30 hours but with 
 a good 40-50 of optional content should you wish to dabble further and see all it has to offer. 
 I'm sick of some RPG's being too long so this was actually a nice break from the trudging through 
 60 hours of story. 
  
  Overall
  IU has an Infinitely Unfinished feeling to it like the game was one big beta test of new genuinely 
 "next-gen" ideas that have been released to recoup some money at minimal costs to those involved. 
 It's by no means bad and has some great combat, great ideas and a good story unfortunately the 
 overall polish of the game is missing and the first hour really is unforgivable, I still find myself 
 thinking "WHO ON EARTH THOUGHT THE FIRST HOUR WAS A GOOD IDEA!". Despite this though I recommend 
 renting the game if your unsure, playing for a good four hours or so and seeing if you find yourself 
 drawn in. In the majority of cases you probably will be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  PROS: Fantastic battle system with great looking effects, Reliable ally A. I., great cast of characters, 
 nice looking visuals
  
  CONS: A bit short for an RPG, Easy to get lost or stuck at points, Lip-synching is very off at 
 times, SOME of the voice acting sucks (but the majority of it is well done)
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Infinite Undiscovery is the RPG 
 I was anticipating the most this entire year aside from Fable 2 and The Last Remnant. Did Tri-Ace 
 bring their genius to this game like they did with Radiata Stories and Star Ocean? Let's find out...
 
  
  THE GRAPHICS first of all look great. All the character models shine, and the majority of the time 
 it all looks good. There are times where the environments drag behind, but for the most part it 
 looks good. Tri-Ace did a fine job developing this engine from scratch for this game. HOWEVER, 
 the lip-synching needs a major adjustment. The majority of times their lips will not move correctly 
 with what they are saying and there are even times where they will still be speaking yet their 
 lips stopped moving. This is fairly rare for a game that is produced by Square Enix. 
  
  THE STORY is an interesting one that, unlike some of the people on this site, kept my attention. 
 It revolves around around a flute player named Cappell who looks exactly like the world's Liberator, 
 Sigmund. This Liberator is traveling the world destroying these chains that are bound to the Moon. 
 The main villain in this game is using these chains to harvest the power of the Moon, and wherever 
 these chains are placed, it brings chaos and destruction. So as the look-alike you are rescued 
 from a prison by Aya (one of the main characters in the game) who thinks that you are Sigmund the 
 Liberator. Eventually you meet up with Sigmund and join forces. The story never really falters 
 either; it manages to keep up with keeping you interested throughout. IU also features a very intriguing, 
 and likeable cast. Each character is very unique to its own with their own personal side stories. 
 One of coolest party members is a giant bear named Gustav. And guess what? You can ride on his 
 back! What's cooler than riding a giant bear? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. 
  
  THE SOUND is where I got mixed reactions. The music is perfectly fine, and actually melds well 
 into the game. the voice acting is good too. You got Aya, Cappell, Edward, Sigmund, Eugene, Balbagan 
 and many others who sound great. However, you are then painfully introduced to Rico. A poweful 
 kid, yet he sounds very lame. Also, you later meet a kid named Vic, who is probably even worse 
 than Rico. Aside from these two, it sounds fine. One question though. Why is about 10% of the cutscenes 
 without voice acting? 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is wonderfully well done. Mostly in part due to the battle system. The action feels 
 very similar to anyone who has played Star Ocean: Till The End of Time. Its all real time action, 
 that looks gorgeous every time you fight. All the special effects add much to the battles, and 
 luckily, your allies A. I. is very reliable are more than capable of getting the job done. Honestly, 
 this is some of the most reliable A. I. I have ever experienced in a real time RPG. You also issue 
 commands to your party such as fighting freely, saving MP, or focusing their attacks on your target. 
 And they actually fall through with their given orders. You also are given the ability to enchant 
 your weapons, cook meals for health boost, and compose your own songs for your flute. Each song 
 offers different effects, such as one that will let you see the unseen. Using your flute is also 
 very critical to the game play. Going back to the song that allows you to see the unseen, there 
 is some bosses you will have to fight by playing your flute due to them being invisible. And during 
 those fights, your task is to keep him visible while your party kicks the s*** out of him. Also, 
 the term "Infinite Undiscovery" should become apparent once you begin to see yourself earning "Situation 
 Bonuses" which is basically extra XP and bonuses you earn if you complete certain tasks within 
 certain guidelines. For example, killing a boss in less than 3 minutes. The achievements are interestingly 
 placed as well. Instead of giving you all your achievements for going through the game (you do 
 get an achievement for every time you destroy a chain however) , they grant you the achievements 
 based on things you do (almost like Lost Odyssey) . Some of these achievements are also the Situation 
 Bonuses. For example, some of the achievements are for killing 1000 enemies, surprise attack enemies 
 10 times, reaching the empress in less than 3 mins. etc. 
  
  OVERALL Inifnite Undiscovery is my favorite JRPG on the 360 by far, and one of the best RPGs on 
 the 360 period. It supports a great story with a fantastic cast with good looking visuals and a 
 well executed battle system. Any fan of RPGs should definitely give this game a look.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjohnson007
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I must say i was very sadden about this game. Its pretty simple as far as stories goes but as it 
 adds game play elements to it it misses out on several. The Connect aspect of the game during a 
 battle is pretty useless and using it when in cities is tiresome. There are some odd side quest 
 that you must do in order to have the story continue. That ends up taking you from the game. This 
 game could have been done so much better but it all feels rushed. At times you may spend a whole 
 hour in a area that you have no idea where to go and you feel like quiting. Traveling the world 
 is done all buy foot which gets tiring cuz you go through many of the same areas and it gets a 
 bit repetitive. Unless you are a die-hard fan of RPGs and can find the good in this game no matter 
 how bad it may be then i am sure you will get a kick outta this game. But if your looking for a 
 good solid game rent it first. But if you bought it take it back to gamespot and trade it in for 
 24.00 and pre order fable II or buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This was supposed to be the game that kept me occupied for a couple of months until Fallout 3 is 
 released not too much to ask surely, so its somewhat of a disappointment that I've reached the 
 end after a week and a half.
  
  The whole game is a real mixed bag, it's fun to play despite, rather than because of, all the elements 
 that have been thrown in, seemingly in the vain hope that one or two of them will work.
  
  Whereas other games allow you to exploit the skills of your party members by simply having them 
 in your party, here you have to "connect" with them to take advantage, but the first 15-20 minutes 
 of the game merely show you that this is pointless in combat situations so probably best never 
 to bother with it in combat again its not overly complicated, but to execute even the simplest 
 connect skill in battle takes forever and a day, if you take a hit in the meantime you have to 
 start again, so that relatively safe position you found was just a waste of time.
  
  Does the game lose anything for this? Is the game harder to play? Are you going to miss out on 
 anything by ignoring this whole "connect" nonsense? Nope, in fact it probably makes the game easier 
 to play in short, the developers could have easily left it out and chosen instead to concentrate 
 on something more important like the story.
  
  The story had promise, the bad guys, in this case the "Order of Chains" has shackled the moon to 
 the earth, thus being able to leech its power and as a consequence bring disaster and death to 
 the areas where chains have been grounded its your job to cut the chains and free the people.
 
  
  Being a dead ringer for the leader of the Liberation Force you're initially rescued in a case of 
 mistaken identity, the Force's leader, Sigmund, is the only person with the strength and power 
 to cut the chains and free the land, only he's not turns out you can do it as well.
  
  ***SPOILER WARNING***
  When Sigmund vanishes at the end of a huge battle at the base of one such 
 chain, it is left to you to continue his work by passing yourself off as Sigmund, playing on likeness 
 to him which seems to fool nobody, even little kids who have never met Sigmund before know you're 
 not him, even though you're dressed in the same armour carrying the same weapon, and for appearances 
 everyone else in your team is calling you Sigmund.
  
  Not that it matters, more important characters don't seem to give a hoot that you're masquerading 
 as Sigmund, even his childhood friends seem to brush it off as being unimportant, and life goes 
 on.
  
  When you do reach a town or village it bring to mind all the scene in Blazing Saddles where the 
 people of Rock Ridge build a fake town to fool the evil doers, the fronts of all the buildings 
 are there, but there's nothing behind them very few buildings can actually be entered, and when 
 you can you'll often see the stairs leading to the second story mysteriously blocked to keep you 
 out, the inhabitants of said places are also equally fleshed out, most having just one or two set 
 lines to repeat unless you've advanced the plot far enough, or you're trying to complete one of 
 the exceptionally poor side quests that fall into the "Go Fetch" school of dull activities.
  
  In these places you'll be able to stock up on potions, new weapons and armour or ingredients 
 to cook up into food for the party, which acts as "group" potions or spells, but you'll soon realise 
 that "cooking" is about as useful as "connecting" and you'll only bother long enough to pick up 
 the achievement for boosting a characters cooking skills.
  
  Early on, when you visit a town the game will take this opportunity to add some more characters 
 to your band of merry men, at the start of the final quest you'll count up and find that there 
 are now 17 members, of which you can use a maximum of 4 at any one time having that many makes 
 it a chore to keep them all up to date with the best weapons, armour and enchanted trinkets so 
 like the cooking and connecting, you'll soon stop bothering, choosing instead to simply keep maybe 
 4 or 5 well stocked and sod the rest of them.
  
  Outside of the villages most of the gameplay is repetitive once you've left the town your first 
 task is to fight your way to the next one, where you stock up on potions and all that, before departing 
 to the chains location, where you fight your way to the chain, battle the boss, cut the chain.
 
  
  Once that's done you find yourself returning to the last town or village to recover and partake 
 of meaningless side quests, buying more potions and weapons, having some new gameplay mechanic 
 forced onto you, and then starting the sequence again.
  
  ***SPOILER WARNING***
  For example, you arrive in Koltan and are introduced to "Lunar Rain" which has a strange effect 
 on owners of Lunar Glyph's through which characters gain and use Magic. A party member falls sick 
 and you have to find the cure at the end of this you discover the Lunar Rain can make certain 
 characters, with Glyphs, to effectively overdose on Lunar power and mutate into Vermiform's who 
 will attack anyone until they're cured and for the remainder of the game you have to ensure none 
 of these characters overdose and mutate.
  
  This isn't mentioned at all until midway through the second disk, and they mutate exceptionally 
 quickly so why wasn't this mentioned until earlier in the game? As with connecting and cooking 
 you'll soon ignore this "new" gameplay element, simply choosing members of your party who aren't 
 prone to going psycho on you mid battle.
  
  At this point I feel that the whole "battle" issue should be mentioned in an attempt to liven 
 up the combat Tri-Ace have chosen to implement another element to fighting the enemy the environment, 
 not only do you need to watch out for the enemy but the scenery as well, in the clich ridden desert 
 area you have to avoid the sand storms, on the coastal battle ground tidal waves sweep through 
 the scenery flattening anyone not sheltered by rocks, in the mountains huge boulders bounce and 
 roll down the hill towards you it sounds like a cheap trick to make things harder and it is.
 
  
  In other battles you'll be rewarded for defeating the enemy inside a certain time limit (the rewards 
 range from additional experience points, potions or, on one occasion a piece of wood no, I'm 
 not joking) or by not allowing some characters to get hurt in the process, other times you'll have 
 a time limit to reach a certain location, in another you have to escort people back to their home 
 and have to ensure that at least one of them makes it, or its game over again, these sound cheap 
 and again, they are.
  
  Yet despite all these cheap tricks, pointless gameplay mechanics and tedious tasks when you actually 
 get to the action zones, when you actually start fighting your way through the evil minions to 
 reach the top of a tower or mountain for a showdown the game is great fun, if you forget about 
 connecting to other characters its simple and effective, although not a patch on Eternal Sonata, 
 and you'll even forget about the enemies respawning should you revisit an area more than 30 seconds 
 later.
  
  The final battle and ending is as clichd as the rest of the game, a huge tower to climb, one floor 
 at a time, and a boss type battle on every other floor, the other floors merely packing lots of 
 enemies into a room to slow you down, and here at least you have to have thought about the make 
 up of your party as you can get overwhelmed by the sheer number of opponents there will be slow 
 down after each room there's a treasure chest to open, and once or twice you'll find a save point 
 and Genma, a trader from whom you can stock up on potions.
  
  By now cash is no problem so knock yourself out, you'll need them as the final, clich tastic multipart, 
 battle can last a while and you will need to revive party members throughout as the usual "dirty 
 tricks" routine of massive, virtually unstoppable, attacks kicks in the final cinematic leaves 
 a huge door open for the sequel, here's hoping they make it a bit longer as the credits kicked 
 in after just 20 hours of play, and even then the clichs don't stop as the final cinematic continues 
 after the final credit has rolled for yet another clich.
  
  Word of warning for anyone planning to play this purely to boost their Gamerscore Don't whilst 
 freely admitting that I'm not the best player in the world only collecting 245 points for completing 
 the game is somewhat mean with all the rather pointless mechanics the game employs, I'm not sure 
 I can be bothered continuing or starting again just to score a few more.
  
  Even the supposed "bonus" section, the Seraphic Gate, is a major let down, reusing areas from the 
 game, packing them with creatures and turning the game into more of a button basher than it was 
 in the first place does not add to the game... Tri-Ace can do a lot better than this... so why 
 didn't they? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracaine
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Game was pretty good aside from terrible lip-syncing issues. Addictive after the first five hours, 
 but until you really get into the meat of the game, the constant running back and forth with almost 
 no direction starts to drag on you. Disappointing for a Square Enix game in game play alone. The 
 story is right up there with the Final Fantasy series. Over all, I think it's worth an 8 simply 
 because in a pinch it fulfilled my addiction for a role playing game. The battle system was great 
 except for the camera. I really liked the connect ability and once you get used to the button configuration, 
 it was much more enjoyable. This will hold me over until the next Final Fantasy game, that's for 
 sure. No other real complaints. Bosses just ticked me off. The no health bar really confused me 
 at first as hit after hit landed and nothing was showing for the hard work. Then, they fall over 
 and die. No idea how much life they had, they just die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeruleanGriever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Seriously take the time to realize how great this game is and what it has to offer.
  
  This game has so much going on in the background and in battles that it gets hard to take all of 
 that in. Tri-Ace has always been one of those companies that love to push the envelope and take 
 their games 5 steps forward just like SquareEnix and i love it. Tri-Ace and SE did their job and 
 balanced out the gameplay and the graphics, while it may not be the best it's still really good, 
 and think about it when you get all those enemies coming at you at times does your 360 lock up 
 or anything?? nope so they did good.
  
  Gameplay is really smooth along with the voice acting and the amount of detail that Tri-Ace and 
 SquareEnix have done to this game. Even though you can only control Capell the AI's aren't useless, 
 they're incredible giving you nothing to worry about in battle, and with the linking system you 
 don't get the feeling that you you're missing out because you don't have enough control over all 
 your players just remember to set the skills up, lol trust me i learned the hard way.
  
  I'm really enjoying this games and while i get that some people rather read the professional reviews 
 before playing a game i rather just take the risk and just play it and i'm glad i did. The story 
 and the cast of characters really pulls me in and keeps me wanting more.
  
  so you can listen to the professionals and be a drone like everyone else or you can just try it 
 and make your own opinion, it's really up to you don't like someone that hasn't even really played 
 the game tell you it's because just because the reviews weren't that great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanda88
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is just average game. Why I say that?
  Well if the game made Tri-Ace from Square Enix mark you could say it have to be awesome and amazing 
 but it really isn't. Graphics are very good and characters model either but when you spend some 
 time playing you have a feeling that all characters behave like puppets. It doesn't really looks 
 like they have emotion it's all very artificial. I didn't had that feeling when I played final fantasy 
 or any other rpg games from square enix (maybe it's only my imagination) . Battle system is more like 
 hack's and slash than rpg. You're running around monsters and smashing them only with few attacks 
 plus some special. Next is party. There're a lot persons in youre team other than main character 
 but you can't played them. You can only give them some commends. I think it's more nicely if you 
 have full control for more than one character and for that sometimes computer played really stupid. Story 
 is not bad but it's to naive and not deeply. I don't have nothing bad to say about sounds it's the 
 one of better things in this game include voice actors. In the end I say it's typical average product. It's 
 not bad not amazing. I also know that we don't have a lot of rpg games in X360 yet so if you like 
 this kind of game more than other you have to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a turn based game that was shackled with real time game play. I guess this is a good thing 
 but at the very beginning you get a strong taste of what is going to be the rest of the game. For 
 me it was frustrating game play. If you like the format then you will be a happy camper and will 
 likely enjoy the rest.
  
  For me I think Undiscovery is a very apt title - a game that will remain undiscovered because of 
 all the problems it has. Too many times I see where it would be fine for turn based but ends up 
 being tedious in real time. I have seen plenty of RPG's implement real time and turn based smoothly. 
 It's not a secret magic recipe and enough developers have proven it can be done well.
  
  In many areas most puzzles would be interesting but the format they have created only frustrated 
 me with its needless tasks. For example there is a temple door that wants a snake and a bat. So 
 the clue is to lure both to the door. Great except the snake looses interest in you before you 
 get it to the door. So you try to lure it again.... So here is an idea that turns into frustration 
 and tedium.
  
  Next, you set the group behavior to WAIT HERE. What do they do? Follow you and then get pounded 
 while doing nothing to defend themselves because... oh you told them to wait here. Yes I did, BACK 
 WHERE IT WAS SAFE...
  
  Another developer failure, dumb party behavior burns your precious items, at the starting level 
 you have an Ogre that is in pursuit. As you hear it get close in its charges you so you easily 
 duck out of the way. Not your brilliant party member... thump. Oh I will auto heal myself burning 
 magic points that can only be renewed with items - which you do not have a lot of to begin with.... 
 Lame to say the least. 
  
  Ok the only reason that this title did not get a lower score was the graphics were pretty and I 
 like musical characters. The main character is kinda like a bard and I really liked that aspect. 
 
  
  Last but not least on difficulty settings: my friend wanted to play on easy as she just wanted 
 to enjoy the story and was prompted with "you can set it on easy but you will miss out on the extra 
 content". What? So the developers found it IMPOSSIBLE to set the difficulty on easy for the challenges 
 they created... This game was already in the graveyard of forgotten games but this just puts another 
 stake in it.
  
  In summary - please save your hard earned $$$ and RENT first so you can find out if this game is 
 definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servo1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have spent about 47 hours playing this game and well its a hard to like at first. When I first 
 put the game on it had no intro just Capell is in prison and Aya saves him, and as I watched the 
 scene the lips where completely out of sync which disconnected me from the game. But I kept playing 
 and realized that was intentional. The translation team purposely made it that way because the 
 game feels like one of those badly translated kung fu films from the 70's which I think it was 
 the point. But as I played it I realized it was basic by the numbers and predictable, but fun. 
 So now the best part of the game is battles, oh the battles how fun they where. The battle system 
 is fun to the point were you want to fight the next boss battle to see how fun it is and whats 
 next. So bottom line, it is fun and worth a rent. But for fans of tri-ace games like myself nice 
 first game but slightly disappointing lets hope Star Ocean 4 is better. Oh and this reflects a 
 hard core rpger's review but for non rpg fans its fun but you may not like it, rpger's should definitely 
 play this but as for casual you may be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fears63
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  i rented this game and was really excited when it came but then when i was playing it i felt abit 
 let down due to the half txt half speach like in sum parts the characters would speak and it would 
 sound exellent then in another scene there be no speach but the mouths would move its a shame because 
 it makes the game feel rushed.
  the next is that the game never points where you have to go to next which means you can run round 
 for ages till you find out and it also dosnt give you hints on what to do like when you get to 
 the where you have to give it black wing and a poisions fang it took me 25 mins just to find out 
 all you got to do is use the penguin march spell.
  now the good points the graphics are the best ive seen in an rpg on the 360 the story is also well 
 told and there are tons of characters to make a party from and the world looks really good ai of 
 the your team are very good they will heal you if you need it as well as defend you if your energys 
 low overall the games good dont let the bad points put you off a very good rpg by the way i wouldnt 
 play it on a small screen as the txt is very small and you cant really see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enobe777gk
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  hm.. idk where to start. 
  
  ill just start with... hmm..
  
  well, this is a good game. the story is very in depth, i havent finished yet but from what i saw, 
 most of the characters have had, or are in the process of getting, a full developement of character.
 
  
  the graphics in this game are on and off. the characters themselves, are amazing. all the creatures, 
 enemies, party members, they're all good. the enviroments are done nicely but for some reason, 
 they just feel empty sometimes. they are nice, big, vast areas that seem like they could have had 
 more stuff put in them sometimes, just some areas, not all. the only thing that gets me sometimes, 
 is the whole flash substance, like when attacks are landed or spells are released. sometimes, you 
 and your party members will all be fighting the same 1 person, and all the flashes will not only 
 blind your vision of the enemy, but cause the game to lag from the intensity. the camera is part 
 to blame for this, as it can only pan around the player. there's no Zoom function on this camera, 
 and in some areas its closer than when you're in others. there is the VERY noticable spoken word 
 to mouth motion issue. sometimes characters will say whole phrases and their mouths wouldnt even 
 open. it didnt bug me too much, probably bc i had subtitles on haha.
  
  gameplay is really good, but the way square enix programmed it makes me feel like im playing a 
 weak version of Phantasy Star Universe. The Game is no Kingdom Hearts (no way in hell) , but its 
 not a piece of crap either. you have a weak attack button, power attack button, request heal button, 
 and uhh.... i dont remember what X does hahah. Using the RB you can connect to a party member (or 
 when you're in town, any potential party member that you're close to) , and use certain techniques 
 with their help. sometimes this is required to discover information or continue foward in a uh... 
 "dungeon" type area. and uhh... OH yea! X makes Capelle whip out his flute and play whatever tune 
 you have selected. the tunes have different effects, such as preventing anyone within the circular 
 noise area to not be able to cast spells, or to have any hidden objects show up when they come 
 within the circle. there were quite a few flaws with the game play though...
  
  like the real time menu. its a real time menu, yet you cant move when you open it. even while standing 
 the menu leaves you frozen and open to any attack. i always have problems when it comes to healing 
 party members because i have 1 party member who i keep so he can keep all of us alive. sometimes 
 when you request a healing, they will deny you, or they'll say yes but you'll be forced to take 
 a bit more of a beating because they have to take cover. there will be times where all your party 
 members are knocked out and the enemies are coming for you, you know your gonna eat dirt if you 
 fight them so you try to run so you can revive your allies... no good. enemies are fast, and trying 
 to work that menu while having 3-5 of ANYTHING is not a good thing. usually in a situation like 
 that, you will die.
  
  the gameworld is pretty set on being around 1 continent or country or whatever... theres no goin 
 around the world as far as i know, which isnt a problem to me, because the world is huge enough 
 in this game. i just had problems where i was told to go to the next area, and i'd hit like a main 
 area, and then... id be lost. i spent about 3 hours of my 11 hour gameplay trying to find out where 
 to go. periodically though, if you hit the right main area, one of your allies will speak to you 
 and tell you where to go, but even with that help, i still got lost. 
  
  all in all, its a good game with a great story, vast areas, just right difficulty, and amazing 
 visuals.
  the downsides, it can get a bit too flashy, causing disorder and lag. the areas can be a bit... 
 tooo vast sometimes, ending up lost quickly and for a long time. trying to stay alive is a hassle 
 in itself if its you trying to do so. 
  
  its worth the wait. and the downsides arent that bad. gettin lost leads to exploration, in turn, 
 more stuff found, the flashiness wont UBER slow your game, and it doesnt really come up that much. 
 but yeah...
  
  Infinite Undiscovery
  though a very confusing name,
  the game is worth playing, please believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishaholic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is far too underrated. I haven't been able to put it down. After playing this and tales 
 of vesperia, this blows tales out of the water. The whole anime thing has been done over and over 
 again, and I never really got into the story. After about 10 hours I just quit playing it. IU is 
 the best new RPG out there right now and I would say it is worth the buy if you are an RPG person. 
 I really like the party element and the combat is fun and exciting. I also thought the story, while 
 not being as great as games like mass effect or the final fantasy series, was still enjoyable. 
 With that being said, there are a few downs to IU. One thing I noticed was that there weren't enough 
 weapon and armor drops. Another thing was the slowdown when in battle, but it's something you'll 
 get over. Even though I like the party element, there was a drawback there also. Having to manually 
 equip them all is very time consuming. It would have helped if there was an auto equip option. 
 All in all, this game is very fun and worth looking into. IMO, 6.5 is too low of a score for a 
 game like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I had looked forward to this game for ages, and what can i say? If you hate yourself and tend to 
 cut your arms over and over as a nervous habit then this is the game for you!
  
  Now I admit I only played the first two hours of the game as that was all i could stomach, I have 
 limited free time and don't like wasting it on pain so i didn't get that far, but let me tell you 
 about the first two hours of my experience.
  
  Where to begin? Firstly the game is like watching a 1970s dubbed kung fu film, at no point should 
 your characters speak through sealed lips unless they have a hand up the ass of another in a ventriloquism 
 act. Quite a lot of the scenes don't bother with voice acting anyway which aside from feeling archaic 
 is possibly a bonus as the voice acting is generally "bland". The lead character has a voice so 
 soft and meek he could easily be the softy that the mean kids beat up at school because his mum 
 dressed him.
  
  All that aside the game doesn't play much better, the battle system is all in real time, not that 
 i have a problem with that, but i do have a concern about the game design when to use an item the 
 fight keeps going and you have to crawl through the smegging main menu to get to them the while 
 time praying to whoever might be listening that you are still alive by the time you have reached 
 the one you want! That system is as useful as a glass of Llama spit.
  
  You can't change characters, not permanently anyway, instead you can briefly grab one to use a 
 skill they have.... like manually aiming a bow while your main character just stands there like 
 a meat popsicle. 
  
  Of course the AI tends to do that anyway, in one dungeon my AI partner just stood and watched as 
 I got gang raped by a group of salivating wolves, still that was better then the time she got wedged 
 in a tree without me noticing only to get ambushed by enemies by the time i was half the map away 
 all in a pitch black forest.
  
  This leads me to my next complaint, starting off the game running away for over an hour is in no 
 way fun. Example:
  
  First Dungeon: chased by large ogre you can't kill with barriers in the way
  
  Second Dungeon: 
 Chased by guards, wasps that make you smell so that they constantly appear and attack you all while 
 in a pitch black forest with a fuzzled map.. oh and did i mention the ogre chases you at the end?
 
  
  Third Dungeon: Carrying a girl so you can't attack or defend while having a giant dragon launches 
 fireballs at you scorching your heels!
  
  If i wanted to run away from stuff i would headbutt a policeman!
  
  The graphics for that section 
 aren't that much better, i actually laughed out loud when i saw the explosion from the dragons 
 fire, I have seen PS2's do a better job. The close up character models aren't to bad, though the 
 textures throughout the outdoor areas were far from impressive.
  
  To be fair though the music and sound effects were pretty good and suited the atmosphere of the 
 area your party was traveling through, this is the only thing Infinite Undiscovery seemed to actually 
 be consistent in. 
  
  Not long after this i gave up on the game, perhaps it gets better after that point, but i kind 
 of doubt it. : ( So lets just say i recommend you pass on this title, I'm a pretty hardcore RPG 
 fan and i struggled to play as much as i did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3chos3non3
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  For months I've waited for the release of Infinite Undiscovery  and now tht it is here and I've 
 played through the into and gotten into the story, I'm still asking myself if it was worth the 
 wait.
  What I expected from the game, and what I have so far received are two different experiences entirely. 
 I honestly expected the game to feel like an Xbox 360 version of Final Fantasy XII, with an improved 
 targeting system integrated with solid real time combat, coupled with skills and spells that could 
 be accessed easily and painlessly like in Rogue Galaxy. 
  Unfortunately, what I seem to have received is a game that entails the environments of FFXII and 
 all the worst aspects of its battle system, with character models that are every bit as reminiscent 
 of Valkyrie Profile 2  right down to the B+ voice acting.
  The game is deep enough, with item creation, and little hidden gifts all over the place, expansive 
 environments with lush detail, challenging monsters and necessary tactics such as stealth and environmental 
 triggers. Combat is fun when it works. The details of the environments and extremely dark color 
 palette in some locations make navigation more difficult than it should be. The menu does not pause 
 the game making specific item usage difficult resulting in the player needing to rely on the AI 
 characters to disperse items making conservation difficult. The font style is to dark and small 
 to be seen on even my moderately sized HDTV. 
  The characters are most intriguing, and the story is complex, apocalyptic, and dynamic which leads 
 me to believe that this title may actually be better as a traditional RPG. But it would seem that 
 long gone are those days. 
  Overall, I DO enjoy the game. It is beautiful and full of adventure, with solid degrees of challenge 
 and intuition. I just feel I got wrapped up in the Pre-release hype and have been subsequently 
 let down, expecting a game with a smoother battle system and more intuitive menu.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123abshchry
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is an enjoyable game, there's no denying it. But, the flaws cannot be ignored. 
 It's hard to imagine how Tri-Ace missed these, or ignored them, but it happened and it does detract 
 from the game.
  
  Story
  
  Personally, I believe the script for IU is seriously lacking. Some people have praised the story 
 presented here, and it is good when it actually gets to it, but it's poorly presented most of the 
 time. Some of the dialogue choices just... don't fit haha, but still made it into the game. But 
 enough about that, the story in IU revolves around the moon, taken prisoner by the Order of Chains 
 and held in bondage in the sky. The Dreadknight, serving the One, enchained the moon to rob it 
 of its power. The chains once raised bring evil and decay to the land around them. Sigmund, the 
 Liberator and champion of men is the only one capable of severing the chains and freeing the moon. 
 Enter Capell, a wandering musician with a striking similarity to Sigmund, what else is in store? 
 
  
  Audio
  
  The sound effects and music in IU fit well. However, the voice acting just sucks sometimes. And 
 the conversations between characters don't often flow well. The voice work here is tolerable, but 
 it can get irritating.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The battle system in IU is pretty good. But it lacks polish, first off you can't block. You can 
 parry, but it requires good timing and a clear view, something you won't get a lot. The slowdown 
 brought on by large groups of characters and flashy effects makes things even more difficult. All 
 that aside the system is fun, and the skills you gain are pretty neat. Also, with the touch of 
 a button a party member capable of healing you and your fellow allies will do so. 
  
  You'll be ripping through enemies in parties of up to four members. Occasionally you'll also be 
 forming sub parties to join you or take on their own tasks, adding a cool "depend on your friends" 
 vibe to the game. The AI is pretty good also, your allies will do what they do best in the interest 
 of the party and the completion of their task. Another interesting feature is the situational battle. 
 During the game you'll be taking on guarded gates with catapults, fighting enemies with a wall 
 of water bearing down on you, and running from a mad ogre with a distaste for stairs. Meeting certain 
 conditions rewards you with bonus experience and fol and is something worth aiming for.
  
  Sadly the environments you'll be tearing apart can be fairly boring. Outside of battle it's pretty 
 basic: new town, new story element/sidequest, new dungeon/field. While you're exploring you'll 
 be trying to fill out your mini-map as well, but the path of discovery is very narrow, so it can 
 be a pain. As an added kick in the pants, you'll be doing a lot of backtracking, hope you enjoy 
 the scenery.
  
  Overall
  
  Merely tolerable voice acting, inexcusable lag issues, the inability to block, a lot of backtracking, 
 some bad writing, bad audio syncing, and unnatural character behavior (honestly I don't know who 
 moves that way during a conversation) really come down hard on this game. But, despite its status 
 as an odd collection of mistakes, I still had a lot of fun with it, while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinthetic211
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Ok I must say that I was anticipating this game since last year around this time. When the day 
 finally came I bolted out to gamestop like a bull seeing red. I immediately popped it in and started 
 bashing skulls =) 
  
  Well, I would be lying if I didn't tell you that I felt horribly let down while in my first 5 hours 
 of the game. 
  I guess I was expecting Star Ocean 4 but that time will come, for now we have Infinite Undiscovery 
 to play around with. If you can manage to get past the village of Nolaan, this game will pick up 
 I promise. 
  
  After Nolaan this game gets better in just about every way. Everyone has to take some time to get 
 familiar with the mechanix of this game, as they are quite new and hard to harness at first. The 
 game is high intensity action due to being all real time and no way to pause it to look through 
 an item menu (though you can pause it to take a breath at times) . I'm going to briefly explain 
 all the major ares of this game for you:
  
  Story: 7.5
  
  Nothing new but it's well put together with some solid main characters. It follows the cookbook 
 on "how to write a story for a JRPG". Most of the common plot points are addressed and some familiar 
 types of characters. The actual story to the game is neat enough to feel like it's a new world 
 we're in and that's all we can ask for with the sea of mediocrity of today's games.
  
  Characters: 8
  
  As I said we get a familiar type of cast but what I didn't say as they each 
 take on a new direction. The main role of the game (Capell) is our unassuming hero as usual. He 
 is described as a coward who runs away from his problems. Well, the difference with him is that 
 he knowingly admits to this and has no problem with it. He also is a very strong individual with 
 no clichd personality other than the previously stated trait. Our lead female character (Aya) 
 is a less familiar character. She is a princess as well as a common townsfolk. She is extremely 
 driven and firm with her actions yet she is compassionate as well. She is wise and strong, and 
 she's got a lot of great story moments.
  The other characters in the game are interesting to meet as well. There are about 8-10 character 
 that you will get to know fairly well and the others you will only know briefly but it's enough 
 to feel like you know them. All in all I would say this is a firm cast for a game with some unnecessary 
 ones. 
  
  Gameplay: 7.5
  
  This is what you really want to know about right? Well here we go. At first this game seems like 
 a button masher and can be played as once if chosen to do so. Or you can interpret the system and 
 the skills and come up with parties and combos that take quite the amount of technique. It doesn't 
 have the depth of most tri-Ace systems I have seen but does well. Leveling takes no time at all 
 in this game (no need for grinding) . Enemies seem unbalanced though. What I mean is you will be 
 hacking and slashing with ease one minute and be looking at the gameover screen the next. How does 
 this happen? I have no idea. There is no way to pause and use items so it keeps the game intense 
 while in the field with enemies. Some may say this is annoying but I like it this way. The game 
 is fairly short... the shortest Ace game I have ever played in fact but as well all know they are 
 infamously known for their post-game dungeons and this game has it =) All in all I'd say the gameplay 
 is fairly solid with some inconsistencies. 
  
  Worth a buy??
  
  I'd say yes if you're a JRPG fan looking for something to hold you over until SO4 or the Last Remnant. 
 Although I thought this was the game I have been waiting for all this time, I was wrong. Don't 
 take that the wrong way because the game still offers a nice experience. To the majority of people 
 thinking about buying this game I would strongly recommend renting it first. 
  
  Final Words:
  
  Take this game for what it is and don't try to make it what it's not. It many 
 not have anything really new or fresh to offer but if you're looking for a RPG this will offer 
 the classic feel with a great bonus dungeon and a action/real time battle system. If you liked 
 the Kingdom Hearts series you might find this game to be your cup of tea seeing as the battle system 
 resembles it greatly. Hope this helps you out in your decisions on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schonertod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  These are just my early thoughts of the game and this will be updated as i get closer to the end.. 
 This game has some minor defects but nothing a true RPG fan couldn't look past to relize how good 
 this game is. Battles are flashy and a little stiff, but the combos are easy to pull off with out 
 having to remember a bunch of tricky button combos. Voices seem a little off but the story will 
 drag you in and the further you go the more you wanna play to find out whats going to happen next. 
 If you are used to the star ocean games then your kinda already know how the story works out. Every 
 char has there role in the battle so it makes it interesting to see what you can do with different 
 party combos. The only other problems i have seen is some places can be a little to dark and kinda 
 tricky to find your way around and voices are missing from places were the animation would show 
 there should be some. other then that so far i have enjoyed this game and it will be hard to put 
 down tell i beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainshy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review makes this game seem disastrous, however the negatives are completely outweighed 
 by the positives. So not all the voice acting is in sync or some cut-scenes only have subtitles, 
 but don't forget that the ps1 RPG classics such as the final fantasy series were all text and no 
 voice and yet people still love playing them today. The AI of some of your partners in the adventure 
 can be frustrating especially the healers, as they don't do their jobs unless told to, but hey 
 all you gotta do is press the Y button and job done. The combat is quite repetitive with a small 
 number of combos available to Capell, but the action is very fast paced and you don't really notice 
 as the fights usually don't last very long. The boss fights on the other hand usually are long 
 drawn out battles and are actually quite a big step up from just random encounters. The number 
 of characters can be a problem in towns as they all go off to different places, and seeing as how 
 all the townsfolk react differently to each character speaking to everyone with 17 different characters 
 just ain't going to happen. Each of the characters has there own uses though with the items and 
 enchantment creations, though 'secondary' characters do seem like a waste as they can never be 
 in your active party. 
  
  Overall though the game is very enjoyable and takes around 20 hours to complete if you just fly 
 through it with doing any side quests or improving character creation skills. Well worth the 30 
 the game costs on most internet gaming stores. Definite 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofanjp
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is the story about Capell, a guy who looks like the leader of the Liberation 
 Force called Sigmund and how mistaken identity got him into trouble. The graphics of the game are 
 what you'd expect from a next-generation console... SHINY! Square-Enix may have made an almost 
 perfect hand in this game, and it has the Japanese Anime character charm we all know from there 
 other titles. The backgrounds look really good but you can see the 2D blades of grass and leaves 
 but only god knows when they'll perfect that in gaming. The gameplay itself is similar to Star 
 Ocean but battles are not in a set arena there on the field like most MMORPGs. Anyone who's played 
 Star Ocean will get used to battle in the blink of an eye but even if your new to that style it's 
 easy to pick up. Another feature in the games is the ability to connect to a teammate to access 
 certain abilities which can be used to pick locks, attack from a distance and heal party members, 
 This unfortunately only lets you use one character to play (Capell of course) but it's still good. 
 The musical score of the games is great, just as you would expect from Square-Enix and it's voice 
 acting and mouth sync are not the best in the world but that still doesn't ruin the experience 
 too much. All and all it's a worthwhile game for RPG and JRPG fans to get but with a $AU110 it 
 may make you wanna wait a while which is understandable. I give Infinite Undiscovery 8/10 for graphics, 
 8/10 for gameplay, 10/10 for sound and 8/10 overall score.
  
  Here are the problems that I have with the game, and before you mention it I'm trying not to be 
 a hypocrite.
  
  First the biggest problem.... the Dragonbone Shrine! I spent two and a half hours trying to get 
 a poison fang but it turned out that all you needed to do was use "Penguin Parade" on a bat and 
 snake near the door. There wasn't a big enough hint to work it out! As a veteran gamer I found 
 this puzzle annoying mainly because it's so simple it's complicated!
  
  The second probem I have is the fact that the party members use up all your items and you can't 
 stop them! Seriously this is a major flaw in the system and it forces you to waste money on item 
 replacement. Although the advantage of it is that they resurrect you and heal you without you having 
 to worry about death as much but it is a strain on the "Fol" wallet.
  
  The third problem is that you can't command the party members! As mentioned before they use up 
 items without notice but they also waste mp fast and do everything you don't want them to do. Admittedly 
 there is a "Tactics" option to change the way they perform in battle but it doesn't make much difference 
 at all!
  
  Finally the last problem with the game... VOICE ACTING AND LIP SYNC! Voice acting is a cronic problem 
 with alot of games where it seems like they don't give a crap about their performance (mainly because 
 they are uncredited in most games... atleast that's my theory) . While voice acting in the game 
 wasn't that good the lip sync is much worse! 80% of the time voice is playing with no mouth movement 
 on screen, and on top of that the unnecessary add ons that the voice actors add that don't fit 
 the scene.
  
  Other then these flaws I stick by my original opinion that the game and it's still a great JRPG 
 and I reconmmend it to all JRPG and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The people that made this game were the ones that made Star Ocean in PS2 back years ago. If you 
 have played Star Ocean, then you should be familiar with some aspects and features in Infinite 
 Undiscovery. This game at first is a bit confusing in terms of what to do ad how to do it, given 
 everything in short time. So getting used to the controls and commands at first is a bit tedious, 
 but as you progress through the game you get the hand of it quickly. The graphics in this game 
 are artisticaly beautiful, as intended. The scenes are really nice. The battle system and spells 
 all make up a tense atmosphere when fighting tough enemies. The music is really amazing, though 
 there seems to be a problem with the disc, as sometimes during the game. The missions are really 
 good and exciting, seeing how al characters help eliminate the enemies.
  
  
  
  So in summary we got this:
  
  -Great graphics and scenes
  -Story is great
  -Music is amazing
 
  -Characterization is well developed
  -Action packed 
  - Though some say it's 20 hours long, I'm still playing it. So consider it more than 20 hours.
 
  
  Overall this game deserves a pick up if you really like action rpgs, and also if you like to control 
 a raid of people. I reccommend this game, it's really good. This deserves more than a 5.0 Mediocre 
 rating as some had put it. trust me ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazu666
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Star Ocean series, I had very high hopes for this game, however, after 
 a few hours of play I knew this simple could not compare. The combat is very similar to that of 
 Star Ocean, yet you can only control one character and combos are very limited, it is still in 
 its own way, a good system though and the missions in the game use this system very well, delivering 
 some nice action.
  
  The world is large and varied, and gives some spectacular views. However, as walking is the only 
 means of travel, backtracking or simply continuing to play after game completion becomes a hassle 
 if you wish to travel to areas at the beginning of the game.
  
  The story is this game leaves you feeling very disappointed, this game had a lot of potential that 
 could not be fulfilled in such a short game (about 20 hours) . By the end of the game there are 
 so many characters that are trying to have some sort of progressive story, you simply end up confused 
 as there is not one story that is fully flushed out. A few cases of bad voice acting doesn't help 
 with this problem either.
  
  Overall, the game feels incomplete, playing through, it felt as though the story was continuing 
 without me, new events unfolded and all the characters knew of them, yet none of these were explained 
 to me. It gives you a kinda 'Did i miss something? o_0' feeling, and makes the storyline and characters 
 impossible to relate to or care for. 
  
  Infinite Undiscovery (even the name is confusing and never explained) is a game made of a lot of 
 potential but is sadly unfulfilled, it will fill a gap for those in need of a new action RPG, but 
 those looking for an in depth story with great characters, this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nullsubstance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Firs't of all i have to say that gamespot. com is my first site in what gives respect to games e 
 came here almost every day, but lately since e bought my xbox 360 i have seen so much bad review's 
 that i'm a bit disapointed. If you guys (gamespot) wanna be an exelente sorce of reviews as i toght 
 you wore you are in the wrong way. come on 6.5 for this game?! ist completely unfair and you are 
 making a lot of people thing that the game is bad and don't buy it. i'm not gona go in details 
 abaout the game but i already played lost odessy and eternal sonata (haven't played tales of vesperia 
 becouse no pal) and i can say this on the better. the story line is amazing, and you say it dosen't 
 make sence?!?! the caraceters have a lot of charisma and the grafics i can say they are great especially 
 for this tipe of game that you can have 15guys fighting at the same tame. you have made the same 
 thing with too human, altough is not as good like this becouse the gameplay kind suck especcial 
 with the sowrd, 5.5 was a too low score.
  Well i just expect that you begone to think that we are mere player ho wonna be fune and not professionals 
 that need the games to bee just perfect how bee a genere that we like. 
  
  p. s. sorry for the bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  first off all the game is addicting when you first open the xbox 360 and play the game you cant 
 leave the controler the game is awesome it has flaws here and there but the game is great.
  
  the graphics is very nice and clean and have some nice textures also.
  
  the gameplay is 
 awesome packed with some great action rpg moments and you never get bored of it.
  
  the sound is also great and every charcter has his own uniqe charcter and voice the fits them very 
 well
  
  as mattter of fact the game is like 20 houres its kinda short but awesome game.
  
  the story is nice also.
  
  i reccomend this game for any rpg fan out there dont bielve 
 gamespot some of there reveiw are right and some arent some times they are harsh on the game any 
 way just go get this game, and dont listen to crap game spot damn i hate review sites i feel that 
 they dont give the right score or the logic score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I look at a lot of review for the game and some really like it and say it's really good and it's 
 a must have. Then other's say the game isn't nothing but garbage and you shouldn't play the game 
 at all. Then on the other hand Gamespot didn't give it a really good score either. But in my opinion 
 it really is an ok game I mean it isn't the best RPG out but at the same time it isn't the worst 
 either.
  
  I got hooked on the story right away because it is addicting and very clever and you'll thank the 
 same. And besides the story being great you got the great gameplay also which isn't frustrating 
 and you will really like the graphics. The graphics are just simply amazing some say that they 
 are bad well I don't thank that they are.. the game is also a 2 disk so it is such a long game.
 
  
  Infinite Undiscovery isn't the best RPG I have ever played but you may thank different. Give it 
 a try before you make your judgment on it. But for most people you'll want to rent it maybe before 
 you go out and buy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicNibbler
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth the time it takes to load the main menu. Horrible game mechanics, inconsistent 
 graphics, and unbelievably stereotypical characters make this game a colossal disaster. Your team 
 might as well not exist for as much good as they do you. The items are a joke, there is no reason 
 to explore the overly large areas because any hidden items will be hinted at by an easily visible 
 character or object. The battle system doesn't exist, prepare to repeat the same 4 combos over 
 and over. And don't even think about using items. When you go to the item menu your character sits 
 down and the battle continues. You are still able to get hit by enemies but cannot fight back. 
 The voice acting is awful, with no sense of timing. the majority of dialog scenes have no voice 
 overs at all and default to subtitles. There is no direction at all when it comes to solving the 
 quests. once you receive a quest there is no way to review the objectives. Don't bother playing 
 this game even if someone gives it to you for free. i would rather play Tales of Vesparia which 
 i think is garbage as well. stay away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_korea
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me make clear that you have to play this game to make an opinion. I read a lot 
 of review regarding this game. Most of them have been around the 8-8.5 level. Most say that the 
 gameplay was excellent but the narrative was lacking. Gamespot says that the gameplay is lacking 
 but the narrative is excellent.
  First of the graphics for this game is very good. I expected much worse because of all the people 
 bashing this game. Also gameplay videos don't really show how beautiful this game is. If you want 
 to see how it really looks like you need to play the game.
  Second the story is immersive. The characters are very lively and are definitely not bland. Some 
 of the characters are very funny in the way that they use their facial animations. The only thing 
 i don't like about this game is that when aya is talking her body motions are very exaggerated. 
 However that is in like only one scene. Also it is true that some scenes do not have voice but 
 only text. However those scenes are not major story influencing scenes but they merely are scenes 
 that tell you what to do and such minor things.
  Gameplay is very fun and you will find yourself playing this game for hours. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madd_hatter
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  First let me say, I never trust reviews. I mainly just trust my instinct, and I often tend to enjoy 
 the game. In this case we have Infinite Undiscovery. Reviews haven't been all that good for this 
 game, sadly. 
  
  The game attracts you the moment you pick up the controller. The story is pretty confusing at first, 
 but you start to get it as you continue. I think what people are complaining about the most in 
 this game is the navigation and the maps. I have to admit, this issue was getting on my nerves 
 a bit. I hate having to basically look around the whole map just to get to my destination. At least 
 give us a clue on which direction to take or something. I guess you could get some skill points 
 while you're searching blindly for the next area.
  
  The battle system is pretty nice. I like how you just go right into the battle with no turn-based 
 fighting. REAL-TIME FTW! You do not control everyone. You only control Capell (unless a situation 
 occurs where you have to use skills of another character) .
  
  The menu gets a little repetitive as well, but it'll grow on you. Overall, this is a great game! 
 I recommend it for any person that likes RPG's or anyone who is a little skeptic about RPG's.
 
  
  TIP: GRAB TALES OF VESPERIA as well! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Czenkus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I have seen some mixed reviews, most player reviews to be honest, but I have noticed most of the 
 bad scores are from ps3 owners but that is to be expected. There are some things that are going 
 to be familiar in this game when compared to other jrpgs but it has enough to it to make me forget 
 I am in a genre that has been beaten to death for years by sorry excuses for games, which makes 
 this one even better for me. The story is clever and addictive which hooked me right away and that 
 is my main reason to play an rpg is for the story, though game play has a huge chunk of my fun 
 with a game.. and this game delivers a solid game play experience for you that wont annoy or anger 
 you ^.^ Anyways, if you enjoy rpg's and are looking for a great one that will keep you happy throughout 
 I'd recommend you give this game a good try and thank me later! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LSS_Broly29
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Although it looks like it was slightly rushed, Infinite Undiscovery is shaping up to be a pretty 
 good RPG. The Graphics are pretty good, the story is interesting and the characters seem to have 
 real depth. Although the combat system could have been more polished, this is a good game for entry 
 level RPG players. The game is not too difficult, but you won't be breezing through either. Just 
 sit back and enjoy, and the game will not dissapoint. It was not the best choice to release this 
 as close to the release of Tales of Vesperia, but I think this will become a cult classic. Capell 
 is a interesting antihero, which for some reason is the norm lately, however this works very well, 
 the lack of specific commands for each character is somewhat dissapointing, but this is a New Title 
 so it's to be expected not to be on par with Final Fantasy, or Tales.
  I am not dissapointed I think this would be a great addition to any Hardcore RPG'er. Besides if 
 your nervous about plunking down 59.99 for this game you can always test it in the store (just don't 
 sit in the store for 3 hours, LOL) Good overall game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriviumA7X
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  ok, I waited and waited almost 2 years for this game being a Square fan and all... and at first 
 when I picked it up on release date I was very happy, the game was gorgeous, but then I finally 
 took control, and the first thing you have to do is run from an ogre... needless to say, this plays 
 like crap, trying to link you're AI powers to shoot some exploding barrels with her bow. It felt 
 altogether very clumsy, first off she takes forever to get ready to shoot, if you take damage while 
 waiting for her to bring up her bow the action ends and you must fight and try again, SO, the ogre 
 catches you kills you're AI girlfriend and you... thats within the first 8-10 minutes of the game. 
 once you finally escape the ogre, you are thrown outside in the pitch black running to torches... 
 
  The game tries to use some kinda stealth mechanics but they are weak (Please leave this to stealth-action 
 genre games) ... after playing this game for 1 hr... I gave up and thanked the videogame gods I 
 was smart and bought the much, much better Tales of Vesperia a week prior, Infinite Undiscovery 
 is the biggest disappointment to the rpg world in a long time, there are much better options out 
 there... unless you want an RPG with just bad-arse graphics and no gameplay anyways. yes it is 
 gorgeous, so gorgeous it makes me cry that I can't have fun playing it while watching the eye candy, 
 but oh well, I've almost given up on Square Enix, they are no longer the big-dogs of RPGs... (please 
 see companies with much better titles such as BioWare, Bethesda, Bandai-Namco , and my personal 
 favorite RPG company.... ATLUS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosita46
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing!!!! i cannot wait to spend more time playing this game. unfortunately I am 
 playing Tales of Vesperia !!! Totally awesome game also:} if I can only have another Xbox 360 and 
 switch from one game to the other but no can do, So all I can so is just wait but from what I started 
 playing this game it ROCKS!!! Too bad 360 is not portable so I can take it with me to the hospital. 
 But soon I will be rockin on Infinite Undiscovery......... It will be worth the wait.... to all keep 
 playin and having Fun that is what life is all about.. So many Thanks to the Tales and Infinite 
 Company's that are putting these games out there for us to PLAY.. So far on the Graphics of this 
 game is amazing..... This game is a 2 disk play so I know it is gonna be long but will worth the 
 wait. On the story line I still have not given it time to get in to it.. But I know I am in for 
 a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegitadias
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I am starting to realize that some people don't take the time out to appreciate the fine details 
 in a game. 
  
  First off, if you want the best of the best in graphics, this game is not it but I can completely 
 understand why. There is a lot, and I mean a lot, that goes on in battles in this game. People 
 complain about slow downs in other games and I haven't seen anything significant in Infinite Undiscovery 
 other than a split second hitch that is barely noticeable. Tri-Ace is a company that likes to push 
 the envelope when it comes to graphics and game play but they balanced it out so that the graphics 
 - while not ridiculously good - are still very, very nice and the 360 doesn't lock up when you 
 have a ton of enemies on screen at one time.
  
  Game play is very smooth, the voice acting is actually pretty decent but what really shines to 
 me is the amount of detail that Tri-Ace has put into this game. Though you only directly control 
 Capell, while giving the others commands via a linking system, the AI is incredible. You can choose 
 which tactics you want your characters to use and tell them when to use attacks that you have set 
 up before hand. It gives you enough control that you don't feel as if you're missing out because 
 you aren't directly controlling everyone to the same extent as Capell.
  
  Not only that, but there is an nice item creation system and the fact that you do have to use your 
 environment sometimes to get the edge on people. Tri-Ace was going for being realistic and so I 
 completely understand why they did things the way they did. You can't pause the game when accessing 
 the menu which sounds harsh but your fellow companions are very good at insuring that you don't 
 really need to open it up during battle. This makes sense to me because if we were in an actual 
 battle in real life then the person trying to kill us isn't going to hang back and wait until we 
 pull out a phone to call the cops on him.
  
  Again, it sounds punishing when, in reality, it isn't. As I said, the AI is very good and you can 
 tell that the company wanted the adventure feel more like the player is a single person with friends 
 fighting with him instead of the player taking on more of a master role where they give out orders 
 and everyone has to obey.
  
  I'm not being presumptuous either because when you go into the menu containing the title for each 
 person (these are more like personal traits and there are a number of different ones for each person) , 
 the descriptions about person actually come from Capell himself. It's something small but I still 
 appreciate it. 
  
  I truly am enjoying this game and while I understand that people like to listen to professional 
 reviewers before buying a game I also realize that when a person has to play and review a lot of 
 games, they get jaded. What might impress us might not necessarily impress them because it's only 
 natural to make comparisons when you are playing multiple games at a time.
  
  On an end note, to those who are saying that this is over-hyped (without having played the game) 
 and singing the praises of ToV, please remember that without the brilliant minds over at Tri-Ace, 
 who left Namco to form their own company, there would be no Tales games. You may not like their 
 more recent work but please show some respect because without the innovation of the team that eventually 
 became Tri-Ace you wouldn't have the series you know and love.
  
  I hope this helps you all
  
  Signed, 
  A very happy and satisfied customer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c00ld0rk
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  So many people spoiled by the idea of "innovation". So many people looking for a "revolution" in 
 gaming. So many people missing out on great games because "professional" reviewers say that it's 
 not up to "today's standards". 
  
  The only question you need to ask yourself is "Do I like JRPGs?"
  If you answered yes then you 
 absolutely have no reason not buy this game!
  
  GRAPHICS: Good enough for this generation. I especially like how Tri-Ace made the battles epic by 
 having so many characters and effects on-screen, though there can be slowdown when you're looking 
 at 10+ characters fighting off 20+ monsters simultaneously.
  The dungeon's textures can seem repetitive but the outdoor areas are EPIC! Shadow of the Colossus 
 anyone?
  
  SOUND: Music in this game is the standard JRPG orchestral tune which suits the mood of the game 
 quite nicely.
  Voice-acting is great! The only part I didn't like was when Capell screamed his moves but don't 
 worry, he doesn't do it all the time.
  
  STORY: I'm only 10-hours in but from what I've seen, many ideas in this game have been done before... which 
 doesn't bother me at all. So what if they said it was only 20-30 hours long? The legendary Chrono 
 Trigger only took 15-20 hours to complete but nobody was complaining.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The battle system is almost on par with Kingdom Hearts. The parry system is fulfilling 
 when you get the hang of it. If they added jumping then it would have been perfect. I loved watching 
 my companions fight like actual people were controlling them! It's too bad there's no multiplayer 
 option. The only thing I didn't like about the gameplay when your enemies pummel you while you 
 look through your inventory.
  
  Bottom line...
  This is a very good Japanese Action-RPG! Even people with the slightest interest in JRPGs are guaranteed 
 to have fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Infinite Undiscovery is a weird game, it has its high points and it has it's low which all evens 
 out to be an enjoyable yet at the same time somewhat disappointing RPG experience. 
  
  The story is basically a case of mistaken identity which leads to the birth of a hero. You play 
 Capel who looks exactly like Sigmund the liberator. You get jailed because people think you are 
 Sigmund stuff happens and you get to embark on a quest to free the moon of the chains that bound 
 it to the earth. The story isn't overly spectacular but it's enjoyable. It has been reported that 
 the game will last you about 25-30 hours, which is short in the RPG realm, but longer than most 
 games this generation. 
  
  Gameplay is all in real time, so you don't have to worry about turn based battles which some find 
 boring. But there are problems in the gameplay mechanics. While each battle is engaging and fun 
 there are blaring flaws with things like too much going on at ones and no block. With each attack 
 there are a bunch of stylized visual effects and when there's a bunch of people attacking at the 
 same time it gets really hard to see and understand what's going on, which brings us to another 
 problem there's no block. There is a parry move that will obviously parry but you need perfect 
 timing and when you cant see what is going on, perfect timing means nothing. 
  
  Another problem with the game is the managing systems. There are a lot of characters, a lot,18 
 I think. You'll have to manage all these characters constantly through tedious menus and it just 
 gets to be a chore. One thing that is unique that allows you to deal with all these characters 
 is making separate parties for completing missions. You'll be able to create other groups of characters 
 in order to complete missions that alleviate you from grinding for each character in order to level 
 them up.
  
  One thing I have mixed feelings about are the graphics. With out a doubt, IU is a very pretty game, 
 it's just the character models I'm not a fan of. They over all look good, but all the characters 
 faces are sorta like your sister's creepy dolls, especially the creepy little clichd RPG twins. 
 I don't know, I'm just not a fan of the character designs, it is a pretty game though.
  
  Overall I like IU, it just isn't as good as I wished it to be. If you're an RPG fan, pick it up, 
 eventually at least. If you're looking for an RPG and can only afford one right now, pick up Tales 
 of Vesperia first, but make sure not to forget about this one.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
