-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Iron Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ironman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flying at top speed.
 Tearing apart tanks and helicopters.
 Playing catch and release with missiles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abrupt spike in difficulty is intolerable.
 Levels follow same repetitive progression.
 Combat isn't very exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 1,054 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Secret Level
Genre: Action
Date: May 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Iron Man's high-flying new adventure is hindered by erratic difficulty and repetitive level design. 
 

  Held captive in a cave by soldiers armed to the teeth with weapons of his own design, Tony Stark 
 ponders his fate. Faced with the ugly truth about the world he has helped create, he resolves to 
 turn his genius to other purposes. Stark constructs a high-tech suit of armor and becomes Iron 
 Man, embarking on a quest to ferret out the evil fueled by his creations and salvage his shameful 
 family legacy. Iron Man, a game recently released in conjunction with the feature film, parallels 
 Tony Stark's plight. Iron Man dons the high-tech suit of wide-open game spaces and shiny visual 
 effects and tries to leave the old stigma of movie-based video games behind. Zooming around and 
 blowing up stuff does have its thrills, but that new-suit shine grows dull about halfway through 
 the game as the difficulty spikes drastically while the level design flatlines. After that, there's 
 just no reviving Iron Man.  

  Iron Man begins in the cave where Tony Stark constructs the rudimentary rough draft of what will 
 evolve into the iconic hot-rod red and gold suit. After his escape, the plot diverges from that 
 of the movie, following similar themes while pitting Iron Man against a host of enemies that fans 
 may recognize from the comics. Levels are bookended by cinematic cutscenes that generally show 
 a little bit of character interaction and then a lot of Iron Man flying hither and yon. Only Robert 
 Downey Jr. and Terrence Howard have lent their voices and likenesses to the game, and their performances, 
 like the cutscenes themselves, are adequate.  

            Taking the Mark III suit out for a joyride is a blast.      

  After the initial, 
 linear tutorial level, Iron Man is set loose into open battlefields for every subsequent mission. 
 Flying around these large spaces is one of the more entertaining bits in the game, given that they 
 are satisfyingly big and look quite good while you're screaming around them at high speeds. On 
 most levels, the terrain is thoroughly contoured and provides plenty of opportunities for flying 
 low through valleys or ducking behind ridges to evade enemy fire. With detailed suit animations 
 that help bolster the sense of speed, Iron Man is at his best when flying into or out of battle. 

  Actual combat is a different story. Of the myriad martial means at Iron Man's disposal, the missiles 
 and repulsor beam are the most useful, but also the least exciting. It's difficult to take on groups 
 of enemies while flying; not only will you soon pass them by, but you'll also likely stir up more 
 enemies while coming back around for another pass. As a result, the most efficient way to deal 
 destruction is to hover in the air near your foes, firing repulsors constantly, shooting your missiles 
 whenever they recharge, and dodging the constant barrage of incoming missiles. It's a shame that 
 a game with such wide-open spaces steers you toward such a limited combat style, but it's really 
 the only way to succeed against the brutal difficulty of the second half of the game.  

  Iron Man's other weapon, the unibeam, is very powerful but takes precious stationary seconds to 
 charge up, seconds that you rarely have. As you beat levels and upgrade your suit tech, this charging 
 time shrinks. You can also reroute your auxiliary suit power to direct extra juice to your weapons, 
 but that power is best reserved for boosting your life support. Even with these tweaks, the abrupt 
 increase in difficulty shrinks your available charging windows down to almost nothing. Using the 
 unibeam is doubly risky because it draws power from your suit, power that you'll constantly need 
 to recharge your life meter. Five or six missiles to the chassis while attempting a unibeam charge 
 are enough to force your suit to power down, which you want to avoid (especially later in the game) 
 because you can recover from a power down only three times before failing the mission.  

  One amusing element of Iron Man's combat system is the ability to grapple enemies. When Iron Man 
 is close to a foe, he can grab onto them, triggering the unit-specific grapple animation. Most 
 of these require a spat of frantic button tapping or a timed button press, and they result in the 
 spectacular destruction of that unit. Breaking helicopters in half and ripping the lids off of 
 tanks is great fun the first few times, but eventually it becomes more of a hassle than it is worth. 
 However, grappling missile batteries or howitzers is often worthwhile because this lets you control 
 them for a few shots and take out a few stubborn enemies quickly. You can also grapple incoming 
 missiles while in flight and throw them at whatever you like, which, in addition to making you 
 feel like a rock star, is a powerful way to deal damage. Unfortunately, the timing is tricky to 
 get down, so more often than not you'll receive a face full of missile for your troubles. Furthermore, 
 later levels are so thick with missiles that in the time it takes to catch and release one, five 
 more will have crashed into your head.  

            The structural integrity of this helicopter is about to take a bad turn.      

  Iron 
 Man is reasonably entertaining for a few hours, but then things turn sour. Each level follows the 
 same template that has you taking out a few consecutive groups of targets, then moving on to deal 
 with the superweapon or supervillain (sometimes both) . This is fine for a handful of missions, 
 but it quickly grows stale. You'll likely complete the first half of the game's 13 levels with 
 relative ease, but the latter half is a totally different story. Enemies abruptly increase in number 
 and become much tougher, and the air fills with enough missiles to cause a partial solar eclipse. 
 Constant dodging and frequent retreat behind hillsides to recharge your health are essential survival 
 tactics, and even elite evaders will experience their fair share of failure. With no checkpoints 
 to break up the lengthy missions, failing is incredibly frustrating, and it'll take a strong measure 
 of grim determination to soldier on to the end.  

  Beating certain levels will unlock them for play in the One Man Army mode. This places you in familiar 
 level environs with a time limit and a number of enemies to kill. If you complete your goal, you 
 will unlock one of five classic suits from the Iron Man comics, which you can then use should you 
 choose to replay any level. These might delight Iron Man fans, but if you're really going to attempt 
 levels again, the customizable Mark III suit that you use throughout the campaign is your best 
 bet.  

  Iron Man makes a decent opening argument against the just-another-movie-game stigma. However, by 
 smacking you with a punishing difficulty spike instead of striving for more complex mission structures, 
 it sacrifices most of the goodwill it garners in the early going. Completing the game is a frustrating 
 trial with no substantial reward, and even sympathetic jurors will have a hard time ruling in its 
 favor.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (68 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:42 am PT
Review:  Iron man was one of those games that could have been one of the best Marvel Games out there. He 
 has a large amount of money, unlimited Technology and a kick ass suit. How can it go wrong?
  
  This game totally answers that question. The story line isn't based on the Plot of the movie, 
 and I actually think that is a good thing. Another really good thing about this game is actually 
 the Graphics. It's quite realistic for a superhero game. The last comment obviously does not include 
 the really back Graphics for the cut scenes.
  
  The Missions are relatively repetitive. Seek and destroy is your mission. How you do it is up to 
 you, but you gotta do it. Most of the time you find yourself hovering around just shooting things. 
 It's actually quite boring. Not only that, but it is some times almost impossible to get through 
 a stage. You find yourself riddled with Bombs, Missiles and bullets. Annoying.
  
  The Controls for this game is also quite difficult to get around. The flying/hovering is really 
 hard to control especially through high action moments when you can't concentrate on either fully 
 pushing the button or only pushing it half way. So you find yourself flying further and further 
 away from your targets.
  
  This game totally sucks and I really don't want to see it in my xBox ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  The Iron Man character has been in Marvel Comics for decades busting heads with the best heroes 
 around, he's even established his own following -- solo comics, personal nemesis, hero partners, 
 clothing products, animated shows, even dual identity shenanigans, you name it!
  One area where most heroes usually experience a bit of turbulence is in the gaming department. 
 My feelings on the matter personally focus on the lack of respect that is given to comic book characters 
 transfered to interactive entertainment. Very similar to the problem comic-based movies suffered 
 a number of years ago. With film makers finally taking comic material serious, the revenue and 
 praise has gone through the roof and I really believe the same can happen for video games based 
 off the same material. Unfortunately, this game is not that example.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  If you haven't seen the recent Iron Man movie be warned, the game follows scene for scene. Held 
 captive in a terrorist cave, main man Tony Stark builds his first hero suit to spring loose and 
 pursue his new agenda. Bulky and slow at first, the escape suit serves as a decent way to familiarize 
 you with Iron Man tools such as: radar info, shield and heart meters, weapon details, and immediate 
 objectives.
  After pummeling a bunch of rag tag terrorist, you make your way back home to further improve the 
 suit design. This is where flight is introduced. And let it be noted, sky-rocketing through downtown 
 cities, hovering over and around danger, and grappling with other flying objects is very empowering! 
 
  
  Then reality hits.
  
  As you maneuver through environments as Iron Man, the enemy becomes extremely keen to your presence 
 and retaliates just as hard. They can actually hone in on your exact position through massive mountains, 
 multiple city buildings, surrounded by enemies of various sizes, even far out of radar detection. 
 At first, this seems like a lack of preparation on Iron Man's part; which can be solved as you 
 progress through the game gaining experience and "assets" that allow you to upgrade weapons and 
 suit models. Yet, you slowly begin to realize the computer is so dumb its programed to destroy 
 you AT ALL COST! Which brushes off as extremely unrealistic.
  If everything on the battlefield was machine operated this lack of human behavior could be excused... 
 but you are fighting against other humans with technology that matches your own. No recharges or 
 reloads is a slight advantage. No need for proper lock on to hit targets feels cheap. No sense 
 of coordination among other baddies while unleashing massive firepower is just plain silly. No 
 real fun can be had when the only trump card the computer exercises is the ability to overwhelm 
 you at every turn.
  
  VISUALS
  Some games produce amazing screen shots that capture intense action or amazing feats. This is usually 
 enough to spark someone's interest to the point of purchase... which is not the case with Iron 
 Man. In all honesty, the main character looks good in cut scenes and has believable animation while 
 doing the hero-thing. Yet the characters around him are visibly atrocious! 
  Everything from animation to level design screams N64 graphics. And I don't mean that as a cheap 
 shot; but it becomes glaringly annoying when enemies blend into environments simply because nothing 
 is designed with definition. Even with visual cues from the radar system, a lot of objectives and 
 threats are flat, which unfortunately matches with the surroundings. The ability to head-charge 
 and grab objects like toy blocks is entertaining, but texture pop-up is so regular you sometimes 
 forget what you're even attacking.
  Beyond nit-picking, one noticeable area of effort shows in the cut scenes. Even with a very dated 
 look and terrible lip-syncing, anyone that has seen the film will appreciate the extra story bits 
 offered outside of the movie plot.
  
  AUDIO
  Once again, another high-five for presentation efforts! Borrowing what sounds like the actual cast 
 from the movie really helps in digesting a majority of the story. And the lines are delivered with 
 good pitch and emotion which breathes a lot of life into characters that are rigid and ugly.
  As for in-game action, gunfire and explosions are very mundane. Its hard to distinguish the nearest 
 sound simply because everything is coming at you at once; unless its a homing missile, which in 
 that case tends to have serious issues with in and out sound accuracy.
  
  EXTRAS
  Let it be known... for any gamers who seek easy achievement points, avoid this title. Unless your 
 like me -- someone who enjoys games of the old days that frustrated to great measures and gave 
 very little reward, Iron Man can easily be scratched off the rental list.
  Offering a decent 600-700 points for simply showing up isn't so bad. What you end up doing to get 
 those few extra points can be considered the death touch. Since the computer Ai is broken and difficulty 
 settings are extremely erratic, all fun goes out the window as you challenge yourself every level 
 simply to stay alive. With small accomplishments known as "hero objectives", you must follow strict 
 guide lines that allow very little time and room for error. With maxed out gear and a solid handle 
 on controls, these side objectives are kind of fun.
  If you wanna go that extra mile, there is also speed-runs for each level that require you to kill 
 a certain number of enemies within a time limit.
  
  OVERALL
  When you reflect on a gaming experience and you feel hard-pressed to highlight anything worth praising... 
 there is a good chance that game is NOT worth recommending to others. I've enjoyed the Iron Man 
 character and adventures since I was a child; and like most people who saw the big screen movie, 
 I love what he has evolved into.
  Sadly, like a majority of comic book video games there just doesn't feel like enough passion being 
 put into development. You could argue financials/marketing or the lack of talent/experience within 
 a studio... but as a gamer, you can't help but shake that feeling: as if someone just didn't try 
 hard enough. This ominous "feeling" can vary between artist and critic, yet the trend that follows 
 THESE type of games is feeling more like a curse. And I look forward to someone breaking it very 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Everytime i hear theres a superhero game coming out i get all excited and everytime i get the game 
 im dissapointed.
  Iron Man is no exception. The game is very dull, and as most movie tie-in games normaly are, it 
 seems rushed out and unfinished.
  Once you have played through the first 3 levels the rest is just repeating the same thing over 
 and over. Luckily its not as repetetive as the Superman Returns game and it does at least make 
 sense as far as the enemies you face go.
  
  The combat system is very lackluster, you hold your aim, lock onto a target and shoot at it, alternatively 
 you can punch enemies or get in close for a sort of 'finishing move' which gets extremely repetive. 
 Once you trigger one of the finishing moves it sort of changes to a cut scene where your left bashing 
 a button, the whole thing feels very detatched from the main gameplay.
  
  The graphics could have been much better. The level design makes you feel like your playing in 
 a huge crater, even though the levels are pretty big i still felt very boxed in. Iron Man himself 
 could have looked much better in particular, i found the textures used on him were very flat and 
 boring with the exception of the Mark II suit which did look a little better.
  
  Good points about this game are pretty weak and hard to find but heres a few i can think of.
 
  Firstly getting to play as Iron Man is awesome just for the experience and child like joy felt 
 from getting to control a superhero.
  Secondly you can upgrade your suit but the weapons are very similar and for the most part you probably 
 wont even care what kind of rockets your firing becuase its so boring to shoot them anyway but 
 still, when you first play through its nice to upgrade.
  You can unlock alternative suits as you play through the game to be used in the "one man army" 
 missions where you have to kill a certain amount of bad guys in a specified time limit and achieve 
 side goals for extra points but to be honest the extra suits kinda all suck in comparrison to the 
 Mark III so i found it difficult to work up the will to try and use them.
  
  In conclusion i would suggest that unless your an avid superhero fan then perhaps you should wait 
 for this game to be in the bargain bin, but its worth taking a look at if you see it cheap just 
 to satisfy your urge to be Iron Man after you watch the movie or if your half asleep on a sunday 
 morning just wanting to play a game that dosnt demand any significant thought to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Iron man the video game where do i begin? Many people were expecting a good game but they got a 
 disappointment, the story is based off the movies but go's in different directions that dont work 
 out, the voice acting is bad and the cutscenes look awful. The gameplay is strate forward you fly 
 around shooting at tanks, gun ships, turrets, robots and evil solders or you can puch them with 
 the horrible meelee. Graphics is where iron man succeeds at they look pretty good and the glitches 
 are not that bad as some people say. Now re-playing this is not worth it at all, after you beat 
 it you probley wont wanna play it agian, and i almost forgot to say that their is unlockable iron 
 man suits to dress up in but unlocking them is the real pain. If you never played iron man your 
 not missing out on anything the levels are boring and bland the game is way too short and cutscenes 
 look awful! If you must play iron man then just rent the game.
  
  Story: 5.2
  Gameplay: 6.8
  Graphics: 7.9
  Re-play Value: 3.6
  Overall: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Iron Man is based on the movie of the same name offering some fun to the fans of that movie. Others 
 should look elsewhere for their share of third person action.
  
  Story follows pretty closely the story of the movie, but since a videogame is a different medium 
 comparing to a movie it's a shame that the story in the game doesn't really - how should I say 
 it - happen. If you've seen the movie you know what's coming, but still you may have a hard time 
 following events that take place on screen. Story is told through quite good cutscenes and excellent 
 voice work.
  
  Graphics are good in some parts while others are just plain ugly. Character models are excellent, 
 but their facial animations are at times really weird. Environments are not detailed at all, but 
 most of the time don't even notice it, since you're too busy flying above them. Sound design and 
 music in general are well done and it helps a lot in creating a sci-fi feel and atmosphere.
  
  Controls are good. It takes a while to learn them, but after that it's fun to fly around and 
 shoot stuff. Game captures the most important aspect of a super hero game: you really feel like 
 you're Iron Man and possessing nearly god-like powers along with your suit.
  
  Gameplay is fast-paced third person action with a very repetitive mission structure. All you do 
 is fly around and shoot stuff. That's it. You can create yourself some variety by grabbing jetplanes 
 in mid-air or catch a missile, but these actions are hard to perform in a 3D space. There are some 
 RPG elements in a way that you can upgrade your suit as you make progress. It's shallow, but at 
 least they tried.
  
  Aside from repetitive missions the save system is what can make your blood boil in rage: there 
 are no checkpoints and usually that one mission consists of multiple tasks and can last up to 25 
 minutes. There are 13 missions in total and if you manage to get to the end it will not take you 
 more than 5 or 6 hours.
  
  If you are a fan of Iron Man I can say that there is some fun to be had in this game. Just make 
 sure that you don't pay a full retail price for this below average third person action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bourne2083
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  i really enjoyed the game... just flying around alone makes the game worth it to me... iron man is 
 my favorite super hero so ill take what i can get until marvel ultimate alliance 2 comes out then 
 i can get back to my iron manly goodness.... sure this game is done by SEGA and thats not a crime 
 in most instances but i dont believe they should have been the ones to do this game.... EA or someone 
 huge should have capitalized on the movie success but like i said ill take what i can get in the 
 meantime.... so if ur bored just sitting around and u want a good time and some easy achievement 
 points i would highly recommend this game to u.... if ur a hater thats ok too still easy points 
 to improve ur gamer score if u have a hard on for that and u want to display to the world u have 
 no life... back on topic... Iron Man deserves more than what u guys are making it out to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgn1rountree
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: The game looks beautiful and the controls work.
  
  BAD: Everything else. I've played games like Ninja Gaiden 1 and 2 which are challenging. But Iron 
 Man feels right down cheap in gameplay. There's like a thousand enemies tring to attack you every 
 5 seconds, design is god awful, and the worst problem with the game is that the gameplay is just 
 right boring (and it cost 60 dollars) !!! I've played it for only 30 minutes and "Iron Man" got 
 really stale really quickly.
  
  P. S to Marvel: STOP LETTING A HALFASS COMPANY LIKE SEGA MAKE GAMES ABOUT YOUR INFAMOUS SUPERHEROES. 
 I mean SEGA hasn't made a stellar video game, since the fall of the "Dreamcast".
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Don't buy, rent, borrow, or even think about "Iron Man" the game. I couldn't believe 
 that it's worst than "The Incredible Hulk" game SEGA made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  ----------------
  Visually, the game looks great.
  The controls are well designed and thought out. They make you feel like a superhero.
  The screen 
 is clever, it tells you all you need to know.
  Awesome upgrade system.
  
  THE BAD
  -------------
  About 24000 enemies attack you at once.
  Repetitive levels and level design.
 
  Not every objective is made clear.
  
  I got the steelbook version from GAME when I asked my parents to get me a game because I was bored. 
 I was looking forward to it but when I put the disc in after the first two levels it became repetitive 
 garbage that was practically unplayable. It looks great and I want to play it again. But then I 
 remember how crap the levels are. A nice first effort from SEGA, I hope they improve in either 
 the next movie title or some comic book tie-in. Do not buy this game. Rent it. Then enjoy the first 
 two levels, then give it back before it gets repetitive, dull and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  it was okay at best, at least it gets the job done providing an entertaining session of iron oriented 
 violence, but sega seems to always stay in the past with its button mashing, confusing lock-on, 
 and flight fit for someone with a degree in armored flight. once you get pass the laughable controls 
 of flight it can be pretty charming, word of caution: do not play if movie has not been seen.
 
  This game has it all if you ever dreamed of being a superhero. I've always loved the upgrades 
 they put on their games and they DO NOT disappoint. If you liked The Hulk game from a few years 
 back, you'll fiend for this. This one has even more re playability than Hulk did. Although I did 
 find the flying a bit akward at first... it seems the only flaw i've discovered so far. AND NO 
 NOT TO ME IRON MAN IS NOT BETTER THAN THE HULK. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When buying this game, I didn't have the highest expectations for it, but unfortunately, this game 
 didn't meet them. This is not the Iron Man experience that I had expected.
  Story -- The story in this game does relate somewhat with the film, though there wasn't much of a 
 story to work off of. Tony Stark, millionaire weapons designer, gets captured by terrorists somewhere 
 in the mountains of Afghanistan. These terrorists want Stark to build them a missile, but instead 
 he builds a model of the Iron Man suit and gets out. Eventually, Tony realizes that the terrorists 
 still have his weapons in various places, so he goes out to get them. The story is there, but it's 
 nothing special at all. The voice acting isn't all that great, though the sound during combat is 
 quite nice.
  Graphics -- Iron Man looks good, though sometimes the color of his suit looks a little blurred. Environments 
 mainly look bland and have weird coloring, along with the tanks, helicopters, soldiers, ships, 
 buildings, trees, mountains, etc. The graphics aren't anything great at all.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay is what shoots Iron Man down out of the sky. The controls can be difficult 
 to learn, since you have to hold down LB and A to accelerate while in flight while moving the anolog 
 sticks to steer Iron Man. Holding down LT will make Iron Man fly up while in a standing position, 
 and tapping it will make him hover in one place. Iron Man's attacks get repetitive, along with 
 the missions. Your attacks consists of RB, RT and B, along with shooting missiles. These controls 
 do get frustrating, especially when you use the beam when holding down RB. This attack drains your 
 power and uses a lot of time, time that you don't have. Most of the time you can't even use the 
 attack because tanks, trucks, helicopters, soldiers, jets, and so on are all shooting 10 missiles 
 at you. You can grab onto a missile and send it back, but you won't even be able to pull it off 
 as another 5 missiles come at you. Grabbing onto planes and helicopters is difficult, but is a 
 good way to destroy tanks. Missions get frustratingly repetitive. You have a map on your screen, 
 and the targets you have to destroy appear as orange, while other enemies are blue. Missions are 
 destroy 8 important targets, then destroy 5 really important targets, then destroy the boss's major 
 weapon that he'll use on innocent people and finally destroy the boss. Another bad thing is that 
 there are no checkpoints. If you die during the boss fight, you have to start over all the way 
 from the beginning. This will eventually make the game frustrating after a couple of hours. The 
 gameplay could've been a lot better.
  Story: 5.7/10 -- it tied in to the film's, but there wasn't really much of a story to begin with.
 
  Graphics: 4.7/10 -- Iron Man looks good, but the coloring in this game either looks blurry or discolored.
 
  Gameplay: 3.9/10 -- The gameplay sucks in this game. The controls are bad, there aren't any checkpoints, 
 levels and combat both become repetitive, and the combat becomes very frustrating as well.
  Final Thoughts: It seems like this game was made in one day. Iron Man can be beaten in a casual 
 weekend, though there isn't much fun out of doing it. For 360 owners who like achievements, stay 
 away from this game. The achievements are low and frustrating to get. For Iron Man fans, consider 
 renting this game, but whoever who isn't an Iron Man fan or is interested in getting this game, 
 don't even rent it. It's not worth it, trust me. If a little more effort had been put into this 
 game, I would've liked it a bit more. The repetitive and frustrating mission designs, combat, lack 
 of checkpoints, bad voice acting, blurry graphics and bad controls, prevent Iron Man from flying 
 very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Originally posted on http://spacemeat. com. au
  
  Creating an enjoyable Iron Man video game shouldn't be too difficult. Somehow the concept of a 
 man in a flying metal suit with regenerating projectiles sounds like one that would work for a 
 game. Others may have noticed this, as while Iron Man has this game all to himself he has appeared 
 many times before along other Marvel heroes and in many CAPCOM fighting mash-ups.
  
  So Iron Man should be a great game, after all, it's Iron Man. Perhaps if a development studio were 
 given a backlog of Marvel comics and told to make it happen, something more substantial could have 
 come into fruition. Unfortunately what has happened, is yet another popular franchise has spawned 
 a hugely successful film resorting in a mass spew of poorly rushed and underdeveloped video games 
 to cash in on the market while it's there.
  
  First prime example of this is level one, plunging players straight into Tony's captive-state in 
 Afghanistan. While all characters, locations and voices are modeled after their respective film 
 star/locales, the game makes no attempt of establishing any characters or story before making you 
 shoot some Afghans.
  
  Once the first level is cleared out, some explanatory videos do come in to play, but each are so 
 oddly structured and poorly directed that it gives no sense of the film and would merely depreciate 
 the film's experience for anyone who had not seen it yet. Pathetic lines of dialogue are used in-game 
 to attempt to establish some character and motivation behind the whole ordeal such as "I didn't 
 design these weapons for this!" while you wonder exactly why and how you're in a metal flame throwing 
 suit in Afghanistan.
  
  Make sure you see the film before playing this game. Of course that is if you feel like playing 
 this game once you're through with this review. Iron Man makes no attempt at recreating the story 
 or charm of the film, feeling more like they've taken the lesser route of assuming you've seen 
 the movie so you'll already know what's going on with who.
  
  Or perhaps there is just no need for story at all, as once you realise there's little to gain here 
 in terms of progression the gameplay does little to improve the experience. The controls for Iron 
 Man are very basic, focusing on repeated use of Iron Man's limited weaponry. Progression results 
 in unlockable upgrades, but these serve as nothing but a relative increment in performance for 
 each part while enemies increment in strength so it's hardly noticeable that anything has changed 
 at all.
  
  Iron Man follows a very linear stage-by-stage story that features each level as as self contained 
 battleground. Mr. Man will have a set list of objectives, an alternate "Hero Objective" (see - 
 achievement points) and a butt-load of ant sized enemies to mow down. I can't imagine anything 
 more fitting for an Iron Man game, hordes of enemies and explosions seems so appropriate yet ultimately 
 ends so bland. Combat is severely lacking, with 3 alternate weapon capabilities always resulting 
 in the same spam fest of just holding the right trigger down and firing missiles over and over 
 and over until the level is done. At first it is a nice feel to get in the suit, Iron Man handles 
 pretty well and has a lot of speed to him. The suit is also well modeled and overall the game looks 
 nice enough to sit well against other current gen games.
  
  With no skill or versatility in weapons or combat, an over-simplified targeting system leaves players 
 with ultimately no control over the unwarranted chaos that attempts to form a logical video game 
 known as Iron Man. Locking on to enemies involves no effort from a player, merely looking in it's 
 general direction will form a lock-on target to direct all of Iron Man's fire. This means that 
 when you have ten enemies grouped together, there's no way to discern one from another or strategically 
 pick targets, not that there is any need in the first place. It's just spam, spam, spam, spam.
 
  
  Not just from Iron Man either. While operating the suit obviously involves closing your eyes and 
 spraying as much flak as you can at anything that moves, attacking the suit requires as much effort 
 from six thousand enemies on the map all firing twenty heat seeking missiles in your direction 
 at once. Perhaps an over-exaggeration, it's fitting when you find yourself looking at a radar with 
 one center blip, and hundreds of death implying red blips rapidly approaching said centre blip.
 
  
  With so much unnavigable crossfire going around the place it's handy to have the ability to dodge 
 (A button) but when your radar is nothing but red and all you're trying to do is hold down the 
 R trigger to once again kill everything in sight it becomes a skilless and cacophonous flurry of 
 dodge, fire, dodge, fire, dodge, death.
  
  Then there's game flaws so prominent it truly amazes how such design came to be. I assume the game 
 hit some sort of bug, as including a boss who cannot leave the ground nor fire from it is not exactly 
 a challenge for Iron Man. In fact it involves all of hovering still in the sky firing repeatedly 
 until the boss dies. Fun.
  
  It's a shame the essential part of Iron Man, the combat, is the worst. Sure there's a lot of other 
 garbage in there like level design, scripting and narration but there are SOME nice sides to Iron 
 Man. There's always a good amount of enemies on screen and the volume of things to destroy is quite 
 satisfying. The plot does divert from the film briefly, taking Iron Man up to the high skies to 
 bring down a Maggis floating air base but these seem to pad the game out where the movie was lacking 
 for more game time. It spices things up a bit but really SEGA - stick to either the movie, or the 
 comics, don't just go jumping all over the place until Iron Man is suddenly fighting Bigfoot.
 
  
  Iron Man is also satisfyingly fast, and while most settings and levels are bland in locale, they 
 do look good in visual design. Unfortunately praise for Iron Man is fleeting. Anything enjoyable 
 within Iron Man is soon rapidly dissipated through repetitive combat, illogical story coverage 
 and a big hole for content you'd expect filled when buying a new full price game.
  
  Iron Man
  
  63%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Iron Man is fast and well stocked.
  * When the 
 dust settles, there are moments of enjoyable action.
  * A next-gen texture here and there.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Far too chaotic and messy.
  * Bland and basic controls form very repetitive 
 shooting.
  * Horrible story telling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedited255
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out (same a birthday luckily) and started playing it. I thought 
 the demo was a little rough but if your patient enough you should get a hang of the controls in 
 no time. It's really fun flying around and grappling with the helicopters and you can reroute your 
 suits systems on the fly depending on whatever situation your in.
  
  The game is pretty challenging but i wouldn't call it murderous, there's only one level in the 
 game that had me slamming the controler cause i kept failing the mission. It does require alot 
 of patience so recommend playing on easy if your prone to violent outbursts of frustration.
  
  The good thing is you can upgrade your suit as you progress through the game which makes taking 
 out armies of tanks and gun turrets alot easier. If your a big fan of the comic books then you 
 should enjoy unlocking the various Iron Man suits ranging from the Classic Mark 1 to the Silver 
 Centurion, each of them are specialized in a different area of combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost-inZeShell
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  IRON MAN is a fun game that is easy to enjoy, you start off playing in the first Iron man suit, 
 the Mark I, that Stark built to escape his capturers, and eventually you can unlock a TON of Iorn 
 Man suits to play as (though, unfortunately, Iorn Man the game, has little to no, replay value) 
  The GOOD: a 
 TON of unlockable Iorn Man suits (That you can play as) , * its fun to SMASH tanks and helicopters, 
 *Flying around is more fun than you might think, *some Good Boss Battles (not Great, but good) , 
 *NICE up-grades, *not JUST another super hero game, *you can use almost EVERY weapon and ability 
 thats in the MOVIE, * you can get it for pretty much EVERY system, * Very nice level design.  
 The BAD: cut-scene where unseenly, *not that many levels, *no multi-player what-so-ever, *not that 
 many COOL LOOKIN' enemys, * no replay value, *kind of skips through most of the storyline, *flying 
 (though cool) doesn't have very good controls (a control set like in "GunValkyrie" would have been 
 a LOT better) , * is NOT cheap, *could have been an Over-All-Better game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsenal_IV
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I'm going to say this game is dang near impossible to beat on Normal and Controller 
 breaking on Hard mode. This is too many enemies firing rockets, lasers, grenades, bullets, cows, 
 chickens, moose and gorilla crap at you to make it 6 minutes into the level, let alone beat it. 
 The flight controls are insane at times but stable when you upgrade your boots. Save your credits 
 people. You'll need them. If anything, upgrade your body first and your Power Core second, Thrusters 
 should be the last thing you need to worry about upgrading.
  When playing on easy mode, its still somewhat challenging at parts and the odds against you seem 
 unfair. Then you have to remember that you ARE a one man army. The enemies in easy mode can be 
 pretty stupid. I fought a tank and it was firing everywhere else around me, never hitting me once, 
 but somehow hit me when I was in the middle of the map. They must have some kinda Giga-Omega targeting 
 system because my Iron Tech Armor didn't pick him up and it wasn't on my radar.
  I found myself having a lot of him flying around dodging missles, completing objectives, and ripping 
 into enemie tanks, planes, helicopters and missle cars. The graphics are stunning, almost realistc 
 at times. The sounds are sweet, the voicing can be dull at times. I rarely used the melee attack 
 and I only used the power rerouting system to my thrusters so I can keep up with Titanium Man and 
 Iron Monger. Before I go any further, no Titanium Man isn't in the movie and some how some way 
 Iron Monger is faster then Iron Man.
  If you want a game that has some easy Achievements. Iron Man is your game. I got 9 achievements 
 in the first half hour in playing. Definitely a renter, but I bought it since I'm a hardcore Marvel 
 Fan. Its got a 5.5 for a review but I give it a 7. Not the worst game I have played (Viking, Fusion 
 Frenzy 2, Chromehounds) , not the best, but it was worth the wait and a good experience.
  
  -Arsenal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike-uk
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, expecting something really good because some of the screenshots i saw looked 
 amazing. Big mistake, i cannot stress this enough - do not buy a game just because the screenshots 
 look good, even if the screenshots look like the show in-game graphics ( thats what i thought ) .
 
  
  The graphics are terrible, i thought i was playing on a ps2, seriously no detail was put in. The 
 controls are bad and i always thought that the game was glitchy ( when you run around as iron man 
 ) . The missions are boring and when you play this game it makes you feel like your directing a 
 low budget b-movie style superhero film. 
  
  Do not but this game because it is not worth your money. Honestly i would only buy this again if 
 it were 50p. Luckily i got my money back when i returned this game, honestly the front and back 
 cover of the case of the game is more exciting then the actually game itself. If i could give this 
 a 0/10 i would but i cannot, so i give it a 1/10. 
  
  Dont buy this game, unless ofcourse you like playing games which give make you want to break your 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_22
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Iron man. I saw the movie. it was great. i played the game. not so great. first off, i have a headache 
 just trying to follow this game. the camera is terrible and his manuevers are way to sensitive. 
 that combat is boring and the plot in every level is the same. the game repeats itself. the moves 
 are repetitive and the dialogue also. sure i like the flight, but its way too hard to control. 
 he runs like hes doing the moonwalk and whats with this one punch to kill crap? plus i have never 
 seen a helicopter move so awkwardly. theres two good things about this game. he looks badass and 
 i like playing catch with missiles. but to top it all off, this game is just too f***ing HARD! 
 there are no checkpoints so when you die, you start over. this game is way too punishing. you get 
 to the last objective in the mission, die, and have to start all over again. not fair man. i have 
 flipped out at least a hundred times playing this one. so seriously people, this game is only for 
 you if you have more patience than god. otherwise, pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshocking9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I borrowed the game from a friend who is still waist deep in GTA IV and won't have the time for 
 Iron Man anytime soon. I had played the demo and wasn't too happy with the controls at first, but 
 thought the game showed promise, so when he offered it up I couldn't resist. Well, Let me just 
 say that the game play grows on you. I loved the feeling of BEING Iron Man. The graphics were great 
 and the some of the bosses were ok. I was able to play the entire game through on normal in about 
 12 hours. I had to replay a few missions multiple times, just to figure out what they wanted me 
 to do. 
  
  What got old real fast was the lack of save points and the very fast difficulty changes. Some of 
 the mission difficulties were too hard. A general lack of information on what to do on some levels 
 made completing them a chore instead of fun. It felt like some of the suit upgrades should have 
 been available earlier on in the game. Playing though the missions later with a fully upgraded 
 suit was much simpler. 
  
  Lastly, what is up with the weak unibeam. Using it was a complete waste. The missles, grenades 
 and repulsors were all that I used, and did more damage. The Unibeam should have been what it is, 
 a completely devastating weapon, not just another laser attack.
  
  Overall, I think they put a great deal of effort into this game and I did have fun with it, but 
 the bottom line is that it's a rental. I would love to play an improved version of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_1991
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I was afraid that this game was gonna suck really bad it didn't. It turned out to be very fun, 
 while it lasted of course. The graphics look very very good. Iron Man is very nicely detailed and 
 also very shiny, the graphics on the enviroment look good but also look like they belong on an 
 extremely good ps2 game not 360.
  The gameplay reminded me of Zone of the Enders ( A very awesome ps2 game that got like a 8 out 
 10) . Dodging missiles or throwing them back at a bad guy or even using flares to stop them was 
 nice. ( Although flares become more useful since you often get bombarded by a swarm of missiles) . 
 Ripping a tank or helicopter was also fun as well as using certain enemy vehicles. Customizing 
 the suit was nice but i was disapointed by the low number of upgrades and weapons you could add 
 to the suit. The only bad thing about this game is that it can get very difficult ( too difficult) 
 but nothing to cry about. Dialog was nice on Robert Downey's part as well as Terrance Howard ( 
 Did i spell it right???) . The story really isn't that confusing, it's really simple to understand. 
 Downside is that this game is really short and repititive. I give it a 7 out 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viva_Matteo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm glad I did. The game was great. You felt as though you were Iron Man. I think the flight mechanic 
 was the best part of the game. It really has no other comparison really other than from The Superman 
 game and it seems to even have improved on that. Controls when you first start are a little tough, 
 but you gradually adapt to them and are flying, grabbing tanks, firing shots, and barrel rolling 
 out of the way. The difficulty was tough at times, but nothing unlike other games like The Hulk: 
 Ultimate Destruction. I would say the replay value is somewhat moderate as you try the different 
 difficulties, collect more assets, and unlock the other suits. I can't see why this was rated so 
 low; I guess it just got stuck in the "It's a movie game that isn't Spider-Man" category. All in 
 all it is at least worth a rent to try it out and definitely suited for Iron Man fans (which I 
 wasn't until recently) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightSlayer45
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  in the beginning of the game it started as a pretty good game, something similar to the movie but 
 had more added to the game to make it longer and fun. each mission had the main taget to destroy 
 or protect until a certain point in the game. the controls at first are weird at first but eventually 
 you will get the hang of it. the music is alright, could of been better. the number one thing that 
 was annoying was being hit by missiles over and over. with ironman you can try dodge the missiles, 
 lasers, bullets aren't that bad but eventually the damage adds up to the point where the suite 
 shutdown temporary and then you get back up. the thing is you only get four life bars. getting 
 hit by missiles over again and again gets old. most of the missions are pretty hard but with quick 
 dodging, flares, and fast thrusters you can beat any mission, (barely) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarahmcdonald88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  this game is spectacular and it rules. the graphics are great and iron man looks superb. the game 
 play is really good and a lot of fun. the sound in this game is top notch. the music is good for 
 a super hero game, the sound effects are great, and the voice acting is awesome. the replay value 
 and value of this great game is top notch. as replaying the levels are a blast and the one man 
 army missions are a lot of fun. the controls are easy once you get used to them. this game is simply 
 a riot and a ball of fun. ball of fun. ball of fun. ball of fun. ball of fun. ball of fun. its 
 awesome. its awesome. its awesome. its awesome. its awesome. super cool. super cool. super cool. 
 super cool. super cool. great graet great great great great great game great great great great 
 great great great great great great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradpower9999
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  iron man is a perfect game. it has tons of great action. action in the air and on the ground. i 
 love this game. its lots of fun. people complain about the controls, but once you get used to them 
 they are quite easy. iron man looks awesome in the game and everything else in the game looks great 
 too. iron man's weapons are spectacular. iron man's repulsors are powerful and accurate. his unibeam 
 is great too, but it takes too long to charge. his missles and gernades are lethal. i love flying 
 in this game, its so much fun. iron man's after burners are really cool. my only complaint is that 
 it is a hard game, but a lot of other games are hard too. like the incredible hulk ultimate destruction. 
 that was a really hard game too. but no one complained about that game being hard. i really enjoy 
 a good challenge, so this game was a great challenge for me. secret level did a great job with 
 this game. hopefully the sequel will be even bettter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  How do I say this? Well. Ummm, ugh and eck.
  
  This game could actually rival Superman returns when it comes to the frustration factor. I only 
 have my self to blame though. I should have known better. Thank God I get my games for free. I 
 feel bad for kid who spends his allowance money on this game, or for the parent who spends their 
 hard earned money on it. But once again i SHOULD have known better, and for the following reasons...
 
  
  A: Superhero games tend to suck.
  
  B: Movie games tend to suck.
  
  Lets do the math.
  
  Suck + Suck = Really SUCKS!!!
  
  The controls could be the main problem. 
 Or it could be the freakish change in difficulty that occurs midway though the game. At one point 
 I wondered if someone had changed the difficulty setting on me as a joke. People can be cruel and 
 so can this game.
  
  Hey Sega! A long, long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, Someone invented this wonderful thing 
 called checkpoints. THE LEGEND OF ZELDA HAD A BETTER SAVE SYSTEM THEN THIS GAME!!!
  
  I have enough problems in my life. Games are suppose to take you out of the real world and into 
 another. Games are suppose to be fun. This ends up being this games biggest failure. For a game 
 that had so much obvious potential, its simply a shame that that potential was never reached, or 
 even worse was pushed aside and ignored, all in the name of profit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krackley
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I usually don't buy or rent movie tie-in video games. They never live up to gammer's 
 expectations (you think all these haters would have realized that by now) .
  
  But I couldn't help myself, it's Iron Man for God's sake!! I had to buy it!! The game started out 
 very promising. Playing as the "cave-created" Iron Man suit was interesting. Only having the flame 
 thrower and some missles made for a different fighting style than you would use for the rest of 
 the game. You really got a chance to use some of the melee stragety here. I will admit that the 
 enemies are not very smart. However, I've seen dumber enemies (you may recall Star Wars Battlefront 
 II where an enemy would get stuck in a corner and keep bumping into the walls) . At least these 
 enemies show some gumption and keep tracking you down. The tanks even drive off road to try and 
 get to you.
  
  When level 2 begins and you can fly, that's when the game gets really fun. Flying towards an enemy 
 and blasting them with your repulsars is probably the most fun I've had playing a video game in 
 a long time. After spending MANY hours playing Iron Man in Marvel's Ultimate Alliance, it's great 
 to let Iron Man loose in an open arena.
  
  As many reviewers have probably mentioned, the levels themselves are not very complicated, except 
 for the vast amount of enemies. The worst being the constantly replenished jets flying overhead 
 bombarding you with missle after missle. Not to mention the ground troop attacks. There's a reason 
 why you are taught to dodge during your training mission (Level 2) and I recomend using the chaff 
 or shield. That's what's nice about this game, "What works on one level may not work as well on 
 another." That statement was taken from the Marvel interview with Andy Alamano, producer of the 
 Iron Man game.
  
  You can take from this game what you want. It's not the worst movie tie-in game ever made by a 
 long shot. But there was room for improvements as well (check points throughout the missions for 
 instance) . But once you have your skills down, this makes for one Hell of a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trentsbest
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Iron Man is a hard game even on easy. But flying around in the sky at very fast speed is fun and 
 shooting missile but the melee atacks get boring and shooting with your repoulsers gets boring. 
 Some levels were extremely hard and getannoying after a while. Upgrading your suit is sort of fun 
 but getting different kinds of suits is pretty cool but this game is still extremely hard. There 
 are a lot better games then this game sodo not get it or rent it if your a person who isnt really 
 good at video games you will get anooied and mad because you keep dieing and having to start the 
 whole entire mission over because there are no checkpoints in this game that can get frustrating 
 after a while. So ironman is a dissapointing game and do not recommend this game at all so please 
 do not buy or rent it. It is a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adammcdonald999
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  iron man is a great game. the game play is fun, fast paced, and action packed. customizing the 
 mark three suit is really fun and adds to the overall great game play. iron man's weapons ( repulsor 
 beams, unibeam, rockets, gernades) are devestating and dynamic. in the game you truly are a one 
 man army. the game play truly makes you feel like iron man. destroying tanks and the armored vehicles 
 with iron man's fists is a blast and a gives you a sense of absolute power. it's a rush!!! I give 
 the game play a 9 out of 10. awesome game play. 7 out of 10 for the graphics. good graphics. iron 
 man looks awesome in this game. 9 out of 10 for the sound. the sound effects are perfect, the music 
 suits this game, and the voice acting is top notch. I give 8 out of 10 for the value and replay 
 value of this game. its fun to replay missions and the one man army missions are great. 7 out of 
 10 for the tilt. the controlls are difficult at first, but after a hour of playing they were easy 
 as pie. the controlls are good. overall i give this great game a 9 out of 10. i love this game!!!! 
 its very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crashspeeder
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  A great game with incredible attention to detail in terms of levels. The controls can be a bit 
 difficult when you're struggling to hit 4 buttons while flying and aiming but they become somewhat 
 easier as time goes on. The levels are more about getting into a rhythm than anything else. If 
 you have the patience to fail and try again (lather, rinse, repeat?) as the game progresses. I 
 still say this game deserves solid marks for the effort put into it and the stimulating gameplay 
 and visuals. They simply should've balanced it out a bit more.
  
  Given our human limitations of having only 2 hands and a mere 5 fingers on each, the game makes 
 due with an impressive button configuration. The gameplay sometimes requires you to contort your 
 hands in interesting ways simply to not fall out of the sky whether due to your failure to hit 
 the "hover" button or the missile (s) about to make your acquaintance. Unfortunately I feel more 
 like a juggernaut than a graceful billionaire on a mission when I'm hovering in the middle of enemy 
 fire taking ridiculous amounts of damage per second in an attempt to shoot down all my enemies. 
 The ability to ram enemies is a plus and the airbrake is a nice feature but flying will most likely 
 take a back seat to hovering when you need to destroy large numbers of enemies. That or your accuracy 
 will take a dive and you'll most likely be shot down in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpwns360
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is bad because
  -you try shooting while flying at super high speeds
  -flying system a little odd
  -too much talk
  -hard to maneuver spider-man was great!!! iron 
 man blows!!
  
  the movie was good but there wasn't enough action in it so they had to change up the game which 
 in my opinion absolutely ruined it
  
  would be good if you could customize colors or others things like use your microphone to control 
 things kinda like Rainbow Six Vegas but anyways not a good game
  
  the only good thing about this game is the ability to fly and guess what THAT SUCKS BY ITSELF think 
 they could've worked a little harder on this game
  you know what screw this. I'M OUT TO PLAY SOME CALL OF DUTY 4!!!!!!! OR POSSIBLY SOME RAINBOW SIX 
 VEGAS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Okay first of all, the bad:
  
  1. Horrible story and voice acting, the witty and sometimes hilarious lines from the movie are no 
 where to be found here, just clichd unfunny ones.
  
  2. Difficulty.... what the hell? Don't get me wrong, I love a difficult game, but this is not difficult, 
 its just plain unfair, enemies can accurately hit you at about 4 times the distance you can even 
 target them. missiles have never locked on so well since this game, and I am not talking about 
 yours. Iron Mans missiles have garbage locking ability and a regular helicopter shooting a missile 
 not only flies at several times your max speed but can hit you easily while you are flying so erratically 
 you can't even see properly, and yet if you turn off your thrusters and fall, they miss almost 
 every time..... what? Iron Man flying at mach3 can't shake a missile, but gravity screws them up 
 somehow? Which might sound like a good tactic, but its hard to feel like Iron Man if your just 
 bobbing up and down.
  
  3. Everything BUT Iron Man looks like crap
  
  4. Repetition anyone?
  
  Well....... quite a list, now for the good:
  
  1. Flying is fun... DAMN 
 fun, Iron Man can fly at almost uncontrollable speeds with even his default thrusters.
  
  2. Upgrades! an RPG element never hurts an action game... too bad upgrades are about 80 million dollars 
 even early on, still its fun and well worth the money.
  
  3. Extra suits! Most fans of Iron Man will notice these immediately, and variety is always good.
 
  
  4. Some moments deserve to be in a video game montage, love it or hate it, this game has some, as 
 Gamespot puts it: Oh "Snap!" moments, where Iron Man rams through a helicopter while narrowly dodging 
 10 missiles and the explosion engulfs the area as Iron Man skillfully flies away.
  
  5. It may not be great, but if you love Iron Man enough to buy the game, do you really have any 
 other choices? (not exactly a plus, but worth mentioning)
  
  6. diverting power to different parts of Iron Man, while not very in depth is still nice.
  
 
  7. A better than average HUD
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. Catching a missile is fun! that is, until 15 more hit you before you even have a chance to throw 
 it back.
  
  2. The Uni-beam is beautiful, its just too bad the charge time will get you bombarded before you 
 can even fire it.
  
  3. Boss battles against no name tanks and helicopters could be fun, its just too bad instead of 
 giving the boss more firepower, they instead have tons of weak bodyguards, and I mean a TON
  
  Well, take what you want from all of this, unfortunately, the bad outweighs the good, which 
 is a crying shame, mostly because this game had some GREAT ideas, that just weren't fleshed out 
 enough. The difficulty, graphics, and voice acting all could have been outweighed if they made 
 a more in depth power diversion system, a better system of dodging missiles and any other incoming 
 fire.
  
  
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  OK, lets get the negatives out the way. 
  While Iron Man himself looks awesome, the environments around him are not very "next-gen". You 
 can probably pull these graphics off on a PS2.
  The enemies are a bit repetitive. The difficulty is high. The cutscene graphics (again besides 
 Iron Man) are awful, and the voice acting is bad.
  Oh yeah, and the story is very bland and uninteresting. 
  So having said all that, how can I 
 defend this game? Because where I completely disagree with the reviewers is with the flight controls 
 . They are absolutely awesome in my opinion. Yes, it takes some getting used to. But check this 
 out: You can hover in the air, you can fly with or without your afterburners turned on, You can 
 do a spinning barrell roll, dodge mid-air, dive to the groud for a deadly "ground-pound". As your 
 suit is upgraded, you can get faster thrusters, making the sense of speed incredible. Bottom line, 
 flying is an absolute thrill. 
  Some critics claim they never felt like Iron Man. Are you kidding? As I've said, you have total 
 freedom to fly at incredible speeds. Here's the laundry list of what you can do with you weapons: 
 you have repulsors, missles, grenades, energy shields, a unibeam, a ground-pound. All of this is 
 upgradable. All this adds up to one thing: you really feel like you are Iron Man! 
  Finally, critics cry that the difficulty is punishing. Well, it's definitely difficult, but so 
 is Ninja Gaiden. Why hammer Iron Man for something Ninja Gaiden got praised for? But the fact is 
 you have all the tools you need as Iron Man to take on the odds. At times, you can feel indestructable. 
 
  The last thing I want to say is I think because it's a movie game, Iron Man automatically gets 
 a bad critic's eye because of all the crap liscence games out there. Again, not fair. 
  Oh, and I forgot to mention that Iron Man himself is as next-gen as it gets. He looks great, during 
 gameplay and during cutscenes.
  My overall point is, yeah, there are issues in this games, but the flying, the feeling of invincibility 
 as Iron Man, the look of Iron Man, all these things make this a solid game and not a bad game.
 
  I understand that I'm probably in the minority and I'm a huge Iron Man fan, but I would ask that 
 you rent it first and don't just take the critic scores for granted. 'Cause sometimes, those critics 
 are wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-evil
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I tried Iron man for the first time recently, It looked like it could've kept my attention, however... 
 I was truely wrong, I had fun with the flying and that was about as deep as it got for me, I could 
 fly and shoot rockets and some little tinker toys here and there. But the missions were far too 
 repetitive for their own good.
  
  This game was a total let down for me, It could've been something so much better, If they had put 
 more time into this game, It could've become a 8.5 without any trouble, but they tried mixing an 
 iron man game, with Hulk like functions. You cannot have Iron man running around with the speed 
 of the hulk, It just doesn't look good without a giant green monster to match the speed, his running 
 could've been much more realistic, the combat could've been better when it came hand to hand and 
 really... The only thing I might've even slightly enjoyed, was the hilarious commentary that came 
 in every so often.
  
  I just can't really think up enough good/bad, for this review to go on any longer. So my final 
 words, It was just a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Good movie bad game simply another take on the companies trying to cash in on their movie. Explination 
 of the game well its iron man if you want to play the movie fine but if you're hoping that the 
 game expands on the movie forget it. The graphics are good and the sound is ok. The voice acting 
 is done by the cast and that is cool. But I did notice that lips didn't move with the words and 
 that will give you an idea on how much work went into this game. The game play is great if you 
 can't shut down your brain for that long. Shoot grab repeat shoot grab repeat that's about it. 
 Every time you shoot it looks the same as the next and as for the grabbing well The armies you 
 face have about 1,000,000 of the exact same kind of armor and choppers. There must have been a 
 buy one get 1,000,000 free. When you do grab and rip a tank or chopper apart with you bear hands 
 there is apparently only one way to do it, no really there is only one way to do it. It's a sand 
 box game you would think yeah! But it is just like a sandbox every little piece looks the same. 
 This game sucksBAD! Just an example of the movies trying to suck in the gamers. Go by some shampoo 
 at least after the rinse lather repeat it will be as much fun but the bonus is you will have clean 
 hair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0cky12
Rating: 5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The game doesn't really stick with the movie story line but, has a good game plot none the less. 
 The levels are pretty much the same, destroying smaller base defenses so you can work your way 
 to the main base. Then its a typical boss fight. As you progress you can upgrade Iron Man with 
 different hand weapons, thruster, auxiliary weapons, powers cores ect. to help you complete your 
 objectives.
  
  As for the game play, its pretty fun if you want something to play between breaks with GTA IV or 
 COD 4. its easy to control Iron Man around a large environment that yields plenty to smash and 
 destroy. I like the ability to fly and hover without having to land constantly to recharge some 
 kind of energy source. The ability to redirect your energy to weapons, thrusters, or regenerating 
 your life is also a plus.
  
  As for over all game play I would give this a 5, as for fun value I would give it a 7. Not to difficult 
 to complete the game. It should take the average gamer 4 to 5 hours of game play but for super 
 hero fans, its a fun game to add to your collection. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: download340
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Yet another movie tie in game that doesnt blow chunks.. For the 360 Version graphics look great 
 the controls are easy to learn and the maps are pretty expansive, the details on the armor as your 
 flying about are a great plus nice to see they didnt just phone it in.
  
  Not the hugest arsenal of weapons but given the fact that u can use enemy weapons against em makes 
 up for that, with proper timing and skill (sory noobs) tossin missile's is cake. The game has more 
 then enough enemies per board to keep you entertained unless u just want a walk in the park game 
 that u can complain about.. unfortunately the hand to hand leaves much to be desired.. like much 
 much much to be desired, The bonus armor that isn't so much of a bonus isnt so great either but 
 at least they tried.. and there are always upgrades.. so hang tight folks and give the game a honest 
 shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chocobobilly123
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 12, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I Thought, When i First Heard Of This Game "OMG The sipderman series was Awesome, This Is Gonna 
 be So Cool"................... Boy Was I Wrong. It's Sketchy, The Flying Is Waaaaaaaaay Too Hard 
 To control properly, The Missions Are So Mediocre, Its About As Exciting As Watching Paint Dry, 
 I Get Bored WATCHING Someone play it. Total Let Down. The One Credit I WILL Give it Is That The 
 Graphics Are Well Done, If Only It wasn't Let down with the shambles Of A Gameplay This would have 
 been a Fun pick up and play game. Unfortunately, It Is Far From It. If They Had Taken A Leaf Out 
 Og the hulks Book With a Few "Different Style" Mission It Would Have Livened up Gameplay a Little. 
 The Modifications To The Suit were a Plus Towards the Game, But Thats just Words In a Menu Really, 
 Nothing Solid Like Armoured Core. Unfortunately, This game wasn't for me. It Could Have Been Done 
 ALOT better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Venomz-
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  You will play as Tony. He creates lot of weapons. But in the game you will start the game in the 
 prison. You'll use the first metal armor. This movie based allows the user to experienced being 
 Iron Man! And you will wish that you have Iron Man's armor. And there are some really cool stuffs 
 such as upgrading Iron Man's armor. The players will direct power to different parts of Iron Man's 
 Armor or suit. Creating a variety of unique attacks. Iron Man alone will fight armies of fighting 
 jets, military tanks, Armored super villains and more! And some players says that if you play this 
 game you will not die. My answer is maybe. When i play this game i don't know where is the health 
 bar i just kept fighting and fighting until i finished the game. Funny eh? And the really cool 
 thing about this game is you have the chance to fly! Using Iron Man's jetpack. I tell you this 
 is the reason why i played this game. It's really cool. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 10, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  One shouldn't expect much from a movie tie-in game, but at the same time, NO game should be this 
 plain, simple, and boring.
  
  It follows the ironman story well enough to keep fans of the film interested... for 5 minutes.
 
  
  Then the gameplay. Plain and completely boring. Missions aren't varied at all and combat feels 
 like something that could have been pulled off on a gamecube. And whats with the BRUTAL difficulty? 
 I can understand a challenge like DevilMayCry and NinjaGaiden but this is unfair. Flying is kinda 
 cool-but then you realize: why can't I fly superfast like in the movie?
  
  Graphics are the main saving grace. I thought they were pretty nice and at times show some good 
 detailing on environments and IronMans model.
  
  IRONMAN the game has nothing going for it. Don't play it. This game disgraces games, Marvel comics, 
 and Black Sabbath songs.
  
  Now its not the worst game-but it still completely sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsofsilence
Rating: 2
Date: May 10, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that movie games (other than a select few) are horrible and this one is 
 no different.
  
  You fly into a level only to be shot at unmercifully by enemies who keep appearing from nowhere 
 only to drop a missle and dissapear back into nowhere. 
  
  The amount of enemies you face along with the damage that they do is just ungodly. I get hit with 
 a missle. 1/4th of my health is gone. I get shot by one of those tower things in russia. 1/2 down 
 the drain. Now imagine 4 or 5 missles, 6 or 7 tanks, along with 3 or 4 helicopters, and 4 or 5 
 random dissapearing jets all shooting at you at one time. IT'S ****ING CHAOS. Not to mention that 
 they all respawn. I dont usually get mad at games but this set me off big time.
  
  The levels are way too long with no checkpoints. I get 20 minutes into a level and i'm on the last 
 objective only to die have to start over.
  
  The cutscenes are bad looking. Its about the same level as spiderman 3 for the PS2 but the acting 
 is somehow worse. Robert Downey jr. is impossible to understand. All he does is mumble. I usually 
 watch the cutscenes but when the star of the game cant speak clearly into the mic there isnt really 
 a point in it.
  
  The extras dont help. I beat the "One man army VS Ten Rings" challenge and unlocked the Mark II 
 suit only to find out that its actually weaker than the normal armor. To make a long story short: 
 I had to work to be powered down.
  
  I dont think i heard any music in this game which sucks because supposedly (AND I CAN'T CONFIRM 
 THIS) the PS2 version has "Iron Man" by Black Sabbath playing on the first level. So your "reward" 
 for playing it on a next-gen console is to have content cut?
  
  The graphics are glitchy at times. I've been flying around and the camera turns and I can see through 
 mountains. I would expect this from the Nintendo 64 or even an early PS2 game but, not the 360. 
 Its been ten years since things like that were common. I thought it had been phased out. Appearently 
 not.
  
  To be fair I have to say that the controls are good. The flying is fun (when you arent being relentlessly 
 blasted at) and the layout of the controls doesnt have any notable flaws.
  
  If you want a fun experience playing this game go onto XBL and download the demo. Its honestly 
 the best level in the game (and the incredibly cheap boss isn't in it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Viru
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off lets sort out some facts:
  
  1. Iron Man is about a genius inventor who after being captured escapes in a shoddy old piece of 
 armour then builds a snazzy version back home.
  2. The armour he builds is equipped with enough firepower to make an army ashamed.
  3. The story 
 mostly focuses on Stark/Iron Mans betrayal at the hands of his mentor and the inevtiable showdown.
 
  
  In game terms all of this sounds ideal, plenty of weaponry, customization as well as a good enough 
 story and the work of 25 years of comics... WRONG. The story is slapped together in a series of 
 interconnecting missions and sub-par cutscenes (which if the actors involved had been slightly 
 more upbeat may have been quite good) . The game limits you to literally four weapons: Repulsors 
 (lasors) , Unibeam (one shot lasor) , Missiles/Grenades, and melee/smashing damage. Of these only 
 the melee feels like someone put some effort into them instead of just putting together some shoddy 
 animations and input a small damage command. This in itself is all the hallmarks of a bad game 
 but it gets so much worse due to one thing: THIS GAME IS HARD, and i don't just mean oh you'll 
 die a couple of times then get up again, in Iron Man you will die a lot. All of the levels are 
 built around the idea of blowing stuff up then going on to blow more stuff up, what it doesn't 
 tell you is you will be facing hordes of foes throwing all they have at you, so at any one point 
 you could be facing missiles, gunfire and explosives all aimed at your face.
  
  However bad this game might be though it does have some small glimmers of hope, namely flying, 
 environments and customization. This game, though not Unreal technology, looks reasonably good, 
 with little to no lag with tens of enemies on screen at once and lucious open battlefields to roam 
 around in, however some aspects do look quite slapdash including buildings and grass. Next the 
 customization options for the suit are quite good, with you being able to choose to upgrade parts 
 of your armour ranging from your weapons to your afterburners. Lastly flying, this one part of 
 the game is what will keep you going because it is brilliant fun, there is nothing quite like engaging 
 in a dogfight against some airplanes 1000ft above a battlefield. The amount of effort thats gone 
 into making flying fun may have detrimented the other area of the game, but it is put to good use 
 as you zoom around the environements while shooting bad guys, smashing into enemies at 100mph is 
 also fun as well.
  
  So to wrap off, this game has far more bad points than redeeming qualities, however many of these 
 points could have been so much better had Secret Level had more time with the game, such as an 
 improved story and combat system, we can only wait until Iron Man 2 to find out if things will 
 change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  So, you've seed the mediocre movie, and want to play the game. You head over to your rental store 
 and notice there are at least 5 copies in. That i s the first bad sign. Next you look at the makers 
 and find a never-before-seen company called Secret level. Bad sing number two is now winking you 
 in the face. So either you get another game, or prepare to face hell.
  
  Its Iron Man to the rescue..... by actually getting this game to sell copies. At first, the game 
 seems awesome, but when the cut scene rolls in, there are plenty of jaggies and bugs to go around. 
 So maybe the cut scenes aren't the best, the gameplay is good, right? Nope, sorry, the game has 
 slowdowns almost every 30 seconds. There is almost no tutorial, and hard objectives such as destroying 
 tanks comes in. Plus, the levels are repetitive and even the most hardcore gamers will have trouble 
 with this title.
  
  Without being said, the option to fly is cool, but fly too far out and you have to turn around. 
 The controls are wonky, and flying is hard because the LB button doest always register. Save yourself 
 money and don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogglies5
Rating: 4
Date: May 9, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I seen the movie and it was great! I expected the game to be just as good too, right? WRONG! First 
 of all, I don't really like SEGA, Cap-com etc because I'm not much of the arcade-gamer. Thats just 
 me, but I thought it would still be fun to tear tanks apart. I got to the first level, cinematics 
 were good. Then the game play started. It wasn't bad except for the fact that Iron Man should switch 
 to de-caf! His foot strides were about 2m. long! I ran across th level like a bullet kinda. I could 
 handel that but then the others levels were pretty much the same thing except based in different 
 spots. REPETITIVE If I could change on thing i would probably have Ubisoft, Activision or someone 
 else do it because I know how good they are at games. The only reason it deserves a 4.0 is because 
 it is FUN SOMETIMES. I'd like to compliment the game in some way but uhhhh.....
  Plus it was really hard nearing the middle, with all the missies flying around i'm suprised they 
 didn't cause a nuclear explosian!
  
  It could have been worth so much more (money-wise) .... poor wallet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Iron Man, another game you could have predicted what it would turn out like. Yes, it's based off 
 a movie and yes it is mediocre. To begin with the story, I skipped all the cutscenes. Not only 
 were the characters and voice acting bland, but it put me to sleep. That being said, the gameplay 
 is a little bit better.
  
  But before I venture off into the gameplay let me go over the graphics. Iron Man himself looks 
 pretty slick, with his shiny armor and, for the most part, decent animation he is the highlight 
 of the game (of course) . The enemies though don't fare as well. Ground troops look like 2D sticks 
 with guns, with a single death animation. Then you have a variety of ground vehicles, air vehicles, 
 and a couple turrets. They are all square which lucky for the creators is easy to do but unfortunately 
 doesn't make the game look the least bit creative. You will fly around in boring areas: the cityscape, 
 the desert, and of course there has to be an ice level.
  
  So as Iron Man you have repulsors (basic automatic fire that you'll constantly do) , an alternate 
 fire (based on your selection, it can be a couple missles or a grenade, and so on) , and the ability 
 to fly. You can hover, gain altitude, or propel yourself forward like a bullet complete with afterburner. 
 Most of this works pretty well except for close-range, but since you hardly ever melee (yes you 
 can punch and grapple) that function is useless. 
  
  So here is how you'll play, hold RT (repulsors) throughout the entire level, of which there are 
 13, occasionally press Y (alt. fire, usually a set of missles) when you can use it, and either 
 tap or hold LT to control your altitude. All you have to do is look at your mini-map, decide your 
 current objective (the yellow dots) and head there, destroy the entire area usually, and complete 
 the level. Boss fights do not hold up well. There usually is no strategy whatsoever, you just repulse 
 and fire your missles, they'll move around, keep constant fire on them.
  
  I've kept this short game, all 4-5 hours of action, and made the review way too long. Simple solution 
 here: rent it, get achievements or enjoy playing as Iron Man, and return it. Do not buy this game, 
 as it has no replay value. You can get an easy 850 gamerscore in one play-through, or a full 1000 
 if you want to try it on the hardest difficulty (which IS pretty tough) . Either way, it is forgettable.
 
  
  Enjoy your day, and if you enjoyed this review read my other ones. I always welcome feedback to 
 know my reviews are useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_klein
Rating: 5
Date: May 9, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  It was pretty much a given that the movie would be awesome, they should have rode the wave a bit 
 longer and spent more time on this. They should have made the game about being iron man, rather 
 than the iron man movie. Feels like afterburner.
  Quick time events get boring. The dialogue is boring. Jarvis sounds gay. Gwenith looks like a poo 
 sandwich, and the armor is shiney to the point where it looks almost pink.
  As a rental, or short term pick up and play, it's kind of fun, but it gets old fast.
  
  Text 
 revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies 
 must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must 
 have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have 
 aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium 
 of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 
 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, 
 hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly 
 worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth 
 it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for 
 this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this 
 review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. 
 Copy & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy 
 & Paste! Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! 
 Text revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text 
 revies must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies 
 must have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must 
 have aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! Text revies must have 
 aminium of 100 words, hardly worth it for this review. Copy & Paste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batoutofhell_85
Rating: 4
Date: May 9, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  even though the movie was killer in the box office, the game just doesn't give the same credibility. 
 the only good things in the game were tearing tanks in half and maybe catching a missile or two, 
 but other than that it gets tiresome.
  the combat on this game is weak and even though its on the 360 the graphics didn't look too good. 
 the levels although well constructed kept repeating.
  during flight the camera is all over the place instead of follow your movement.
  to top it all 
 off the game was far too hard. some people may not even get past the 4th level. all and all when 
 it comes to the movie i've got no complaints, but i am greatly disappointed with the game. i didn't 
 expect the game to be like this at all. being the hard core gamer that i am this was a big let 
 down to fans of ironman. this is not the way to start out a new year of marvel games. i just hope 
 that the incredible hulk game due a month from now isn't as bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 4
Date: May 9, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i saw the film the day it came out and it was awesome! So after walking out of the cinema 
 i had a moment of madness. I thought it would be a good idea to go and buy iron man the game!. 
 I wasn't sure how to take the game to be honest, i'd seen a respectable 7/10 on a games programme 
 on tv which swayed my to buy it. After 5 min of playing the game i knew straight away i had mad 
 a big mistake. Just looking at the enemy AI sliding across the sand in mid air! but it didn't stop 
 there. When you get to the flying stage of the game you begin to hate the game even more. It takes 
 a good few hours to get used to the controls on flying the damn iron can, and then when you master 
 them you relise just how repetative it really is. Enemys firing countless missiles and almost no 
 way of dodging them because theres about 20 of them coming at you at once.
  The graphics look ok but the cutscenes look awful. The sort of thing you find on an early PS2 game.
 
  
  Graphics: As i say good but cutscenes baaaadddd.
  
  Sound: they got Downey Jr to do the voice which is good and the music is ok.
  
  Gameplay: If 
 it wasn't so damn hard to control it might have been more fun than it is now. But even then its 
 just a simple flying/shooter and has got a whole lot going on.
  
  **** Box: Poor controls, awful cutscenes, bad gameplay. Just another bad cash-in :' (
  
  Overall: 
 I'd say leave this one alone, it does nothing that make it worth buying. The fact you can hardly 
 control Iron man is a good enough reason not to buy it. But at the end of the day its just another 
 game making money on a big film. If your the biggest Iron man fan in the world i'd say give it 
 a rent. If your anyone else get Ace combat or a good shooter. Watch the film though its great! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudge_man
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The Iron Man game is real good fun to play. i saw a lot of other reviews saying that the game is 
 no good and all that but the only bad thing about it is it is a little hard till u get all the 
 upgrades... so when you start just do it on easy!
  
  The game does not take that long to get used to the only hard thing really is how often u get hit 
 by missiles but no its not hard to control and once you start playing you cant stop. It's just so 
 much fun and so addictive. The graphics in this game are also really good because there is just 
 so much open empty land and every pice is just as good as the next but the biggest looker for graphics 
 has to be the man himself Iron Man his suit looks so good and all the others you get to unlock 
 as well they They all look so good and its so fun flying through the air in them :) my personal 
 favourite is the classic suit its cool :)
  
  so to summarise what i think about iron is just that you can get hours of fun out of it! great 
 looking graphics.
  9/10!!!
  just needed a few minor tweaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 4
Date: May 9, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  My opening says it all. I put this in and was sorely disappointed not long after playing the first 
 level. I don't know about the other systems, but on a 360, the textures and graphics were that 
 of the original xbox; they were horrible. The controls are a horrid mess, and with the enemies 
 that are all over the place, playing this game is little fun with them. The animation and enemy 
 AI was horrible on this thing as well. I was so dissapointed, that I could not finish the game. 
 The levels were very repetitive as well; you fly in, shoot everything in sight, and move on. The 
 only saving grace for the game was the flying and way the character was animated, but that gets 
 old after the first couple of levels. My review -- stay away until its $10 -- 15 bucks, unless you 
 are the biggest iron man fan in the world.
  
  Pros ------
  Flying around as iron man
  Movie cast and likeness was included (Paltrow has a better rack in the game than she does in real 
 life)
  
  Cons -------
  No target lock on
  bad graphics and textures
  poor AI
  repetitive gameplay
  just not much fun!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cukr7
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 9, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  I won't go into the plot details as Gamestop has pretty much summed it up in their review. I did 
 play through the game twice though just to make sure I didn't miss anything. 
  
  What worked for me? 
  Flying around as Iron Man was a blast in the open maps of each level. The 
 terrains provided a good backdrop to each level as well as a strategic element in attacking your 
 enemies.
  
  Iron Man's arsenal of weapons were just as fun to shoot and destroy, although the upgrades really 
 didn't "seem" to make much difference.
  
  The animations, character designs, and terrains were all well-done and on-par with the graphic 
 expectations of today's games. Nothing ground-breaking but it was enough to feel as though you 
 were Iron Man to a degree. 
  
  What didn't work?
  The flight controls. Even after going through the game twice, I still had a lot of difficulty controlling 
 Iron Man's altitude, speed, direction, etc. The flight controls seem to be non-intuitive for me. 
 I've played a couple of other flight simulator games where I've had much better success in flying 
 around, but Iron Man was especially difficult when trying to fight or evade while in flight. For 
 example, to hover you need to hold the Left Trigger halfway down. OK, maybe it's me, but when you're 
 in the middle of a tense fire fight trying to keep a gentle touch on the trigger to hover while 
 all of your other fingers are mashing is beyond my abilities. 
  
  The game levels were repetitive. Different scenery, but essentially the same mission. Although 
 the levels appear to be non-linear and open, I felt that you really only had a couple of options 
 in accomplishing a level. Especially the latter levels. That being to hide behind a hill or structure, 
 peak out, fire your weapons, then duck back. The barrage of missiles and enemy fire is near impossible 
 to attack in any other manner in Formidable mode. For me, this took out the strategic element. 
 Iron man's weapons and targeting have limited distance where your enemies have much lengthier targeting 
 and firing distances. Also, if you can't target lock on an enemy or object, you won't hit anything. 
 I would've preferred to be able to do a little sneaking up or finding a weakness rather than shoot 
 and duck.
  
  The grappling animations. When Iron Man grabs an object such as a helicopter or tank, it triggers 
 a custom animation. Very cool at first.... Then boring. No variation in the animations. No real 
 control to pick up or throw an object, and it only works with your enemies and not other objects 
 in the game. No achievement or reward for the actions. Towards the end, it was just easier to skip 
 these attacks. 
  
  I felt the menu graphics were very well-done, but the upgrade system was again not very intuitive 
 in comparison to other games where you buy and customize your inventory. It was not clear at first 
 what I was doing. When you do have enough money, you can upgrade a particular part of Iron Man's 
 armor. You click upgrade and instead of listing out new gear and it's price, you automatically 
 just bought a package of items. No preview or description. Confusing. Let's window shop and lust 
 after a new repulsor first, so we can save our pennies instead of dropping it in our laps. 
  
  Even with all of these little flaws, Iron Man was enjoyable just to fly around and destroy 
 things as one of Marvel's best characters. He's wonderfully rendered with good voice acting. Even 
 though it's been in development for a couple of years, it feels as if this game is only half-finished, 
 or rather, half-polished.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reepeet
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Iron Man had the potential to be a great game. In some respects it was. Good graphics, fun upgrades, 
 but to be honest I almost returned it. The first few levels were so hard due to odd and new controls 
 that I became frustrated to the point of finding my receipt. But then I became accustomed to the 
 new mix that the game had on Flight and Combat controls and I even had a little fun. Of course 
 I still had my fair share of disappointments like the WEAK boss battles that felt like a pitiful 
 way to end a mission, and the lack of checkpoints as well as the overall abundance of repetitive 
 game-play. Right now I'm stuck on the Save Pepper mission, which to me is pretty much impossible. 
 I want to finish the game but I've pretty much maxed out my Mark III and really whats the point? 
 I can just replay previous levels and I'm sure I wont be missing much anyway. I really hope that 
 the new Incredible Hulk game will not be as disappointing. 
  
  I still think you're awesome Iron Man. Your game isn't though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kal-el175
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Iron Man. The movie that has kicked started 08's list of superhero blockbusters. And with any blockbuster, 
 there is a movie tie-in game. But does Iron Man: The videogame soar high like the movie or crash 
 down and melts... read on to find out.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Iron Man's gameplay is mostly made up of the player flying around a huge open world level. The 
 levels in the game are huge and gives you alot of space to zoom around. However, there is a down 
 side, most of the huge level is empty with nothing to be amazed by expect the areas with enemy 
 camps and such. Iron man controls badly at first, but after a while the player should become use 
 to the controls and be flying well, without crashing. Iron man's suit plays a big part in gameplay, 
 as the player is able to upgrade many parts of the suit, from his hand blasts to his core power 
 system. This works with the "funds" system. After the end of level, the player is given "funds" 
 on how well they did. With their funds, they are able to buy upgrades and this adds a little to 
 replay. A other feature of the game is the One Man Army levels. Here the player must fight 80 baddies 
 and defeat them in 10 mins. If they can do this, they unlock a different Iron Man suit such as 
 the Classic version or the Hulkbuster to wear if they replay a level. Here the downside is that 
 these suits can not be upgraded. 
  
  SOUND:
  Iron man: The video game features the voices of the Robert Downey Jr, Terrence Howard and Jeff 
 Bridges. They all do a great job of playing thier movie videogame counterparts and give some life 
 to the characters. The levels feature sounds such as missles flying past and tanks shooting at 
 the player. These all fit in well with the game, but don't sound to different further in the game.
 
  
  REPLAY:
  Iron man doesn't offer much in the replay area, unless you enjoyed the levels or want all the different 
 suits. The 360 achievements are easy enough to get and you shall not need to play more then twice 
 to get them all.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall this is a fun game once the controls sink in... however the fun won't last long as its a 
 short game with hardly any replay value. This is a great weekend rental but ONLY hardcore Iron 
 Man comic fans should pay full price/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flushedorgen
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i noticed about iron man the game was its open worldness its not like run around 
 do what ever but the game puts you in a mission which that mission level is HUGE. You can do most 
 things that iron man does in the movie from go fast then just STOP or grab a missle and throw it 
 back a people. The combat in the game is preety damb cool you can grab a missle luncher and start 
 shooting it at people, grab a tank press B really fast and RIP IT APART. You can also custimize 
 iron man (but not in the demo) . 
  
  WEAPONS: You get a standerd arsanal like normal stuff like ROCKETS COMING OUT OF YOU HANDS, or 
 this is preety standerd SHOOT A BIG BEEM OF DEATH AT YOU ENEMY. 
  
  OVER ALL: this game (demo) was the best thing ive ever played and its addictive really really addictive 
 and i think anyone who like guns flting and riping things apart will love this game!...................... A 
 10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyCali4nian
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  It is sad that the reviews that are put on here are negative. Really, since I have the game and 
 have seen the complexity of the controls first hand, I know how your feeling right now. At first 
 I was a bit dumbfounded at the choice of the control layout and I was ready to chunk the game. 
 Fortunately I calmed down and really payed attention to what I was doing and I have to say that 
 after a couple of hours of playing time, it gets easier to control Iron Man. I read some other 
 reviews and they called the controls un-intuitive, well to be correct they are complicated. Thank 
 you Sega, I, for one. am tired of being able to pick up a controller and know how to play it within 
 the first 5 min. this game actually makes you think about what you are doing in terms of flying 
 and moving. The controls are not very accessible but then again there isn't a whole lot of material 
 to pull from. So I commend Secret Level for a job well done. Last but not least a lot of people 
 call the game play repetitive, but let's be honest what can a near invincible Man of Iron do? Really 
 if you think about it he can really only smash and bash his way through things. I find that the 
 game really isn't given a fair chance do to a bunch incompetent j-a's who look at the cover art 
 to see if it excites them. When what is on the inside is the thing that matters. Unfortunately 
 for the people who simple things that are accessible to everyone this isn't for you. Although if 
 you're looking to actually be challenged and listen to some fun dialogue then this is, "Iron Man."
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of Iron-Man, I'm more of a DC kind of guy but I'm an addict to superhero games. Whenever 
 there's one out there, I just have to get it. Even though many reviews rate it real low but that 
 did not stop me from trying this one out and surprisingly I don't feel the same way as the reviewers 
 and most people for that matter.
  
  Gameplay - Iron-Man's story mode is broken into levels, huge levels. In each level tons of enemies 
 are placed all around the map. This game is basically a shoot em' up. Your job is to complete specific 
 mission objectives. After each mission you are given credits based on your performance to upgrade 
 your suit. See, Iron-Man lets you customize your suit with different versions of the same weapon. 
 Don't misunderstand, this may not sound like much but the ability to customize your suit is just 
 a lot of fun. The flying in this game is awesome, the controls may need some time getting used 
 to but once you get the hang of things then you'll truly appreciate the might of Iron-Man. Almost 
 all enemies are interactive meaning you can grab them and do some kind of finisher but you'll see 
 the same motion for each type of enemy throughout the game. Enemies do get cheap in the game because 
 dozens of fighter jets will be launching dozens of missiles at you at once not including ground 
 forces so every level is more like a trial and error routine and that can be really frustrating 
 but it's nothing that a little effort can't overcome. 
  
  Visuals - The only thing commendable is Iron-Man himself, every other thing is below average at 
 best. Huge level design does give a sense of freedom as I've never hit a border throughout the 
 entire game. The particle effects are little to none. Cutscenes are non impressive because they 
 look like they came from high quality PS2 cutscenes. With all the technology they can't even make 
 a car dent. Also I can't recognize Robert Downey Jr. in this one.
  
  Audio - Two of the main actors lend their voice to the game. Not really great work because they 
 sound unenthusiastic. The others, don't bother. There are nice sound effects like explosions, cannons 
 firing, repulsor blasting etc.
  
  Replay Value - Unlockable costumes should interest fans to complete the additional mode. Real enthusiasts 
 will try to replay the whole game on harder settings or trying to fulfill every objective to max 
 out the funding.
  
  Overall - Reading this review might sound like this game is mediocre at best because of all the 
 flaws but it is all this flaws that are actually the pros of this game that makes one enjoy it 
 for being what it is, a fast paced action game and not some trying to be sophisticated and end 
 up being ridiculous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomous725
Rating: 4
Date: May 6, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe anything good you may hear about this game. It isn't true. I rented it and let me 
 tell you it's just like any other movie based video game, except worse. This is below Transformers 
 or spiderman 3. Flying might be fun and you might look kinda cool but it's not worth it. You're 
 essentially invincible from what I played, I took missiles, explosions and gunfire with little 
 to no damage taken. Flying is incredibly fast and semi entertaining and hovering is essentially 
 flying slow. You have a small array of attacks: hand blasts, melee, grab, and chest blast. Basic 
 stuff. However grab is a one hit kill, and it's easy as hell to get right next to someone with 
 little trouble. Also running with Iron man looks incredibly unnatural. You look like a dorky little 
 teenager with scrawny arms and a big torso. Your arms are flailing about the place. Anyways don't 
 even rent this game, it's a b-rated Movie game and not even worth the title of mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Well about a week ago i went onto xbox live (game store) to find Iron man demo, the game looked 
 preety well for the stage, then right after i saw the movie saturday i was absolutely blown away 
 but when i bought the game some thing entirely else.
  
  
  Grpahics: The game looks unfinished. Your body sometimes goes into the ground, and all ground parts 
 of the game mostly city parts, looked like there are 3 shades of color and thats it. That was completley 
 disappointing, except for the demo level which was actually quite laid out well. Unlike the rest 
 of the game it was quite unbearable. 4/10
  
  Gameplay: yes the good part of the review. The game play was dot on what i like. You can update 
 your armor (thank god) weapons, chest, thrusters etc. and there is one thing i dont understand 
 is why they put melee it is alsmost completely useless except a few parts in the game. But besides 
 that i found the game play fun. They atleast put free fly in. 8.5/10
  
  
  Diffuculty: i was quite confused. When the diffuculty says "Normal" i think not to bad but NO they 
 have to make you shoot a helicopter boss about 50 million flippin times. Not that i dont like long 
 fights or anything but that is riduclous i spent 15 MINUTES attemping to fight some of the bosses 
 and died numerous times. I dare to think what hard is like.
  
  This was my short review for Iron man all i can say is buy it if you really are that bored. Sorry 
 i did have some fun free flying though.
  
  TuroX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skirbie
Rating: 4
Date: May 6, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  As many people have said in reviews of this game before, you're either going to like this game 
 or not. Before Iron Man was officially released, I like many people tried out the demo. My initial 
 impressions on it were that it was a decent looking game for a demo. The freedom to go where ever 
 I desired in the level for the 9 minute period was fun and entertaining. It looked pretty good, 
 and the use of weapons was nice, although the targeting I found to be a bit spotty. The controls 
 also took some getting used to.
  
  Although initial scores coming from critic sites were not good at all, I think from the enjoyment 
 I experienced while watching the movie motivated me to want to check out the game. Since no rentals 
 were available, I choose to buy it ($60 I'll never get back again) . Where I found interest in Iron 
 Man in the form of a demo, the finished product I was really disappointed with. 
  Graphically it doesn't look that much better than a previous generation game. The voice acting 
 is bad, but the character animations look silly and the backgrounds are relatively plain. In the 
 second level of the game when Tony goes to test out his new armored suit, the city looks vacant 
 of all people with the exception of the military force that he has to combat against. Interestingly 
 enough by the end of the second level the game mentions that civilian casualties were taken! What 
 casualties? There was no civilians to be seen anywhere. Perhaps they were all hiding in the buildings.
 
  
  By the third level, which was the same level used in the demo, I just plain had enough of this 
 game. I really wanted to like this game not only because I enjoyed the movie, but because I've 
 like the Iron Man character in the comics for a long time. In the end I simply play games to have 
 fun, and for me this game was missing it. Whether you'll like it, love it or hate it, I'd definitely 
 recommend renting this game first if you have even the slightest interest in it. That way if you 
 don't like it, well at least you won't have wasted much money on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiffy-tanker
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  I rented the game the day it was released. It was this or skate. and id already played the crap 
 out of the demo, and plus game like this have easy achievements so why not? I started playing and 
 enjoyed mowing down all the terrorists with my flamethrower and smashing them with my iron fists 
 of fury. But the second level, followed by a nicely detailed cut scene was a little obnoxious, 
 due to the use of the left trigger. The left trigger when held down halfway is used to hover, which 
 is good when strafing enemy ground troops or tanks. When pulled fully down, you rise, which is 
 a real pain because in an intense firefight you have a need to pull it down all the way, if you 
 play a ton-o-CoD4 like me. But still, worth a look at and if you enjoy the type of games, its a 
 combination between action and 3rd person shooter by the way, then you'll enjoy the one man army 
 missons which are a ton of fun and also the suit upgrading, were you customize attributes of each 
 suit you have. A good game in all that makes IRON MAN LIVE AGAIN!!!! (heh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcrockjrbr
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, it is not the first game based on a movie that came out, for sure, and all the players, at 
 least the ones interested in this kind of game, know that it's rather common that this kind of 
 game becomes a disaster, mostly 'cause of the rush the games industry suffer to launch the game 
 at the same date as the movie.
  
  I must say that I haven't watched the movie yet, but I believe that the game tries to be just the 
 same as the movie, the same story line, the same situations, and stuff like that.
  
  It seems like all the movie-based games are under some kind of terrible spell that induces them 
 to be as bad as possible.
  
  I know that this opinion is rather radical, but we can't say that's not true.
  
  Although, 
 (I think that there is always some light at the end of the tunnel) , this is the first game (that 
 i remembered, i used to have a PS2 where I played more than 100 games...) where you can control 
 a charachter which has so much space to, litterally, fly around. 
  
  The fact that Iron Man flyes wherever he wants ('til the limits of the mission zone) , and that 
 the missions can be attended in any way, makes a linear game in story, not so linear in the in 
 game playing.
  
  One fact that I believe most players could think it's annoying, is that the funds to collect in 
 each level are to little, and sometimes you stay in such an agony to buy new upgrades, what makes 
 this impossible.
  
  I guess I don't have too much else to talk about this game, it is not the worst game ever, I mean, 
 there are a lot worse then that, and some features are rather interesting, but the fact the the 
 story is a little poor and the game is so repetitive, put the game in a very low level of evaluation.
 
  
  But this is Iron Man, I mean, let's give him a chance! Don't you think he deserves it? He is one 
 of the only super heroes that are not super actually, he just wears the most advanced, ever, suit, 
 and so what? Who's gonna face him???
  
  Play it, it's not such a bad game, just a bit!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 4
Date: May 4, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Yet again the video game adaptation of a movie fails to deliver as good of a showing. Iron Man 
 the film was an incredible comic book adaptation and one of the best movies of the year so far. 
 I'll even go so far as to say that besides Batman Begins it may be the best comic book movie ever 
 made.
  
  The game is not nearly as good. In fact, even if there wasn't a movie, this game just isn't good. 
 The voice work is the only thing that is impressive, since they got Robert Downey Jr. to lend his 
 talent. The rest of the game is just one big boring mess. The graphics aren't that great. The controls 
 are annoying and the game quickly turns into a plodding, boring excuse for a video game. The fact 
 that in the first level, while running around and not even shooting yet, that the game lags every 
 30 seconds or so is unacceptable and the transitions to cut scenes are a joke.
  
  Don't waste your time, go see the movie instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty good movie turned game adaptation. The flight mechanics on the game is pretty 
 good, I'm not sure if you can do any aerial acrobatic maneuvers but you can dodge missiles and 
 incoming fire or better yet catch incoming missiles and hurl them back at your opponent. 
  The game can be a bit repetitive, but the visuals and the excitement of trying to destroy objectives 
 keeps you busy. I would recommend anyone to try this game out, if you're interested in buying it 
 I would probably rent it first so you know how it plays and get a feel if you want to make a purchase. 
 All in all I think this game is fun to play but probably will wait on buying as the price 59.99 
 is a bit pricey, but then again i think any game at that price is pricey and expect games to cost 
 20-40 bucks the most. But that's me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwcolt44
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Decent game for a weekend rental. The game has decent graphics, and game play, but there is nothing 
 ground breaking in it. As far as movie games are concerned it is better than most I have seen. 
 Although some parts could sure have used a bit more polish, it is not the complete marketing tie-in 
 garbage that a lot of movie / game co-releases are.
  
  The campaign can be beaten in an afternoon of hard playing, but there are other modes of game play 
 that give it a small level of replayablility. Iron Man certainly would have benefited from the 
 addition of a two-player co-op, V. S. mode or any kind of online mode to stretch out the replay 
 value of the game. For the $59.99 price tag, there is just no excuse for this.
  
  For all of the Iron Man fans you do eventually get to play in most all Iron Man suits that have 
 been in the comics including the Extremis, Classic, Classic Mk I and the Hulkbuster suit. (neat!) 
 and the suit that you play most of the game with (Mark III) is upgradable.
  
  Again, unless you are just an absolute die hard Iron Man fan and have money to burn, I would just 
 rent this game. Or at the very least wait a few weeks and buy it a discount at an EB games or Gametrader 
 used.
  
  NWColt44 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strike_Zer0
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  So it's been around a decade since we've seen a game focused primarily on Iron Man and with the 
 release of the movie here comes the expected tie-in game. Now we all know movie games are never 
 really the most beloved games but with Iron Man I was pleasantly surprised. Though with that said 
 the game is far from perfect. 
  
  I'll start with the plot. Basically, as I'm sure is fairly obvious, the game follows the plot of 
 the movie. However it follows it very loosely with only the opening and closing of the game being 
 drawn from the movie with almost everything else in between specially created for the game. The 
 main plot mainly revolves around two separate groups from the Marvel universe both of which had 
 no presence within the movie. The quality of the plot is actually quite weak and acts mainly as 
 an excuse to send a legion of enemies to attack you. So if you're hoping for cameos by other Marvel 
 characters or interesting sub-plots I'm afraid there's very little of either here. 
  
  The game has thirteen levels in total with each being quite large and open and taking anywhere 
 from as little as five to twenty-five minutes to complete. There's a variety of scenery ranging 
 from tropical islands to snow. Each level contains at least one secondary goal that normally involves 
 destroying something out of your way, not destroying something or doing one of the first two under 
 a time limit. The main goal of every level however is basically to just destroy your enemies. The 
 roster of enemy types is quite small and is basically a variation of either: tanks, helicopters/planes, 
 humans or gun turrets. Human enemies pose literally no threat at all and go down with one shot 
 from any weapon (including melee) . The game does this since clearly they want to give you the impression 
 you are a lone fighter against an army, which they do actually pull off quite well. 
  
  The controls felt quite odd and alien at first but after about twenty minutes they felt quite comfortable 
 and I've had no trouble since. You use LT to hover by holding it half way or use it to ascend by 
 holding it down. LB is basically the boost button to fly at high speeds with the A button acting 
 as a further increase in speed when held down at the same time. Flight is an important part of 
 the game and you'll likely spend most if not all of your play time in the air. Using A with the 
 control stick acts as a dodge in thee appropriate direction. RT and RB act as your primary weapon 
 and "unibeam" (a chargeable long range beam weapon) while Y acts as the secondary weapon. B is 
 grab and can be used to grab missiles or enemies or alternatively launch a small melee attack. 
 X activates an energy shield or stealth depending on what you've chosen in the customisation.
 
  
  Speaking of the customisation it's a little better than I dreaded it would be but still not quite 
 as deep as I'd hoped for. You can change your armour's stats via the available categories which 
 are: 
  Core systems  Armour resistance and melee power (bonus property is shield, stealth or missile 
 defence) .
  Repulsors  Weapon properties such as damage and rate of fire. 
  Power Systems  Energy properties and unibeam power (bonus property is "damage to energy", or rapid 
 unibeam) .
  Auxiliary Weapons  Secondary weapon properties (either missiles or grenades)
  Mobility Enhancers - Flight properties such as top speed or flight agility.
  
  Each section 
 has three levels to it and several choices within each level. You upgrade to the next level by 
 buying the upgrade before the level. Money is gained by completing levels with more being awarded 
 if you completed secondary objectives though chances are once you've got to the last mission you'll 
 be able to afford to upgrade your armour all the way. 
  
  There were a number of small glitches I encountered but none of them too serious. For example on 
 occasion I was able to see through the scenery when moving close to a wall or adjusting the camera. 
 There were also a couple puzzling ones such as when a boss character got stuck against a wall and 
 refused to move again for the remainder of the battle or when a tank flipped over when I approached 
 and began to drive around upside-down before exploding on it's own. 
  
  The game is not a very long one. To add replay value there's a bonus mode called One Man Army where 
 basically you play on one of five maps taken from the story (each one unlocked once you complete 
 the appropriate level) where you're tasked with defeating eighty enemies in ten minutes. If you 
 succeed in doing this you're rewarded with a new piece of armour. The new armour can then be used 
 once you replay story missions or play One Man Army again. Unfortunately despite the armour choices 
 ranging from a good variety of Iron Man stories (both old and new are represented) all but one 
 look and feel very similar to the standard armour you use in story mode., additionally these unlockable 
 armours are not customisable in any way and have locked stats. One Man Army would perhaps have 
 been more interesting if there were more levels or at least more of a challenge. Each one is in 
 fact quite easy to do, the challenge normally is finding that last batch of enemies you need rather 
 than surviving. Also you've already seen each level in the main game so there's nothing new here 
 in the gameplay.
  
  I'll touch on the achievements for a second. Basically you could probably get a good amount with 
 a bit of effort. They mainly revolve around completing the level, completing secondary objectives 
 or playing specific levels using certain armour. 
  
  So with no multiplayer, few additional features and a fairly short story mode it must seem like 
 I'm making this hard to recommend. But in all honesty the time I did spend going through story 
 mode and One Man Army I did enjoy quite a lot. The game really delivers on letting you feel like 
 you're playing Iron Man. How much that means to you is up to how much of a fan you are of the idea. 
 The gameplay although repetitive is quite solid and enjoyable while it lasts. I'd recommend this 
 game to fans of the character and anyone who likes action games with some money to spare. Paying 
 full price for this is perhaps a bit much if you don't have much interest (or much money spare) 
 so perhaps it's more fitting to give Iron Man a rent, you'll probably get all you want from it 
 in those few days. Though I do highly recommend checking out the demo on the XBL Marketplace as 
 the level you play is a good representation of the game, if you dislike the demo there's a good 
 chance you'll dislike the game also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomarius
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Iron Man is one of the few games that actually captures the essence of a movie without ruining 
 either A. the game play or B. the storyline.
  
  The story mode is quite entertaining and challenging at the same time. Even the initial levels 
 are no cakewalk.
  
  First flight, starts easy but then, destroying the gunship with the Mark II is quite a challenge 
 on Formidable difficulty.
  
  Even without the customization ability, the levels have nice replay value. The customization is 
 a good tool to keep the game fresh, adding further replay value.
  
  The additional suits are also a nice challenge to add to the one man army mode, trying to defeat 
 the targets with different suits and different attributes.
  
  My only complaints with the game are the sometimes awkward camera angle when running and the tilt 
 when flying. Otherwise this is a great game that will keep players entertained whether they like 
 button mashing action or strategic destruction.
  
  4.5 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I saw the movie. LOVED IT. Better than I thought it would be. I am SOOO GLAD I saw the movie before 
 the critics reviewed it (by the way, most give it a b+) . Given the fact that most great movies 
 make sucky video games, I was skeptical about Ironman. However, the movie left me so pumped up, 
 I needed more. So, I purchased the game...
  
  Before I go into the review, I want to say something right off the bat..... I thought launching 
 GTAIV the same week this game came out was just wrong. Rockstar stole money from Sega. But, that's 
 the gamebiz, right? That original October date for GTA's release being moved up to April was very 
 fishy. But, Let me go on to the review of IRONMAN (since that is why you're reading)
  
  I love the premise of the game, however let's cut the BS and get to the Chase. The problem you 
 will have with games of this nature is one thing, and one thing only.... Camera Orientation. I 
 wish the game was a bit more linear instead of giving you a free roaming around feel. Does anyone 
 remember Panzar Dragoon Orta for xbox? (Or the Dreamcast version?) They should make all flying 
 action games of this nature. Thus, no screwing around with the camera controls. That will be your 
 biggest vice in the game... Controlling the Camera Angle and trying to hover, while shooting. It 
 can be achieved, but you have to really get use to the button/control layout. I played both Demos 
 on the 360 and Ps3 (liked ps3 control scheme better, and the fact that the Ultimate Ironman Armor 
 is in the PS3 EXCLUSIVEly.) So I went and bought the ps3 version
  
  I'll give this game a few more tries. it seems promising. However, I cant see the score doing better 
 than 7.0, even by the biggest Ironman enthusiast. Just be prepared for some initial frustration 
 in: Firing, (also rerouting power from other parts of your suit for life suport/weaponry/melee.) 
 Flying is tricky, and will take some time getting use to. (Imagine.... pressing the fly button, 
 pressing the hover to change direction in flight...... pressing the firing button, and controlling 
 the direction your flying in (without crashing into anything.) So far, I've learned to hit that 
 hover button whenever you fall too close to the ground.... It helps. And, KNOW THE RADAR. This 
 will save you from bombardments of missle attacks. Rent the game.... try it out.... Give it a chance 
 and READ THE MANUAL (I didnt and suffered) Like one reviewer said... You'll either like it or hate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danzavar
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i never really bother with reviews at all, to be honest i have only written one before!
 
  
  anyway, less about that and more about this iron man, so last night i went to watch the advanced 
 showing of the film, and i must say i fully enjoyed it, For a marvel film it was definatly not 
 a let down. So that was my decision made, i was going to get the game the next day, and that i 
 did.
  
  So i arrive home after purchasing my xbox copy for 32.99, not a bad price compared to the 39.99 
 PS3 version, opened up the disk drive and slammed it in, i couldn't wait to be flying around just 
 like the iron man in the film, all that freedom, the speed, the rush!
  
  Well as i expected, the training level, of course there is one in almost every game these days 
 and as you could guess it starts off like the film in that big, clunky eyesore of a suit. So as 
 it goes you have the joy of taking on some very easy objectives that ease you into the controls 
 and that it did nicely. But then it hit me, the games frame rate slowed down EVERY time an enemy 
 appeared on screen "ouch"! But i couldnt let just that little minor incident put me off, so i continued 
 on along the road to becoming a full fledged Iron man, or so i desperatly hoped.
  
  Well anyway i dont want to spoil the game too much in terms of whats different from the film but 
 i can say i am a little dissapointed, not as much as when i went a purchased superman or spiderman 
 3. I did fear i was making the same mistake with iron man but as the optimist i went against what 
 i have learned from movie games and went ahead.
  
  I must have played for a few hours and have taken it out and placed it back in the case for my 
 younger brother to play. its not a terrible game but when you watch a film and see someone do some 
 pretty cool things and think "omg i cant wait to do that in the game!" and then you can't its a 
 rather big bummer.
  
  graphics are nice in my opinion, it does look as if alot of effort was put on iron man himself 
 aswel as the other major characters. A couple of issues with soldiers spasming and also being able 
 to see under the floor but still, nice work!
  
  Sound is just as good, original voice actors which is always a treat aswel as nice sound effects.
 
  
  Gameplay wise is were it failed for me, being restricted to a certain place, not a great amount 
 of freedom. Also repetitve tasks of doing the same thing so many times, i know blowing things up 
 is fun... but X amount of times in a short space of time started to get boring, variety please ^^
 
  
  and controls, i do like the control system used, some thought has gone into a well done and thought 
 out system, takes some time to get used to but it is brilliant when you get to grips with it.
 
  
  As for value, i do wish (again) that i had gone with my better judgement and waited till this had 
 gone down in price, its a good game but for me not worth the 32.99, 20 maybe.
  
  So my advice on this game, Rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  So i finally got it. After waiting two years for the movie, i also assumed an Iron Man game would 
 be made for the next-gen consoles.
  
  Now i watched the movie, the 30th of april. It was quite a blast to be honost, way more than i 
 expected. But what about the game? Could it be as good as the movie? I downloaded the demo the 
 360, and i must say i was impressed, alot of action right from the beginning. I even played the 
 demo three times in a stroke, cause i couldn't get enough of it.
  
  Now i love the Marvel universe, which also makes alot of the Marvel games a hell of alot better 
 for me, they impress me more than the average non marvel fan.
  
  But this review is made from my "critic" point of view. So i won't put my fan side first.
  
 
  Well today i got the game, and started playing it exactly at 6:10 pm, the graphics kiiinda impressed 
 me... i mean, the animated movies was actually very beautiful, they managed to make Robert Downy 
 Jr. look like himself (i mean Toby McGuire does not look like Toby McGuire in the spider-man games) 
 Gwyneth Paltrow is very well animated too, maybe abit "too much", as they have her breasts enlarged 
 ALOT, and you might think: "you pervert" but you can't help but noticing it.
  
  But the in-game graphics is kinda disappointing, cause it seems they have focused much more on 
 Iron Man than the rest of the game, the landscapes does not really impress me, only the water, 
 with the waves, and the light reflecting, probably the best animated water i have ever seen, but 
 that cannot make the rest of the games graphics look any better now can it? No. The steering is 
 actually quite good, it'll just take 5 min to learn, and then you are up, and away!!! You have 
 three ways to attack, melee, automatic gun, and missiles. The melee is of no use if you ask me 
 (i completed the whole game using only machine gun, and missiles) , but a nice feature is the fact 
 that if you hold the B button (or O button on PlayStation) Iron Man will grab helicopters, tanks, 
 and enemies and then smash em in a move, and that's actually quite cool, and very effective as 
 it kills the enemy right away. But the best is if an incoming missile is right in front of you, 
 then you will press and hold B (or O) and he grabs onto the missile, and swings it right back at 
 the enemy (i couldn't get enough of it)
  
  The levels are quite easy, and actully they are all like each other, just with different landscapes, 
 and perhaps one little different challenge, like a boss on some of the stages, or having to defend 
 something, but whatever, it's nothing new, and there is not much variation. Even though it's quite 
 funny, and entertaining, and you seem to wanna finish the next stage too, and then the next again, 
 and the next again and so on, and so on. Bosses are of no challenge, and is very much alike other 
 Marvel movie based games, like you know, either smash or crash, or maybe he has a force shield, 
 in which you have to destroy some items before beeing able to kill him, we have all seen that before 
 aye?
  
  Anyways, sound is pretty cool, there is sadly no music, but that is not necessary as you are in 
 constant battle, and with the sound of machine guns, and cannons, and stuff, it would only be annoying 
 with music.
  
  And the voices of the characters is done by the actors from the movie itself, so thats a nice feature, 
 even the robot pal - Jarvis - that stark uses to help him in the fighting, is the same voice, that's 
 kinda funny. The game play is not worth a hell of alot, and actully reminds me of Armored Core, 
 with prettier graphics, easier controls, and abit better gameplay, but basicly the same concept. 
 The story line is stupid, it's not like the movie, but on the other hand it wouldnt work properly 
 if it would follow the movie exactly, even though they miss a hell of alot, like Tony Stark lives 
 on a mountain, by the sea, just outside of a big city, but in the game, he lives in the central 
 city, and whats even more stupid is, whenever he goes out to fight a war or something, he juuust 
 takes the stair to the roof of his house, instead of flying out of his garage door like he does 
 in the movie.
  
  Well there is alot of stupid details in the game, but if you havent seen the movie yet, you have 
 nothing to complain about.
  
  The upgrading system is not something they should be proud of Sega, i mean basicly it is just a 
 fe upgrades here and there, and they are not making the biggest difference, only the "Flying upgrade" 
 makes you fly a hell of alot faster, which is kinda cool, and actully pretty good to have.
  
  It did not take me loong to complete the game, i can assure you of that, i started 6:10, and 
 completed the Story Mode at 10:10 exactly (no **** it took me 4 hours exactly) . But then you can 
 take on the challenges in "One man army against X" in which you have to kill 80 enemies in different 
 landscapes, with harder enemies each times, and every time you complete a challenge you get a new 
 armor, which is kinda cool. Silver Centurion (which is the first armor you win) is also the best 
 in my oppinion so to be honost, you just do the challengers to get ALL the armors for no good reason, 
 but it is kinda fun. The fact that there is no Online Part pisses me off, cause it would be so 
 logical how to make one. Go online, create or pick a stage, and then just kill eachother, like 
 in Ace Combat. Would be awesome... But all in all, it is an entertaining game, and actully a very 
 good debut for Iron Man on the next-gen, it is a typical movie based game, with a few flaws, and 
 tries abit too hard, but i accept it, and will definetly take it out of the case to play it again 
 once in a while... but maybe not now that i got GTA 4 ready to get completed XD Anyways, i can 
 only say: You will not get disapointed, unless you hoped for a 10/10 game, cause it's not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizpaf
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  But otherwise great controls excellent rendering high frame rate in other words a great game so 
 far!!! The story veers a bit from the movie but that is to be expected. Hopefiully this won't be 
 a game I beat in a weekend. It is similar in feel to hulk ultimate destruction which is good cause 
 thats one of the best comic based games so far. The voice overs are spot on and the game areas 
 are really large giving a great feeling of flight. I havent been able to complete every objective 
 in any level on the first try so it has some replayability. Overall a very ambitious project that 
 definately wasn't just thrown together as a franchise moneymaker. The control map takes some getting 
 used to but Iron Man is after all a complex character! Lets hope that ancillary games can continue 
 to improve from the toss off games that we have experienced in the past. Bring on the Avengers! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  iron man is a good game. It has a good militaristic battle field. Has great battles on the ground 
 and also in the air. the missions are fun and pretty challenging. it's a great way to pass time. 
 customizing the suits is really fun and adds to the overall cool gameplay. I think this is one 
 of the best super hero games that I have ever played. its up there with the incredible hulk ultimate 
 destruction. there are great battles with super villains in the game, such as Iron Monger, Melter, 
 and Titanium man.
  I would recomend this game to anyone.
  I would give it 7 out of 10 for the game play.
  7 out of 10 for the graphics.
  9 out of 10 
 for the sound.
  6 out of 10 for value and replay value.
  and 7 out of ten for the tilt. 
  Overall I give it a 7 out of 10 for this fine game.
  Go buy this game you won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
