-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: James Bond: Quantum of Solace
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/jamesbondprojectworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Makes you feel like Bond.
 Good selection of mean-looking weapons.
 New multiplayer modes sit well alongside old favourites.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short, disjointed single-player campaign.
 Overuse of quick-time events.
 Excessive Sony product placement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 849 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quantum of Solace will leave you shaken and stirred, but not entirely satisfied. 

  James Bond has had something of a chequered past in video games, but Quantum of Solace brings him 
 back with a certain amount of style. While the game based on the latest 007 movie is primarily 
 a first-person shooter, the single-player mode incorporates stealth-action gameplay and a number 
 of third-person sequences. The solo play is fun while it lasts, but it ends abruptly after only 
 four or five hours. Fortunately the wealth of included multiplayer modes ensures that this remains 
 an enjoyable Bond experience.  

  The majority of the gameplay feels conventional for a first-person shooter, though the optional 
 stealth elements and the third-person cover mechanic definitely make things more interesting. When 
 in cover, the camera zooms out and affords you a third-person view of the situation that makes 
 popping out for headshots a relatively undemanding endeavour. This view also helps the game in 
 more subtle ways; the satisfaction of controlling a character who is instantly recognisable as 
 Bond as you pop out from cover and silently put a bullet in the back of a henchman's head cannot 
 be overstated.  

           Just another day in the office.      

  When attempting to move around unnoticed, your silenced pistol serves you well -- as long as you 
 manage one-hit kills. Get careless, and you'll find yourself under heavy fire and diving for cover 
 as enemies are alerted to your presence and their reinforcements pile in. With that said, on lower 
 difficulty settings it's certainly possible to make it through many levels with guns blazing. But 
 it's just as much fun and ultimately more rewarding to play by moving carefully, sneakily taking 
 your enemies down, disabling security cameras, and quietly hacking locked doors.  

  Occasionally, taking a somewhat stealthy approach is mandatory. This would be fine, except that 
 some of the set-pieces feel a little ham-fisted. A couple of segments that leave you pinned down 
 by multiple waves of enemies feel out of place, and the novelty of edging along a window ledge 
 keeping an eye on windows to avoid guards inside wears off by the third time you find yourself 
 doing it.  

  The environments are, on the whole, well designed. The variation presented by wreaking merry havoc 
 in a large museum in Miami, gunning down bad guys on the roof of a moving train, and chasing double 
 agents across rooftops in a world heritage site is one of the game's strengths; it makes the chapters 
 more fun individually and really helps to make the game feel like a James Bond movie. That feeling 
 is further enhanced by cutscenes that feature key members of the cast of both  Casino Royale  and 
  Quantum of Solace , including Daniel Craig, Dame Judi Dench, and Eva Green. The stars' voice talents 
 are also put to good use in the MI6 briefings that flash across the screen between missions, and 
 all of these things add up to a very satisfactory Bond experience. One thing that doesn't sit well 
 is the amount of product placement in many of the levels, from indestructible Sony Vaio laptops 
 to SonyEriccson Cybershot phones that are loaded with clues. The presence of such things really 
 jars with the rest of the world, given that nothing else is branded at all.  

           In the words of Sherrif Pepper: "You're that secret agent! That English secret agent! 
 From England!"      

  The thing that really brings Quantum of Solace down, though, is the lack of a coherent story. This 
 is largely because in addition to the titular movie it features content from 2006's  Casino Royale 
 . The action from the earlier film is presented as an extended flashback sequence that kicks in 
 after an hour or so of gameplay, and it feels out of place in the context of the main story. It 
 goes on for so long that by the time you are thrust back into the story proper, you will almost 
 certainly have forgotten why you're standing on a rocky outcrop in the middle of a jungle next 
 to a downed helicopter. The story takes only four to five hours to play through, and ends very 
 abruptly. There's some replay value, though only if you're into unlocking achievements, finding 
 hidden items, or checking out different difficulty settings.  

  Thankfully, the multiplayer suffers from none of the issues that put a damper on the single-player 
 experience, and the wealth of modes makes for manic fun across all of the game's varied environments. 
 The linear chase through the Siena rooftops provides the basis for a great multiplayer environment 
 spread over a seemingly wider area, for example, while the courtyards of Venice provide some intense 
 close-quarters action. Most of the multiplayer modes pit nameless MI6 operatives against mercenaries 
 from a shadowy group known simply as The Organisation. The Man With the Golden Gun mode is worth 
 singling out from the standard selection of deathmatch and territory control modes, however, as 
 it lends itself well to manic encounters. All players are fighting for control of a gold Magnum 
 that fires explosive one-hit-kill rounds, and kills with it count for much more than those using 
 other weapons. The nature of the challenge means that nervous and fragile alliances will be formed 
 on the fly among players going for the gun, with all parties waiting for just the right moment 
 to annihilate those around them.  

  Other interesting multiplayer modes include those in which you get to play as Bond. Bond Evasion 
 is a team-based escort-style game in which MI6 players are charged with making sure that the Bond 
 player makes it to an exit point alive. Bond Versus, on the other hand, pits The Bond player against 
 everyone else in the game in a fight to the death. Bond has access to more impressive gadgets than 
 his Organisation enemies, he can see them on his minimap, and he has two lives. Bond can only live 
 twice, Organisation players can only live once. Both of these modes are fun for a while, and they 
 provide an interesting counterpoint to the more traditional offerings.  

           Third nipple optional.      

  To give the multiplayer even more longevity, credits 
 are awarded from each successful round based on your contribution. These can then be spent on new 
 weapons, new gadgets -- such as scopes, extra ammo capacity, or armour -- and even rather excessive 
 golden weapons. These are a nice touch for those who want to make it very clear how little taste 
 they have or to flaunt their experience over less-seasoned competitors. The standard loadout is 
 good enough, however, to not put new players at any great disadvantage, and it's also possible 
 to earn credits in the modes that don't let you customise your starting weapon or equipment set. 

  It's unfortunate that Quantum of Solace's single-player mode is so short-lived, but there's enough 
 good multiplayer content here to keep you playing long after you've saved the world.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: csisparky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  In my view this is one of the best of the series so far.
  The length is just about right.
  The amount of check points and frequency is good too.
  Not too difficult, yet not too hard.
 
  The average player will not find many frustrations here.
  Best, most enjoyable and rewarding difficulty level to play on is the highest which is the '007' 
 level.
  Graphics are good.
  AI is ok, although could have been a bit better.
  Brings nothing new to the table though.
  As a lot of reviews have mentioned, this game as more 
 links with casino royal than it does with quantum of solace.
  (bearing in mind I have never seen either of the movies)
  The online play is good. Although I 
 spent most of my time playing 'bond evasion' which is the best one to get all the credits required 
 for purchasing all the weapons and getting most of the online achievements.
  Good one to complete if your are trying to build up your xbox live score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Story: personally i enjoyed it, even if it is a bit short. Theres a good balance between darting 
 between cover and running out and gunning down everyone in sight with an Uzi. The levels aren't 
 too hard (except for on the hardest difficulty, then they are very punishing, i once stuck my head 
 out of cover for about a second and i died.) it does decent justice to the plot, you get to play 
 casino royale scenes (but no embassy shoot out) and there's a teaser at the end. one thing that 
 is good is that there are videos to cover up the loading screens. 
  
  Graphics are good, and the voice overs are done by daniel craig and judy dench
  
  Online: very 
 similar to CoD online, and faster paced than the story. it has perks and weapon slots. the standard 
 team deathmatches are fun and there are plenty of maps, but there are quiet a few other modes, 
 like bond evasion, which is a VIP escort mode, with bond as the VIP. theres also a Golden Gun mode, 
 one player has the Golden Gun (a magnum that shoots explosive rounds) and the other players try 
 to kill him and steal it. it's like a deathmatch, but you know where all the other players are 
 going. 
  there is one really old school mode, called classic. you start with a pistol and pick up weapons 
 as you go.
  
  overall i enjoyed it you probably will too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes. Quantum of Solace. I saw both of the new James Bond movies before playing this game, so 
 I expected it to be pretty good. Did it live up to what I thought it would be? Well... sort of. 
 It did shine at a couple moments, but not enough to blow me away. The shooting is pretty fun. Cover 
 mechanics work pretty well. And yes you really do feel like Bond. Treyarch did a good job of making 
 you feel like James Bond. There were, however, several problems to be found.
  
  The Good
  - You feel like Bond
  - Shooting is decently fun
  - The rainy train level was awesome!
  - 
 Sticks sort of close to the movies
  
  First off, the storytelling. Awful. Just awful. Totally boring. You will not be interested at all 
 at what's going on. (Especially if you've seen the movies.) They do a horrible job of telling the 
 story of the movies in this game. Just flat out bad. The graphics do shine well on one particular 
 level. (The rain train one.) But other than that, the environments look bad, the enemies look bad. 
 The only thing that looks good is you and some of your guns. That's it. The gameplay works, but 
 is something we've all seen before and it just works. Not all that fun. It just works. And finally, 
 I saw a Quantum of Solace movie poster in the game. WTF?! A movie poster?!? Ok. That's really stupid. 
 It's not even out of sight. It's right in the open so you can see it. It really offended me because 
 why the hell would you need to advertise a movie when the player is fully aware that they are playing 
 the game based on it? Seriously Treyarch. Do you think we're that stupid? You know that when your 
 using your own game just to advertise a movie, that your game probably sucks and isn't all that 
 great. Yeah. Pretty much. You got that one right, Treyarch. I like your newest Call Of Duty game, 
 but this was way, way, way, way, way, way below that in terms of what a good FPS is. Good job guys. 
 Good job. Overall, it's not completely broken or unplayable, it's just totally sub-par as far as 
 modern FPS's go.
  
  The Bad
  - Storytelling is horrible in comparison to movies.
  - Graphics, cut scenes and overall look is bland
  - Gameplay is standard FPS. It works ok. It 
 gets the job done.
  - Advertising poster REALLY bogged down the score for me.
  - Not good FPS standards. Nowadays, it's gotta be unique or top notch. This game was neither of 
 those things.
  
  So this game is worth a rental if your a huge Bond fan. The train level was pretty fun. This game 
 has some pretty easy achievements, so those are worth picking up I guess. Other than that, you 
 shouldn't buy this. Just rent it and see the badness for yourself. Actually, don't rent or buy 
 it. Go get Casino Royale and the Quantum of Solace movie. The movies are worlds better than this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amz1217
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Well........ let's get this straight, this game doesn't stack up to 007: Goldeneye, it exceeds it. 
 All aspects of this game is great the single player is short but sweet and the multiplayer make 
 you want to come back for more.
  
  Let's start with the single player, the plot of the story follows both of Daniel Craig's films, 
 Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace. The gameplay is great and it feels just like COD, so if your 
 a call of duty player you'll feel just at home with the gameplay and controls. The graphics are 
 great with an amazing amount of detail has been put into Daniel Craig. Althought one down side 
 is the amount of time it takes to complete the single player, on the easier difficulties it can 
 take 4 - 5 hours so it's advised to complete the game on the harder difficulties like Agent and 
 007 difficulty to lengthen the single player. 
  
  The levels are interesting and they switch between the both films so the enviroments don't feel 
 boring and the same, so 1 mission you'll be in the sink holes of Bolivia and the next you'll be 
 in the landscape beaches of Madagascar. The mission variation is also set to a good level so there 
 are stealth missions and blown out gun battle missions to keep things interesting. The enemy AI 
 are very smart and will use all means necessary to take you out, flushing you out with grenades, 
 flanking you and calling in reinforcements and trading tactics which will surley give you a challenge.
 
  
  There are also little tasks you can do in some missions such as disable cameras to stop them spotting 
 you, patch into the camer computer servers to see what the camera sees and hack locks and keypads 
 to access restricted areas. The cover system in the game also works really well, switching from 
 1st person to 3rd person view is done very well and without and hitches and there's also a great 
 selection of weapons. 
  
  But the multiplayer is the thing that will make you play again and again, up to 12 players can 
 play in one match which are always fun and frantic. It keeps you on your toes, the selection of 
 weapons online is as great as the amount offline and the amount of game modes vary form your average 
 death match to bond specific modes such as Bond Evasion where the MI6 team have to escort one player 
 who is bond to safety and Bond Versus where one player is Bond and he's fighting against terrorists 
 to defuse bombs.
  
  Overall this game is superb, the lack of 4 player split screen is disappointing but the sheer fun 
 of the online and the great single player makes up for this quite exquisite game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualDarkscout
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:53 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is great. The single player is good, but could be beat in a little over 5 hour. 
 The story mode can get confusing at times. It had parts of Casino Royale a and Quantim of solace. 
 I only saw parts of Casino Royale and I got confused. If they were going to do that, I wonder why 
 they didn't put it in order. Casino Royale first, Quantim of Solace second, but It doesn'y sound 
 much like Quantim of Solace. The game is mostly stop and pop gun play. Even though it's fun sometimes, 
 it's's very tiring after while. It's very similar to cod4 because James Bond Quantim of Solace 
 took its engine. Call of Duty world at war did the same thing, but is more popular because it has 
 blood and Gore, in WWII, has great gameplay, good multiplayer and a great nazi zombie mode.
  
  
  JBQOS has a cover system, but it's frustrating. It got me killed a bunch of times because 
 it puts you in the wrong positions. The game seems to be built around the cover system mechanic, 
 which messes up the flow of enemies. 
  
  
  The graphics are ok, but to me cod4 has better graphics when it comes to the golden gun. The regular 
 guns look pretty good though. The animations look okay, but not that good. Overall, the graphics 
 aren't that bad.
  
  The multiplayer is good and fun especially because the classic game modes. One the problems with 
 multiplayer is that shotguns can kill people at a good distance with one shot. 
  There are a lot of better games out there that are M, but this game is decent for a teen game. 
 It's hard to find terrific teen first person shooter.
  
  
  
  JBQOS= James bond Quantim of Solace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richmaester6907
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  In the past their have been many games based on films some of them have been rather awful and some 
 have been rather good and Quantum of solace is no different from this. I originally picked this 
 up hoping for cheap GS which I did get but that wasn't what made me enjoy this game in the end 
 because it turned out to be a lot more than I had ever expected especially from a movie game.
 
  
  The experience of single player and multi-player gameplay is just brilliant in terms of how the 
 game is designed to be played. The game is based on the call of duty 4 engine and you can tell 
 this very easily. But it plays a lot more like it has been mixed with Rainbow Six Vegas when it 
 comes to the cover system that they have implemented (a good move by Treyarch) . This cover system 
 is very useful online and offline because it can give you a view of the combat situation even if 
 you are hidden, this may be seen as too much of an advantage but it really isn't, even online the 
 more intelligent player can just take you out with a grenade if your camping behind a wall becomes 
 a nuisance to them. 
  
  The story itself is mixed with both of the new Bond films and they are both displayed within the 
 game to a good extent even though most of it seems to be Casino Royale related in terms of missions. 
 The game has four modes each of them progressing in difficulty but even the hardest mode 007 isn't 
 too much of a challenge I personally completed the game in a day on this mode with only a few tricky 
 levels to deal with. And missions don't feel too repetitive since on some levels you don't even 
 have to engage the enemy to continue the story you can just avoid them by staying down using stealth 
 and avoiding camera's etc. So overall the SP of the game is very well done and there is rarely 
 a dull moment. 
  
  The multi-player I personally thought would be terrible but to my surprise it actually works well 
 indeed it has the basic modes team death match etc. But there are also modes that implement bond 
 as a playable character online for example bond evasion, a simple mode one team must get bond out 
 (who is controlled by a random player) and the other team must eliminate him. But bond has an advantage 
 he can see all enemy locations so the other team must compromise by watching their own backs at 
 all times and staying in groups. This is one of several modes that I believed made this game fun 
 a fresh along with the random designs of the maps which did have their little advantages at times. 
 
  
  The class system from CoD has also been put to use in the MP players can change their weapons of 
 which their are plenty of and they can also handle their perks or in this game they are referred 
 to as "Gadgets" a nice way to make it feel different even though extra health is still their but 
 martyrdom is not anymore so it isn't entirely CoD but as bond in that sense. Players can edit all 
 they wish but they must win and get kills to earn new weapons unlike CoD where you have to level 
 up. 
  
  In conclusion QoS is a very well put together game worthy of more credit than it got. We can only 
 hope Treyarch is in charge of the next bond installment because this is the finest bond game in 
 many years. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace is a solid Bond game that mixed third-person and first-person shooter gameplay 
 styles to deliver a satisfying single-player mission and a good selection of multiplayer types. 
 The game runs on the Call of Duty 4 engine, and you can definitely feel the resemblance as you 
 play. All the elements are there: bullets go through walls, the weapons pack a hefty punch, and 
 the visuals are still impressive. Some reviewers considered Quantum's similarity to CoD4 a fault, 
 but I thought the engine actually lent the game a more realistic feeling than previous iterations 
 in the Bond franchise, and that's not such a bad thing.
  
  Moreover, Quantum isn't entirely similar to CoD4, given that the game employs a Gears of War-like 
 cover system that shifts to a third-person view whenever you duck behind something. You might assume 
 that melding two very different perspectives into the same game might feel disjointed, but I actually 
 enjoyed switching between first and third-person views since it added some nice variety to the 
 gameplay. 
  
  The single-player missions themselves are fun and quite varied in terms of level design. Since 
 the game is based on both Daniel Craig Bond films, you get to traverse a lot of locations and play 
 through pivotal moments in both movies. Quantum alternates between stealth and trigger-happy missions, 
 so you never get too tired of either. With the help of the franchise's classic score, the single-player 
 experience is well-worth playing for any Bond or action game fan.
  
  In addition, there are a variety of multiplayer modes that include some standard game types (territory, 
 free for all, team slayer) but also some uniquely Bond-ish modes (such as Golden Gun, which resembles 
 Halo 3's "Oddball" mode, and Bond Versus, which pits the lone agent against a team of terrorists) . 
 To top it all off, Quantum carries over Call of Duty 4's weapons upgrade system, which creates 
 some balancing issues for beginners but adds tremendous value to the online experience.
  
  All in all, Quantum is a great package with a brief but satisfying campaign and numerous multiplayer 
 options to keep aspiring M16 agents coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsundowner
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I was just going to let the review sites and magazines tell me what I needed to know about this 
 game; that compared to the glut of first-person shooters out there, this one really wasn't worth 
 the time and money. And I was OK with that until my buddy decided to pick up the game and became 
 hopelessly addicted to it. 
  
  Once I found a used copy for forty bucks I decided I might as well see what I was missing. Now, 
 I knew it was a Treyarch game and that they were using the Call of Duty 4 engine, so I expected 
 vanilla gameplay with delicious graphics, and really, that's what I got. It's a great looking game 
 with tight controls, but the campaign/story is a disjointed mess. That didn't really matter to 
 me, though, as I typically don't buy first-person shooters for the single player experience.
  
  That brings me to the multiplayer. A hundred beer & pizza party nights I experienced in the 
 late 1990's came rushing back to the forefront of my fondest memories the first time I played classic 
 mode on XBox Live. Treyarch did an admirable job of taking the legend of Goldeneye from the N64 
 and packaging it in something that is playable today. Some of the maps are eerily familiar (see 
 Chemical Plant) . It's got grenade launchers, proximity mines, variations on the automatic shotgun 
 and RCP90... it's nostalgic bliss, but not so nostalgic that it feels dated. If they had a slappers-only 
 mode this game would be perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: con_matrix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game with its great selection of weapons. I especially liked the takedowns 
 where you go in and complete a button sequence to kill the enemy with close quarters combat. The 
 cover system is extremely smart and switches to third person as you go in. I also like the unlockables 
 room where you walk around looking at the objects and people youhave seen in the missions. Overall 
 this game is great but way too short. For some reason online wouldn't work on my x-box 360. As 
 soon as I joined a game it kicked me straight off. So I can't really review the online side of 
 it. You can definitely tell it uses the call of duty 4 engine (which was an awesome game to say 
 the least) . My favourite mission was in the casino royale mission and you have to make your way 
 to the aston martin while drugged. When your drugged it reminds me of being drunk in GTA IV. It 
 has another feature in single player where you have to find all of the mobile phones which are 
 like the laptops in call of duty 4. This game is also really easy to get gamerscore on. I got 225 
 for doing the campaign on easy and loads more for doing it on higher difficulties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazingly fun i just wish it was longer. The wall cover is great and is a huge advantage, 
 The gun selection is awsome, and the story line is great. The only problem i had with this game 
 is the length it was only ten levels. none of the levels were overly fusterating they were actually 
 pretty much all the same. There was only one level that stood out and that was when a guy in the 
 cutsceen contaminated your drink and the screen was blury and had to get back to the car. I dont 
 have xbox live so i would not know what the multiplayer is like. Thats why I mostly depend on split 
 screen which there is none in this game but the single player campaign is good that i think split 
 screen would ruin it. Its pretty realistic to for example, say you have the silenced pistol if 
 you shoot a guy that all alone and people in the distance they wont hear nothing, but if you shoot 
 a guy that somewhat near people they still hear the gun shot and will come over. Overall the game 
 is really fun and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Since it came from Treyarch it was very similar to playing a call of duty game which the last couple 
 COD 4 and COD WaW have been some of my favorites. Didn't take me too long to beat only about 8-10 
 hours at the most. It was great they were able to use the likeness of Daniel Craig to add that 
 extra bit of likeness to the movie but near the end it started to distract me. His dead, expressionless 
 face seemed so odd during some of the quick time events and even during a knife fight there would 
 be no expression, nothing! Guess it wouldn't seem as odd if your counterpart to the fight had the 
 same dead expression but they seemed to get a bit more emotion to show in their face.
  But that was a small gripe. I did get a chance to play the online multiplayer which was interesting 
 and still had plenty of people playing so if your were interested in picking a copy up it wouldn't 
 be a ghost town for you. They also have a different system where you earn credits which you use 
 for upgrades and weapons. The maps and characters seemed a little simple and not as polished as 
 COD 4 and 5 but still had that COD feel... But the bond inspired game types were enough to hold 
 my interest for awhile and I can see someone putting in just as much time getting new weapons and 
 so on. If I ever see this around used I might pick it up for another play thru and a bit of multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I was in middle school when the then-revolutionary Goldeneye hit the Nintendo 64. My friends and 
 I spent countless hours playing this, and in terms of fun, few games have come close, and no other 
 Bond game has even been in the same league. Quantum of Solace does a lot of things right, especially 
 with the multiplayer aspect, but the overall experience is far too familiar.
  
  At first I was trying not to draw comparisons to Call of Duty, given that Treyarch developed both 
 this game and Call of Duty 3 and 5 (World At War) . After the third level or so I couldn't help 
 myself. This plays like Call of Duty, it even looks like Call of Duty at times. So much so in fact 
 that I even felt like some of the enemies were shouting random German expletives at me. This isn't 
 a bad thing, necessarily, but to me it felt like trying to push a square peg into a round slot.
 
  
  In the movies, James Bond is a badass, no questions about that. He has gadgets, he does amazing 
 stuff, he always gets the girl... And he looks damn good the whole time. Almost all of those elements 
 are absent from this game. The only gadgets you get are a cell phone (lame.) and the cutscenes 
 are short and barely tie the experience together. There are some good action sequences that get 
 your blood pumping, but they are broken up by mindless shooting sections that usually last the 
 rest of the level.
  
  In some parts, stealth is encouraged but not necessary. These were favored over the run and gun 
 sections that were less Bond and more Call of Duty. Typically, it's the other way around. I like 
 shooting stuff, and I feel like I shouldn't have to sneak around to do it, but Bond doesn't enter 
 buildings with guns blazing. He has his P99 and he can get it done, but that's the extent of it. 
 The movies provide action in ways other than gunfights from point A to point B, and this game misses 
 out on a lot of those opportunities.
  
  If you have played Call of Duty 3 before, the entire game will feel pretty familiar. This is essentially 
 Call of Duty wearing different clothes. Again, this isn't a complaint, it's actually kind of refreshing 
 considering this is movie-based game. Speaking of that, it's actually one of the better movie-licensed 
 games, but the bar isn't exactly high for the genre...
  
  Multiplayer is nice and varied, the modes and overall currency system work well. Basically, you 
 play ranked matches you get money, a little like Call of Duty 4's level system, but with money 
 instead of XP. With this money you upgrade your weapons and such. This is great in theory, but 
 if you tried playing several months after the release (like I did) you will just get your ass handed 
 to you by guys that have all the best equipment while you have nothing. If you are willing to put 
 in some effort and get your stuff upgraded, the modes are nothing terribly new or exciting, but 
 they are mostly on par with Call of Duty multiplayer modes, and that is saying a lot.
  
  Achievement hunters will need to put a lot of time to get all 1000 points. About 1/2 the achievements 
 are multiplayer, and they require tons of playing to purchase all the equipment. The rest of the 
 achievements are mostly just for playing, with a special achievement on each level for doing something 
 unique in each level. I was able to get 440 points on one play through by playing on normal difficulty. 
 This took around 10 hours.
  
  Overall, the game is fine. I was never wowed by any specific moment in the game, it all felt very 
 familiar. The main game will take close to 10 hours to complete, and playing on 007 mode is almost 
 as brutal as playing any Call of Duty game on veteran. Multiplayer is some of the best in a Bond 
 game since Goldeneye, and there is enough here to keep anyone occupied for at least a weekend. 
 This is a rental for sure, but unless you really love multiplayer games with ranking systems, there 
 isn't as much staying power as there is with some other games *cough*Call of Duty*cough*.
  
  I would like to apologize for all the Call of Duty references, but I really felt there was 
 no other way to review this game. If you like Call of Duty, you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace is by no means a bad game. It is actually quite fun and would be enjoyed by most 
 fps fans. The problem is the competition in this genre is steep. This game coming out a week before 
 COD WaW I am sure hurt the sales. Treyarch should have sent this game out in the summer when no 
 other games were out and players are looking for anything different.
  
  As for the game itself, like I said before is fun but also short. A player could run through the 
 entire single player in one sitting. It lasts about 4 hours. It also lacks that true Bond feel. 
 There is quite a bit of gunplay, which isn't bad but doesn't quite seem Bond enough. There are 
 no driving sequences which I found disappointing. The story I didn't even really pay attention 
 to. The graphics are average at best for a XBOX360 game. Outside of the gunplay Bond will hack 
 doors, walk across small ledges, and go through button timed fights at the end of nearly every 
 stage. All this is very simple however and it always results back to guns a blazing.
  
  The same things that plagues the single player also transcend into mp. The mp while good and would 
 have been great if released at the launch of the 360. Like I said before the competition is just 
 to steep for this game to be played by a lot of players. Quantum runs off of the COD4 engine but 
 somehow the gameplay is not as tight. The shooting is fun but by no means as good as the COD games. 
 The maps are quite small and one dimensional. You will get spawn gets at some time while you play. 
 There are some different modes like classic and golden gun. You do get to unlock and upgrade your 
 weapons. You will earn credits during matches which can be used to buy guns, grenades, gadgets, 
 and attachments. One problem though is you can put 2 attachments and any 2 perks on a gun. This 
 means most players run around with a scope and silenced. This means it is more like playing team 
 hardcore for COD players. The radar in general is not nearly as serviceable as COD. The biggest 
 differences is the fact you don't get kill streak bonuses and you can hug up against walls like 
 in RSV2. The getting up against walls just doesn't work for mp games. Just like in RSV2 you are 
 given to good a look down the map when hug up against the wall. This turns a lot of the games into 
 players hugged up against walls just waiting. 
  
  Overall a fun but not memorable experience that has a tough time keeping up. If you are a fps fan 
 then I suggest renting it. If you love Bond and fps then the game could be worth the purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Im going to go right out there and say it, Quantum of Solace is in my top three games for 2008. 
 I wasn't expecting much but after playing it at a friend's house I immediately went out and purchased 
 the game. I had so much fun with this game, and I'm going to say that its a game that any shooter 
 fan should atleast give at try, no matter what your opinion on movie-games are, because the multiplayer 
 is a blast and this was my second favorite Live experience right behind Left 4 Dead.
  
  Quantum of Solace has a pretty bare-bones single player experience. The game can be beaten in about 
 ten hours on the hardest difficulty and that is you are not very good at it (I struggled quite 
 a bit in some sections) . The story is about 1/3 Quantum of Solace and about 2/3 Casino Royale. 
 While many people complained about this, I actually preferred it. While neither set of missions 
 is better than the other, this game came out about a week and a half before the movie, so even 
 though the plot is pretty much non-existant unless you've seen the movies, its nice that the entire 
 movie wasn't revealed to me before I went to go see it opening night.
  
  The game uses the Call of Duty 4 engine and it adds some things to it as well. Probably most noticeable 
 addition is the ability to go into third person and take cover a lot like you could in the Jason 
 Bourne game that was released earlier this year (also a great movie game) . This is a nice addition 
 because it adds some stratgey to the game as well and it is a nice way to defend a territory in 
 the multiplayer but I'll get back to that.
  
  Despite that this game uses the Call of Duty 4 engine it is in no way as good looking as that game. 
 The character models do look good though. There are also lots of voice acting from the movie actors. 
 Thanks to the character model and the voice over this game does really make you feel like you are 
 Daniel Craig and you are disposing of bad guys in exotic locations.
  
  The mutliplayer is where this game really shines. The game takes the Call of Duty 4 engine and 
 gives it a nice James Bond update. While there are the standard modes like Deathmathces and Territory 
 Control there are new modes that take advantage of the James Bond liscense. These would include 
 the Bond Evasion and Bond Versus which put you in Bond's shoes. My favorite mode though is Golden 
 Gun. In this mode eight players are put on a map and you have to capture the infamous Golden Gun 
 and hold onto it until you reach the maximum points. Its like Capture the Flag if the flag shot 
 explosive bullets.
  
  Instead of having the perks and challenges that are in Call of Duty 4 this game has credits that 
 you get at the end of each match that you get depending on how well you do. You can use these to 
 buy new weapons and gadgets and you can make loadouts just like in Call of Duty 4. 
  
  From what I just told you, you can probably tell that I really enjoyed this game and that I feel 
 like it has lots and lots of replay value, but I haven't even touched on the achievements yet. 
 Most the of the time I do not play for achievements, but for some reason I felt like I had to get 
 them all in this game, and I think its beacuse although you have to work hard for them, they never 
 feel like they are out of reach and it really feels like every single player mission you play or 
 every multiplayer match that you take part in, slowly brings you closer to that 1000 gamerscore 
 which is very true. If you are going for 1000 chances are you will play the single player game 
 twice unless you go through with a guide, but what is the fun of that. I really loved this game 
 and I hope that people will give it a chance. There was not one thing that I didn't like about 
 the game and I found it very addicting and eating up lots and lots of my time. I strongly reccomend 
 this game to any shooter/action/bond fan, and if you are a fan of all three you just might be in 
 gaming nirvana.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Uses the Cod4 engine which feels great
  + Some good visuals
  + Great multiplayer
  
  Negatives
  - Unrealistic amount of enemies
  - Sometimes a bit shallow
 
  - No splitscreen
  - Your sometimes left thinking 'where do I go next?'
  
  Welcome to my review for James bond 007: Quantum of Solace, having been dissapointed by previous 
 bond games I felt Quantum of Solace was the best yet.
  
  First things first, if you enjoyed the casino royal and quantum of solace movies you'll love this 
 game because it takes you through bits of both.
  It also uses the same game engine as Call of duty 4 so if you enjoyed the style of Cod4 then you'll 
 also enjoy Qos, at times I felt as if it was Cod4 but with a bond like story and enviroment.
  
  As I noted above the game does have some good visuals, it takes you through some good scenic 
 zones like through expensive houses, museums, construction sites, through trains and many more.
 
  I especially note the water detail and enviromental effects such as anything you shoot does something.
 
  
  The gameplay has a good feel of an arcade shooter altough at times there are just a stupid amount 
 of enemies that you must kill, which isn't really very bondish.
  For example, you have an epic shoot out and once you've won you'll look at the massive pile of 
 bodies and think 'would Bond really have had to do that?'
  The answer is obviously no..
  I also mentioned the gameplay can be a bit shallow- the arcade style gameplay is partly responsible 
 for that.
  
  Music dosen't stand out much, altough it goes well at times nothing really stood out to me about 
 it.
  As for sound effects they're pretty good, I sometimes just shoot my guns randomly whilst walking 
 along to hear that guns shot sound.
  
  As well as shooting up hundreds of bad guys you also need to pick locks, hack computers and patch 
 into cameras- these are done by hard to explain mini games which include button mashing/clicking 
 but are normally easily cleared.
  You also encounter some cutscenes which make you hit buttons at certain points, for example in 
 some cut scenes you come face to face with a bad guy and have to enter a combinaton of buttons 
 as quick as you can to beat him, if not you die.. simple but annoying when your not really awake.
 
  
  Story is a bit dilluted- as it switches from bits of Casino royale to Quantum of solace it makes 
 it hard to follow and complicated, personally I just skipped the long informative cut scenes and 
 went straight to the game.
  
  I reccomend the game to anybody who enjoyed the movie and especially if you enjoyed Cod4, it's 
 got a fun campaign mode as well as online multiplayer (remember there is no split screen though, 
 which is very dissaponting)
  So, go for it, I hope my review helped, thanks for reading!
  ~Gormo~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolves95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  Quantum Of Solace IS a good game. Nothing terrible but nothing really special. 
  
  As we know it is a First-Person Shooter taking COD's engine instead of thier usual 3rd Person Like 
 GOW. They didn't succeed with it. It's basic. You only see bond in either a Dialogue ,when he is 
 covering from fire or climbing a ladder. Also the game is quite easy taking less than a hour to 
 complete with only around 10 Levels. 
  
  Now the good. Casino Royale is in this and has the best levels. You have the chase scene in the 
 Construction Site jumping on the cranes and when you are drugged at the Poker game you stagger 
 off, falling into tables and chairs, screen all fuzzy and weird. The graphics on one Level on a 
 train is Very Good with the rain hitting your face and the scenery flying by. 
  
  Overall it is a Good game. Maybe you should rent it first to see how you feel about it.
  
  
 Game-Play 7/10
  Sound 8/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Fun 8/10
  
  Overall 8.0-8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The James Bond series has definitely had its ups and downs in the past, but Treyarch's newest effort 
 brings back the 007 agent with some style. It's based off the Call of Duty 4 engine with a Gears 
 of War cover system added on. These two formulas are fantastic by themselves, but when combined, 
 the result is a bit clunky and unbalanced. When you add the those two game engines together, the 
 game feels a little less like Call of Duty 4 and Gears of War, and that both kind of sucks. But 
 the solo campaign is entertaining while it lasts, plus there's some interesting multiplayer modes 
 added in to make this James Bond game a worthwhile, though a bit problematic, experience.
  
  The one thing that really brings this game down is its story. Despite the fact that the title 
 of this game is Quantum of Solace, it features content from 2006's Casino Royale. This acts as 
 a sort of flashback sequence that unfortunately takes up a majority of the solo campaign. It goes 
 on for so long that by the time the game features scenes from Quantum of Solace, you'll probably 
 be fed up with the plot. I could forgive this detriment if only the game's campaign lasted a bit 
 longer than five hours. With so much of the game's content being Casino Royale, there's not that 
 much content that features Quantum of Solace.
  
  As you'd probably expect, most of the game plays almost exactly like Call of Duty 4. You'll be 
 able to go into a battle sequence with your guns blazing and then duck behind cover as your health 
 regenerates. Except you won't be doing that much ducking because there's a Gears of War-like cover 
 system. One bad thing about this is that you'll be taking more damage than you would in COD4, so 
 it's almost required of you to constantly use it. This means you'll be spending less time playing 
 the game like COD4 and playing it more like Gears of War. Tapping A will prop you against any solid 
 surface where you can blindfire, pop your face out for a few seconds to aim down the sights, or 
 chuck grenades at your enemies. 
  
  The guns for the most part will probably be familiar to anyone who's played COD4. You can hold 
 three weapons at a time, ranging from pistols, shotguns, sniper rifles, assault rifles, light machine 
 guns and submachine guns. Most of the guns, however, have an awkward feeling to them. In addition 
 to just shooting, you'll be able to melee your enemies down using a quick-time button press sequence. 
 Basically you sprint up to a guy, you press either X, Y, A or B, and then Bond punches the guy's 
 lights out, resulting in an instant kill. There are some instances where you balance yourself on 
 a steel beam to move across rooftops. You're required to keep a white dot in the center of a line 
 on screen as you move across the beam. Other times you'll have to hack a security panel to open 
 a door, but the puzzles just aren't challenging at all. There's also one instance where Bond is 
 shuffling across window ledges while enemy searchlights slowly move up and down across the windows. 
 
  
  The multiplayer offers standard modes such as Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag, 
 but the Bond-themed modes are definitely the star of the show. One mode puts a player as Bond v. s. 
 Organization members, another has two teams with a Bond VIP that must stay alive, and the third 
 is the Golden Gun mode, which is a gun that instantly kills anyone. Sure, it's not COD4 or COD5 
 multiplayer, but it performed well and it was fun enough during my time with it. There was some 
 noticeable lag at times, and there's no perks or reward system beyond standard cach-based equipment 
 and weapon unlocks.
  
  The audiovisual presentation is surprisingly very good. The levels do remain varied throughout 
 the campaign. There's a lot of detail in the environments, but it's odd that there's so many explosive 
 containers in nearly every area. Bond himself looks a lot like Daniel Craig, and the other characters 
 look pretty good. There's no enemy variety at all, and they tend to repeat the same animations 
 throughout the entire game. The explosions are definitely lacking on a technical level compared 
 to the rest of the game. The audio is very good but very typical. Daniel Craig does some cool voice 
 work and the classic James Bond theme is obviously here.
  
  Quantum of Solace is definitely a fun game to play. It's a shame that the COD4 and GoW engines 
 weren't better distributed during gameplay. The multiplayer modes add some longevity to an otherwise 
 short game. Overall, this game definitely gets the job done, but at the same time doesn't really 
 make you feel an awful lot like 007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  I was very excited for the fact that my most anticipated movie of 2008 was going into a videogame 
 and even more when hearing that a great movie of 2006 "Casino Royale" will be included in the game 
 . 
  
  But repelled by the bad reviews I got away from buying the game and gave it a rent instent .
 
  
  This game gives you the feeling of being part of the movie with fun gameplay and good looking graphics 
 , but this is all due to the fact that they got the Call Of Duty 4 engine and took it into the 
 game .
  
  The multiplayer is unique and fun to play just like the single player with many moods to play in 
 and a nice perk system (killing =credit = buying guns and upgrades) .
  
  Although the flows of this game are few , the few of them are very big . The AL ( enemy's smartness 
 ) is very bad , they act unrealistically and very weirdly sometimes and the other flow is the fact 
 that this 60$ game has the shortest single player i have ever seen , you can easily finish it within 
 5 hours ! .
  
  In conclusion , the game is worth renting for anyone who like the last two james bond movies , 
 and if you really got into the multiplayer then it's worth a buy .
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:21 am PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace, I thought the movie was awesome. And now that I've finished the game, I can 
 say, it's one of the best Bond games ever made. As you may know, this is the first Bond game on 
 a nextgen console. And it's quite a looker, with plenty of nice explosions. More importantly, you 
 feel like Bond... or rather, you feel like Bond from the two latest movies. So you get much shooting 
 and no gadgets. That's not a bad thing, but most of the previous games had plenty of variety. This 
 is a shooter only, no driving sections or such. But okay, you do get a lot of quick time events. 
 The game focuses heavily on cover mechanics. But don't worry, it's not slow paced like a snail 
 like a Brothers in Arms game. QoS is thrilling while it lasts, which is not very long.
  
  You can finish the game in a day, but it does have multiplayer. Nightfire will always be my favorite 
 multiplayer Bond game, but this one should keep you occupied for a little while. Though the title 
 says Quantum of Solace, you play missions taken from Casino Royale as well. These are just as good, 
 if not better than the QoS missions.
  
  The best thing about the game is the achievments witht the titles from the movies. For the first 
 time, I'm seriously tempted to play through a game again to get more. If you like Bond, and especially 
 the last two movies, then there's no reason not to pick up this game. It's one of the best moviebased 
 games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time player of James Bond video games, ever since the classic GoldenEye, I have always 
 been disappointed with the failed EA attempts. I must say that Activision and Tryarch almost get 
 it perfect. There are a couple of details that could have been improved to make this a fantastic 
 A-list videogame.
  
  First, what they got right. The presentation is slick and consistent with the Bond movies, and 
 the controls are great. Each gun behaves a little different, but in general it's easy to pick up 
 and aim and shoot the hell out of your enemies in a satisfying fashion. I'd remap the controls 
 a bit, making melee B, and duck push down on the right stick, but it doesn't really matter too 
 much.
  
  Furthermore, there are a couple things that could be improved (There's always the sequel) . The 
 render engine is a little rough. The shading and antialiasing is a little flat and last-gen. I 
 wish they had used the COD 4 engine instead of the COD 3 one. The environments are nice, and the 
 special effects like fire and smoke are great, as are the focus effects. 
  
  I wish there had been dual-wielding of guns like in GoldenEye and Halo. This would have gone a 
 long way into helping this game become the best Bond game yet. No vehicles was strange too, although 
 they're rarely my favorite part of Bond games. This could have been an opportunity!
  
  All in all, great game, although a short Single player, Co-op would have been nice, at least some 
 co-op multiplayer levels against CPU bad guys. The Multiplayer is great though!. Wish there were 
 some classic GoldenEye levels. Future downloads, hopefully? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllyBongo3112
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, i've never been one of those die hard fans of Bond. The first Bond film i ever watched 
 was Tomorrow Never Dies and then the World is not Enough. I still wasn't interested until i watched 
 Casino Royale and then Quantum of Solace. I love Daniel Craig as Bond, and the likeness of him 
 and voices of him and other characters from both CR and QoS make the game that bit more special. 
 First of all the missions are short and relatively easy, unless you do the game on either 'Agent' 
 or '007' difficulty then it gets hard. There isnt a real plot to the story line, the mssions are 
 just extended versions of the scenes in the two movies.
  
  Things start looking up though once you get onto the online multiplayer. It uses the Call of Duty 
 4 Engine, which as everyone knows is amazing, it has a fantastic cover system and some well-thought 
 up match types to make it work for James Bond. Similar to CoD 4 u get to make custom classes, consisting 
 of a Primary Weapon with 1 or attachments, a secondary weapon with an attachment, 1 type of grenande 
 and a gadget (which is similar to perks on CoD) . There is no rank system and instead of unlocking 
 weapons and gadgets etc. you must buy them (with credits earned online) in the weapon store. The 
 online maps are exact replicas of some of the missions in single player.
  
  The game is well though out and it has just as an addictive online multiplayer as Call of Duty.
 
  
  Good Points:
  Weapons
  Cover System
  Match Types
  Maps
  
  Bad Points:
  AI are canny thick
  Short Missions
  Story Line and Plot were not well though out.
  
  thankyou 
 for reading my "007: Quantum of Solace" review for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  A decent game. Its story seems to be muddled and never on the right path, you often dont know whats 
 casino royale and whats quantum of solace. The gamplay can only be described as call of duty 4 
 meets rainbow six vegas 2. So I would say the gameplay is fairly good. The environments are very 
 linear but shooters generally are, you are more boxed in than call of duty for instance. Being 
 stealthy on this game can be lots of fun though. The campaign can be completed in a day, it took 
 me about 5 hours on normal difficulty. The multiplayer is decent but again its nothing special. 
 It might just be me but I hate the setup of multiplayer like the screens etc. Hardest difficulty 
 on the game is no better than normal realy so theres little replay value. Your health is significantly 
 lowered and you will have to use cover and stealth a lot more but still it will not take long to 
 complete. Theres a few challenging acheivements and collecting phones and doing a few specific 
 things such as capping an enemey with a nail gun are fun too. Overall its a good game to rent but 
 perhaps not to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  Bond... James Bond
  
  Ever since Dr. No was released in cinemas in 1962, James Bond has been probably the best film series 
 in history, and with every good film series, there's video games. But James Bond's game outings 
 haven't always been as good as the films. The series never kicked off with loads of average games 
 released in the 80s and early 90s. But in 1997 Rare and Nintendo released Goldeneye 007 for the 
 N64.
  Goldeneye was one of the best FPS's anyone had played at the time and is still regarded as one 
 of the best FPS games of all time.
  After Goldeneye 007, EA games purchased the Bond licence from Rare. Since 1998, EA have released 
 several games based on the franchise, including some good ones ( Nightfire, Everything or Nothing, 
 Agent under Fire ) and some bad ones ( Goldeneye: Rouge Agent, From Russia with Love, 007 Racing 
 )
  In 2006, Activision ( Creators of Call of Duty, Guitar Hero, ) bought the licence from EA. 
  
 The success of Goldeneye has put a shadow over recent 007 games so can Quantum of Solace finally 
 match the power of Goldeneye???
  The game uses the Call of Duty 4 engine and if you've ever played COD 4 or 5 you'll see the similarity 
 between the games.
  I don't want to spoil the story for anyone who hasn't seen the film yet so I'll put it this way. 
 Quantum tells the story of the film and of Daniel Craig's first outing as Agent 007, Casino Royale.
 
  The game doesn't really do a great job of telling the story, seeing as the game differs from the 
 films in many ways and tells the story in between missions by computer-style briefings. The games 
 missions are really fun and engaging but the story is heartbreakingly short with 15 missions that 
 can be completed in 5 hours on the average difficulty.
  The gameplay is very like COD. Like I said if you've played COD 4 or 5 you'll see plenty of similarities 
 between COD and Quantum of Solace. The game is an FPS all round but jumps to third-person when 
 you go into cover like Rainbow Six Vegas does. It's practically impossible to complete the Story 
 without covering but during online you'll never really need to cover.
  The graphics aren't the best on the 360 but they're close enough to COD 4. The characters look 
 and sound great with voices and likenesses from Daniel Craig, Eva Green, Olga Kurylenko, Mads Mikkelson 
 and Judi Dench.
  The Presentation is really good and all the environments are really good looking and are all very 
 detailed. Each place looks like it does in the films and the environments play a big part in making 
 you feel like 007. But the real meat of the game is the online modes. There are loads of online 
 modes like COD-style Team Deathmatches and Bond modes like Bond escape and Bond evasion. There's 
 also classics returning like The Man with the Golden Gun mode. Up to 12 players can play online 
 with two teams MI-6 and the Organization. The online modes are made better with the option to purchase 
 weapons and gadgets with the money you earn from each match and create classes Call of Duty style.
 
  While Goldeneye was a fantastic game for It's day, today with FPS's like COD, MOH, Halo, Half 
 Life, Team Fortress and so many more It's just not the same. So, because of that, Quantum of Solace 
 is the best Bond game yet and hopefully as long as Activision make the games, they will continue 
 to be this damn good!!!
  
  GOODS:
  - Brilliant Online
  - Good Voice acting
  - COD 4 Engine
  
  BADS:
  - Too short
  - Dumb enemy AI
  - Computer Style Mission Briefings 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmykett
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  quantum of solace is a hard game not to like. good graphics, tight gunplay, and a fantastic multiplayer 
 all add to the package, but the game has issues with a short (5 or 6 hours) campaign that jumps 
 between scenes in quantum of solace and casino royale. it's fun to run around shooting things, 
 and the game is decent if you want to sneak around a bit, but the game never evolves past shoot 
 guys. hide when you lose too much health, and shoot guys again. occasionally there's a dumb escort 
 mission, but they arn't nearly as bad as in other games and play much like a gallery shooter.
 
  
  the biggest plus for the game is a great new multiplayer mode where one person is bond (higher 
 health, knows where the enemy s are) and the others play as guys trying to kill him. bond can win 
 by killing the others, or by defusing bombs. each option is workable, with the bombs option working 
 best if the other side camps. but it's a new twist in a game with very few to its name. buy quantum 
 of solace if the online mode interests you, and a disjointed campaign doesn't bother you, but be 
 warned: there isn't much new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  So this is the next Goldeneye... is it true? Not really. 
  
  On the SP end the game was somewhat fun but in word.... chaotic. It seemed to have nothing to do 
 with the movie at times and you felt rushed. And it very short all the while all to often making 
 you mash buttons to use Bond throws and chops. Overall the SP was kinda lame mostly.
  
  The MP on the other hand I enjoyed. Its no Goldeneye but its the closest thing I've seen to it... in 
 terms of fun. Although things like the Goldengun are made cheesy now... it fires bullets that explode 
 like dang C4 explosives. Stupid. Aside from that its very fun online and perhaps the only reason 
 I even rated this game anything at all. I even am considering buying this game when its a little 
 cheaper just for the online.
  
  When you win online matches or even score you get money towards new guns, items and "perks" for 
 online use. And for those with to much money you can buy Golden versions of your weapons. Silly 
 yes. 
  
  Graphically the game isn't that bad. I wasn't sure what to expect. There are some really nice locations 
 that make nice eye candy... well aside from the fact the world is ruled by Sony lol. In SP its almost 
 overkill graphically because the story is so fast, confusing and chaotic you don't know what the 
 heck is going on because its like your always somewhere new.... Ship, Snow, Island, Cave, Airport, 
 Pile of Cheese.... HUH!!!
  
  The controls are simple enough to learn although for SP they can be a pain at times in all the 
 confusion. 
  
  Music and audio is nothing impressive. I mean its bond... what do you want.
  
  So overall the 
 game at least worth a rental to check out the MP. If you like it enough then but it for the MP. 
 I'd only touch the SP if you want achievements or something.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  James Bond's newest adventure is a great experience. I only managed to rent the game yet I also 
 completed the storyline in less than 5 hours. It is simplistic and fun to play. I may only speak 
 from the storyline perspective however, because I haven't yet played the multiplayer. The graphics 
 are standard and showcase many of the environments of the movie, as well as the voice acting and 
 character animation. The game utilizes the CoD gameplay engine for its gunplay and it works very 
 well. At times the action and shooting feel more fluid and precise than CoD, headshots are possible 
 and enemies are relatively intelligent in comparison with other games in the franchise. The story 
 is involving and allows the player to manage situations in a variety of manners, however in the 
 end, it amounts to a linear pursuit full of twists and interesting cover choices. James' head may 
 be held over a wall while he is taking cover, yet the bullets, no matter how close, never seem 
 to hit him as he lies in wait to pop and fire over and over again. The game is a great deal of 
 fun and that is what I aim to stress the most, it encompasses a lot of story information, and despite 
 the fact that cutscenes are cheap and near non-existent, you will enjoy the ride. The weapons are 
 great and sprint and shoot is evidently possible, making this title a very slick 007 presentation 
 at a low price. The multiplayer, as I have only heard, is as fun as the storyline or better, and 
 can be quite addicting. QoS is an overall great game, some inexpensive (it recently dropped to 
 $40) entertainment for the everyday shooter/FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolshoi_booze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  People are expecting this game to be the next incantation of the Nintendo 64 classic, GoldenEye. 
 Don't expect another GoldenEye, but this is a great Bond shooter that is based on Casino Royale 
 and Quantum of Solace.
  
  Multiplayer is alot of fun. I might even be enjoying it more than Call Of Duty: World At Wars multiplayer. 
 Online mode offers about 500 gamer points, so playing single player won't give you 1000/1000.
 
  
  This is game was NEVER advertised with a 20 hour storyline and it seems as if that is the expectations 
 by those reviewing it. The story takes about 5-7 hours and if you do all the achievements, it will 
 be considerably longer (took me a good 12-14 hours to beat the game and get all the achievements 
 [ELLIPSIS is tough!] .
  
  If you're a fan of the Bond series or are just looking for a fun game to play online that is not 
 the military shooter, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamesown
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  When You play Quantom of solace, it reminds me of Call of Duty 2, 4, 5, in ways good and bad. The 
 controls are almost exactly the same, the game play, to a certain effect, it almost seems like 
 they copied and pasted the game! It's always making you think: "Have I played this before?" with 
 almost repetitive game play, unintelligent AI, and smeary graphics. The controls are easy to get, 
 but a cover sequence a little to frustrating. But when there is bad, there is good, and guns are 
 beautiful! The graphics team seemed to only focus on the guns. The online multiplayer is a disappointment, 
 with odd game types, such as "Bond Versus"? If you are a major fan of the series, this is a good 
 game to get (since there has not been a release for years.) but for new comers I recommend getting 
 Call of Duty 5 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: Looks good, basic mechanics are there, powerful weapons, cool locales, BOOM!, it doesn't 
 last long
  
  The Bad: Flawed mechanics that are 10 years old, lame multiplayer, retarded story, Daniel Craig+Bond=Epic 
 Fail
  
  Well here are again sitting around the Bond fire (LAWL!) , but no seriously, who still likes James 
 Bond after five different actors, and twenty different movies? Does Bond ever age? Does he ever 
 get a vacation without it turning into a firefight? How many mysterious foreign chicks does he 
 need to bang before he realizes he should retire and get married already? Seriously, no one will 
 be as good as Sean Connery and Daniel Craig can't even pull off Bond to save his life. This dude 
 is a serious joke, but thankfully you won't even care when you play this stupid, yet fun, game. 
 This is one of those sleeper hits that has a retarded story and game play yet you still finish 
 the whole thing because it's just stupid fun. Kind of like bathroom jokes; they don't do any harm, 
 or good, yet they are still fun to say and laugh about over and over again. Quantum of Solace is 
 like the bathroom joke of sleeper hit FPS's; you have your basic follow up and the punchline is 
 what keeps you laughing. While you can completely forget about the retarded story about Bond and 
 some terrorists dudes who are doing this and that I have no freaking clue and I didn't care. Daniel 
 Craig has bit parts of his voice in the game and his model has one expression and never seems to 
 change.
  
  While this game is seriously flawed there are a lot of good things to keep you playing (RENT IT 
 ONLY!) The game looks really good, while not superb, it can pass off as an above average next-gen 
 game which is a plus. Secondly, the game has super awesome guns and they all feel really powerful. 
 While they has more acronyms than a NASA space launch you have your pistols, silenced pistols, 
 sub machine guns, sniper rifles etc etc yada yada. While they aren't anything new they look cool, 
 feel powerful, and sound cool and they all go BOOM! You also have grenades which are kind of retarded 
 since you only get to carry ONE GRENADE AT A TIME!!! The game actually has a semi-useful cover 
 system that is both great and flawed at the same time. While you can sprint around and stuff you 
 can hit A to dash into cover (think Gears of War) and you have your typical blind firing, and all 
 that covering crap. The flawed part is that when you get hit by a grenade you suddenly stand up, 
 also if you aim to far to your sides Bond tends to stick his head out and you can easily get killed 
 this way.
  
  Basically, the gun play is your typical standard FPS stuff with retarded AI to boot. You'll have 
 swarms of guys coming after you and they just stand there and let you blow them apart. Speaking 
 of blowing apart the game has an "environmental damage" system where you can shoot flashing objects 
 to damage enemies (like we haven't seen that before!) This actually does help when you have seven 
 guys under a wooden platform full of explosive barrels. Shooting those support beams is just oh-so-awesome. 
 The game is full of adrenaline pumping sequences like your OMG!! button pressing cut scenes (which 
 are actually fun) and this is where you really feel like Bond so that's always a plus on the cinematic 
 side. Since this is a Bond game you can use stealth in a lot of the levels, but it's very shallow 
 and not implemented well. It really feels like an old PlayStation or N64 game where you just hide 
 behind a wall, dodge this camera's spotlight, disable that camera, and shoot that guard. The cameras 
 don't even notice when you pop some lead into a guys head right in the camera's view. I don't know 
 what the developers were trying to prove except for the fact that using old mechanics in 2008 doesn't 
 work too well.
  
  A lot of times you'll not know what to do and you'll blow your cover due to trial and error (again 
 a 10 year old thing) and you have to restart all over again (if you want to stay stealthy) . So, 
 you can sneak around, but it feels really old and doesn't really work out too well. Of course you 
 have to have some Bond moves to perform and this is done by pressing the L stick and pushing the 
 on screen button and watching a 2-3 hit instant kill! While this is cool the animations get repetitive, 
 when the camera pulls back into first person mode you get disoriented since sometimes the game 
 will flip you around, and it's too easy to do. It's cool sneaking up behind a guy and pulling off 
 a Bond move, but after about twenty times you'll get sick of it. Another thing I didn't like is 
 there were no driving sequences. What's a Bond game with no DRIVING!!?!?! There is, however, a 
 cool train sequence that is pretty cool with you decoupling cars, jumping from decoupled cars, 
 and just all that cool Bond stuff. While that's the basic game play you can see there is a lot 
 missing that should have been in here.
  
  With the mechanics feeling about 10 years old this really drags the experience down and after awhile 
 the game feels more like a chore that you're forced to play. Thankfully, the game isn't very long 
 at all since you can beat it in about 6-7 hours. The multiplayer is OK, but nothing super special 
 just your standard FPS online action and you won't be coming back for this often since the mechanics 
 are somewhat flawed. I really loved this game though since there was a lot of explosions, shooting, 
 sneaking, Bond moves, and cool locales. If you want an awesome weekend rental pick this up and 
 you'll have a blast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolwerine123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game, unlike other bond games gives you the feel that the world depends on you, that you ARE 
 bond. The levels are nicely designed with many destructables like exlpoding tanks, falling debris, 
 swinging objects and much more. The game revolves around the cod 4 engine which alleviates most 
 the issues with 1st person shooter games with simple controls. Their is a variety of weapons and 
 add-ons you can use along with hand to hand combat with easy to understand controls. Also the music 
 in the background adds the cinematic effect to the game (the classic james bond tune plays when 
 a big event is present) it also adds suspense to the game as parts of it require stealth. The graphics 
 are fairly good for what the game has to offer but not all that sharp.
  
  Now the downside, the mission briefings are coded by mobile phones (a bit like Hansel and Gretel) 
 you have to follow where they lead you. Some missions get repetitive but not too much that you 
 get bored out of your wits. The opponents sur-press fairly heavy fire which does leave you taking 
 cover for long periods of time. 
  
  Overall I must say, bond never looked this good in a game before not to mention the action and 
 detailed combat incorporated in the game. Nice simple controls, not too hard or too easy, adrenaline 
 pumping (especially when you put the music up) and thrilling with suspense, Quantum of Solace has 
 really been one of my highlights for the year.
  
  Cant wait for the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace : A first person shooter based on the recent James Bond movie and powered by 
 the Call of Duty 4 engine.
  
  Story : Like most video game tie-ins, the story in the Quantum of Solace video game is a random 
 mishmash of plot points from the movie tied together in a way that's nothing short of incoherent 
 unless you've seen the movie (s) that it's based on. This game in particular goes an extra mile 
 (or should I say cuts off an extra mile) by not even rendering cutscenes acted out by the character 
 models but rather having the story told with phone conversations between the main characters while 
 a computer screen from M16 provides some kind of visual that may as well been done in Flash. This 
 game even doubles the incoherence of the plot; for the first hour or so of gameplay, you'll play 
 missions based on the Quantum of Solace movie, and right before you reach the final sequence, Bond 
 begins to reminisce about the events that brought him here, and then you play about 3 hours worth 
 of missions based on Casino Royale. Way to break up the flow of the storytelling, eh?
  
  The James Bond that Daniel Craig portrays disposes the cocky swagger, unrealistic gadgets and over-the-top 
 personalities of previous incarnations in favor of an emotionally scarred, cold-blooded killer 
 who operates on his motives over that of his superiors and lost his ability to love. Displaying 
 that kind of development in a video game is a bit tricky, so the Quantum of Solace video game plays 
 less like a character study on the iconic British spy and more like your typical game of "one man 
 army killing hundreds of henchmen."
  
  Quantum of Solace's rather shamelessly uses every gameplay convention popularized from the last 
 five or six years; the cover button, the ability to only store 3 weapons, the self-regenerating 
 health bar, the screen changing colours to reflect your character nearing death, the quick-time 
 event cutscenes (actually, melee-attacking an enemy will trigger a quick-time event cutscene that 
 asks you to think fast and press the desired buttonbut not too fast, as the game gives you a surprising 
 amount of leeway to press that single button) , a contrived "hacking" mini-game that simulates breaking 
 into locked doors by pressing the d-pad in the direction the game tells you to, conveniently placed 
 explosive containers that just happen to be placed next to where the enemy guards are hiding, the 
 obligatory gun-turret sequence, several obligatory sniper rifle sequences
  
  It's a shooter alright. You could take away the cover button and you could very well be playing 
 an especially uninspired version of Call of Duty 4. In fact the only time the game surprised me 
 with a clever idea was at the final level, when I had to shoot fire extinguishers on the wall to 
 put out fires that were blocking my path. (And I'm sure that's been done already too and I don't 
 remember it.)
  
  The exceptions to the above statement are the stealth sequences, where the game decides to break 
 up the pace by using every gameplay convention from the last five or six years prior to the five 
 to six years that popularized regenerating health bars. Enemies that walk the same predetermined 
 patrol routine repeatedly even if it's just a circle around a scaffolding, security cameras, the 
 silenced gun, the ability to approach from behind and execute a stealth killthese are the parts 
 where the game remembers that you can't make a Bond game without trying to make people feel a bit 
 nostalgic for the days of Goldeneye. For better or for worse, there's little penalty for not being 
 stealthy, as blowing your cover simply means guards with bigger guns appear and you get thrown 
 in the same firefights you've been playing throughout the rest of the game. Speaking of which, 
 you may either like or despise this, but if you stay hiding in one spot long enough, the enemy 
 AI will not only chuck grenades at you but will try to flank you and shoot from behind.
  
  The gameplay itself ismostly solid, but a few odd quirks pull you out of the experience. The training 
 to become a 00 agent must be nothing short of incredible, as Bond seems to have little trouble 
 killing enemies by blind-firing your gun from cover. The game tries very hard to immerse the player, 
 to "experience playing as James Bond" by concocting all kinds of staged events in each levelmost 
 of which comprise of things exploding around you and the camera shaking a lot. These events come 
 off as tooscripted, largely in part because, in contrast, Bond will barely flinch if an unscripted 
 grenade just happens to explode on top of him. I've got nothing against these kinds of scripted 
 events, and in fact when used properly can really pull you into a game (see the Call of Duty games, 
 in particular Modern Warfare) but the ones here feel too inorganic; they make you feel less like 
 you're part of a thrilling combat scenario and more like you're on a stage as gimmicked debris 
 falls down, fireworks go off to simulate an explosion and a trap door opens to reveal the path 
 onward. I guess what I'm trying to say is, the game tries hard to be immersive but fails.
  
  And I haven't even gotten to the James Bond aspect of Quantum of Solacewhich is to say there 
 isn't much. I understand the lack of gadget weapons from past Bond games, and even the lack of 
 an Aston-Martin driving sequence, but if not for Daniel Craig's likeness and how the death sequence 
 predictably comprises of blood slowly falling down the screen like in the intros of 007 movies 
 (and Goldeneyeand shockingly, Goldeneye did it better! The "blood" here looks rather plastic) , 
 then you may as well be playing a generic first person shooter. I'll even go on a limb and say 
 the authenticity of the game is severely hurt by the fact that an MI6 operative is still giving 
 you orders like you're a soldier, despite how this Bond spends most of the movies working in defiance 
 of MI6. The only actual "Bond gadget" is your phone, which acts as another menu screen, displaying 
 assorted facts such as a level map you're not going to need because the levels are incredibly linear 
 in nature. Linearity isn't always a bad thing, but this game is plagued with invisible walls in 
 the worst way possible. If you're not supposed to be somewhere the developers want you to be, you'll 
 know it.
  
  The Quantum of Solace video game isn't completely bad. There aren't any game-breaking glitches 
 or bugs like in most movie tie-ins and the online multiplayer is decent enough that you can find 
 and play about 3 or 4 matches in the same it takes to even try setting up one match in Gears of 
 War 2. But being functional shouldn't be the nicest thing I have to say about the game. It's a 
 run of the mill shooter that you'd miss absolutely nothing for if you elect not to play it, and 
 doesn't even fare well as a James Bond game. If you haven't played a shooter within the last 7 
 years, then Quantum of Solace has potential to blow your mind, but if names like "Halo", "Gears 
 of War" and especially "Call of Duty" mean anything to you, then there's nothing about Quantum 
 of Solace that'll shake or stir you up.
  
  Pros : "The Man With The Golden Gun" multiplayer match type is blatantly ripped out of Goldeneye 
 and appears here.
  
  Cons : Otherwise, there's nothing in multiplayer that hasn't been ripped out any other game. Activision 
 couldn't even be bothered to acquire the rights to the actual Quantum of Solace theme song from 
 Alicia Keyswell I guess they didn't have a problem licensing it for Guitar Hero as a downloadable 
 song people have to pay for.
  
  3 stars
  
  I'd like to apologize for the painfully predictable line about shaking and stirring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starkiller4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I thought overall the Quantum of solace game was quite good, the campaign was in depth and exciting 
 (apart from the stupid opening cutscenes and the electronic combination locks) . The cover system 
 worked really well most of the time but sometimes made it really annoying.
  Aside from having a pretty good campaign it has a quite bad multiplayer system, which has terrible 
 maps and the game modes are awful I think the only good thing about the multiplayer was the weapons.
 
  
  If you are thinking about buying this game I would have a good long think about that before you 
 do, because you should take into consideration that the multiplayer is awful and that the cover 
 system can be annoying, but the campaign is really good with some amazing levels and its quite 
 fun going up to someone and beating the crap out of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace is an average action game, a average shooter. The game play is pretty fun, but 
 you don't get that feeling that this is a great game like when you play a game like Left 4 Dead 
 which I gave a score of 9 out of 10. Playing this game I get the feeling of been there, don that. 
 There's nothing special about this game. Its a good rental, but its definitely not worth buying. 
 I only buy games that are at least good. I recomend a rentalut don't buy it. The sound effects 
 are very good though. The overall sound is very good. There's not much replay with this game. You'll 
 play it once and thats just about all you will want to play it. The graphics are good, but nothing 
 special. The cut scene graphics are not good. The game play graphics are good however. The controlls 
 are quite good and they respond very well. I'm a big James Bond fan, but I didn't enjoy this game 
 very much. One of my favourite games of all time was Golden Eye. This game is nothing compared 
 to Golden Eye. I gave Golden Eye a 9.5 out of 10. This a 6.5 out of 10.
  I give the game play a 6.5 out of 10. Pretty good game play. 7 out of 10 for the graphics. Good 
 graphics. 7.5 out of 10 for the sound. The music is good, the sound effects are very good, and 
 the voice acting is great. 5 out of 10 for the value and replay value. Replay value is not good. 
 8 out of 10 for the controlls. Great controlls. 7 out of 10 for the story. Good overall story. 
 6.5 out of 10 for the combat. Overall I give 6.5 out of 10 for Quantum Of Solace. A pretty good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paidoot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i had never owned a 007 game before this, and i was interested to see how it was so i bought 
 it, and i got good value for my money. This is a great shooter. The graphics are amazing and the 
 design of all the places in the game is just great. Bond looks just like the real bond and talks 
 just like the real Bond in the movies. Its what a James Bond game should be. But not all is good. 
 The game is just too short, i expect a game to take me at least three weeks to clock but this one 
 took me 3 days, and when you shooot an enemy in the game, u wont see any bloodspray, but that can 
 be excused because of the graphics and the storyline. 
  
  The good : Graphics, storyline, scenery (places and buildings designs) , guns.
  
  The bad : 
 Too short, non visible bloodspray when shooting an enemy.
  
  Overall 007 Quantum of solace is a great addictive game to play and im sure if u are a 007 game 
 fan u would rate this one over 9.0 out if 10. I reccomend it to anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  so quantum of solace. the only reason i initially have this game is because i needed something 
 to pass the time between christmas and now, so i rented it. i must say i am quite impressed, i 
 normally stay well clear of all movie games but hey what the hay. so i'll start with single player: 
 its not bad but its not amazing. you of course play as james bond through the casino royale and 
 the quantum of solace movies. story is ok to be honest i skipped a lot of it because it was in 
 an aweful real time mode. charecters lips move unnaturally up'n'down like their hinged. that also 
 goes for the graphics in game too. Charecter models ruin it they react badly to being shot and 
 dont really do anything productive. Action is always prominant and often comes in the way of a 
 good stealth mode, this part of the game i cannot fault, so overall this game must sound worth 
 a buy. now lets move onto multiplayer. it of course as the rest of the game uses the cod 4 engine 
 and should play like cod yes? well it does sorta, there are perks and gun upgrades like scopes 
 but instead of unlocking them by going up ranks, no you obtain these ranks by earning credits and 
 buying them, thats what i dont like about this game it just isnt original it feels like a cross 
 between cod, bf bc and r6v2. you die ncredibly easy even with the extra health perk and the charecters 
 all look the same. of course theres two different teams but there are only two charectiplayer is 
 becomes incredibly confusing when you decide to venture into a new mode like golden gun becasue 
 it doesnt explaing the rules all that well and you have to play to find out. that brings us nicely 
 onto the multiplayer modes i actually quite like them but theres not that much of a mix : ( so all 
 in all go for it treyarch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Should have the same rating as The Bourne Ultimatum if not higher.
  
  My views:
  The game is pretty much just like the movie... Just nonstop action with little story to really 
 follow. The voice acting comes from the actual people. Daniel Craig, really does look like himself 
 in the game. the descent graphics leads to nice visuals, and cut scenes. The game play is quick 
 to catch on to with typical present day FPS controls. It leaves you wanting to continue although 
 the game isn't that long to begin with. Typical multiplayer, can be quite fun, but not enough to 
 make you jones to play.
  
  Overall:
  The game is definitely worth a play... I would suggest a rental. Doesn't take too long till you 
 feel like you've gotten everything out of the game. But still, I think it's a must play... It's 
 a nice 'Beat it' game, along with easy achievement points. Good game to play if you don't want 
 to get all cooked up in a deep story, just play it and enjoy it for what it is, a quick paced action 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace is an imperfect game that makes very little attempt to steal the title of "Best 
 Bond Game" from Goldeneye, but that doesn't mean it isn't worth looking at. Also, the game runs 
 on the same engine as Call of Duty 4 and it shows in the graphics and gameplay. Still, even with 
 the borrowing, I feel that QoS stands out on its own as being a very enjoyable experience.
  
  The single player is mostly your standard FPS with a few of its own elements thrown in. The 
 game has a cover system that works well and thats good because you use it a lot. One thing that 
 is unique to this game is the number of exploding objects left sitting around. Every level gives 
 you plenty of opportunity to blow up your enemies with propane tanks or other exploding object 
 that litter the stage. This isn't realistic, but it does make you feel like you're playing an action 
 movie. There are a few sections that are designed for stealth, but the game never forces you to 
 be stealthy. If you prefer to just go around blasting people then the game lets you do so. You'll 
 still need to learn how to sneak though if you want to survive on the higher difficulties. The 
 campaign lasts about five hours for a single play-through on the default difficulty and mostly 
 covers the events in Casino Royal (the previous Bond movie) .
  
  The multiplayer is enjoyable as well. The cover system from the single player becomes more a bigger 
 element here. For the most part you'll be playing team deathmatch, but there are a few Bond specific 
 modes. There is one where one player is Bond and everyone else trys to stop him from defusing bombs. 
 There is also a mode where Bond tries to reach an objective point without getting killed. The final 
 Bond mode is Golden Gun, which is a free for all where there is one Golden Gun and it kills in 
 one hit. For everything you accomplish in the multiplayer you'll earn points to unlock more weapons 
 and perks. Despite the limited choices at start, I never felt like I was overpowered by the other 
 players. These options allow for a lot of customization and do compel you to play more. The only 
 problem is that if the host leaves the match then you'll lose whatever points you earned. That 
 to me seems like a glitch that should be fixed, though I imagine it never will be. Overall the 
 multiplayer is very approachable. I don't think anyone would have trouble jumping right in. 
  
  The graphics are done pretty well. They really shine on the single player, but are toned down 
 significantly for multiplayer. Either way Bond still looks good, though some big explosions on 
 the multiplayer side would have been appreciated. The sound is good too, but in multiplayer, again, 
 you'll constantly hear automated updates from your team-mates telling you EVERYTHING they're doing. 
 It might be a little annoying at first. The sound effects and guns all sounded great to me. 
  
  So, in the end the game is a decent effort. It just happens to be one I found quite enjoyable. 
 If you like Bond a lot then this game is a worthy tribute and might be worth picking up. If you're 
 not a Bond fan, this is still a very fun rental. Either way this is a nice game package and one 
 that I'm glad to have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet573
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was good, it just was not great. 
  I am in no way old enough to remember much about Goldeneye. I remember playing multiplayer with 
 my dad when I was like five, but other than that I know nothing much about it other than that it 
 is sometimes considered the best FPS ever. 
  So, that means that I will be basing my review from the game... no comparisons that seem to plague 
 some reviews.
  It was ambitious. It uses the COD engine, and has amazing locations and details. There are fourteen 
 or fifteen levels, each unique, though some worse than others. 
  I first played this game on the easiest mode, which was too easy. Jump over to double 0, and for 
 some reason, it feels like an actual FPS... I was dying!
  One thing that is bad is the crappy AI. They are more like Rambo usually, which means all you got 
 to do is shoot them in the face and they're gone. 
  Another bad thing, the cover. It was a good idea, but the transition from first to third person 
 always feels somewhat awkward. I can see why its there since enemies can group together and become 
 pains in the arse, but it still feels like it was put in in the last minute. 
  The worst two parts of the game start with the explosive barrels. They are everywhere and it becomes 
 tiring after the fortieth explosive kill. 
  The second worst thing are the minigames. Hacking into panels and walking across beams feels awkward, 
 and does not flow with the overall game. 
  The story is kind of boring, and just jumps about the movies. In the middle of the game, we transition 
 from Quantum of Solace to Casino Royale in one of the most awkward transitions in a game. Why could 
 Casino Royale not be the beginning of the game?
  One of the best parts of the game are when it gets fast paced and your chasing people. The chase 
 around the construction site was fun, and easy, but the keyword is fun. 
  Some story parts are also flawed. Demitrios is killed inside of the museum, in a body world place, 
 not in a gun fight...
  The voice acting was good.
  The animation is good.
  It is too easy...
  The game could have been good, but it had too many flaws, a boring story, 
 it was too short (I think parts like that car chase at the beginning of the game should have been 
 a push button sequence) , and its overall too ambitious. 
  I look forward to seeing Bond in this new format, but hopefully his next outting will be a bit 
 more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etware
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The single player of the game is definitely worth while, but it would appeal most to those who 
 lose the movie Casino Royale. The creators of the game wanted to give you feel of what it'd be 
 like to be Bond and they do a great job at it. There are a lot of memorable scenes and there's 
 a good variety of missions, whether it's about stealth, or just explosive gaming, which brings 
 up a big point. The game's filled with explosions, and you'll be able to use your environment to 
 filter out your enemies. The single player has good replay value if you want to go back and figure 
 out new methods to kill your enemies through explosions, stealth, or melee moves (there are some 
 levels where you can get achievements for playing them completely through one of these methods) . 
 
  
  The multi player is one of Quantum of Solace's strengths, with several modes to play, such as Team 
 Conflict, Golden Gun (competing for the Golden Gun and earning points through killing people with 
 it) , Bond Versus (one person's Bond trying to diffuse bombs) , Bond Evasion (one person as Bond 
 tries to escape an area) , and Territories. It's very much like Call of Duty 4, only I think it 
 has more variety. There's also a good choice of guns and accessories to purchase, which makes the 
 multi player a lot more fun. 
  
  Overall, Quantum of Solace is definitely worth it, but like I said, it would appeal a lot more 
 to Bond fans. Although it does have a good amount of shooting, it probably wouldn't be enough for 
 Call of Duty fans, unless you're in it just for the multi player. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbedfan95
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  James Bond Quantum of Solace is a satisfactory Bond game. 1) It is extremely easy 2) The online 
 play is a bit sketchy. The XBOX 360 Bond fans have relized we've been tricked because we are so 
 desperate for a Bond game we will take the least we need and this is exactly that if there were 
 a million Bond games this would get a worse review. The behind cover aiming is fun I guess and 
 the achievements are fun to chase. 
  
  James Bond Quantum of Solace is a satisfactory Bond game. 1) It is extremely easy 2) The online 
 play is a bit sketchy. The XBOX 360 Bond fans have relized we've been tricked because we are so 
 desperate for a Bond game we will take the least we need and this is exactly that if there were 
 a million Bond games this would get a worse review. The behind cover aiming is fun I guess and 
 the achievements are fun to chase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  I realize that it is based off of the movie Quantum of Solace which I've heard is amazing, but 
 as for the video game, it really isn't a complete title. I would have thought in this game you 
 might be able to drive your sweet Aston Martin, or steal a boat or even a helicopter and drive 
 them around. 
  
  I really didn't think there was good use of enough gadgets a 007 would use to get through his missions. 
 The only item you could pick up for Intel was a cell phone, and they weren't very difficult to 
 find. I would have liked to play a few hands in that Poker game, before I was poisoned. haha. I 
 thought the cinemas were pretty good, but some of the scenes looked slapped together in terms of 
 graphics, like they didn't take much time or effort to refine the characters. 
  
  Flashing back to Casino Royale and having missions mixed between both movies was pretty cool. The 
 variety of guns and shooting system were above average. The graphics for the most part were really 
 good. 
  
  My favorite part about Quantum of Solace was that I wasn't "saving the world", I was simply executing 
 missions. And that is how Bond should be. I like how Daniel Craig is such a bada$$; he is probably 
 the best Bond I've seen. 
  
  In terms of multiplayer, I have played most of the game types, and the whole idea of weapon classes 
 and buying and customizing your weapons in this game are outstanding. Overall I like it, I just 
 hope it grows on me more, or I'll be looking to getting a different gameCOD: WOW; Gears of War 
 II (knowing they would be phenomenal) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace is not as bad as critics are stating; in fact, I might as well say that it stacks 
 up to Gears and Halo pretty well. The single player is short, but very fun. I'm not sure how much 
 of the movie is actually incorporated into this game, but all of the actors' voices are used and 
 the action pack thrill of Bond movies are used throughout the game. The bad thing about the single 
 player game is that Bond doesn't really have any cool gadgets and there aren't any cool car chasing 
 scenes, so the player doesn't really feel like a spy, just another Rambo shooting almost every 
 character on the screen. About the only thing really spy like thing Bond does in this game is hack 
 doors and monitoring systems. Whoopie! 
  
  Once you've finished the single player portion of the game, the multiplayer portion is where one 
 turns to for the replay value. It has all of the standard modes you'll find in almost every shooter 
 (yes, that includes Gears, Call of Duty and Halo) . Maybe the only down side is that it doesn't 
 include any co-op modes, which Gears of War and Halo provide.
  
  This game is like many of the other shooters out on the market with a short single player and a 
 standard multiplayer portion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveLogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The Singleplayer game is fun, but not very challenging even on hard (you'll still enjoy playing 
 it) . Multiplayer is a mix between Gears of War and Call of Duty 4. If you like the latter, you 
 will like this game. The levels are designed well and the guns are balanced and cool (save maybe 
 2 of them) . Instead of perks like in Call of Duty 4 you earn money as you play and then can buy 
 everything from guns and grenade types to perks and then you can set up custom loadouts. 
  I really think this game has been underrated by critics and players. It's not Goldeneye, but it's 
 better than any bond game since (save maybe Everything or Nothing) . Simply put it's Call of Duty 
 4 with a 3rd person cover system like Rainbow Six Vegas or Gears of war. 
  People have complained about the graphics and lack of blood. The graphics are good on Lo-Def or 
 Hi-Def and I am not the type that needs a game to be blood-soaked to be fun. The lack of blood 
 actually helps the slick feel of the game. And this game is slick, running from cover to cover 
 and shooting when you have a good shot, instead of spraying at anything that moves. 
  If Call of Duty 5 and Gears of War 2 hadn't sucked up all hype this November, I think that this 
 game would be more appreciated.
  As always I suggest renting it first if you are anyway doubtful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  First off I am a huge bond fan... The movies are great and games like goldeneye (n64 version) , 
 the world is not enough, agent under fire, nightfire, and everything or nothing were great games... 
 but the series has had some bad ones like from russia with love, goldeneye rogue agent and some 
 other ones... This game has some pros and cons....
  
  PROS: -An online multiplayer finally thats better than goldeneye rogue agent
  -A decent amount 
 of weapons
  -easy achievement points
  
  CONS: -Way too easy
  -Game is short
  -The enemy A. I. is weak and the cover system makes the game easy
  -The game is similiar to "The 
 Bourne Conspiracy" in which it is just like
  the movie (casino royale)
  -Bad Graphics
  -Bad voice acting 
  -Just rent the movie "Casino Royale because that 95 percent of the 
  game
 
  -Not enough Quantum of Solace levels
  -Levels hardly worth replaying 
  -Multiplayer is nothing special 
  -Stupid "button time action sequences and hacking sequences" 
 
  
  
  All in all this game is really similar to "The Bourne Conspiracy in a way... but worse... The weapons 
 are the same old stuff and it really gets old after a while and is only worth a rental.... Go buy 
 Gears of War 2 or the new COD if you want a game that will last you a while or go rent the movie 
 casino royale because this game is just more like an "interactive game" all well...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  the gameplay is as any bond game should be first person action but the one down fall is its your 
 going from point a to point b shooting and killing, none of that mission based stuff bond is known 
 for ,
  
  the graphics look last gen at best, timesplitters future perfect looks way better then this and 
 its on a xbox ps2 and gc , this game lacks blood, goldeneye showed blood on bodies, this one doesnt 
 , 
  
  the multiplayer is not as thrilling, because 1
  no split screen 2 all modes of play have you shooting , 
  
  theres no living daylights flag 
 tag . 1 hit kills ,character selection , no gun selection for the matches , theres no option for 
 you to create a public match your thrown into a random match , 
  
  the sound track/effects are as good as they were in previous bond games
  cod4 engine? i dont 
 think so , this is more like a last gen updated goldeneye engine, and not in a good way 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pash007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  I forked out the required 45 for the collectors edition with fancy tin and extra DVD because I'm 
 a bit of a Bond fan.
  The additional 5 for the collectors edition is probably not worth it (some free multiplayer maps 
 would've been nice) but sometimes it just has to be done.
  I am the worlds worst gamer, so it was disappointing that I completed the game within a week on 
 the 3rd highest difficulty level, making this an even shorter single-player game than COD4 in my 
 opinion.
  The game itself is brilliant, flicking back in time to Casino Royale and then back to Quantum of 
 Solace is very cleverly accomplished.
  I felt that the game immersed me into the James Bond role quite well, but found the story to be 
 a bit disjointed. Levels are linked together by some weird recorded footage and conversations with 
 M, that just don't seem to work for me.
  The best inclusions in this game for me are the takedowns and "boss" fights. Takedowns are achieved 
 by stalking the enemy and, when within range, press in the right stick and press the appropriate 
 button for a cut scene kill. The "boss" fights involve pressing or mashing the correct button in 
 the right order (quite standard stuff really) , leading to a sequence of defensive and offensive 
 moves, hopefully resulting in a successful kill.
  The graphics weren't as good as I thought they would be. Daniel Craig and Judy Dench could've looked 
 more realistic.
  The inclusion of a cover system, similar to Gears of War was good, but made the game a little bit 
 too easy.
  I've only played the multiplayer once and was unimpressed, but I will be giving it a few more goes 
 to get my achievements up. Oh, yes, achievements. There are loads of them (50 in total) adding 
 up to 1000 points.
  On the whole, a very enjoyable, if short, single player game and an average multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indy-Vidual
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I won't spend 30 min writing a 7000 word review about why a game is so bad, like some people. All 
 I will say is:
  
  This game is close to what Nightfire was like, minus any kind of depth or realism. Play the demo, 
 you can see the audience the publishers are targeting are 8 year old kids.
  
  Any one over 12 need not apply.
  
  Let's have a little breakdown.
  
  Good points:
  
 
  -graphics
  -atmosphere
  -true to the franchise
  
  Bad points:
  
  -unsatisying
  -uninspired
  -shallow gameplay
  
  
  To be honest, I could go on... but I promised I wouldn't 
 ;) final point - no matter how long the list of bad or good points about this game, if 'gameplay' 
 is not a good point, it isn't worth playing. That's the glue and this looks like it was whipped 
 up using the broken pieces Nightfire.
  
  ***this last paragraph is a dummy paragraph because Gamespot requires you have at least 800 characters 
 and/or a 100 words in a review*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alove007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  I nearly had a heart attack when QoS was introduced at E3 over the summer. And nearly blacked out 
 that it was running off of the 'Call of Duty 4' engine. 
  But honestly I had to control my excitement and face reality that I might be let down.
  I just 
 got QoS the morning of this first released and 'finished' but midnight with a few breaks during 
 my gameplay.
  Of course the single player is short I KNEW that was coming but the real joy is online. I like 
 it, no problems really, I kinda thought it be like COD 4's online but It just something to get 
 use too.
  Over all I really joyed this game! The music does it for me ever time, its very MOTIVATIONAL.
 
  I realized the big challenge I'm facing now is playing the single player on the hardest mode. 
 Which is overwhelmingly tough, and takes a little longer because this game truly base on stealth 
 and patience, which alot of gamers (ALL GAMERS) are sadly lacking in.
  So over all I love it. Great music, superb graphics, a watered down version of COD 4's online not 
 too bad and achievements that make you laugh if your a fan of the Bond Films.
  Die Hard James Bond Fan this is a must BUY!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I was very wary about getting this game. I already had it preordered and paid for. I just had 
 to get to Gamestop and pick it up. After reading the reviews I had 2 choices, get it or get my 
 money back and put it on Mirror's Edge. After reading a couple of other sites reviews, I decided 
 to go for broke and pick it up. I am glad I do not pay attention to Gamespot's reviews. This game 
 is very good in my eye. I lays very similar to COD4 but with a more Splinter Cell or Rainbow Six 
 approach (which call of duty should use) . I am, not a huge James Bond fan though I do appreciate 
 his movies. But I am by no means a die hard Bond fan. The game was very fun and kept me entertained 
 very much. The enemies AI was right on and the game was challenging most of the game except where 
 I could snipe off enemies, which was pretty easy. The multiplayer was every fun and gave me something 
 else to own my friends at. I especially like the Golden Gun. That is a blast. In my mind it was 
 better than Goldeneye and it should be as we are at least 10 years later after that game. But this 
 game will be staying in my collection for a very long time, which is more than I can say about 
 a lot of other new games this year. Also if you base your judgement on games you purchase off of 
 Gamespot reviews, you should have your head examined as Gamespot usually reviews very good games 
 at the low end of the scales. Look to Gameinformer and IGN, way better reviews that look at the 
 game in better nonpartisan ways unlike the paid Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemonkey04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a gorgeous looking game! I love the close-quarter take-downs that Bond does, quality animation. 
 It actually makes me want to play the game stealth rather than run-and-gun, although there were 
 plenty of times where run-and-gun was the only option. Perhaps it was kind of short (I guess) but 
 very sweet. By the end I was a sweaty mess. 
  
  They made the whole experience very cinematic with great camera tricks. Beautiful cinematics -I 
 cannot wait to see Quantum of Solace. I'm playing multi-player now and I am totally hooked on the 
 Siena Rooftops and Barge map, they are really fun to play.
  
  I think they did a great job transposing the movie to the console. Daniel Craig looks fantastic! 
 I am already looking forward to the next one, hopefully they will be doing expansion packs or down-loadable 
 maps for the multiplayer because, I'm hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipbrooks13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Quantum of Solace fits perfectly with the story, and is sure to follow exactly with the new movie. 
 And unless you have short term memory you're not going to forget why you where standing on a rock 
 with Camille, it's ridiculous to say that. The way you are introduced to the new movie and the 
 flashback to your origin is just right. The transition from action to solving puzzles is just perfect. 
 The use of cover in this game is very resourceful and perfect for quick shots with your gun. If 
 you just take a few seconds to admire the scenery, you might appreciate the time spent into making 
 this game. Stealth mode is one of the best features in the game. And if you mess up, it's no big 
 deal, you've got tons of cover, and plenty of guns. There is also no way you can the game is too 
 short! How much can you even do with two Bond movies, and I finished COD 3 and COD 4 a lot faster 
 than this! And if you space your time out enough you can maybe even enjoy it longer. This to me, 
 and others I know, is worth buying. For players who are not Bond fans in the first place, they 
 should even enjoy just being a secret agent. I would highly recommend this game. With everything 
 including the amazing multiplayer, it make for a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galeria
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  The reason I encouraged myself to purchase this game was that magazines mentioned it would use 
 the Call of Duty 4 engine and, seeing as how I thoroughly enjoy that game, I thought it would be 
 a bad idea to miss out on it. Well, the truth is, I see where the engine was used, but it doesn't 
 exactly feel the same as call of Duty 4. Don't get me wrong, the game works and functions just 
 like any other FPS. That, however, is where the problem lies. There isn't anything that distinguishes 
 this game from others, but that is not to say that it is a bad game or a negative comment. Truth 
 be told, it is quite enjoyable to play online, plus, it supports split screen action for those 
 old school Golden Eye times. However, if the story mode was as good as the CoD 4 game, the reviews 
 for this game would have been maybe a 9 for me, or perhaps a 10, but just barely. 
  
  The graphics are ok, they won't give you an eye strain or a head ache, but they won't win any prize 
 either. To be honest, I played the campaign for about 30 minutes before I decided that I wasn't 
 enjoying it much, and went to try the online portion of the game. Since then, I haven't gone back 
 to the story mode, but I will because I need to collect the achievements. 
  
  Online, it is competitive, but not so much that beginners to FPS won't get the hang of it. Usually, 
 it takes 2 to 4 shots to kill someone and it seems fair. I do wish the player felt more grounded 
 than what he is (I haven't seen any female avatars) . Also, it would have been nice to have an option 
 to choose how your character looks like, or at least choose characters, like the unlockables of 
 Goldeneye. As it is, most of us will be generic Avatars and, in certain modes, the we get to play 
 as the precarious James Bond. 
  
  Bottom line is, if you plan to purchase this game, do so with the mentality that you will have 
 fun playing mostly online or using the split screen option for multiplayer. If you only want to 
 play for the story mode (which is rare now-a-days) then may I suggest you rent it first before 
 you dish out 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maruest7
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  What a disappointment. A game with so much potential, yet it fails to deliver in so many ways.
 
  
  Graphics = 4, unbelievably bad. Looks like an Xbox or PS2 title.
  Gameplay = 6, character animation and movement very poor, and you never feel like you're playing 
 as bond or any other person for that matter, just a rail system shooter
  Presentation = 5, only this high because of the bond license
  
  This isn't a really bad game, 
 but it ultimately fails overall. They had COD4 engine, yet never tapped into its power. They had 
 the Bond license, but delivered a typical license game experience, which as we all know, is 99% 
 pathetic. What a wasted and hyped up effort. I was hoping with Activision vs EA at the helm, the 
 Bond franchise would finally be reborned. Sadly, it just went down that same old road we all know. 
 There is no excuse for this game. The developers should be embarrassed for passing off this turd 
 as a legitimate successor to Golden Eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  'the name is Bond, James Bond, we need to talk' Bond said, and as he grap mr. White's leg and drag 
 him, some men come from an suv and start to shoot at him...
  
  that would be the opening of the first mission on new James Bond's game, Quantum of Solace. After 
 the last James Bond game, From Russia With Love (EA) , James Bond come back in 1st person view. 
 Treyarch and Activision (they don't write it as Activision Blizzard and that's making me confuse) 
 has done a good job with this game, but... there are some great issue about the difficulty.
  
  The story, Quantum of Solace follow the movie's story line which cause it is not available 
 with subtitle making me a little bit confused (this is the first time treyarch don't give subtitle 
 to their game) . The story also combined with Casino Royale's story. Interesting idea (actually, 
 it just tell us about Bond's lost after Verper's death) but still, i don't quite understand (i'll 
 just watch the movie that come out november 6th in Indonesia) . There is not much of movie scene 
 on this game. instead, they using computer screen showing us the mission and sound of M and her 
 associated, and Bond. Well that's not a good idea actually. But, original artist as the voice cast 
 is great (love Judy Bench's voice)
  
  The gameplay, this the interesting part, playing Quantum of Solace is like playing a combination 
 of Perfect Dark Zero, with the stealth action, Call of Duty 4, with the mission direction (it place 
 on top not at the bottom of the screen) , Call of Duty 3 , with the graphics, general gameplay, 
 and crosshair system, and Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six, with the covering mechanics. Actually this 
 is an interesting game. Bond can cover like the one in Rainbow Six plus, Bond can dash to cover 
 by ponting at it and hold (A) button, Bond can switch his cover in corner, and do blind fire too. 
 Great covering mechanic! (wish CoD world at war can have the same system) Bond can do melee attack, 
 sprint takedown and stealth takedown which perform by pressing the right analog button and do button 
 sequence. Some fighting scene also need you to do button sequences. The gameplay can be intense 
 by the amount of the enemy and the capability of the AI too search another place to flank you, 
 the problem is, JAMES BOND IS TOO FREAKING GREAT! MI-6 trained him very well, he can shoot with 
 awesome accuracy, even when he do blind fire! Bond also can regenerate his health in a blink of 
 an eye, and... the environment really help him! no cover can be broken! even with only a little 
 crate, the enemy can't shoot him! when in cover, Bond is invincible! Other ridiculous thing is 
 every weapon in this game (except for handgun) have a front grip on it. That making Bond can shoot 
 without any recoil! I finish it less than 6 hours in field operative difficulty, now i'm playing 
 the agent difficulty and so far, i still can't fell the diference.
  
  The graphic, actually, for a spy game, the graphic is too bright, they should make it like Call 
 of Duty 3, that would be more awesome and realistic but overall, it's great, from Siena to Miami, 
 everything is just great. there are some low frame rate but that wouldn't have any effect to your 
 playing. One thing that really annoying is the character's animation. IMO, Bond is too short on 
 the game! he doesn't have any facial animation too. Craig, Judy, Eva, and Olga don't look like 
 the real one. that's bad. Treyarch should learn from EA when they made Sean Connery, that's awesome. 
 one last thing, they should give blood animation to this game (just like call of duty 3)
  
  The soundtrack, for this part, i really amaze with the Bond's theme attach to the game. Really 
 epic!
  
  so, it's cool, well actually it's just plain fun, but i still love it. there is a quote at the 
 end of the credits, 'James Bond will return' (if i'm not mistake) is that mean the next james bond's 
 game will produce by Activision-Treyarch again? let's wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  I was dubious when buying this game. All the sub par games that followed Goldeneye have made me 
 lose faith in the series!
  
  I have got to say that this is a huge step in the right direction. Firstly the story mode is involving 
 and exiting. Objectives might not be very varied but the gunfights keep your attention enough for 
 it not to matter too much.
  The cover system is a lovely addition and adds to the tension in said gunfights. The stealth elements 
 are well used too meaning you really can play the game as if you are an assasin or a gun weilding 
 maniac.
  
  Multiplayer is limiting. Not bad but not what you expect from the bond series. Its no GOldeneye 
 in that respect. Enough modes to keep you busy.
  
  Overall it is the single player that really shines for me. A great game which will last me a few 
 more days of constant play. Good job! Next time they may even beat Goldeneye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharos
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I never checked the online multiplayer, so this review is based solely on the single player campaign 
 experience.
  
  I played the game through once on the easiest difficulty in one sitting. it wouldnt matter if i 
 played it on the hardest difficulty, this game still feels like virtua cop or time crisis. The 
 cover mechanic works surprisingly well, but sitting behind a wall cracking off the odd headshot 
 with whatever weapon you have to hand seems to work as a solid tactic. The small hacking minigames 
 and stealth sections are a nice aspect, but could have been polished a bit more as they feel a 
 bit lacking in substance. If you play this game as a straight out shooter, you might get a bit 
 bored because the shooting does get repetitive (pull LT *crosshair snap to hostile* pull RT twice, 
 rinse and repeat) as most of my game was played out without having to move the crosshairs of my 
 own accord.
  
  To end on a high note, my favourite feature seen implemented is encouraging the medium of video 
 games as a movie, as the interactive fight scenes are obviously designed for you to watch the fight 
 and have little influence as opposed to unloading 500,000 rounds of ammunition into a person's 
 head. It creates depth and pacing in the gameplay and it gives this game a glimmer of hope.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, I brought this game yesterday. In all honesty, being that it was a 007 game, my expectations 
 was very low. Nothing can beat the classic Goldeneye on the N64!
  I am a huge fan of Daniel Craig and James Bond so I was hoping that the COD4 Engine would make 
 this game a good one...
  and guess what...
  Thay have!!
  I have been playing this game full on for 10 hours and I'm so addicted to it. The Multiplayer is 
 Brilliant, but it is too much like COD4... But that's not a Bad thing. Also lack of split screen 
 option, but online capabilities make up for it.
  Online is beautiful looking (so much like COD4) Very smooth too. You have the option of upgrading 
 your guns, weapons and gadgets.. when you've achieved points online, which is simple enough. There 
 are many different types of multiplayers, which are really fun and the maps are very nice indeed.
 
  Single player is cross between stranglehold, Gears, Rainbow 6 and of course COD4. I'm so addicted 
 to single player, it's amazing. If you are a huge fan of Casino Royale, you're going to love this 
 game as it takes you back to the many parts of the film.
  So in conclusion... I love everything about this game and for me it is the best James Bond game 
 ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
