-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/juiced2hotimportnights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online career mode is a neat addition.
 Drift races aren't half bad.
 Lots of neat visual mods to trick out your cars.
 Plenty of licensed vehicles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls are loose.
 Artificial Intelligence rubber banding is ridiculous.
 Middling production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 565 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Juice Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Sep 17, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Interesting online modes salvage this derivative street racer from total mediocrity. 

  If you actually remember 2005's Juiced, you've got a better memory than most. THQ and developer 
 Juice Games' unassuming arcade-style street racer didn't exactly set the world on fire. Instead, 
 it offered up a mostly competent take on a well-worn genre that had some interesting, yet flawed, 
 design concepts. Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights is the follow-up to that unmemorable game, and this 
 sequel is equally forgettable. It offers up yet another arcade-heavy street racing experience with 
 driving mechanics that do little to impress, an offline career mode that's laudable only because 
 you don't experience the teeth-gnashing frustration you may have had with its predecessor, and 
 presentation that's cut from the same swath that every generic street racer in the world uses. 
 The one, saving grace is the Xbox 360 version's online play, which includes a whole career mode 
 that you can play online against other armchair Paul Walkers. Sadly, PlayStation 2 owners are left 
 on the side of the road with no online play at all.  

           The world needs a lot of things. A Juiced sequel might not have been one of them, if Juiced 
 2 is any indication.      

  Juiced 2 drives like some unholy hybrid of Midnight Club and Midway's old Rush series of arcade 
 racers. There's nothing remotely realistic about the physics or handling of these cars, yet at 
 the same time, the driving isn't so over the top as to be entertaining because of its ridiculousness. 
 It toes the same middle ground as the original Juiced, and like that game, it isn't especially 
 exciting. Sure, there are momentary thrills to be had during the circuit races as you find a quick 
 shortcut to zoom past a rival driver or pull together some ludicrous combo while taking on one 
 of the game's drifting events. But eventually, the imprecision of the car handling and sometimes 
 questionable sense of speed conspire to dull up the proceedings.  

  The interesting thing is how differently the circuit races and drifting events play. Races are 
 like any other racing game you've ever played, except you may need to get used to the loose-feeling 
 controls. Drift races, on the other hand, are a whole different animal. Even if you're driving 
 a car you just drove normally on a race track, the handling becomes a slippery mess. This was probably 
 done on purpose -- this mode is all about drifting your car through turns, but the game basically 
 sends your car sideways with even the slightest twitch of your controller. Your only job is to 
 maintain some level of control and avoid hitting barriers. It's easier said than done. The whole 
 thing feels like the track has been caked in bacon grease, and steering properly under those conditions 
 is a dicey prospect. Still, if Juiced 2 deserves credit for any one thing, it's that even with 
 its control weirdness, it provides one of the least complicated and generally enjoyable interpretations 
 of drifting in a video game thus far. Maybe that isn't saying much given the competition, but it's 
 still worth saying.  

  Most of the racing takes place inside the game's career mode. Included in the career mode are a 
 variety of race types. There are standard races, eliminator races, team races, standard solo drift 
 events, and wheel-to-wheel drift events. There's also a decent roster of tracks in the game (the 
 track designs are aesthetically different, though functionally similar between the 360 and PS2 
 versions of the game) , though they're the same brand of closed-off tracks as in the first Juiced. 
 There's no open-world racing here, no traffic to avoid. It's just tricked-out rides racing other 
 tricked-out rides in somewhat sterile environments.  

  One of the big issues with the original Juiced was that its career mode was a frustrating mess. 
 The whole thing relied on a calendar of events, and every time you raced, you had to drop cash 
 for an entry fee, as well as repairing your ride afterward. As time went on, the fees got more 
 and more expensive, making progression more of a chore than anything else. All that stuff is gone 
 in Juiced 2. The only cash you stand to lose in an event is whatever you opt to gamble against 
 another racer (a feature that is entirely optional) , and all the events are free to play. On top 
 of that, in place of the calendar is a tiered series of leagues, each with multiple events and 
 goals to complete. The goals are nonlinear and range from simply placing third or higher in a certain 
 type of race to winning a bet of a certain amount or defeating specific rivals on the track. You 
 can actually knock out multiple goals in one race if you know what you're doing.  

           Car customization is adequate, though it's not exactly user friendly.      

 It's a 
 cool system that actually helps alleviate some of the insane difficulty of the later leagues. As 
 the cars get faster, the issues with car handling are exacerbated, and at the same time, the opponent 
 artificial intelligence goes from merely suspect to completely ludicrous. The game suffers from 
 pure rubber-band AI: When you're ahead, opponents always seem to be close behind; when you're way 
 behind, opponents practically seem to slow down and let you catch up. It's really silly in the 
 early goings because you could be a good 50 yards behind an opponent, but right before the finish 
 line, you'll see him spin out or do something otherwise stupid and let you overtake him. By the 
 same token, opponents in later career tiers have an uncanny ability to just overtake you at will. 
 Suffice it to say, it gets pretty irritating in the later goings.  

  One of the supposedly big new features in Juiced 2 is the driver DNA system. It's designed to show 
 differentiation between driving styles, rating proficiency in everything from gambling habits to 
 cornering, and rating those abilities on a three-point scale of wild, normal, or cool. Unfortunately, 
 it's also completely useless. There is zero differentiation between the AI drivers. Supposedly 
 great-rated drivers end up losing badly to guys who look like they have barely any races under 
 their belts. The game doesn't even seem to do a particularly good job of tracking your own exploits. 
 You could be wrecking into corners left and right yet still end up with a relatively tame cornering 
 rating.  

  As you play through the career, you'll earn cash, which you can use to buy a nice variety of licensed 
 rides and customize them as you see fit. There's a good, solid array of visual mods (bumpers, hoods, 
 mirrors, headlights, wing-style doors, and such) , and you can also add a bunch of different decals 
 to your cars. Unfortunately, the decal editor is rather limited, and getting the kinds of elaborate 
 designs you'll see on cars of racing opponents involves much more painstaking effort than you'd 
 probably prefer. Decals aren't as shapeable and there isn't as wide a variety of good-looking decals 
 as in many other street racers of this type. In fact, a lot of the decals are pretty terrible-looking. 
 If you really hunker down and start messing with it, you can make some cool designs, but it takes 
 a lot more effort than one would probably prefer.  

  For PlayStation 2 owners, the features list pretty much begins and ends with the career mode. There 
 are some racing challenges to play outside of the career, and two players can race in split-screen, 
 but there is no online multiplayer whatsoever. Xbox 360 players, on the other hand, get to play 
 with a rather elaborate online mode. Apart from the standard ranked and player matches, there's 
 a whole online career mode that directly mimics the offline career. All the same events are playable, 
 but instead of AI opponents, you can play against other live racers. The lobby system is a bit 
 convoluted: Because there are so many different events, the only way to tell who is interested 
 in playing on a specific track is a little counter that shows how many people are looking at that 
 specific race. It doesn't necessarily mean that anyone has a game up, so you still may find yourself 
 poking around a bit. Still, it's cool that you can take on career races against live players, and 
 the online performs quite well with minimal lag. However, the one odd thing about this mode is 
 that it is just the offline career online, yet the two are not intertwined in any way. It's basically 
 just two duplicate career modes, with totally different garages and career records. Essentially, 
 you'll end up playing the same career mode twice if you go through both. If Juice Games had worked 
 to find a way to integrate the two modes into one experience, that would have been a lot more interesting. 

  However, not everything works exclusively in favor of the 360 version. While it's certainly got 
 more content, we did run into a technical issue or two with that version. Specifically, loading 
 screens periodically locked up on us, forcing us to reboot the game. This was tested on multiple 
 systems with the same basic result. During one such situation, the game actually corrupted our 
 save file.  

           This is one of those few street racers where drifting isn't completely awful.      

 
  Presentation is another area where the 360 version doesn't really impress. Obviously, it looks 
 a bit better than the PS2 game, but not as much as you might expect. One thing the PS2 version 
 actually does better is the sensation of speed. Cars just feel  faster  in the PS2 version. Still, 
 the 360 game looks OK. Car models are sharp and detailed, though the tracks are decidedly less 
 so. The 360 version also lets you customize your driver, though the character models are blocky 
 and kind of ugly. The frame rate holds up in both versions of the game, save for a few races with 
 more than six cars on the track. Audio is largely unremarkable, consisting of predictable effects; 
 a cheesy female voice who guides you through all the tutorials and tells you about all the ho-hum 
 exploits of your opponent drivers while purring in a pseudosexy voice; and a licensed soundtrack 
 that has a few notable songs, but nothing spectacular.  

  Regardless of which version of the game you're talking about, Juiced 2 is not a game that can really 
 be recommended to anyone but the most vehement street racing junkies. Countless games have done 
 what Juiced 2 does and done it better. While the 360 version's online career mode is a neat wrinkle 
 to an otherwise flaccid game design, it isn't necessarily enough to carry the game all by its lonesome. 
 At best, Juiced 2 is an OK rental, but it's not interesting enough to warrant a full-priced purchase. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sleezinator
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights...... Well, it wasn't terrible. It definitely wasn't that great either. 
 I'll keep it short. Customizing the cars is fun, but shows little importants to brand. You can 
 select which custom parts to put on but there is no difference at all between them. So at first 
 I was completely stoked to drop a Venom Nitrous system in the car but when i went to upgrade again, 
 I noticed all custom parts at that level come out the same. So it made no difference at all which 
 i selected. That was kind of a let down that the game couldn't incorporate a larger matrix to allow 
 a "give and take," if you will, for certain aspects of the cars performance to allow for a difference 
 between after market parts. That's one of my biggest beefs. 
  
  I do however really like the sounds in the game. Actually hearing a blowoff valve on a turbo was 
 exciting. Downside was, regardless if the car was turbo'd at all it would have the blowoffs. A 
 similar game, "Import Tuner Challenge" had specific engine noises for each car. They each were 
 there own. But that's neither here nor there.
  
  The game was definitely not all bad. The short races were appreciated. Quick runs and challenges 
 were fun. But overall, races tend to get repetitive, betting system loses it's flavor. For juiced 
 3 I'd like to see more customization of the vehicles, not of the drivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Spot-Bot-1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  When playing the game you will find yourself waiting for the game to load then playing the game 
 so kinda boring but fun 
  
  The graphics could be better on some parts
  
  The women in the game could of look better
  
  Theres no story line
  
  Upgrading your car 
 is kinda weird it wont show you the kinds of car parts to add they just give you a brand name and 
 you pick a name this part could of been better
  
  You dont get to pick your tires just the rim style you want
  
  When your using nos you feel 
 like nothings is happening till a few seconds later
  
  Drifting is kinda fun but if you slam in to the wall or just tap it your going to lose
  
  On 
 one of the levels you must keep 55mph or faster even with nos you still could lose when the sand 
 slows you down making you re-run the track over again
  
  Could of had better music for the game
  
  If you lose your saved game file you wont want to 
 put the same amount of time back in the game
  
  All in all 3.5 rating
  
  You cant race for pinks when you want you have to wait till you can race pinks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashfan10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Playing Juiced 2, I didn't expect much because of the 17.99 price tag and the lack of copies on 
 the shelf, but getting it home I put it in the console. If you remember playing the first juiced 
 the physics are pretty much the same. One great addition is the drift feature, the different cars 
 feel different when sliding through the turns, and if they are heavy they feel heavy (aston martin) . 
 The league and goal system that is set up is done pretty well and isn't too frustrating to work 
 with when climbing through the ranks. It is made clear about the goals that are needed to move 
 on. Another thing that is a bit annoying is the spectator bet races. You are required to win a 
 certain amount of money in one race. I dont understand why one would buy a racing game and then 
 just bet on a car and watch the race. I could watch races on tv for that. But overall this game 
 should be given a better score than what was given for it from gamespot. So if you like a good 
 fun arcade racer pick this one up now, dont listen to the other ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin_289
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Juiced 2 has the cars. Juiced 2 has the drifts. Juiced 2 has oh so bad voice acting.
  
  Juiced as you will know is a racing game and all racing games need cars. There's quite a few in 
 the game too which is a good start. Add to that the amazing upgrade system and Juiced is trailing 
 only Forza for customisation and variety. An excellent thing that Juiced does is differentiate 
 between cars; no two cars act the same. Graphics are good, not the best on the console but not 
 bad either. Music is awesome with some good tunes from TC and Adam Freeland to get you in the mood 
 for racing or drifting. Oh yeah, the drifting is immense, it's what separates this from the crowd.
 
  
  Juiced 2 is ruined by some annoying characters and voice acting. Out of all the games I have played, 
 the characters on here have got to be the most annoying, I actually hated my own character too, 
 even though he never speaks. Another very annoying feature of Juiced is some seriously flawed AI. 
 If I just did the most amazing lap I have ever done on a track then the AI will be right beside 
 me all the way round. If I crash for 5 seconds and then get back into the race I will be first 
 within 5-7 seconds, no matter how far ahead the opposition is. It's almost as if there's no point 
 in playing sometimes.
  
  If you want a good racing game with customisation aplenty first check out Forza, then buy this. 
 Not the best racer on the platform by a long shot but a reasonably fun game to play overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Juiced 2 is an ambitous game its trying to compete with its main rival NFS but juice games are 
 not there yet because this racer needs a full service.
  
  Story/career
  
  Juiced 2 has your typical racing game events you race other drivers and you do drift events etc 
 but juiced 2 has a very poor track design that just feels bland to look at and race round it also 
 has no sense of speed for example when your doing 150mph it feels like 60-70mph it's hard to understand 
 why but there you go. The game has other flaws like girls all over the screen every load screen 
 now im a guy but this is a racing game and putting Attractive girls everywhere does not make the 
 game more fun although 13 years olds will be drooling.
  
  The game has flaws but it also has some good points and one of its best points is how much you 
 can do to your car you can change the steering wheel the seats etc the game has a very boy racer 
 like feel to everything it feels like this was made by a 19 year old street racer who wanted big 
 sewage pipe exhausts and 20 inch rims for his car. The drifting is simple and fun and is easy to 
 get used to.
  
  Juiced 2 has a good car list you can drive a street racer favourite like the Citreon C2 all the 
 way up to the TVR sagaris its a great choice of cars that will please almost anyone.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I could hardly get a game and the game that i played was not fun at all i would 
 advise not to play the MP
  
  Pros
  
  Deep customization
  Great variety of cars
  car handling is odd but simple
  
  Cons
  
  Bad track design
  No sense of speed
  graphics 
 could have been much better
  Poor loading times and the game can stall
  car interiors are not that good
  
  Verdict
  
  Juiced 2 is fun for a while but its not close 
 to the NFS series and it really can be very bland to play but its a decent racer that is worth 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warokku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Have only just started this game, after having completed fifty percent of it on PS3.
  The controls are more firm than the PS3 version, though some of the FMV graphics are slightly static, 
 not that it's a big deal. 
  Being a big fan of Need For Speed Underground 2, Juced 2 "HIN" is the closest game next to U2. 
 The things I like most about this game are the choice of classic cars on offer, such as the Honda 
 CRX and the Nissan R32 Skyline, not to mention the Nissan V35 Skyline. You have a replay option 
 (as in NFSU2) to see your moves and what not after the racing while you enjoy your other leisure 
 activities. Even though the game lacks in some areas, I find that it is almost perfect for what 
 it was designed for, to race and to drift. There is no needless time spent on travelling to race 
 destinations, which would sometimes be annoying in NFSU2. Then there are the little extras, such 
 as person molding, though it's hard to have your custom character look just like you, it's fun 
 and then the body kit's that can be added to you'r car actually exist and by real performance/ 
 kit companies.
  If you are a car enthusiest, then this game should appeal to you, there is enough detail for upgrades 
 and tuning that you will not be disappointed and as I mentioned before, just race and drift your 
 way through the game... simple as that!
  One other thing I forgot to mention... racing in real locations, though some tracks are a little 
 over the top but again fun, is great... most favourite track being the Rainbow Bridge in Tokyo, 
 awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gtay55
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of10 
 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 
 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 
 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 
 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 
 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 10 of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raaddragon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Exactly what Gamespot and IGN were thinking when they reviewed J2 is beyond me, but they must have 
 had a LOT to drink beforehand. Hot Import Nights performs on all fronts.
  
  The basis of marketing for Juiced 1 was the extensive and in-depth modding features, which i was 
 taken aback by, at the sheer vastness of customization options, the ability to basically, make 
 YOURSELF into a car. Well, HIN has managed to top that yet again, with more features to attach, 
 from streamlined wing mirrors to leopard-print skins, now more than ever, you can make the precise 
 car of your dreams. Yes, it'll take time, and as the main review points out - it'll take time to 
 make it perfect. What it fails to mention however, is that that is jam-packed with fun, and interesting 
 discoveries about the possibilities. Each car has it's unique extra set of hoods, bumpers, seats, 
 steering wheels etc. And trust me, there are a LOT of extra features.
  
  The circuit races are very enjoyable, and cutting through a corner against a live opponent, then 
 burning ahead with the N20 you just racked up has a certain thrill which i wouldn't trade for the 
 world.
  
  My only qualm with Juiced 2 is the drift races - simply keeping the car under control on these 
 butter-laden tracks is irritating, and in the event that you do manage to kick up some points with 
 a good drift, a single touch to the circuit-side during said drift will deplete the score by a 
 wide margin. But that's the only issue i have. Any issues you can find with controls are there 
 for a reason, because you're using a crappy, starter car. Once you start moving higher up the beginner's 
 ranks and into the intermediate levels, the handling becomes what you want it to be. This is, after 
 all a modding game, so the handling is as good or as bad as you make it....
  
  In closing, J2 is a solid game with great features, and thanks to it's wide underrating, is at 
 a low price. So you go. Buy it now. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbarian_Ash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  One of the coolest racing games on x360, with its Tunning / Modifying system it will rock the hell 
 out of you.. but that is if your into cars, and tunning of course. the car parts ( bumpers, wheels, 
 hoods, doors, etc ) the all parts are real and come from the names like ( Momo, V Fiber, Duraflex, 
 Carboon Creation, PJSP, Sarona, SS etc ) so now you know :) *sweet*
  
  There are over 100 of cars to choose from, all from Muscle cars to fast and tiny jap cars... and 
 even better, its not only the new models, there are a lot of OLDER MODELS, jippyyyy.. older models 
 like, Honda Civic/ Subaru / Mitsubishi / Ford / Bmw / Corvette... and a lot more..
  
  Now for the graphic... not much to talk about, good graphic, but they could have better avatar creation 
 alternatives... the cars look good.
  
  online: now this is very fun, you get the chance to bet with your friend, over live to see who 
 can come in first place, and get all of his cash :) 
  you have to win races to promote to bigger leagues, and with better cars, of course, you can super 
 trim your first car and play all the way with it if you like.
  
  value: you dont want to quit this game, 
  
  8,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Juiced 2 HIN is a good game and really surprised me of how good it is, this is a good modern street 
 racing series and worthy of a challenge to the need for speed era, juiced 2 is at the moment better 
 than the latest nfs game but probably the second best when Pro Street comes into stores. With good 
 graphics well paced car movement and all the cars you need to become a street racer this is arguably 
 and probably the best racing game this yr. plus you can also compete in different types of races 
 with endurance races and drift races as well as go head to head with celebrities such as Djibril 
 cisse and driver x but when you race to unlock mods for your cars you do lap times and head to 
 head as well as compete in pink slip races and spectator bets which brings a bigger range of competitions.
 
  
  However there is sum slight problems with this game, again as you sometimes have trouble getting 
 online and that probably the main reason why people have slated this game so much is that unlike 
 the NFS series that there is no free roam which is a shame. 
  
  But this is a good game and deserves no lower or higher than a 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootz360
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are nice, Racing is not simmy at all ,but really fun and seeing the other drivers reaction 
 to your driving is the best (a little screen pop's up in the corner, letting you see and hear their 
 frustration) . Car mods are fine, could use some more (Cars and Mods) . The avatars in the game (not 
 while racing) get old after awhile, saying the same thing when you bet on a race. Maybe a upgrade 
 on marketplace could fix a couple of these things. Overall it's a fun racing game like games of 
 old (NFS2) . Whatever happened to Midnidht Club? Having a RSX in the game made me get it, now I got 
 it ,I like it. Man, a 100 words? I'm falling asleep just typing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tncc24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is what street racers really feel and breathe. You get to what's important not are that 
 gimmicky stuff. The best streeet racer out there so far. Graphics are a little too bright for realism 
 but it gives you the feeling of the realness of HIN. Great cars and awesome driving, and real race 
 types that matter!! Great game!!. Gives you an interesing way to start getting into the action. 
 Performs right out the gate with competitive action that's not too intimidating. Great sense of 
 speed and the realest feel to date as far as drifting controls are concerned. Most games just don't 
 get this part right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykillajoe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  As of right now Juiced 2 is the best street racing game out there. The graphics, cars and tracks 
 look absolutely amazing. They have a great selection of cars. I still have about 6 or 7 seven leagues 
 left to unlock and there's over 70cars to choose from. The mods are fantastic, they have some amazing 
 looking ground effects and some crazy decals. The racing is very good, the handling at times could 
 be very loose but once use to it, it no longer becomes a problem. The new drifting feature is pretty 
 awesome. The drifting tacks consist of tracks full of ice, water and tracks going up and down the 
 Eiffel Tower. Now for the online play. The online runs very smooth but has some issues. The game sometimes 
 freezes while trying to accept invites, the game sometimes will disconnect u from xbox live for 
 no apperant reason and it takes a pretty long time to enter games when accepting the invite. Also 
 the crowd on Juiced is very small, there's barely anyone online, you'll be lucky if u have a full 
 game, but you can play with AI's, so that kinda of makes up for that. They also have a feature where 
 u can race other players online for pink slips, which is very fun. All and all the online gameplay 
 is good, the only real downfall is the amount of players that actually play it online. This is a 
 game that won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  the moding it has better moding than any need for speed game the raceing could be better and u 
 should not have do races for the car upgrades and they should show you how fast your car is going 
 to go the top speed the handeling and stufff like that i love the was the online is steup if the 
 make juiced 3 plz fix up the way u to race to unlock power packs and stuff like that.! sure if 
 u look at it it also has no free roam, with sucks and some of the moding challenges are hard to 
 do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0ppi3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  juiced 2 has a awsome modification of ur car system right when u start the game u can wack a supercharger 
 on the front and big 21inch rims i didnt like the first juiced but this is a big step up though 
 to get preformence parts it can be a struggle cause u race a car 5 times faster then u and u dont 
 have a revision mirrior to try and block him the drifting is a alot better then need for speed 
 it takes a bit to master but when u got it down pat its great fun.
  Though its a bit continuse there not that many tracks and its the same thing over and over again 
 thats preety much the only downside to juiced 2 the graphics are also awsome and the NOS looks 
 great.
  When u work ur way up to world class it strarts to get very hard and if u want achivments this 
 isnt the game to get cause there all hard to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Well... for once I do not agree with the reviewers on this title - it is excellent. Graphics in 
 game- racing are excellent - the effects when you hit another car, leave the ground, and go on 
 2 wheels are spot on.
  
  Play it in first person ; in the car ; playing it from third person you
  will loose half the 
 fun... and frankly I wonder why people play it
  this way - from third person... you get the experience and the
  feel much better from first person.
 
  
  Why race like a wuss in 3rd person? Get the full experience.
  
  Although the drift events - use third person ... in first you will
  chuck your cookies fast...
 
  
  I have to say - I read the reviews - and can not figure out what the
  reviewers are talking about. This is a really good game. The cars all drive different - but not 
 too much - and the skill required
  on some events is just a little too hard for the average gamer - but
  when you get it ... you 
 get it and it just feels right.
  
  And it is REALLY satisfying when you nail it...
  
  I can not say this is the best racing game I have played - but it
  is really up their in the 
 fun factor... there is nothing like spooking out
  the other drivers ; doing a power nitrous slide and holding it for 10
  seconds while you are 
 absolutely on the edge of out of control.
  
  The audio - in full surround - will help you when racing... you
  can hear another driver coming 
 up behind you and you can tell
  if it is the left or right side... and of course you can put him in the WALL.
  [or her...]
 
  
  Excellent game for racers... get it.
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getsetgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes i don`t understand games reviewers. I am really pleased i have learnt to ignore them. 
 Why is Juiced 2 gettting such a low score ? This game is fun. It offers plenty of challenges and 
 the tracks are really well designed and interesting. Multiplayer is also really good. The graphics 
 are not photo-realistic but i don`t think they intended them to be. For me the graphics look quite 
 artistic, colourful and nice. Since this is an arcade racer, the car physics are just right. I 
 really like the on-board camera. I accept Forza 2 is technically superior but in my opinion is 
 boring, whilst this game may not rate as high on thechnical achievements is a lot more fun and 
 enjoyable. Juiced 2 is a really great game, both on single and multiplayer. Don`t listen to the 
 poor reviews and low scores, this game is really good. Some games out there are really overrated. 
 This one on the other hand is really underrated. I am really pleased i gave this game a chance. 
 I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerardomobile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  For me is a very good game, not a lot! but entertainment! some times is not explicit, but if you 
 read well, is very clear to understand how is work, the cars are very likely to the originals one, 
 for me are very sharper est, whit a lot stuff for modifications, the driving is some times difficult, 
 but predictable, if you want a full excitement in races buy it!.
  the performance of the vehicles are very good to me, I prefer Forza 2, and quite more than NFS. 
 In The Garage is my favorite place in the game, there a lot stuff to enjoy placement to do thing 
 like no other game.
  The drifting mode is for adrenaline moment, no other game has it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  So, you might be thinking, yeah yeah the tuner scene is out of date but the games haven't stopped. 
 with EA's NFS ProStreet round the corner and Rockstar's Midnight Club: LA coming next year, THQ's 
 Juiced 2 has just come out slightly earlier that its rivals. Is this well thought out or has been 
 rushed?
  
  Well, As I live in the UK, I just got it today and I have to say, This is one hell of a tuner game! 
 the range of cars are superb, the background babes are hot and the soundtrack (which is mainly 
 techno) really suits the racing. As a fan of small cars, I started with the C2 VTS. Not what you 
 call the fastest starter car, so I decided to modify it. There are endless amounts of customisation 
 options, it is unbelievable,.. Like the first Juiced, It wasn't long before I got my second car. 
 This game is a bit easy, but in a enjoyable way. betting is fun, hearing racing talk is funny, 
 and customising your avatar is a nice little touch.
  
  Like most good games, this one has drawbacks. If you are an offline player, you only have career 
 mode, no arcade mode, and you can't see all the ninety cars, and you don't even have a car list. 
 And then comes the biggest let down: the handling. Sure, you can get used to it, but the steering 
 is just so loose. Oh and if you think that is bad, don't get me started on drifting.....
  
  Juiced 2 had some very good concepts, the HIN tour, the avatars and have 90 cars. This is a good 
 game, but it is missing those little finishing touches to make this a brilliant game. Avoid the 
 handling problems and those other little bugs and you have a great tuner game on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invdrcats
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Well i got this game about eight days ago, and all i can say is I'm impressed its aimed for white 
 kids, who like tricked out Honda Civics and gangster rap but I'm just a kid, who is raised to love 
 cars and enjoys it great car selection and for tuning. Money is super easy to get in the game but 
 to get new upgrades you have to do a challenge ,simple right...... yeah it is a easy game but, online 
 is one if not the best things in it. but i also liked Import Tuner Challenge, don't rent it because 
 you wont finish it in a week. if your a guy like me who just like cars and racing then you`ll have 
 a great time with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rushhour35
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  The game doesn't go into a great amount of detail ... But gives the real Tuner's the meat of tuner 
 gaming. Which is Good visual and lots of real car's to tune and trick out. There are plenty of 
 wheels and ground effect mods to choose from. Game also gives you lots of paint and decal options 
 for making your sweet ride flashy enough to be different. Lots of drift races with new twist that 
 previous games lack. Circuit events can be brutal with AI opponets fighting you to win a lap. All 
 in all I rented it first and was pleasantly surprised and will be purchasing it asap... SIDE NOTE 
 TO ANYONE RENTING OR BUYING JUICED 2. I RENTED IT 1ST FOR THE PS2 WAS NOT THE SAME GAME AS THE 
 XBOX360 VERSION (RENTED SECOND) . . . PS2 TITLED GAME DID NOT HAVE THE SUBSTANCE OR GRAPHICS THAT 
 THE 360 VERSION HAD, MANY GAME ASPECS WERE MISSING FOR THE PS2 VERSION LIKE WHEN YOU HIT A WALL 
 IN CIRCUIT RACING NO TIRES POP OUT OF THE WALLS ONTO THE TRACK AND NO DAMAGE TO YOUR CAR EITHER,. 
 . .GAME WAS SO UNDER MADE FOR THE PS2 I ALMOST DID'NT GIVE THE 360 VERSION A TRY BUT DID AND WAS 
 WELL PLEASED TO SAY THE LEAST . . .; SO GET THE XBOX360 VERSION FANS NOT THE PS2 ONE (NOT THE SAME 
 GAME) ALL THE STUFF YOU SEE IN THE DEMO'S ARE FROM THE 360 VERSION NOT THE PS2 . . . YOU'VE BEEN 
 WARNED FANS!!! O AND THE ONLINE PART ROCKS TOO. BUY ,SELL ,TRADE AND PINK SLIP RACES MAN THIS GAME 
 IS COOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuaeller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. There are lots of cars to pick from. I haven't play but like 6hours, 
 it was enough. It seems to be easy, I hoping that it gets harder. The online play is really cool. 
 I can't wait to really get in to it. It would be cooler if they had a free roam it it. Its not 
 NFS, but it doesn't matter. I love all the mods. I wish you could paint the wheels, also more mods 
 for the charters other than that. Its just fun. Dont get the game thinking its like NFS, you will 
 be let down. Its more like SRS mixed with Juiced. I recommend this game. Now I can't wait to the 
 New NFS.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Juiced 2, - hot import nights, is one of the first street racing games that left me wanting more. 
 The graphics are spectacular and the controls are laid out well. One of the things i enjoy personally, 
 is when you speed up with your Nitro, the surroundings do not do the horrible blur that the Need 
 For Speed series seems to enjoy. In game, you start with a low level car (as most racers) and are 
 able to slowly build it up with different upgrade packages. Altho the packages are not very adjustable, 
 it does make a difference when you are racing. The power upgrade obviously makes you go faster, 
 the weight reduction, seems to allow better handling, as well as higher top speed/accel, and the 
 handling, well, thats self explanitory. You are able to bet other players/AI on the out come of 
 the race, if you are going to beat them . which has small sums in the begining, and gradualliy 
 becomes larger as you rank up in the rase classes. If you feel really risky, you can put your car 
 on the line, and race for Pink Slips. This can bring a whole new level of intensity to the game, 
 especially when your pink slipping players online.... they arent as predictable as the AI guys, 
 and you cant Spook them either. Spooking - you drive up behind your opponent (AI) and a bar will 
 appear, when you fill the bar, they will screw up and loose control, normally running into you, 
 or some other players... its not bad if you dont get hit. I have only played for about 3 days, and 
 love the game, however it looks like a 2 week completer if you sit down and go at 'er. The goals 
 are fairly simple, do a 150000pt drift, spook Tara, win a race, win a $7000 spectator race etc. 
 I would higly reccomend this game and a renter. Enjoy the little bit of online play that there 
 is, and send it back. Online career as great of an idea as it was, is tough when there is not a 
 large group of people wanting to pink slip thier cars, bet, or just race in general for career. 
 So rent it, offline career it up, and send the game back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  When I got Juiced on the Xbox back when it was released, I said it's an ok game that it is... plain 
 fun.... But yesterday when I got Juiced 2: HIN, I just said... WOW!!!! Man I thought that the graphics 
 would suck... but I was wrong, It has great graphics (don't expect to see the graphics of Dirt, 
 or Fora 2) I am playing it on a 32' HD and it's awsome. Now concerning the game, you start off with 
 creating your character, you can adjust the jaw width, the eyes, and everything else concerning 
 your character including clothes! Then you make a couple of races in order to qualify for the Hot 
 Import Nights... The gameplay is good... very good I could say... the drift mode is awsome and reminds 
 of the ol' good NFS: Underground 2 drift.... Now when in career mode as I said you create your player, 
 buy some cars, see some hot chicks dancing around and of course... gamble.... The gambling has been 
 improved as you propose a price, your opponent thinks about it and he either backs off or accepts... Now 
 concerning the tuning... man now this is improved you can customize just about everything in your 
 car in and out of it... Closing my review I give Juiced 2: HIN an amazing 9.5 'cause the guys there 
 in THQ have put some hard work on it and made it one of the most enjoyable racing games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Okay, so maybe this game just isn't my style.. but the lack of detail or any sense of realism in 
 the game just ruined it for me. It has a pretty nice selection of cars and decent customization 
 (Although, from car to car it isn't really varied) but it doesn't pull away at being a unique experience. 
 It MAY have pink slips, betting, and what not.. but it just doesn't make up for lack of detail 
 put into the cars. The sound and feel is probably the first thing you'll notice really lacking 
 at first. I got far enough to purchase a Saleen S281 Extreme Coupe Mustang and even though I was 
 redlining it (Even though at the line it takes 4-5 seconds to REACH the redline) it never spun 
 out. The engine doesn't sound like a roar.. but instead is filled in with a varied sound that was 
 probably redistributed to other cars to save production time. How the cars turn and feel are very.. 
 strange. They feel too loose and there isn't an option to tighten the sensitivity at all. Creating 
 your own avatar. Interesting sounding, right? Think again. This game makes Saints Row and Test 
 Drive Unlimited's avatar creation look top of the line. With only a few different shirts, pants, 
 and hats.. nothing can take away the feeling of looking at your character and having the thought 
 that he looks like a 8 year long meth addict. To put it simply.. this game is not worth 60$.. at 
 all. It may be a mediocre Arcade game.. but it does nothing to push the envelope or even compete 
 with modern racing games. I give this game a much deserved two thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyeye78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  At first when I played the demo, was kind of iffy on the physics. I went ahead and bought the game, 
 man does it grow on you. The cars look fantastic and have a vast amount of customization options, 
 visual that is. The drifting isn't gonna make you the next Nomuken as far as realism goes, but 
 it turns out to be a lot of fun, especially when you are drifting right with the competition. The 
 drifting is far more entertaining than any of the NFS drifting events. Online mode is setup nice. 
 Once I got the whole concept of the game down, I ditched the regular career to start my Xbox Live 
 career. I really hope this game develops a big online fan base. Well worth the money. Might even 
 prefer it over NFS Pro Street. We shall see
  
  For all the rating hating cause of realism, this is totally an ARCADE game, seems the reviews are 
 trying to compare it to a driver simulator, when the developer appears to not even have had that 
 in mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Juiced was a very misunderstood racing game last generation. While thrown into the garbage can 
 for its less than perfect graphics and its very difficult physics. I myself returned it after 3 
 days of playing, then i bought it again when it was cheaper =) After really giving the game a shot, 
 i learned to like it. I got used to its very difficult physics (which turned out to just be one 
 big step of a learning curve) and I finally realized that Juiced was simply misunderstood and that 
 people would rather have great looking graphics and cheap and easy game play rather than a game 
 that brings a challenge and depth.
  
  This time Juiced 2 Hot Import Nights comes to us with A LOT more flash! girls and stripes and cars 
 and colors everywhere, it can get to be a bit overwhelming at first. There is one thing Juiced 
 has done to kinda make sure it wasent labeled the same way it was on its first outing. It really 
 concentrated on graphics and tried a while new physics engine. Alot of Juiced first attributes 
 make a return such as driver personality (which now includes you! thats right, a DNA tracker tells 
 you what kinda driver you are based on how you drive) and an incredible car list. (yes the Trans 
 Am makes a return!)
  
  The Physics engine is most likely gonna put off a lot of regular gamers in the sense that its a 
 heck of a lot different from your regular racing game. The game promotes drifting and boosting 
 around corners. Sad to say that might just be too difficult for your average gamer, then again 
 your average gamer wouldn't even consider Juiced. The typical Juiced player tends to be a real 
 race fanatic =)
  
  Graphics have really improved and this is one of the flashiest looking games i have seen in a while, 
 the game takes itself really seriously and tries to really simulate you being you and getting through 
 races with a character you design and create to try and appear however you want. Car customization 
 in the performance department lacks any real depth that a game such as Forza has but in the cosmetic 
 department, rivals that of need for speed underground or whatever you wanna call it.
  
  All and all i am quite surprised at how well Juiced 2 Hot Import Nights turned out, mind you i 
 myself am kinda disappointed and weirded out by the physics engine, but i gotta admit, its already 
 growing on me. So with a great car list and customization offering, big beautiful car models and 
 sweet looking graphics over all... i must say, Juiced might not score well with average gamers, 
 but its a heck of a game! and i just cant wait to see how well they improve on this fine racing 
 formula. Juiced 3 Muscle bound speed anyone? ; D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTTE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Juiced 2 is a whole lot better than the first because it is easier and totally different. It is 
 easily the best racing game for the 360.
  
  Gameplay (9.9/10) : There are no respect points, which is good, because that's what makes the game 
 hard. And, you get to customize your own character. Unlike the first Juiced, in this game, you 
 can restart any race.
  
  Graphics (9.8/10) : The cars look very realistic. Although they are on the shiny side.
  
  Sound 
 (9/10) : It's just doesn't have to many good theme songs like the first Juiced. Also, the cars don't 
 sound very realistic.
  
  Controls (9.5/10) : Sometimes the drifting can get a little crazy.
  
  Replayability: (8.9/10) : 
 It's really worth playing a lot and worth the price. It's amazing.
  
  Overall Score: 9.4 (Awesome) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wordflow
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Juiced sucked. Plain and simple. The customization may have been a bit better then Underground 
 at that time but everything else brought it down. However no one said that the game didn't have 
 potential. Juiced 2 is where that potential comes out. Like a bench player who finally gets to 
 start, Juiced 2 is geared up and proves that it is an excellent arcade racer, and lets be serious, 
 who doesn't wanna just have some fun here and there. Car customization is great. It's deep and 
 very engaging and with every piece fitting like a puzzle. What's even better is, unlike NFS 2 with 
 all the random car accessories, Juiced accessories actually mean something when taking it online. 
 Everything from lights to body kits to different kinds of rims with different tires are available. 
 Nothing looks totally fake as the car models are pretty damn good looking. Plus unlike the downside 
 of NFS games, all the body kits styles are nice looking from the first to the last. Besides car 
 customization, you also get to customize your driver as well which is absent in most racing games. 
 It's not amazingly deep but its better then that of Test Drive Unlimited. You're basically allowed 
 to customized facial features, and clothes both of these options adding to the fun. The career 
 mode is long and engaging. Races are pretty fun. For some races you can bet before the match to 
 get extra cash. Beware though the driver that you bet with will go all out to win the race, especially 
 if there is a particularly high amount of cash being placed on the table between you two. Online 
 is where the mode will shine. The ability to buy and sell cars like Forza is cool but the ability 
 to race for them is even cooler. It can definitely be said that everyone is going to bring there 
 A game in order to win cars and keep their own. In all this game is surprisingly fun and a good 
 time at the right time. If you're a NFS junkie that's all good and well, but if you just enjoy 
 street racing like I do, pick this one up or rent it. This one doesn't deserve to be overlooked. 
 Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjraider88
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Fun Arcade racer that subs in until Pro Street Comes out. It is truly worth buying just for the 
 car list. Drifting is simple but needs skill to really maintain them to beat even the A. I. The 
 Circuits are really fun because to build your noz its pretty much a drift coarse. The sound is 
 bad though, My Muscles sound like 4 bangers, Real Bad, the graphics are good, except for the interiors, 
 really awful. Overall Its worth a look for the average racer. This is a step forward from Juiced 
 1. The gameplay is not terrible, but you get the feeling it is behind compared to PGR or Forza. 
 Although it is not as punishing as other games, it still messes up your paint job. The Damage looks 
 good and is the best i have seen with licensed cars. Learning Curve is about 1 hour, only because 
 drifting on some tracks are tricky to get down and be able to compete online. This game in my opinion 
 is a must have if you like cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Espen-S-R
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  Are you interest in hot tunes cars in the middel of the night, this is the game for you! i have 
 tested Juiced 2 hin on the xbox 360 (demo) and i like it verry good. the last juiced vas not so 
 good but this is a new revolution for drifting.. I have heard that it's many gamers who dont like 
 juiced, but this new juiced is coming in my game selection.
  for the moment i have an Ps3 and i dont have tested a demo on ps3 yet but the game released in 
 september/oktober.
  
  There are 5 difrent car types, new and old muscle, exotiks and tuners allmost like carbon, but 
 on juiced there are such more cars and tuning stuff.
  You kan performe you car like you want, take som decals from the part comanys and you are reddy 
 to race! you have to perform you car som it's good to roling att the drifte stages. If you want 
 rep. For you car style you have to pimp it like a sponsing ship.. Youre car is a verry important 
 ting to make good because i dont think there are grandma orginal cars on the online mode.
  
  There are 3 Kinds of rep. get Rep by bet a lot, get rep by power sliding and get rep by youre 
 pimping.
  
  Playing modes are this year a verry difrent ting in Juiced 2 HIN. It's is driftking, pinkslit races, course 
 racing and drag racing, the new mode is drifting and at this year juiced kons. on drifting.
  
  This year juiced is verry good online, you can drive youre carere mode online, trade and bye 
 cars online and get high rank by beating people att the Psn or live to be the best online racer, 
 and earn cash to performe you car better.
  
  The world In Juiced. there are six real world in Juiced this year, Paris, London, San Fransisco, Tokyo, Sydney 
 and Rome, With real coureses.
  
  The music in Juiced 2 is not just i cd player whit som boring music, this year the vill be real 
 pool dancers and the world's famous DJ, Adam Freeland to get the heat up in Juiced! To be a Real 
 hot import night.
  the music vill be RnB and hip-hop vibe. And some smooth roch too..
  
  My conclution is this vill be one of the coolest street racing game this year together whit NFS 
 PS, for they who like cool music, hot cars and models at the midnight! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
