-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Just Cause
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/justcause/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-realized island setting.
 parachute and grappling gun lend the action a highly unique flavor.
 no loading times as you travel across the island.
 great variety of vehicles to pilot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short story mode.
 not enough ancillary activities.
 gunplay is too easy.
 implementation of stunts a little clunky at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 69 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 2,251 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Avalanche Studios
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Sep 27, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just Cause is able to justify its relative brevity and disrespect for physical law with some extremely 
 visceral and often satisfying action. 

  Suspension of disbelief is such a fundamental part of the video game experience that we often take 
 it for granted. Multiple lives and first-aid kits that instantly mend whatever ails you are conventions 
 that we accept without batting an eye, even in games that purport to have realistic settings. That 
 said, Just Cause is a visceral third-person action game with some outrageous action that will require 
 an extra helping of that suspension of disbelief to be able to enjoy. But, if you can get past 
 the infeasibility of a man hanging onto the tail of a flying jet with one hand, you might find 
 a lot to like in Just Cause.  

          Why are you hanging off the back of that helicopter? Just 'cause.     

  Though the 
 broad structure of Just Cause is copped from the Grand Theft Auto series, the game also shares 
 certain characteristics with Mercenaries and Pursuit Force. The game takes place on the fictional 
 Caribbean island of San Esperito. You play as the black-clad Rico Rodriguez, an amused but detached 
 character who in no small way evokes Antonio Banderas' mariachi character from  Desperado . Rico 
 comes to San Esperito to help overthrow Salvador Mendoza, a corrupt dictator in league with the 
 Montano drug cartel. With you are Sheldon, a Hawaiian-shirt-wearing, Joe Don Baker-type who has 
 a way of saying Spanish phrases like "El Presidente" with a pronounced twang, and Kane, a comparatively 
 bland tough girl with a lot of sass and some vague history with Rico. With the assistance of the 
 People's Revolutionary Army of San Esperito, as well as the rival Riojas drug cartel, your aim 
 is to dismantle the existing regime through assassination, espionage, and plenty of mayhem.  

 
  The island of San Esperito is huge, and though there are a few urbanized areas, including a small 
 high-rise district, several military installations, seaports, and airports, most of San Esperito 
 is blanketed in undeveloped rainforest that is peppered with crude settlements. Its size is a little 
 deceptive, since there's not much to be done in the huge tracts of forest, but it all feels organic, 
 and the scope of the island is still impressive. You're given a good feel for the size of the island, 
 as well as some of Rico's more unconventional skills, right off the bat, as you start off the game 
 by jumping out of a plane at several thousand feet. You can control Rico's speed and direction 
 a bit while in freefall, and you can instantly deploy a parachute at the tap of a button, which 
 slows you down enough to make a safe landing and frees up your hands to hold any one of the weapons 
 you might have on you. The parachute system is just one of many absurd contrivances in Just Cause. 
 There's no limit to how often you can deploy your parachute, it doesn't seem to take up any space 
 on your person, and it never gets snagged on obstacles like trees, buildings, or streetlamps.  
 

  In Grand Theft Auto fashion, Just Cause lets you commandeer just about any vehicle you see, including 
 boats, planes, and helicopters, provided you can get close enough to it. Once you're behind the 
 wheel, most vehicles have a "stunt position," which forces you to relinquish control but lets you 
 jump onto other nearby vehicles and take control of them or deploy your parachute, which will jerk 
 you back up into the air. After a few missions, you're given a grappling gun, which you can use 
 to hook onto vehicles from a few hundred meters away. Grappling onto a moving vehicle will cause 
 your parachute to automatically deploy, making it possible to parasail around the island. Perhaps 
 most impressively, you can use the grappling hook to skyjack helicopters and planes while they're 
 in the air.  

          There's a decent learning curve to using the parachute and grappling gun effectively.  
    

  Using these mechanics well can take some getting used to, as a lot of the action buttons are contextual, 
 and the only way to tell if you're able to pull off certain moves is when the onscreen text descriptions 
 of the action buttons change. So the button used for jumping to another vehicle from the stunt 
 position is the same for simply jumping out of your vehicle depending on the situation, and if 
 you're not paying extra-close attention to the onscreen text descriptions, you'll end up on foot 
 rather than on the desired vehicle. There's also a certain amount of contempt for the laws of physics 
 in Just Cause. Perhaps the most absurd example is the ability to hop back and forth from the cockpit 
 of a moving helicopter to the stunt position on the helicopter's tail, passing right through the 
 spinning blades every time. You'll also find that you can deploy your parachute just feet from 
 the ground without any harm, and you can go directly from a terminal-velocity freefall into a stunt 
 position on a vehicle, even going in a direction completely contrary to your momentum as long as 
 the vehicle is close enough.  

  The game doesn't even bother trying to justify any of this craziness, and it will no doubt annoy 
 those expecting even a modicum of realism, but once you figure out how to effectively use these 
 abilities to seamlessly grapple onto a car, take control of it, get into stunt position as you 
 drive it off a cliff, deploy your parachute as you watch the car explode in the ravine below you, 
 grapple onto an attacking helicopter and take it over, then freefall directly into the warm Caribbean 
 waters surrounding San Esperito, it makes the action uniquely visceral and extremely satisfying. 
     

   

  It's lucky for Just Cause that it's able to differentiate itself from other, similar games with 
 these ridiculous abilities, since some of the other facets of the gameplay aren't nearly as inspired. 
 In all of the console versions of Just Cause, there's a liberal autotargeting system that only 
 asks that you be pointing in the general direction of an enemy, which makes the gunplay a bit too 
 easy. By comparison, the PC version defaults to a mouse-and-keyboard setup, though even then the 
 gunplay is pretty forgiving and not especially satisfying. The most unique aspect of the gunplay 
 is the ability to detonate grenades early by shooting them in the air, though it's about as hard 
 to do as it sounds and rarely figures too prominently into the action. Save for a few specific 
 planes, the vehicles control well enough, but the enemy artificial intelligence can be frustratingly 
 tenacious, with a knack for spinning out your car and stopping you dead in your tracks.  

          San Esperito is a great location; it's too bad there isn't more to do.     

  The main 
 mission of taking down Salvador Mendoza is relatively short, and if you're focused, you can burn 
 through it in well under five hours. Missions are usually heavy with checkpoints, which means that 
 if you die in the middle of a mission, you'll automatically start from the most recent checkpoint 
 rather than from scratch. As long as you're not in the middle of a mission, you can be extracted 
 to the starting point of your next mission at the touch of a button. The nature of the missions 
 is predictable. The crazy parachute and grappling-gun mechanics can make the  how  of these missions 
 much more interesting, but save for a few rather spectacular moments during the endgame, it's a 
 lot of assassinate this guy, steal this item, blow up this building -- there are rarely any big twists 
 or turns.  

  Just Cause has the open-world GTA structure, but there's not a wealth of activities to take on 
 outside of the completely linear main story. There are dozens and dozens of side missions you can 
 take on for the guerillas and the Riojas drug cartel, which can net you new safe houses, weapons, 
 and vehicles, but they're rarely more inventive than what's on offer in the primary missions. Theoretically, 
 you'll do these side missions concurrently with the main missions, with the extra hardware from 
 the side missions making the main missions easier, but the main missions are easy enough on their 
 own that it's a moot point.  

  But then, you can have a good deal of fun with Just Cause simply goofing around with taking in 
 the sights of San Esperito, which really does look and feel like a choice vacation spot with its 
 beautiful greenery, white sand beaches, and clear blue waters. The Xbox 360 version gives you additional 
 incentive to explore San Esperito with achievement points. You'll get a fair number by playing 
 through the different missions, but there are also achievements for killing a number of enemies, 
 performing a number of different types of stunts, or pulling off daring feats like base jumping 
 for 1,000 meters. There are a lot of different unique achievements, and you could soak up a lot 
 of time trying to earn every last one.  

  The use of achievements is just one of the reasons that the Xbox 360 version of Just Cause is the 
 best version. Though the game's use of motion blur and light bloom can be a little overwhelming 
 at times, the 360 version has the most stable frame rate, the clearest textures, and the cleanest 
 overall look. The PC and Xbox versions are close in terms of fidelity, though we couldn't get the 
 PC version to run in a wide-screen aspect ratio, and the Xbox version ran at a noticeably lower 
 resolution with a more erratic frame rate. Additionally, we found no apparent way to opt for gamepad 
 controls in the PC version. While the Xbox, PC, and Xbox 360 versions are comparable, the PlayStation 
 2 version feels compromised. The draw distance is much closer, there's a distracting amount of 
 pop-in, textures look comparatively flat and grainy, and the frame rate regularly chugs. Though 
 there's not much perceptible difference in terms of the actual content of the different versions 
 of Just Cause, the PS2 version's technical shortcomings make it much harder to recommend.  

          A lush and energetic soundtrack complements the exotic action nicely     

  Complementing 
 the game's equatorial vibe is a fantastic soundtrack that meshes classical Spanish guitars with 
 electronic beats, blaring trumpets, and surf and wah-wah guitars. Though there are only a handful 
 of different tunes in the game, it uses them effectively, kicking in right before a firefight or 
 a high-speed chase, imbuing all the action with a good deal of extra enthusiasm. It's unfortunate 
 that the rest of the sound design isn't as good as the music. Rico's footsteps stand out as sounding 
 especially flat on a lot of surfaces, and some of the weapon fire comes across as weak. The voice 
 acting is also somewhat inconsistent. Your character is perhaps a little too dry for his own good, 
 and some of the San Esperitians you'll encounter sound like lame caricatures, though the voice 
 of Sheldon is right on, which is good since he talks more than any other character in the game. 

  Just Cause will evoke strong love-it-or-hate-it reactions from people for a lot of reasons. The 
 game's amoral stance on the complicated issues surrounding US-sponsored regime changes in third-world 
 countries will rub some people the wrong way, while others will be annoyed by its fast-and-loose 
 approach to basic physics. Even though it doesn't get some of the particulars right, Just Cause 
 can still be engaging simply because of the risks it's willing to take.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (196 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BillyBndk
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  
  Just Cause Initial Developers Meeting:
  
  Lead Developer: 
  
  I know! We should build a game with the worst parts of Mercenaries and True Crime! We can make 
 if different by setting it on a Caribbean island, populated by generic Hispanic villains and bland 
 NPCs. Then we can add a layer of tear inducing dialog, infuriating music and night time textures 
 that were taken from a PS2 game. We then cobble it all together using a physics engine designed 
 by an eight year old and his Lego set!
  
  Others: 
  
  Not sure, sounds like it's been done...
  
  Lead Developer:
  
  What if we give him a grappling 
 hook AND a parachute?
  
  Others:
  
  HOT DAMN.
  
  Unfortunately all of these ideas made it into Just Cause. To top it off, the colour saturation 
 means you either have to turn your TV to black and white or your eyes will instantly bleed. You 
 don't even have the satisfaction of a tasty head shot. The game aims for you. Super. Just Cause's 
 two redeeming features are that it has a jet-powered boat that is armed with missiles and that 
 it isn't as bad as Jumper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Its a nice change of pace for the sand box shooter but with many games it comes off to me as a 
 gta clone but it does alot of things diffrently and thats why I like the game there are alot of 
 weapon thats a plus and a whole lot of wheicles this includes cars trucks military vhicles and 
 aircraft this is probebly the best part of the game the storyline is kind of dumb but the action 
 is pretty good and freash it strays from the standard generic shoot em up by putting in exciting 
 gameplay elements like the parachute and I know this has been done by GTA san an dreas but its 
 done in just cause much better the game may appear unrealistic especially when it defies the laws 
 of phyisics but that kind of over the top stuff is really what the game needed but still I feel 
 the game is much to large with way to much forest and mountain turrain and this can make the game 
 kind of boring if you have to drive from one island to another its almost like you have to take 
 a plane or helicopter another but this isnt as bad as the AI incredibly stupid they basically just 
 shoot randomly in the air and if they hit you its a miricle if you can work past these things and 
 enjoy just cause you would probebly feel satisfied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSU-Wildcat
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:07 am PT
Review:  Too many times, especially in this generation of consoles, there are "me too" open world games. 
 Since the success of Grand Theft Auto 3, many developers have tried to replicate everything about 
 the GTA formula. Some of these games find their own spot in the now crowded genre, but their lack 
 of creativity makes many of them passable. Just Cause is a game that takes the bare-bones of the 
 GTA formula, adds an amazing island setting, and tops it off with over the top action and an addicting 
 completion mechanic that will make playing this game a guilty pleasure.
  
  The graphics in Just Cause are almost A+ across the board. At any time of day, and with any type 
 of weather occuring, the game is a joy to look at. When on the ground you will notice nice texture 
 work, great water effects, and fantastic lighting that make San Espirito seem like a real place. 
 While the cities are noticably square and sometimes look out of place, individual towns and homes 
 you will find look great. The great thing about Just Cause's graphics is that alot of times you 
 will be seeing them from the air, and they are amazing from this view as well. While flying planes, 
 gyrocopters, helicopers, and parachuting between objectives, you will always be treated to an amazing 
 vista that really adds to the joy of the game. Crashes and explosions look great as well. The only 
 part of the game's visuals that could use a little work are the animations. The main character, 
 Rico, looks and moves pretty believably, but the same cannot be said for the citizens of San Espirito. 
 The move clunkily and their death animations, which you will see alot of, look very unrealistic. 
 The weight of the rest of the visuals in Just Cause overcome some questionable animation work, 
 and make this a fine looking game overall.
  
  The audio in Just Cause is great in some areas, but a mixed bag in others as well. Every gun in 
 the game, of which you will be hearing alot of throughout, sound powerful and believable. The explosions 
 that you can rock from grenades, rockets, and from air vehicles also sound great. The cast of characters 
 is a place where Just Cause's ausio could use work. Rico Rodriguez, while not outstanding, is the 
 best voice work in the game. Enemies, while not sounding entirely bad, will repeat themselves noticably, 
 and the cast in cutscenes is nothing to write home about. The music, which is tropical in feel, 
 fits the game great but could also have easily been improved. In the latter parts of the game, 
 this can be fixed by playing custom soundtracks while flying from collectable to objective, and 
 so on. The audio in the game is respectable, but you won't have to look hard to find better work.
 
  
  The controls in Just Cause are great overall. Rico can run, jump, shoot, and drive pretty well. 
 The two mechanics of controls that I should cover are the shooting and stunt-performing. Shooting 
 in Just Cause may seem very shallow and boring at first. However, once time has been spent with 
 the game you will grow fond of the system and will have lots of fun shooting mulitple enemies and 
 reloading like a pro. Think of last generations Grand Theft Auto shooting mechanics, but tighter 
 and more arcade-like, and you have Just Cause. The system works well and ultimately fits the feel 
 of the rest of the game. Doing stunts is one of the highlights of Just Cause, and controlling these 
 almost always works well too. Rico Rodriguez can endlessly deploy and re-deploy his parachute throughout 
 the game, which may sound lame but it is easy to look past and makes the game a blast. Many times 
 you will jump off the side of a mountain, narrowly avoiding an explosion, and deploying this parachute 
 and gliding over a forest area to the beach can't help but put a huge smile on your face. You can 
 also hop on top of and to and from carious vehicles in the game. The system will hiccup and miss 
 a target from time to time, but when it works, which it usually does, you feel like an action movie 
 star and the game shines.
  
  The best thing about Just Cause for me was just how fun the game actually is! The combination of 
 shooting, stunts, base-attacking, flying, and parachuting make for a truly unique experience. I 
 have completed the game 100% on two gamertags, and both times I had fun the whole time. There are 
 collectables to find, villages and bases to raid, and towns to liberate, and repeating this process 
 may seem redundant, but the game never lost its flavor for me. The villages, bases, and collectables 
 are all easily located on a map, and some of the most relaxing and fun gaming for me in years has 
 been turning on custom soundtracks while traveling to and completing each one of these tasks. The 
 game is simply a joy to play.
  
  Just Cause is one of my favorite games of this generation. It was a breath of fresh air to the 
 open ended genre which I think is what everyone is looking for. I can honestly tell you that I 
 had more fun with Just Cause then I did with Saints Row, Saints Row 2, and almost Grand Theft Auto 
 4. Just Cause distinguishes itself, unlike these other games. I payed $60.00 US for the game after 
 I was hooked by the demo, but you can now pick this game up for under $20. If you have any interest 
 in the open world genre, or need a unique game to add to your collection that will give you dozens 
 of hours of entertainment, Just Cause is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Pros: -No loadtimes
  -Interesting weapons and gameplay
  -Interesting stunts with the parachutes
  -Beutiful scenery and game.... looks awesome
  -U can 
 play it when you are really bored
  -worthless violence
  
  Cons: -The sidequests are pointless
  -You are unstoppable in this game
  -The AI is horrible
 
  -Glitches everywhere
  -Bad voice acting
  -You may not want to finish this game because it 
  gets boring 
  -way too easy
  -you have 
 to travel everywhere
  -the characters are annoying
  
  This game its worth a rent, but not a buy, granted it was a good game in my opinion, but stuff 
 like graphical glitches and other stuff weigh it down.... although the game was designed to be 
 fairly easy giving you "freedom" skydiving is awesome in this game and the parachute is fun... 
 all in all the scenery and the oceans are beutiful in the island paradise, but this game could 
 have been better and is lacking a multiplayer or anything to keep it going.... rent it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thpghalo3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a sandbox game whitch is a blatin GTA rip off but it's proably the worst. Just Cause 
 is Slow, Buggy And a waste of $10. You play as Rico Rodrgrese a undercover i don't know what because 
 he shure as heck is not a cop or a spy so i don't know what he is. but your after the president 
 of the state and well the story is just lame all you do is run around killing people and smuggling 
 stuff and it's not verry fun thanks to the controls. Now every thing in this game feels out of 
 place the all of the cars handel like crap there is not one car that conrols well the bikes are 
 way too fast and uncontrolable the hellicopters are lame and the planes go out of control way too 
 easly and the boats are boring. now the shooting the guns are weird and not verry fun to go on 
 a rampage with that is if you can. but the shooting just feels out of place and weird. the graphics 
 are OK not the best but there proably the ONLY good factor of the game. Just Cause has so manny 
 buggs it's not even funny like if you try to shoot this one guy in the head you die for no reason! 
 and sometimes you could just be standing off to the side of the street and the copps will be after 
 you for no reason. so here is the final verdict. Just cause is just a terrible waste of money it 
 maby worth a rent but iff you want to buy it?! just save your money to get GTA IV if you don't 
 alghready have it. I Give Just Cause a 4.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamer-the-Lame
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Freedom, Fun, Variety and a touch of Anarchy: the canons of the archetypal 'sandbox' shooter, Just 
 Cause certainly possesses three of the four; but kicks the most vital component squarely in the 
 Loins: Fun. Just Cause was not without potential and had promise to bring a refreshing change of 
 setting to a well tread genre but it casually ignored the fundamentals which make a game like Just 
 Cause great. Just Cause is expectedly a violent game and rightly so, but the combat which should 
 be the shiniest trophy on it's shelf is badly undernourished. Just Cause manages to create the 
 superficial impression of the ubiquitous great-if-done-right fire fight but under inspection the 
 illusion which may placate less discerning gamers is devoid of life and feeling and ends up as 
 placid as the storyline. This is due to in no small part inherently lifeless feel of the weaponry 
 in the game which would reduce the game's combat to a mathematical equation : adjust awkward aiming 
 system + pull trigger = predictable death animation, if it were anywhere near as precise; the explosions 
 are generic and both enemy and allied AI has seemingly missed the point of the "Intelligence" part 
 of AI. The story appears convoluted and introduces a mess of clichd paper-thin characters whom 
 you would struggle greatly to care about. The parody some games present in the form of deliberately 
 clichd characters and ostentatious presentation is a great way of introducing humour into a game 
 and often accentuates the overall relaxed attitude to the destructive mayhem these type of games 
 typically offer, maybe this was what Just Cause had in mind, but the un-intimate gameplay would 
 reduce it to tragedy if it could garner much emotional investment on the behalf of the gamer. Just 
 Cause is not without it's merits, the visuals are undeniably stunning in some cases and the vast 
 expanse of game world you have to discover is staggering and there can be no greater joy found 
 in this game then flying a bi-plane under one of the many bridges in the game, challenging yourself 
 ever more to lower bridges and greater stunts of aerial agility; the game delivers well on the 
 variety front with many different vehicles to experiment with, but most have preciously little 
 distinguishable about them. Just Cause certainly adheres in part at least to the sandbox philosophy 
 of  but despite the freedom, there isn't anything fulfilling 
 really to do with it. Just Cause was a disappointment and has some serious character flaws which 
 definitely need to be addressed in a successful sequel which should not be discouraged, with some 
 serious revision Just Cause could be something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPOYoung
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing in certain aspects. I love the open game play, GTA style. But i do tend to 
 get side tracked. I will be taking over a town and then die, and just get bored and start aimlessly 
 flying around the country and randomly jumping out of my aircraft. Its not a game that can be played 
 for hours and hours on end, and i love doing that. But its great to get all the planes and helicopters 
 and just fly. and free fall is awesome too. The graphics are So so. the voice acting is kind of 
 lame at times, and it doesnt have real day light time. If youre doing something in the middle of 
 the night and hit a day time cut scene boom its daylight out. There is no real stealth in the game. 
 And your health is a little crazy. Not for people looking for realism. But i would recommend it 
 to anyone looking for a fun game. This is definitely a 20 dollar game and for that, its perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I really don't get all of the negative reviews this game got. It is sweet, especially if you sat 
 around waiting for GTA4 to come around on the xbox. The faction attribute and drops feature add 
 a lot of fun. The game has it's drawbacks: squirrely controls, confusing said faction feature and 
 graphics that gave me motion sickness and a headache. But this game is really good. Excellent graphics, 
 excellent diversity of play and cool music. ENJOY GTA CUBA!!!!
  Grey's anatomy just plain sucks. It has the corniest plots and makes a modern ER look like dormroom 
 gangbang. They jump the shark almost every week. Honestly, how many of the doctors family members 
 can come into their ER before someone says "Hmmmm, that seems far fetched." And to top it all off, 
 I think the play the same lame music in every episode. My wife loves it, so I am in hell every 
 Thursday night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoSkillzGaming
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Story- Not bad, defiantly wouldn't play this game if your looking for a good story
  5/10
  
  Gameplay- Fun and kind of crazy. It is kind of Mercs 2 or Gta like if you've played those games 
 except you don't get to kill citizens. Controls take getting used to and Gets old for me after 
 a while though and sometimes the stunts you do are annoyingly unrealistic.
  8/10
  
  Graphics- Not good, looks like an original xbox game. Though environments look lush, they are sometimes 
 glithcy. The worst part of the graphics are the humans, look almost cartoonish, when they are trying 
 not to be and just look horrible in general. The vehicles look boxy. 
  6/10
  
  Controls- A little off-key but decent in general. 
  7.5/10
  
  Overall- Mediocre game overall, 
 I found this for $5 and i wasn't disappointed (didn't have much expectations.) The gameplay is 
 basically what sells the game. So if you find it for a cheap price it's worth getting.
  6.6/10 - Mediocre
  
  (Score calculated) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgmonkeeuk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  We all know GTA is probably just about the best damn thing in the whole, ever. And since it's conception, 
 software companies have looked jealously at the millionaires that made it and with green eyes have 
 said "Let's get us some of that!". 
  
  All of these type of games follow a certain format  creative a massive free-roaming environment, 
 add all kinds of vehicles, guns, explosions, loose women, money and a lead character that uses 
 and abuses them all in a storyline fit for any Tarantino blockbuster.
  
  Enter Just Cause, set on the imaginary island of San Esperito, which is trapped in the throws of 
 political war between those in power and several rebellious groups chomping at the bit to bring 
 the "Man" down. You play Rico Rodriguez, a typical ruthless leading-role ladies man, to make sure 
 El Presidente of the Big Bad Government is toppled in spectacular style. 
  
  As storylines' go  it's a pretty lame and obvious plot, I don't think it's going to hit the big 
 screen anytime soon. All you seem to do is jump from village to village, liberating its' people 
 as you gun down local militia using whatever's at your disposal. This works on a basic level, and 
 the all round havoc is fairly exciting, if a little simplistic. But to me, it lacks depth and imagination.
 
  
  However, as with all good free-roaming games  you don't have to do any of that if you don't fancy 
 it, as there are plenty of side missions to keep you busy. Most of these simply involve collecting 
 goodies from varying places on the surrounding islands, some though are more detailed, and there 
 are racing missions involving various vehicles to try too. 
  
  The more missions you accomplish, the friendlier you will become with the freedom fighters & drug 
 gangs hence the more you will be rewarded with Safe Houses, cars, helicopters, guns etc! And you'll 
 need lots of Safe Houses if you're to avoid getting taken down by the National Guard / Army, who 
 don't particularly like you being anywhere near them. You have your own back up though, with your 
 Secret Agent buddies on stand-by offering extractions and heavy-dropped vehicles.
  
  One exquisite feature of Just Cause it's the attention to detail when it comes the scenery. Flying 
 planes / choppers will become a necessity as driving from island to island can be a lengthy and 
 difficult challenge, particularly as most vehicles do not handle well and you'll attract the attention 
 of the police if you make the slightest bump in someone else's mode of transport. 
  
  The sheer size of the game brings it's own little annoyances with the map, situated in the top 
 right corner. Unless you're an expert at spatial awareness, you will get lost very quickly and 
 you will have to rely on pressing the back button to access a menu where you can see a larger version. 
 Sometimes though, it's just good to parachute your way around without an agenda, just to appreciate 
 San Esperito.
  
  Parachuting out of a plane, thousands of feet in the air, looking out at the wonderfully created 
 world around you is awe inspiring and here is where Just Cause stands out. Even when you're being 
 shot at, parachutes can still be used to make haste your escape, giving even the most chaotic of 
 gun battles some misplaced serenity. This in itself is quite bizarre, but "bizarre" is a running 
 theme in this game, which can, at times, deter from the overall enjoyment.
  
  Some of the glitches in the game are most random and strange. In a environment that's as huge as 
 Just Cause, there are bound to be some crazy events happening  but sometimes you just have to 
 rub your eyes and think "Did that really just happen". I think it's probably one of the most error-prone 
 games I have played, but it's something that just becomes the norm the more you get used to it.
 
  
  If you can take the glitches with a pinch of salt, then there's plenty to admire in Just Cause. 
 There are some amazing backdrops to explore in a world that seems never ending. Going on an exploration 
 hunt through San Espirito is like taking a real vacation! And you may find that completing the 
 various side-missions is a lot more rewarding than progressing through a monotonous storyline. 
 It's cheaper than GTAIV, it's larger than GTAIV  I don't think it's better, but it's not too far 
 off of being a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  With all of the hype for so many other titles coming out for the Xbox 360 in fall 2006 there was 
 apparently no room for extra hit or miss titles such as Just Cause. Well one day to my surprise 
 after a hard day's work sat down at my computer and watched a full gameplay video of this game 
 and was enthralled by it's eye candy. Especially on the oceanic view as Rico parasails above the 
 island.
  
  But please folks looks are far more deceiving than to be known...
  
  Gameplay:
  Picture yourself immersed into a sandbox GTA-esque style game once again but only 
 this time you're playing as a secret suave and sophisticated government agent and can do pretty 
 much whatever you please with the exception of offing helpless civilians. No that's something Christ 
 might do. The gameplay in terms of combat is interestingly griping at first, but extremely repeititous 
 as you'll find yourself gunning down the same generic guards time after time again with no unique 
 combos or attacks to perform other than POINT, CLICK SHOOT. The acrobatic moves however do put 
 Just Cause at a slight advantage as Rico can perform manuevers even the almight JEEEHOD himself 
 would go "Shciza, I can't even lift my hand to slap my hoeZ when I want to, how the FOK can he 
 not only leap from a parasail to the tail of a plane, but jump like a grasshopper from boat to 
 boat!?!?" But don't get me wrong, it's an awesome sight to see, but it'll make you be saying "Come 
 on... COME ONN" after a few play throughs.
  
  Graphics:
  The final verdict here on graphics comes down to beautifully gorgeous designed environments which 
 feel as tropical and exotic as being on or above a serene crystal clear ocean, or inhabiting a 
 vividly emerald and bronze forest. The character models however, AHEM, could use W-O-R-K galore. 
 I mean I could've sworn I saw mitten-hands on some enemies. Weren't we passed that after GTA: San 
 Andreas??? I mean come on, why the blocky textures, no lip movement from enemies and even Rico 
 himself except during cutscenes. The vehicles are decent but thats about it.
  
  Sound:
  The tropical tunes are pleasant to one's ears especially when sailing over 1000 feet in the air, 
 but the story and voice dialogue need tremendous work. It was like Eidos said "Okay we're going 
 to create an AMAZING looking island but defacate all over the rest of the game" Other than that 
 explosions and weapon effects are passable and Rico himself sounds believable.
  
  Control:
  Using the 360 controller to move Rico around feels pretty good at first but once you 
 begin performing those immortal acrobatic performances it will and may tend to feel a bit off and 
 somewhat off key. Other than this little glitch I think the control scheme is pretty solid for 
 the most part with a few hiccups here and there.
  
  Overall:
  I really thought this was going to be a sleeper hit. I really and truly did for some reason. That 
 is until... I bought it. Don't get me wrong, although it will give you a run for your money for 
 about the first 4 or 5 times through, it won't last much longer than a couple of weeks as it's 
 repititous combat and unbelievable stunts will make you turn your head in awe and back away, put 
 down the controller, turn back to your PC, unzip your pants and begin wanking away while holding 
 the box of this game firmly in your left hand until you climax all over Rico's grill. That'll give 
 you some relief and satisfaction. Overall, this is a weekend rental at most as it proves to be 
 a quick and cheap thrill at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipohippo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  You will love this game. Ill break it down for you.
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  Not the greatest out there but some things (like underwater and explosions) really stand out!
 
  
  Story- 8/10
  Not much as far as depth. But, enough to keep you busy.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  Great explosions and engine sounds.
  
  Gameplay- 15/10
  Amazing! Just amazing. 
 From gunplay to cops this makes for a high replay value. Watching the stunts, skydiving ans parachuting 
 make this game all worth whle.
  
  If you are looking for an alternative to Gta, this is definetly the choice. It's what I did and 
 i will never regret it. I got this and some other game for only 10$ at blockbuster. Even just this 
 was a good deal. I play this game alot, i just got it yesterday.......... 6 hours already. I love 
 this game i play it insanely alot. The most 8i would pay for this game is..........25$. It is old 
 after all and it shouldn't be too hard to find a bargain deal at your local gamestop. if you have 
 a gamestop card you could get this 10% off. its $13.95 used. But if you could find this cheqaper 
 (like i did) then get it. Now for the M rating (ESRB) .
  
  
  Sexual themes- I never heard anything sexual at all!
  Blood- only a puff of blood.
  violence- 
 only shooting.
  
  Hope that helped! Please mail me if you hasve any questions.
  
  
  
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Just cause is much better when you play around i mean there is nothing more fun than flying a jet 
 at ground level or getting a full sized plane and crashiing it sadly just cause has dated physics 
 so if you fall of a cliff you dont falll in a realistic way you just fall not much else and the 
 side mission are terrible but just cause is a lot of fun when you play the single player because 
 some missions are fantastic like the last one where you jump out a plane after a guy its pretty 
 unique stuff. But dont let avalanche studios fool you about the size of the gameworld because yes 
 its over 390 square miles but there hardly anything in the whole world apart from an awesome volcano 
 and some other cool sights but what is impressive is how the game looks fantastic especially the 
 water it looks so real and might blind you. The stunts are fun but eventually there not as fun 
 but with just cause 2 coming this year things might just change and hopefully they can make this 
 into the game we all wanted but dont get me wrong this is still worth playing so go onto ebay buy 
 it and enjoy.
  
  pros
  large world
  fun missions
  
  cons
  terrible side quests
  outdated in some ways
  not much depth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Bad things first:
  1. This is yet another GTA-like kind of game... the formula is pretty similar (run, chase, accomplish 
 missions) within a quite open scenario.
  
  2. Graphics are not impressive and neither is the sound... Would have been good in the previous 
 generation consoles but in the 360 they are within the low ranks.
  
  3. Forget everything you've learned about the laws of physics... I don't know in which planet this 
 island is located but I'm pretty sure they're not on ours.
  
  Good things:
  I'm giving this game 8 points despite the three issues from above. This is just because Just Cause 
 accomplish very well in two aspects:
  
  - Is Fun
  - Is very addictive
  
  This two aspects overcome by far all the shortcomings of the game. You will (trust me) end up doing 
 and enjoying the missions because they are hard (but not too much) and fun. 
  
  Other good thing about the game is that the Achievements list is... well... achievable... one thing 
 about Xbox games lately is that most of the times you can humanly obtain only about half of the 
 points the game have... in Just Cause, with enough time and patience, you can obtain about 80 or 
 90%.
  
  All and all, this a good game... not too original, but fun... and at the end, that's the point... 
 Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a game that to begin with, I wanted to stop playing. At the beginning of this game 
 I couldn't understand how stupid it was and why anybody would want to play it. Although there are 
 no loading times while travelling through the massive and stunning virtual world of San Espirato... this 
 game makes up for it with glitches. There are many glitches in this game and some can make you 
 want to smash your controller down in rage.
  
  Another major problem with this game is the police heat. How unbelievably stupid would the creators 
 of this game have to be to make every time that you run into another car give you a level 2 wanted 
 level. Because of this, the racing missions are extremely difficult. While we're on the subject 
 of annoying police; you are driving down the road and missiles randomly come from the sky, sometimes 
 destroying your car and sometimes making other cars go absolutely crazy.
  
  The gun play is an absolute shame. It is easy, boring and repetitive. The auto-locking system makes 
 gun play effortless and you will find your self relaxed and simply holding in the right trigger 
 as helpless groups of enemies die without any real chance of hurting you. Whether is the simplicity 
 factor or not I don't know but the story mode in this game is extremely short and will take you 
 no more than 8 hours to complete. Thankfully there are quite a few optional side missions and tasks 
 to keep you going if you feel the need.
  
  Now moving onto the positives of this game. The visuals in this game are superb and are definitely 
 an excellent improvement from the PS2 and XBOX versions of this game and the sound is fantastic. 
 The stunts in this game are also alot of fun once you master them. I have finished the story missions 
 and all the side missions and liberation missions... so basically I achieved 100% completion and 
 altogether it took me 19 hours.. so were definitely looking at a short game here. All in all this 
 game is quite good but I think that there is definitely room to improve when they make the new 
 Just Cause 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thermalcold
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  So I finally beat Just Cause last night, and while I must say its been an adventure, it wasn't 
 without its pitfalls. 
  I'm the type of guy that likes to complete a game, well, completely till the end. Meaning that 
 I play all the missions, find all the collectibles, and do as many side missions as I can till 
 the end. So when I finished the game, I unlocked well over 90% of the achievements. It was all 
 well and good, liberating town after town got repetitive fast. I had some diversion doing side 
 missions and I got all the collectibles early in the game, but that wasn't enough to keep it exciting. 
 I wish that in jc2 they do a little bit more in liberate town, repeat, repeat, repeat thing again. 
 Needless to say, open end worlds like this are an ode to the gta series, but if your going to copy 
 someone, at least put in an effort to have some other things to do, which like gta made famous.
 
  Visually, I would rate the environments perfect. Ever since I got my hd tv, the graphics really 
 stood out and impressed me. The artists put in alot of time in this game, and it shows. And of 
 course, there has to be some female protagonist in the game with the really huge breasts. Why developers 
 feel the need to draw every video game female like this baffles me, and it is rather disgusting. 
 Developers, you can obviously create video game females, but the big hooters thing has to end. 
 May I suggest drawing from the real world?
  The voice acting was really good, what little there was. The story is rather nonexistent, which 
 is why there were little to comment about. Some story to the game would be a nice addition too.
 
  Anyway, its gorgeous game with some highly redundant gameplay. I would suggest renting this game 
 at first, because you certainly won't get any more for the game after a weekend of playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This will be a short review because it's late and frankly, I don't think the game is worthy of 
 a detailed one.
  
  The Good: One of the characters reminds me of Bruce Campbell. There is a lot of terrain to explore. 
 The premise is almost a little interesting.
  
  The Awful: Everything else. Never before have I seen a car fishtail while driving ten miles per 
 hour. Every land vehicle controls so terribly, it makes the game nie unplayable. The story is driven 
 by cliches and littered with feminist propaganda and overt sexual innuendos. The characters have 
 some of the dumbest dialogue I have seen in any game, ever. (I mean, really, CIA agents using grade 
 school insults? Come on.) The terrain is BORING. The scenery is extremely repetitive. Missions 
 are located WAY too far from one another, so you either have to use the extract feature to get 
 from A to B, or pray that you can grapple onto a helicopter and steal it. Speaking of which, isn't 
 it great that the helicopters will just randomly shoot at cars and boats? And by great, I mean 
  irritating. Seriously. Nothing sucks me into a game more 
 than the rumble feature in my controller going off every half a second. Holy s***! (And yes, I 
 know you can turn this feature off, and I did, but something meant to enhance your gameplay shouldn't 
 turn into one of the game's greatest annoyances!) The side missions are boring and repetitive. 
 The achievements are laughably simplistic and un-fun.
  
  I could ramble off more issue I have with this ridiculously sorry game, but by now I'm sure you've 
 either gotten the message or are so sold on your p. o. s. game that no number of logical grievances 
 could sway your opinion. In either case, I realize this game was released a long time ago, but 
 I think even for that time it was sub-par. If you're like me right now and you're out renting games 
 during the summer lull, do yourself a favor and skip this one; over-tipping your waiter and napping 
 for an entire day would be a more productive and enjoyable use of your time and money.
  
  ... No, really, this game sucked something new. I've never given out a 1 before. This was just... 
 wow... insults-my-intelligence bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sylux117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  After completing the short story mode of Just Cause (that contains 21 mission and 6 hours of gameplay) 
 you will be surprised by what you have left to do. You can explore a huge world (1025 kilometers) , 
 compete in races, do some side missions and also do a lot of amazing stunts. The achievements are 
 nice but not all that special. You can use 89 different vehicles such as planes, cars, boats, dirtbikes, 
 quadbikes, mini subs and helicopters. The graphics are pretty good but not the best on the market 
 or even the console. If you want to buy a game to play in the summer then you should buy this one. 
 But don't buy this game on the Ps2 or the original Xbox because the game doesn't look as good as 
 on the Xbox 360 or PC. If you don't have an Xbox 360 or a gaming PC then buy it on the original 
 Xbox. If you don't have an original Xbox then buy it on the Ps2. But if you like free roam/sandbox 
 games, be sure to buy this one because it's definitely worth you money and time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afbb007
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Just Cause is a game where you need to let everything go and to just have fun. Being Rico Rodriguez, 
 CIA Ops Agent, your mission is to stop El Presidente Mendoza, a evil dictator on the island of 
 San Esperito that could have his hands on nuclear weapons and chaos creating things. Starting of 
 from jumping out of a plane, seeing San Esperito for the first time, you meet and save your boss, 
 Sheldon, from the local gang. The first thing I notice is that for the first 10 minutes a pressed 
 every button, hoping I hit the right one to pull out my gun. After finding that button, Sheldon 
 tells me to get onto the back of the car with a machine gun attached to it. Whats the button to 
 do that?!? So finally, after getting on to the back of the truck, I didn't even have to move the 
 analog stick. All i did was hit the right trigger and 2 minutes later I got past it. So far, its 
 been a let down for me. Theres no real tutorial, the gun play couldn't be any easier, and so far 
 I have no idea what the hell I am doing. Man was I wrong about this being a total let down.
  
  After figuring out what is going on down in this island, the game gets a rocket boost back 
 into fun and exciting game play. Roaming out into places you haven't been to is probably one of 
 the most fun things you can do in this game. You make friends from doing liberation mission and 
 side missions for your allies. You get to steal cars, boats, and aircraft. You get into insane 
 firefights against the local police patrol, gangs, and the army. But the actual story is lacking 
 that you don't even think about it until you get bored with the other crap you get to do.
  
  Even having the ability to go anywhere you want like Grand Theft Auto, and having missions 
 to do to get weapons and vehicles, the fun meter runs out. The side missions are on a one note 
 streak as they say, either hijacking a car, killing something, or collecting something and bring 
 back. After repeating this over and over, it gets real tiresome and you lose interest.
  
  Just Cause is fun and addicting, only for a few hours at the most. Game play is fun but simple, 
 roaming around the huge island your on having no boundaries is great but most of it is trees, mountains, 
 and rocks, and the game itself if you want to finish the story and skip the achievements only clocks 
 in about 3-5 hours. I would rent it first and try it out that way then rather spend your money 
 you would only play 3 or 4 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a decent game. It runs in the vein of Grand Theft Auto. You can steal cars, motorcycles, 
 planes, helicopters, and boats. Cars handle very differently. Sport cars handling sucks, suvs handling 
 is great, but you move SLOW! Boats tough to steal, especially the fast ones. Helicopters are too 
 easy to die, so they suck at running from cops. Planes die fast, but move fast, so they are very 
 good. 
  
  This game has pretty good graphics, but a disconnected story. You don't know what is going on, 
 just that cops are bad. Also, the beginning missions are extremely easy, and the immediately ramp 
 up to very hard. so from mission 13-14, It jumps from easy to very, very tough. Some missions are 
 really bad, others are good, and just makes you feel that avalanche hates their customers. Also, 
 The gun's have auto lock on, and manual firing. The manual firing is insanely underpowered. I shot 
 a civilian in the head with a machine gun, and it too 5 shots to drop him. 
  
  So, this is a decent game. I think it deserves a 6.5, because of it's weak story, too easy gun 
 lock on, poorly executed "liberation" system, and it's insanely unrealistic manual aim. Don't buy 
 this full price. Get it from a Circuit city bargain bin like me. It is $10 there and is fun while 
 it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarello23J
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  This is my favourite Xbox 360 by far. The main campaign will keep you occupied for at least 9 or 
 10 hours. adding on top all the Takeover Missions, Side Missions and Collect Missions. It will 
 last well over 30 to 35 hours. The main idea of Just Cause is the stunts you pull with a button 
 press. These include jumping from the roof of one vehicle to another and grappling onto cars, planes, 
 bikes or a boat and soar into the sky. Commandeering a plane and flying into the sky is the most 
 exciting part of the game. When you reach the top height possible (which is above the clouds) you 
 can see Just Cause in all its glory, from the suns rise to the midnight sky. Finally pressing A 
 will send out of the plane and land on the wing from here you can either open your parachute (which 
 is the boring method) or leap off and sky to the floor which will in fact take about a full four 
 minutes. The scenery is unbelieveable. When only ten ft. off the floor you open your parachute 
 to be sent forwards at a phenomanal speed and land safely in a village, city safehouse, ocean or 
 a random part of the jungle. Just Cause is a non-stop thrill from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  charlie vision of just cause: *Rico knocks on a door* voice says "who's there" "Kung" Kung who" 
 "KUNG FU BIOCH!!" *Rico schools some gangsters with his double guns". Now that you've seen charlie 
 vision of the game, it's time to use my review tactics... Ok So your a hired merc named Rico who 
 can really "bust a move"! Literally, You can hang on to helicopters, jump off planes, and jet ski 
 your way to butifull islands. The incredible cop pursuits are what really drew me to this game! 
 Mounted guns and missles on planes, what more could you want to destroy thousands of cops! Overall, 
 You have to like this game if you ever play it, it's just the destructive game code! charlie vision 
 again: *rico fights a boss* "FEEL THE POWER OF THE HELICOPTER MUAHAHAHA! I hope this review drives 
 you to rent this game for a LOOOONG time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I hated this game at first. I only paid 5 for it and was still annoyed at having spent this much 
 on the game. The controls are awkward, the cars handle unrealistically, the voice acting is terrible, 
 it's WAY too easy..... the list goes on. But then after about 4 hours of frustration I suddenly 
 started to enjoy myself. Once you get your hands on a chopper or plane and take to the skies you 
 forget how broken this game is and just sit back and enjoy the breathtaking scenery, It really 
 is an amazing looking game.
  
  The story is forgettable and the missions do repeat themselves and are often a chore to complete 
 but if you just want to mess around in a gorgeous virtual world doing whatever the hell you want 
 then you can't beat this game.
  
  If you can pick it up cheap then it's highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Flipping through an old PC magazine I found behind the couch one day , I came upon this game . 
 Just cause . I read a little , and became fascinated . I looked it up on the net , and became more 
 fascinated . I went out and hired it..... a little late without doubt but still... I was very fascinated 
 . Now Ive played it and decided to give reviewing games a crack . Yes its an old game , but who 
 knows , Im sure some of you out there are still considering buying it .
  
  But should you?
  
  Well if there is one thing I can say about Just Cause is that its INTENSE 
 . From the very first level your character "Rico" is sent plummeting down from a plane , the lush 
 jungle of San Esperito glimmering in the sun below him . It clearly does a great job of setting 
 the initial tone for the game , a adrenalin soaked , rip roaring rampage of destruction and blood 
 shed . 
  
  So , gameplay-wise , it is very satisfying . You can do all sorts of crazy stuff . You can walk 
 around the massive open world , 'jacking any car in sight , In a pure Grand Theft auto style . 
 But it doesnt stop there , from within the car Rico can enter a "Stunt position" with the simple 
 press of a button that involves him leaping up on the driverless roof of the car and it is here 
 that the "omg that is INTENSE stuff" aspect comes into play . 
  
  Rico can open up his parachute , yanking him off the car as it plummets off the edge of a massive 
 cliff , taking in the truly massive landscape as he softly glides down to a sparkling clear river 
 , the charred fireball that was once the car resting a few metres away . A few missions into the 
 game Rico can get a cable-gun type of thing that lets him hook into all sorts of vehicles , adding 
 more possibilities for crazy stunts . You can hook into the end of a speeding car and glide behind 
 it as it roars through the countryside , you can hook into a passing enemy helicopter , pulling 
 yourself towards it as you whizz through the skies , before grabbing hold of its tail fin and swinging 
 around like a ragdoll as you climb along the copter and push out the driver . This added element 
 of pure mentalness adds many different strategies to tackle the missions in the game , and adds 
 some replay value in my opinion . 
  
  Rico also has a wide arsenal of weapons , all of which do a fine job of tearing no good oppresive 
 military soldiers and degenerate drug runners to shreds . Nothing feels more satisfying than blowing 
 a copter clean out of the sky with a rocket launcher , or decimating a entire group of soldiers 
 with a unique sniper-machine gun type thing . Gunplay is pretty simple without any real strategy 
 , usually involving running around like a headless chicken and killing the enemy before they kill 
 you . 
  
  Graphically the game is amazing . From the minute you complete the first mission you can explore 
 the insanely massive island without the hassle of any loading screens . the detail is amazing and 
 very hard to explain in words , being lost in the middle of the jungle has never been so fun . 
 Fly high into the sky in a plane or helicopter and jump out and youll see what I mean . you will 
 be blown away . 
  
  Sound-wise the game is also pleasing . the cars sound like cars , explosions are ear-candy , and 
 the sweet chimes of the sea will bring a smile to your face as you blow the heads off your enemies 
 . Special kudos to the jungle sounds , from the sweet crackle of twigs cracking under Ricos feet 
 to the gentle brushing sound of Trees swaying in the wind , the Game is very atmospheric . The 
 music is also good , making the games epic battles even more heart-pumpingly intense . It is overall 
 a very pleasing package . 
  
  Surely a game with all these merits deserves atleast a nine . But sadly there are also some bad 
 aspects of the game that drag the score down considerably . 
  
  For one , you havent heard me mention the storyline yet . mainly because it isnt very interesting 
 . Your a badass agent named Rico that is sent into San Esperito by a government agency to help 
 topple the tyranical dictator that leads the islands rule . Thats about it . Your two contacts 
 on the island ( of whoms names escape me at the mo ) will set you up with a majority of your missions 
 . And thats all there is to it . The lack of a gripping story didnt really bother me however as 
 youll be too engaged in all the crazy gameplay to pay any real mind to it.... in fact , I skipped 
 most of the cutscenes :DD
  
  The missions themselves consist mainly of blowing things up , killing people, and blowing things 
 up , killing people in the process . You can clock in the main missions in no less than six hours 
 if your determined enough , and sadly the many side missions you can undergo ( with exception to 
 the "liberation" missions ) dont really add much more interest to the game . Which brings me to 
 my next point...
  
  The game feels empty in parts . Its a massive jungle , but not many things to do . The game attempts 
 to compensate for this by adding in random attacks and battles out in the country , of which are 
 fun to get invloved in . But put all the action aside , and you will feel empty . This is obviously 
 a plus for those that just want meaty , mindless action , but those seeking story and substance 
 will be displeased .
  
  The game is also rather easy . Its a simple matter of aiming a gun/vehicle at someone and shooting 
 them/running them over . Thats as far as combat goes if you dig further under the games oppurtunity 
 for pure craziness . You will rarely need to find cover and most of the time can just simply keep 
 the trigger squeezed as the games auto-aiming system automatically points out all the enemies for 
 you . 
  
  SO , overall , "Just Cause" is a beautiful , intense , and action-wise fufilling game . But many 
 demerits such as easiness... and emptyness , bring it down from a potentially great game to a above-average 
 one . Still worthy of a purchase if you want to unleash the inner james bond . 
  
  happy gaming!
  M
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't do a whole lot. It's mostly kill this and grab that. Most of the enemies are 
 about as dangerous as a wet bag full of puppies. But what this game does do, it does very well.
 
  
  The freedom in this game is phenomenal, allowing you to rampage like a little Godzilla from one 
 end of a lush tropical paradise, to the other. Jumping from vehicle from vehicle, once mastered, 
 will allow you to zip around at maddening speed. And overthrowing government controlled towns and 
 drug-lord HQ's is a real blast!
  
  The only downside to this game is that a vehicle stealing missions are painfully unbalanced. In 
 these, you need to steal and bring back a speical vehicle in one piece. This is nearly impossible, 
 as everything damages your vehicle. This game is very much bent on allowing you to destory everything, 
 not keep anything in one piece. It's often easier to jump out of said vehicle, go back on foot, 
 and take out the 20+ jeeps, helicopters, tanks, and generic soldiers with just a machine gun and 
 some cheezy one-liners, then even bother trying to drive.
  
  The game is also a bit low on the challege side of things. The only things in this game that will 
 even remotely threaten you are the occasional heat-sinking missile and slow drivers. The missiles 
 tend to sneak up quietly and without warning, blowing up you and your aircraft instantly, without 
 warning. The slow drivers, on the other hand, are just a game glitch. When you get hit by a vehicle, 
 the game not only takes in account the speed of the vehicle, but also the amount of time you touch 
 it. So if somebody runs into you VERY slowly, like a peasant in a truck, they can grind you to 
 death faster then taking 20 speeding jeeps to the face! This makes stealing vehicles a bit more 
 hazardous then it really should be.
  
  Other then these minor problems, the game is awash with amazing visuals and insane combat. It's 
 like taking a vacation to the Caribbean, only with guns. If you like beautiful, free roaming, treasure 
 hunting, and GTA-style F***ing with people type of games, you'll love Just Cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jruckus140
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  It's an underappreciated game, that is fun, bloody, and insane! Plus, its cheap... I bought it for 
 15 bucks and it was well worth it. Its the type of game you buy when consoles go through those 
 droughts when they release NO games, and so you buy a game like this. If anyone likes fun and is 
 in the mood to just run reckless causing ruckus and starting revolutions, then this is the game 
 for you. The graphics are good, game play is good, story is good, and the game overall is good, 
 this was a poor rating job by gamespot, it deserves a way better score something between 8-9 so 
 hence, buy this game. It worth owning. There is nothing left to say, and I am now just trying to 
 meet the length requirements needed in order to submit this review, thus you should probably stop 
 reading this review at this point. Failure to do so will result in a waste of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b_3n_h00d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  i was surprised when i picked this up for the ps2 back in the day i really liked it's gameplay, 
 so when i saw it at wal-mart i thought what the heck?!
  
  JUST CAUSE-
  
  you play as rico an american agent tho he seem's rather spanish to me, besides the point, you are 
 sent to brasil to help ''LIBERATE'' the country now dont get me wrong just cause is a massive game 
 the land scale is Colossal, Put it just seems to big for it's own good some times like they just 
 kept tossing in the same computer program after the other, yet it's fun, and surprisingly the graphics 
 are grade-A,
  
  Gameplay- fast paced, usually running around locking on to every enemy in sight and blasting them 
 down, you can also throw grenades then shoot them either in midair or on the ground ( nice touch 
 ) your pretty much a one man army put you also have your hombres along the journy, vehicles range 
 from boats to cars to motorbikes to rocket jets, many guns sniper rifle and RPG to name two, you 
 can pull off really cool action moves for example jump to another car right before yours goes flying 
 off a cliff, but my favorite is ( if you can oull it off ) jumping out of a plane to steal another 
 in middive, it doesnt get much cooler
  
  Sound- can get repetitive good game to maybe mute and listen to your own, it has a spanish up beat 
 music list and some slow songs on as well, no radios, gun fire sounds decent
  
  graphics- this game has amazing graphics i was shocked on how pretty the land is looking over a 
 huge chasm is awesome and this game goes from night and day with diffrent weather, skydiving is 
 this games coolest feature it took my breath away and still some times i get on just to halo jump,
 
  
  THE GOOD- Skydiving, lots of weapons, huge map, many missions, ACTION
  
  THE BAD- annoying police AI, need more to do, some missions to hard
  
  Overall- this game is 
 a wonderful game to add to your collection for just 20$
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  First of all, this game is ridiculously easy, you can go threw this game with only your double 
 pistol with infinite ammo. This is due to the autolock system and the super extreme basic enemy 
 AI (they just point and shoot) ... when you see enemies, just pull the trigger and move your autolock 
 and in no time everybody will be dead.
  This is a GTA style game, so you can fly, drive and float in vehicle with and without weapons... those 
 include pretty cool choppers and many kind of planes (for the chopper, besides their look, they 
 are almost all the same (they can fire with their main gun or shoot rockets, only the number of 
 rockets they shoot change as you progress) ) . Your weapons are those you see in every GTA style 
 game (handguns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, grenades, C4, rocket launchers.. etc) , but there's 
 one special: the grappling hook. This last one is used for multiple stunts performed during the 
 game which can be pretty cool stuff. Since it's a GTA style game, you have side missions, and story 
 missions. Eventought the story is uninteresting, the story missions are the better ones... there 
 are about 100 side missions, but they get boring really fast (the objectives are always the same: 
 kill this guy, take this city, find this thing, and that's about it) . The island is HUGE !! bigger 
 than all GTA combined. so big that using car to drive around is a pain. The island is big but also 
 empty. While playing this game, i felt like I was at one of my friend's house (a huge house with 
 a almost no furniture inside) .
  
  Graphics and sound:
  The latin music in the game gets repetitive and the voice acting is ok.
  The graphics is where 
 the game really shine, specially the scenery...
  
  Overall, those awesome scenery combined with the tons of cool stunts you can achieve deserved at 
 least a rental. If you enjoyed what you've experienced during those few hours of rental and you 
 really want more, get this game if you see it at a cheap price, cause with those few hours of rental, 
 you'll see everything the games as to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumble123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start of with the things I think are good about this game. First of all, I really liked 
 the cover of the game-box, with its red, rugged look and a guy that could be Che Guevara's brother 
 on in a cocky profile-view picture. Secondly, I think this game looks amazing. Once you climb a 
 mountain with and look out over the sunset you just have to take a deep breath, lob a grenade over 
 your shoulder at the enemies that are probably chasing you, before you throw yourself down the 
 hill and expand your parachute in the absolute last second.
  
  But as with all games there are bugs. Serious bugs. More bugs than in the movie Bugs. Worth noting 
 is that I didn't actually find any of these bugs really negative, quite the opposite actually. 
 It's hard to explain why really so I'm just going to describe my first minutes of the game.
  
  The first few seconds of the intro movie just makes me want to skip it. It's so full of clichs 
 and just.... something... well I wasn't expecting Bioware-quality storyline so it's all "meh whatever. 
 Get me some action!" Then the game starts. You begin playing in midair, jumping from an airplane. 
 I don't know why I'm here but I like the stylish entry. Too bad I'm too far away from the island 
 itself to actually land on it... hm... No tutorial.... I'll just press buttons on random and hope 
 something happens then. Ooo the sticks leans me forward so I go down fast. Wait.... where's the 
 button for the parachute!? *presses randomly* ooo the a button. *lands in water* Damn..
  Though the game probably never looks more beautiful than it does under water, I get to swim 200metres 
 but at least I get to look at pretty stuff while doing it. Fair enough. When I finally get to shore 
 I rescue this "contact" or whatever and then he tells me to mount the machine gun on his car. Yeeeeea.... real 
 "secret agents" apparently goes in with guns blazing and cars exploding. Though the auto-aim makes 
 it boring as hell and I make it through the machine-gunning with just using one hand. I eat a sandwich 
 with the other.
  Moving on I get to an "agency supply-point" or something like that and guess what? HERE comes the 
 tutorial that I needed ten minutes ago. Woo... and it doesn't even cover the really important stuff. 
 Like how you control your character. It just shows the most obvious in the game like that you get 
 health from the med-station and that the big pile of weapons and boxes gives you ammunition. DUH.
 
  Moving on... I see a shiny motorcycle in the corner of the yard. "yay" goes through my mind and 
 I jump on it. "uhh... dude move the camera to the side of the bike again" says my friend sitting 
 next to me. "uh... ok?" I do as he says. "Don't you see it" he asks with a stupid look on his face. 
 "WHAT am I supposed to see? There's nothing wro -- ..... oh god..."
  Yes... the bike is floating in the air... the first bike you get to ride in the whole game is floating 
 about an inch above ground. We just laugh and don't care I mean come ON! That's just so pathetic, 
 it's funny.
  So we begin to drive around and shoot at stuff while slowly moving towards the objective. On our 
 way we change to a car and get chased by what appears to be cops. We mess around with them a bit 
 and when we approach a big bridge we decide to try out the "stunt button". so... driving towards 
 the bridge we jump to the roof of the car, deploy our parachute and watch how the cops follow our 
 car down into the ocean below. As we laugh as maniacs we suddenly notice how Rico (the main character) 
 hits his head in one of the beams poking out from the bridge. The parachute vanishes and he falls 
 helplessly against the water 40metres below while we desperately hammer the button to release a 
 new parachute. WHAM and we land on the floating police car that fell down earlier and die.
  Then things got worse...
  Just for mentioning a few things we also managed to find an invincible 
 but immobile pilot in the middle of the jungle, make a police throw a grenade in his colleagues 
 head, free (?) **random number between 5 and 999** villages by destroying blockades and raising 
 flags and finding the most worthless, strategically placed ladder ever. It's on the outside of 
 a fence, on the edge of a pier. That ladder was the only way up to the guard tower from which a 
 guard just fell down. Clever.
  
  The story mode was worthless and repetitive; the AI even more stupid than my pet rock and the laws 
 of physics went on vacation sometime during a loading-sequence but still... there's something about 
 this game that captures you.
  When you reach the peak of a hill and a military chopper greets you with all its exploding glory 
 in the middle of the day and you throw yourself of your bike just to hijack it.... priceless.
 
  
  This game is not realistic, not intriguing and not even very well made. One thing it is though 
 is a whole heap of awesome, beautifully rendered fun. Give it a try if you find it on sale or rent 
 it somewhere. You might get a few good laughs from it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4_2112
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is is very repetetive. It has a realy huge map that just looks the same every where you 
 go. It has nice looking water effects. it has alot of stunts you can do. It has alot of missions if 
 you include side missions (which are very repetetive) . It has alot of vehicles to use. But it has 
 some very boring gameplay. its main storyline should take you maybe 15-20 hours. It kinda plays like 
 a gta game but it isnt near as fun. So if you want a sorta fun game that plays kinda like a gta 
 game with a huge map and nice water effects than Just Cause is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  I am a total nerd when it comes to island games. When this game came out it got some harsh reviews. 
 But as always I am not the norm. People have weird expectations. I am the opposite. 
  
  Just Cause really is hard game to describe. First off throw realism out the window. Yes it looks 
 like Farcry or something like that. But this game is about fun. Crazy fun! You play as some agent 
 kind of guy who well... I couldn't really tell you. Think of it as Grand Theft Caribbean. Theres 
 a main story line and tons of side missions to follow. ALOT of them which make of for the game 
 relatively short story.
  
  So your asking "So why should I try this game over anything else like it?". This game offers so 
 much more then most free roam games its amazing. For starters this games "gimmick" is the stunts/grapple/parachute, 
 yes together. Lets say your driving down the road. Hit a button and you will jump onto the roof 
 of your car and from there lets say theres a helicopter chasing you. Well you can grapple on to 
 it with your grappling gun and you will be behind it on a line. Now you can climb the line and 
 into the helicopter and take it over! Not enough? 
  
  Ok lets (for fun) take the heli up to 30,000 feet do a hit a button, jump out and grab onto the 
 tail of the helicopter. Now the heli is falling towards earth (unless you have sitting still hovering) . 
 What that? Another enemy heli near by? Hit a button and you jump to its tail! Hey lets take it 
 over! Getting my drift? Theres boats, motorcycles, cars, trucks, planes, jets, helis.... and theres 
 are SO MANY of them its crazy! Even secret vehicles. I still don't think there is a game I have 
 seen with this many vehicles in it! And don't forget you can grapple, parachute or stunt from any 
 of them! Loading times. That has to suck then right? Nope. NO LOADING. The map is HUGE... I think 
 the only map bigger is GTA San Andreas. I may be wrong. 
  
  So what are some negatives your saying? Well most people hate the game because its to unrealistic. 
 Shooting is to easy, the gameplay is to silly... etc. Thats the point. The game is meant to be wild 
 and fun. If I had to to complain I would say as big as it is, once you manage do to EVERYTHING 
 from the main story to finding every secret vehicle (30 hours maybe?) theres not much to do. At 
 least for the normal person. I still love flying around jumping from heli to jet and sky diving 
 from as high as possible and splashing into the ocean after a massive dive like that. 
  
  And if your like me you can see the sites, trust me unlike most games that use the same building 
 over and over you will find spots you never seen before. Cool mansions in the middle of nowhere 
 on a mountain packed with goodies like guns and stuff that after 100 hours you'll be like "Wow... never 
 seen that before!"
  
  So on to your basic review.
  
  The story is pretty simple and typical "james bond" kind thing. Nothing amazing but keeps you pumped 
 or whatevers next. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. At this time games like Assassins Creed are better looking. But this 
 game still has amazing graphics regardless. Some things look weird at times like when you jump 
 in and out of stuff. And the physics are really crazy but like I said this game isn't about realism.
 
  
  The controls are simple. VERY SIMPLE. It shouldn't take you long at all yo learn them. 
  
  The sounds are ok. Somethings sound really cool where as others sound boring and flat and get 
 annoying after awhile. When it comes to the music this is one those game soundtracks where I actually 
 have every track and listen to it frequently. If you not moving even your finger or toe to this 
 music your crazy.
  
  Overall this game rocks. I would just buy it. Rent it at the very least. The only people who are 
 not really going to like it are the ones that like realism. Other then that this game is great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  In Just Cause you are a pretty much Rebel-law and you are trying to take controll from them. The 
 game is very fun mainly beacuse of the graphics and the gameplay. There is a vast weponry and the 
 story is very fun. The action is very fast pace so I highly recomend this game. for any GTA or 
 saints row. I Really think you should pick this game up for like 19.99 its a real Bargin. yoo I 
 gotta go yall yo I will have to say Peace out my homie g's yaaaaaaa. ssaasqqsqw dsfdf ds fsd g 
 fd gg df ggs sdfgfd gds fg fg sdgds fg df g fg fdgg r gr. YA IM BORED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Just Cause
  
  It may be a double entaunt. 
  But it is also an extremly overlooked game.
  
  Just Cause has all the guns, cars, motorcycles, 
 boats, parachutes, planes, helicopters, and chase scenes that you could ever want in a game.
  
  Everything is dynamic in this game, which is crazy because of the amount of detail put into 
 this enourmous world. Trees, shrubs, civilians, houses, and rooftops are all here in great detail. 
 You can swim underwater and see fish swimming around in the reef. You can go to a salt refinery 
 and steal a bouldozer just for the hell of it. You can even start up a commotion of killing just 
 to get a helicopter on your tail so you can use your grappling gun to jack it.
  
  Just Cause has has the normal story, just flipped around. Instead of being the good guy blowing 
 away drug dealers, you are basically the opposite. You work for guerillas or drug cartels and kill 
 police and rival gangs. The main missions consists of dozens of activities from blowing up buildings 
 to assassinating the last sap you worked for.
  
  Side missions are found after you "Liberate" a settlement. Basically talking to a guerilla dude 
 that starts the liberation then you run in and blast and police and blow up any barriers you see, 
 eventually raising a flag and taking the place for yourself.
  
  After doing thus, you gain new safehouses, vehicles, weapons, and side missions. It opens up a 
 side mission for that settelment that is basically just a fetch or hijack feat.
  
  This game sounds simple, but once you witness the size of the realistic island, you will see how 
 much went into making this game. 
  
  The graphics are stunning and the sound effect are solid. I only had a few problems with this game. 
 Sometimes, I would hear a copter overhead, but could never actually locate it. And most of the 
 time, ladders are clunky and hard to get your guy to start climbing. Very annoying when your trying 
 to do the collect missions.
  
  But overall, this is a long action/adventure game that will take hours upon hours to complete and 
 almost endless side missions and things to do after you beat the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  A year or so ago, we all heard about this game called just cause that was supposed to change the 
 3rd Person Crime Scene with its open ended maps, and great graphics. In those two aspects it delivers, 
 however it does let itself down in a few ways, Don't get me wrong, i am having fun playing it, 
 the stunts and unique features of this game make it fun to play, however the missions are varied, 
 they can sometimes become a chore. Also the main story is short. Now the good, there is a liberation 
 feature, letting you take control of the country, and also a good variety of weapons and vehicles 
 . the map is very big and it looks great when you are driving threw the jungle. It is great fun 
 to play, and is worth a buy or rent, but something feels missing. Its worth taking a look at for 
 sure, but its nothing to dance around the room about, well maybe the size of the map is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fillup0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Just cause is a free roaming sand box game, feeling like mercenaries. In this game you will be 
 pulling off rediculous stunts and shooting goverment dogs for prestige and freedom. The stunts 
 feel rediculous, but they are satisfying as you surf on a car about to rob it and you see another 
 better car, you jump to that and steal it, you will be doing this alot in San Espirito, and it 
 is so big so you need some help right? Well you can be extracted to different safehouses and even 
 straight to your mission. So the only travelling you will be doing is to side missions and races. 
 You can't extract while under attack which is a great balencing act, which will stop you from running 
 away like a pussy.
  
  The skydiving and base jumping is breathtaking. You can launch yourself from a plane or a mountain 
 and then skydive to the ground, it is clear that the developers developed the skydiving to be a 
 main mechanic, because the first thing you do in the game is a freefall. The parachute is really 
 handy because you can parasail with you grappling hook on veichles, or even reel in and the veichle 
 is your for the taking. You can take any veichles you see with the grappling hook, which opens 
 up the stunts alot.
  
  While exploring the huge world of San Esperito, I found that the mission structure is very repetitive 
 and the game has alot of glitches, such as the grappling hook locking onto nowhere in certain towns 
 and respawning clipped inside buildings, veichles exploding in garages ETC... Some of these glitches 
 are annoying but they don't kill the game entirely, because exploring San Esperito is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavinryan204
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  First off, I don't think that Gamespot where very fair when reviewing this game. I feel that they 
 were a little over-critical. No, it's not the best game available on the Xbox, but I think that 
 it's defiantly up there with the games that Xbox owners shod defiantly buy. I admit that I myself 
 didn't like this game when I first played it, in fact I returned it to the shop that I had bought 
 it in however when I discovered that it was the only decent game available in the particular shop 
 I decided to keep it and I am glad that I did.
  
  The game begins with our hero, Rico Rodriguez diving out of a plane and hurling towards this enormous 
 tropical island known as San Espirto. From the start we can tell that we are going to spend a large 
 portion of the game in the sky. Immediately the graphics are shockingly impressive, the lighting 
 effects are used extremely well. They are really mind blowing and among the best available at the 
 moment. Upon his landing Rico is immedialty faced with an array of soilders who do not seem impressed 
 by his anti dictatorship antics. After a shoot out and an extended car chase involving both jeeps 
 and helicopters Rico and his new American friend Sheldon find refuge in a RV, this will be the 
 base of operations for the remainder of the game however it will pop up in different parts of the 
 monstrous island. We are introduced to a third character, Kane and sexy American babe while will 
 provide Rico with both assistance and distraction. Sheldon's plans for removing the current military 
 dictatorship are revealed. This is pretty much the first of 21 missions in the game.
  
  No its up to you, you can proceed with the second mission or do a bit of exploring but prepare 
 to get swallowed up by the Island. As the game advances you will begin to unlock new weapons, vehicles 
 and missions which will give you the chance to unlock more weapons and vehicles. Unfortunately 
 the side missions are a bit repetitive and boring but it is worth it as the weapons and vehicles 
 are not. They range from hand guns to rocket launchers and from bikes to fighter jets. This is 
 not the case for vehicles found driven and parked on the roads of San Espirito. They are all the 
 same.
  
  It is instantly obvious that Havoc had absolutely nothing to do with 'Just Cause' as Rico's defiance 
 of the laws of physics can only be described as entertaining. He can jump from the roof of one 
 moving car to another, steer from the roof of a car, jump from a plane to a helicopter.... that's 
 all ill say on that, I don't want to ruin anymore surprises for you. I recall at one point during 
 the game jumping from a news helicopter UP to a plane. Rico - 1, Newton - 0. That sad this was 
 probably the most enjoyable part of the game add make for enjoying game play. After all you'; re 
 buying an action game not a flight simulator. If you're looking for physics get a book. I think 
 you can agree its nice to see innovation in games today especially with some of the games around 
 today. Have you ever bought a game and felt like you'; ve played it before.
  
  The story line is decent it's just a little bit unclear at parts. I also found that it's a bit 
 easy to complete. There are no extremely hard missions it sometimes takes longer to get to the 
 mission start than it is to complete the mission. And also the map only zooms in a certain amount 
 and when you're on the smaller roads it can be difficult to see where you're going. But what game 
 doesn't have its flows. I think anybody thinking about this buying this game should stop thinking 
 and buy it because you will enjoy it.
  
  By the way this is my first review so please comment; I plan it to be the first of many. Anybody 
 reading this who themselves write a lot of reviews criticism or advice would be appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidj1091
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  The sandbox genre needed a mix up, and the stunning visuals are absolutely great. This is an extremely 
 pretty game that is also extremely underrated. Almost no one bought this! WTF?!? You can probably 
 get it alot cheaper now, if you haven't bought it, but at least rent this and try out this diamond 
 in the rough. There are some great game points that I want to talk about. The ability to jump off 
 planes and land on boats and use your grappling hook to grab anything and fly around almost anywhere. 
 The campaign is short, but there are numerous side missions to accomplish. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, there is so much to do
  
  You can go anywhere, do anything, drive anything, ride anything, fly anything and there is loads 
 and loads of missions and sub missions.
  
  The graphics, whilst not being the best, are very good. The controls are responsive and the vehicles 
 handle well. The gameplay map is massive and the draw distance is amazing, you can hover over the 
 islands and they fly above the clouds and the whole of the map is still visible under you. AND 
 ontop of that you can fly as high as possible and dive out of the aircraft and skydive james bond 
 style before opening your chute. If you like the GTA type games i cannot recomend this game enough, 
 especialy now you can pick it up so cheap ( mine was &pound;15 brand new) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Feels like a sub standard GTA.
  Dont expect too much from lhis. The game might be big, boasting a huge map and wealth of missions, 
 but to say that they are repetitive would be a massive understatement. Worth buying if you can 
 find it for &pound;10, if not, prepare to be dissapointed.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Size: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10 - uses 360 power but still looks shabby
  sound/effects - 4/10 lame 
 at the best of times. gunplay is too simple, and no vibration on the controller when you shoot.
 
  overall - 6/10 (and thats pretty generous)
  
  PROTIP, well worth waiting till the real GTA comes out. (GTA 4 that is...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I'll start of by saying that i'm not usually a fan of this type of game. 
  I usually start off well and then get bored running around and completing similar mission after 
 similar mission. 
  And this is true of Just Cause, but up to a point. 
  
  The main mission section wont take you that long and there is really no point in doing all of the 
 side missions as they get very old very fast. 
  But what just cause lacks in length and originality, it makes up for in the very cool little things 
 you can do in it. 
  
  You will never get bored of deploying your parachute and floating down through the sky or just 
 simply plummeting in freefall mode. And the helicopters and fighter jets are extremelyt cool to 
 fly. 
  When I started playing this game i wasnt the biggest fan but when it was all over i couldn't help 
 but feel sad that it was done.
  Go figure? 
  
  Worth a rent or buy, complete and resell. onto bigger & better things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulflyer13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The combat is absolutely everything but inventing, if you see the vehicles and characters from 
 close, they graphically Suck, every conversation in the entire game is clich&eacute;, still I'm 
 playing this game for over 30 hours now... that's after Oblivion and NfS Most Wanted (which I also 
 played for months) my longest time spent in an offline game.
  And this game may be everything but inventing, it IS the definition of 'Smooth action', all campaign 
 long, you feel like the main character in a james bond movie... with a tropical taste... (as it's 
 called a lot: GTA meets Far Cry) ...
  And the island looks **** dope... it's the biggest sandbox a player had ever the honour to walk 
 around in. When you're flying over the island, the jungle beneath you looks superb good.
  And the flying... wow... it may not be realistic, but the first time I took a plane and flought 
 above the island... I felt awesome... The possibilities with vehicles are unending, everytime you 
 think that you had all the vehicles in the game, you spawn in a new safehouse next to... a skreemer, 
 a buggy, a monster truck, a rally sports car, and I could go on for ages... and how impossible 
 the moves Rico makes are, the awesome it is to do them, imagine driving a car... jumping through 
 the window, landing on the roof, just jumping off, grabbing the back of a helicopter, and jumping 
 in...
  How awesome is that? and when you're pissed at the guy you just kicked out, you can even send a 
 missile down his ass. With all the side missions, collect missions, race missions, the story mode, 
 and the 'just flying, driving, walking, and whatever more' around the island-ing... you can play 
 this game for AGES.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushallya
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Deja Vu all over again with the Eidos branded - Just Cause video game. It seems like a repeat of 
 many games rolled into. It reminded me of a mix between various games such as Grand Theft Auto, 
 Saint's Row, and just a little bit of Crackdown. It seems to me the game was drawn together - but 
 nonetheless it was worth the action packed FUN and Vulgarity it contained. Bad reviews, but still 
 a good game. Weird huh??? But fun... Much more in this game when it comes to Achievements and raising 
 your Gamerscore. There is a challenge in this game and that's trying to get it complete 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Here you are in San Esperito where it seems to have a corrupt government and lots of trouble. Just 
 as you would have thought - it is your mission to help try and takeover San Esperito with its various 
 missions and side-missions. Rico Rodriguez is the character you play and is always equipped with 
 a parachute. So, expect to be using a lot of the game's features throughout and be prepared to 
 check out San Esperito fully.
  
  Starting off, you'll come to notice San Esperito is huge. When you are first deployed to the island, 
 you'll come to realise the tone and detail of the environment around you. It looks so colourful 
 and yet so beautiful from a distance. Many elements you'll come to notice were from the Grand Theft 
 Auto series. The whole sandbox style setting and the ability to store vehicles in your safehouse 
 garage are just one of a few elements inspired from the series. Just Cause has a tropical feel 
 to it and feels like a series of lost islands in the ocean. Getting from one part of the map to 
 another won't be easy - even by plane. Thankfully you can extract to various safehouses that you 
 have unlocked because of the size.
  
  Although you may be pulled in by its huge map, it doesn't seem to make good use of a great majority 
 of it. Much of it seems like a copy and paste job. A lot of it is just rainforest and there's not 
 a whole lot to do in a rainforest. Be lucky enough to not get yourself into a rainforest whilst 
 on a pursuit. There are some good places to check out for vehicles and to fulfill your curiosity 
 needs, though. There are many airports which contain planes and helicopters, military bases and 
 many small villages.
  
  Now, the best way to explore San Esperito is by flying. You'll unlock a helicopter later on that 
 you can call in from your PDA to make things easier. You can also call in other vehicles too. Controlling 
 a helicopter works simple and it certainly speeds things up compared to a standard car. Good thing 
 is, if you somehow get shot down or just want to land safely, you can simply jump off the vehicle 
 and if there is another nearby, you just simply land onto it. Although at times this does break 
 the law of physics, it works pretty neat - like some action film. However, if there is nothing 
 to jump to, then you'll have the option to deploy your parachute. Thus, you can land safely on 
 land. If you are quite far up, then you may want to sky dive for a while. This works great and 
 you get a calming choir sound which works well. Also, depending on your status, you'll hear other 
 background music. This all comes in at the right times. When you're flying you typically hear some 
 background music, when you are in a pursuit you hear some background music too. The mood of the 
 music changes depending on your actions. So, it sort-of feels like your in a film with all the 
 background music matching together with your actions.
  
  The main focus of Just Cause is its missions. There aren't very many of them but some of them can 
 prove pretty fun. When you start a mission, you'll be introduced with some greatly-produced cutscenes 
 featuring two other characters - Sheldon and Kane. Sheldon is your guy who likes to chill and mainly 
 gives the orders. Kane is this sort-of tomboy girl who seems to have a love-hate situation with 
 your character, Rico. You'll find some of the dialogue to be quite funny at times and thoughtful. 
 Certainly, these cutscenes are worth watching.
  
  Missions consist of various checkpoints. This is certainly appreciated as it can be a real pain 
 making your way back to a mission on map so huge. There's some variety in these but many of these 
 require you to take down a target. Typical targets include people and objects such as a drug field. 
 Some of the missions can be a real pain depending on how you approach them. You may just drive 
 there in a standard vehicle and have to take down enemies one-by-one with a machine gun. Alternatively, 
 it can be a much easier process if you manage to find a missile-equipped helicopter. It makes many 
 of the missions more forgiving in difficulty and quicker to get done too.
  
  Other missions include the ability to try and protect a vehicle whilst being chased down by enemies 
 and to quickly disarmour missiles before the timer runs out. Finding out where to go is made easy 
 thanks to the HUD map. You'll see a target marker which is typically in games like Grand Theft 
 Auto. There are also other markers on the map too. Ones to show you where your safehouse is, others 
 to show you races, takeover missions and such. The races can work good at times but sometimes it 
 just feels you just got unlucky because of the traffic on the roads. Other races include ones where 
 you have to pass through checkpoints in the sky. The timer is very forgiving for some races but 
 in others, it can prove a challenge. So, choosing a suitable vehicle is essential for the races.
 
  
  There are various items to collect too. Again, Just Cause is forgiving in this factor too. Each 
 item is marked on the map with a blue dot. So, you can simply go to that location and know the 
 item is there somewhere. Items are not clearly visible at times so it may require you to fly around 
 since items can be above ground or even underwater. It would of been nice for the game's HUD to 
 tell you if an item is higher or lower than you.
  
  You've also got the takeover missions. There's so many of these scattered around San Esperito. 
 In fact, it just seems to get so repetitive doing these after a while. Basically, you are engaged 
 in a three checkpoint fight with the opposition. There's a meter that pops up during these showing 
 you how well you are taking it over. Getting too many of your own people killed will fail a takeover 
 mission. Once, you've killed so many enemies you can proceed to blow up the blockades. There are 
 three in total for each takeover mission and when you reach the end you usually have to replace 
 the flags or take down the main leader. The main leader typically has a lot more health than the 
 other enemies and his health is shown so you get a good idea on how well you're doing. Once you 
 get the hang of these, many of these can be done in a matter of minutes but some places can prove 
 a bit more difficult.
  
  Some of the places don't have any blockades for you to destroy. So, basically you are left roaming 
 around trying to find enemies to kill. Some places have SAMs set up too. So, if you cross a certain 
 area then expect to get a load of missiles coming your way. These ones can prove frustrating, since 
 at times it doesn't give you a chance to get out of the way because of more missiles coming down 
 one after another.
  
  Once you've taken over places, you can go back to them to start side-missions. These too get repetitive 
 since it usually just requires you to go to a certain location, pick up a package/kill a guy and 
 then come back with heat onto you. Fun at first but not after a while.
  
  If you ever get stranded, then you have a few options to try and get a vehicle. The first would 
 be to call for a vehicle to be dropped down by helicopter (this isn't available if you have police 
 onto you) or the other option is to attempt to hijack a helicopter flying above. There are so many 
 of these helicopters flying around. They can end up getting annoying since you can always seem 
 to hear some guy shouting out of them. Anyway, hijacking can be a hit or miss situation. You use 
 your grappling gun (this is unlocked early on) which will fire at any vehicle and Rico will attempt 
 to reel in. At times it just feels you are left hanging around but some of the time you can get 
 right up close and successfully take control of the helicopter. Probably something you would expect 
 to see in a James Bond film.
  
  Controls aren't perfect but work good at times. Sometimes you'll use the B button to jump from 
 one vehicle to another (especially if you know your vehicle is about to blow up) . However, at times 
 it will just make you jump off to the ground, if you're not paying attention to the on-screen prompt 
 that tells you what will happen if you press that button. By the time you've looked at that, usually 
 you'll have missed your chance to jump onto another vehicle.
  
  Shooting enemies is pretty easy. When you aim near an enemy, it will show you an icon surrounding 
 their body. If it is white you can shoot but when it is red, you can shoot and give them more damage. 
 This also works when locking onto vehicles too. You get a good variety of weapons - including a 
 rocket launcher, different types of machines guns and pistols. Your primary pistol has unlimited 
 ammo but other weapons have limited ammo. There's also a sniper with a scope but it is not something 
 you would regularly use. These weapons can be topped up at your safehouses. You will also find 
 various weapons waiting there - another thing that was present in Grand Theft Auto.
  
  Shooting is done with the right trigger and you can throw grenades too with the left trigger. These 
 work well in taking down blockades during the takeover missions and can be pretty useful in some 
 of the later missions. Sometimes, you'll be able to blow up grenades prematurely by shooting at 
 them but if there are enemies nearby, then by default, it will just seem to stay locked onto them. 
 Changing your weapons works well, since you use the d-pad to simply change over. You can also reload 
 too by using the RB button.
  
  During the later missions, you'll find things get more frustrating - especially when glitches occur. 
 At a few times, I would pass a checkpoint and get killed shortly afterwards. Now, when put back 
 to that checkpoint you don't regain full health and such which makes it seem at times - annoying. 
 If you get put back to a checkpoint, you expect the next time it could be possible to complete 
 the mission. Really, sometimes it doesn't. A few other glitches were encountered during a side-mission 
 where an oil rig magically appeared in the sea. It required the character to land and collect and 
 item. For some odd reason, it was not solid at all, thus made it impossible to collect the item.
 
  
  When you die, you are put back at your nearest safe house where you have the chance to save. Again, 
 for some reason your health can still be low and isn't reset automatically. So, you have to do 
 all the collecting weapons and health stuff yourself before you save. Things like this makes it 
 feel like a chore at times.
  
  The good thing about Just Cause, is you have no loading times when exploring San Esperito. It is 
 seamless and the draw distance goes quite far out. At times, you may find the odd texture still 
 loading in some spots but nothing too major. It's very beautiful to just admire the sunsets, the 
 sea and landscape from distance. Although, when on land itself, things don't tend to look as nice 
 as they tend to be from the sky. Flying would probably be the high point of Just Cause. You can 
 also take control of boats too (these can be useful for collecting some items underwater) .
  
  Just Cause isn't something to be considered an all-in-all great experience. Thankfully, it 
 is made up by such a huge environment which is really pleasent to just admire. A few missions here 
 and there are quite fun too and it would of been nice to have some sort of replay for individual 
 missions. It's worth checking out but certainly the main missions can be completed in such a short 
 time. If you're interested in doing all the other stuff then feel free to do so, providing you 
 don't mind doing the same thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game i though it would be a GTA rip-off like saints row, but to my surprise 
 it was much more. First off, the world in this game is huge, almost too huge. it's one of the biggest 
 maps in a singleplayer game with no load times. In the game you try to topple a corrupt government 
 and to do so you must team up with some freedom fighters and complete missions. the single player 
 missions are varied and fun, although there aren't too many of them. you really get enjoyment from 
 the game by taking over territories which is always fun. there are also collect-a-thons and stunts. 
 yes stunts, the game is full of them and they are so unrealistic. But unrealistic in a good way, 
 like jumping from moving car to moving car, or hanging onto an airplane wing. the game also controls 
 well, and had an auto lock on feature for shooting, unfortunately this also makes the game to easy. 
 I have only failed 2 missions, out of the many in the game, and the auto aim always makes sure 
 you have the advantage, that and your health is much higher. The graphics are decent on the 360 
 which means nothing revolutionary, so even the ps2, xbox, and pc versions would be fine, but i 
 think the best experience for just cause is on the 360. the entire world is filled with lush green 
 forests, dusty dirt roads, and small towns, and it all looks good, not great but good. If your 
 looking for a fun time and your not playing halo 3, or killzone 2, maybe you should give this game 
 a try. i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Just Cause is an interesting game if borrowing a lot from the GTA franchise. You play as Rico Rodriguez, 
 a government agent sent to liberate an unstable island torn apart by war, the story itself isn't 
 very interesting and neither are the side missions but the one thing that Just Cause does well 
 is the level of detail in the environments which look fantastic from the sky, as well as that, 
 there is over 1,000km2 of island to explore which you won't all manage to see.
  
  Aswell as a short campaign and slightly repetitive side missions there are also a number of collect 
 missions to complete which are pointless but add to the game's value. As a whole Just Cause is 
 a good game but nothing more, it contains some great and some average features so unless you are 
 a huge fan of 'free roaming games' then its better just to rent for a weekend to make sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  While I have to admit that when I first picked this up (albeit for only $30) I thought to myself 
 What was I thinking? But after playing it for a couple hours and giving it a chance, I began to 
 overlook some of the minor annoyances and really enjoy the game.
  
  First off, the graphics are acceptable. I have surely seen better on the 360, but I've also seen 
 worse. Some of the cars look extremely last-gen and some of the animations are off as well. But 
 the world looks pretty slick and overall, the graphics work. As for controls, that is my biggest 
 hangup. While the gunfighting controls are a cinch (just let the game auto-aim for you and pull 
 the trigger) , the contextual button assignments can lead to some head pounding moments. There are 
 times where you are using a vehicle and instead of having set buttons assigned to set actions, 
 the button assignments change based on the context of the current situation. This leads to a few 
 frustrating moments when you want to do one thing, but end up doing something completely different. 
 Again, spending some time with the game eventually lessens the effect and aggrevation, but you'll 
 still come across these moments from time to time.
  
  The gameplay is where the game shines. It's relatively open for you to decide. Of course you could 
 start with the main story and play that straight through and be done with it. But you can also 
 venture off on side quests (which seem to mostly be go here, get that, bring it back) , partake 
 in liberating villages or taking over cartel strongholds, complete collect missions or just scope 
 out the world itself (which is HUGE) . There's not much new here in terms of gameplay options, except 
 for the stunt abilities. While surely they aren't anything spectacular, it is amusing to jump from 
 one vehicle to the next or hang on the wing of an airplane as it coasts through the sky.
  
  All in all, if you can find it for a reasonable value, it's a decent game. I surely wouldn't have 
 liked paying $60 for this game new, but since time has passed to the point where it can be had 
 for half that, I recommend picking it up. If nothing else, you'll keep yourself busy for a couple 
 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_wrestler
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  It seems like every year we get another GTA-wannabe that falls terribly short of what it attempts 
 to achieve, Just cause' is no different. When you have a game that tries too many different things 
 while not messing those things together appropriately, its fairly easy to acknowledge its flaws 
 in many areas such as its game-play. You get to choose from an array of weapons such as handguns, 
 shotguns and AK-47's and thats pretty much it. You scroll, you select your weapon and you fire, 
 pretty simple and not very deep and satisfying like many other gun slinging games. One cooler aspect 
 of the game-play is the unexplainable but welcome maneuvers that you can pull off on any vehicle 
 that your occupying; Helicopters, planes, boats.. et cetera. After you occupy a vehicle you have 
 the option of performing a stunt such as jumping to insane heights and deploying a parachute, granted 
 you have enough speed determines your height if your driving a land or sea vehicle. The game offers 
 no explanation as to why your able to do these sorts of maneuvers but they are a welcome edition 
 to its already shallow game-play. Another up point to this game is its graphics, the island settings 
 are amazing to say the least! It really is one of the best renditions of an Island I have ever 
 seen. Even on a standard-definition television set you can see that its vast and lush loading-less 
 settings set itself apart from games like Far Cry and even rivals Crysis. Everything from the perfect 
 rendered water to the way the sunlight glistens off each drop of water is recreated perfectly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games where you are thinking to yourself Wow this game is so fun and 
 awsome you can do whatever you want pretty much!!!! and then two hours later you have become completly 
 sickend by the game and wish you had never rented/bought this game. This game could have done very 
 well and been a very good game but, it thought it would get away with GTA style gameplay and ended 
 up killing itself. This game completly copies the Che Guevara type charector and make you seem 
 like some god who can take out whole territories, control cars while on top of them and have infinte 
 pistols. Its just plain dumb. and my favorite part is the fact that you can easily beat the game 
 using your basic duel pistols. It does have some fun parts but, I'm sorry grenading some weak barricade 
 and just pumping lead into a thousand guys gets extremly old. It's cool how you can take over provinces 
 but, the AI is so bad that you can't even try to lose. The action moment's are cool but, it gets 
 so repative and pointless it feels so stupid. This game is a gta rip off I would not, recommend 
 it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychooKiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a full-throttle adventure from the moment you go base-jumping from a helicopter straight 
 onto the roof of a police cruiser, in the very first mission. Set on the fictional Caribbean island 
 of San Esperito, Just Cause puts you in the shoes of Rico Rodriguez, a liberator teaming up with 
 local guerrillas and the Rioja drug cartel to expunge the corrupt government. You can unlock a 
 wide range of vehicles and weapons to use, as well as safehouses scattered all over the immense 
 island. The story can be a little clunky and by-the-book, and gunplay is overly easy, but the pure 
 visceral thrill of pulling off the game's physics-defying stunts earns Just Cause a solid 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  When you first play this game you will be immediately sucked in and you will have a blast. The 
 problem is that it gets too repetitive. It's easy not to have fun while shooting and stealing cars, 
 helicopters, ships, ect but it has been done before in many other sandbox type games. The location 
 of this game takes place on an island and doing all of these crazy stunts really sets the game 
 apart. But even then it just seems to be repetitive. In the game you are going from one objective 
 to the other. In a sense the game gets a linear feel, even though you are free to explore the island 
 but the time constraints force you to go to the objective and if you don't you fail. Overall the 
 graphics are pretty good, the controls felt a little clunky and the sound is o. k. Overall this 
 game is a solid rental and you will have fun for the short time that it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  A very short review for Just Cause. A game that cam out last year on pc, ps2, xbox and xbox 360.
 
  
  So you are this dude Rico Rodriguez. You are a CIA agent who is sent to an huge (I mean really 
 huge, 4 times bigger then San Andreas map) tropical island called San Espirito. Your task is to 
 kill the local dictator. You are no ordinary James Bond. You can do stuff like surf on cars, hang 
 on helicopters and dive into ocean from 2000 meters high and don't get a scratch. Also you have 
 unlimited supply of parachutes, you can deploy them at any time you want. Also, you are MacGyver 
 and you can use every vehicle that you want: Cars, Boats, Helicopters and Jets (Of course you know 
 how to use every gun ) . So you don't have to worry about getting around the island. But if forget 
 your driver's licence at home than you can always use the agency helicopter that will drop you 
 at safe house you want (and they are many) . There are story missions that will keep you in the 
 game for about 5 hours, but there are tons and tons of side missions. But they are pretty repetitive, 
 and boring. Also you can always go help a guerrilla with a liberation or go help some dudes to 
 take out rival drug lord.
  
  And graphics are pretty nice too. Explosions look really beautiful, but there are a lot of glitches 
 in side missions. If you see a mission where you have to blow up a big barrel, house or any other 
 thing that doesn't move you will not be able to complete that task. Because you can walk right 
 through those objects. Sound eh, well some great Latino music is in there and all sound effects 
 sounds really nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Perhaps it was the pending hype of Gears of War coming out, perhaps it was the minimal advertising 
 and hype this game received, perhaps most brushed it off as another GTA clone. For whatever reason 
 Just Cause was a game that I generally overlooked for well over a year before it finally caught 
 my attention with its new low price tag and promise of stunts . I never would have looked at this 
 game except for the fact that it was fished out of the 19.99 bins, and was an cheap and easy distraction 
 the week before Bio-Shock came out. I will admit that I was generally surprised at the how this 
 game could share so many elements with the GTA styles of games but also be so vastly different 
 at the same time. Your job is to go to a small generic island in the Caribbean and help over throw 
 their corrupt president and in the process you can work with the Rebel Army as well as the Drug 
 Cartels within the Island to accomplish your goal. Yeah, that's when I started getting sold on 
 the game as well
  
  Top all that off with the fact that you have access to motorcycles, cars, helicopters, boats and 
 in a pinch you can always ride your motorcycle off a cliff when police are in hot pursuit and pull 
 your parachute and drift to safety as you watch the hordes of police go flying off the cliff. Graphically; 
 Its not revolutionary by any stretch of the imagination, but its certainly different. When you 
 play GTA you normally are in a city with a ton of generic looking buildings you cannot enter and 
 as such the actual accessible portion of the map is reduce because of all those pillion buildings. 
 In Just Cause the vast majority of the map is jungle and water both of which you can drive over, 
 on or swim in which leads to a HUGE environment for you to play within. The cars, thugs, and villages 
 are nothing special as you will see the same car and generic Islander walk by at least 1000 times 
 over the course of the game, but there are enough variations that you will generally not keep you 
 distracted but rather an observation. Its not that the graphics are good or bad but they are really 
 the definition of average for this sort of game and as such really leave it up to you as a gamer 
 to decide of gameplay &gt; graphics. With that said from a gameplay stance this game is very enjoyable. 
 From the Looney Toons physics to the simply outlandish missions you have to go on, and the over 
 the top central characters if you can put your sense of reality aside for the balance of the game 
 most people will really get a charge out of it. The storyline is interesting to follow and its 
 made more interesting by the over the top voice acting and the general out there aspect of the 
 people and the tasks that you are doing, but that at least for me did not take away from the game 
 but rather allowed it to stand out as something very different yet the same as many other GTA style 
 games. The huge map makes for much to explore and lots to do, but at the same time there is nothing 
 more annoying that blowing up your car in the middle of nowhere during a police chase and having 
 NO civilian cars or bikes near by to pillage. Although the Air Drop feature which seems to be borrowed 
 from The Outfit is handy when you need some sort of transportation in the field its a pain when 
 you are in a shoot out and low on life. The Story Mode itself is rather short, which many have 
 used as a knock against the game but what I find interesting is that a game like GTA: SA which should 
 give the user upwards of 40 hours of gameplay can easily be finished in 10 hours if you solely 
 do core missions. The same can be said for Just Cause, if you avoid any of the rather enjoyable 
 side missions the game can be polished off within eight hours or so, but it becomes MUCH easier 
 if you have a higher influence with the Rebels and the Cartel. The knock may be that main missions 
 are not as entertaining as some of the side missions but if you spend the time and do a mix of 
 both you will generally find that the games evens itself out. Sound as anyone who reads any of 
 my reviews knows is the cornerstone of what I like in a game, and I have to say that the guns and 
 explosions in some cases are generally underwealming in some cases and greatly overwealming in 
 others. From the effects aspect the game lacks a firm balance. Also small things like a SUV and 
 small car generally outputting a similar sized boom was something that I noticed fairly early. 
 Aside from that the Voice acting was well done and very well cast. As I stated before many of the 
 characters are over the top and that does lend itself very well to the game. As for the Value; 
 Even as a full priced game it has its charm. The achievements are set up in such a way that you 
 will have to partake in many of the side missions and overtake EVERY Village in the game which 
 will tack on the hours and the joy
  
  As a sub twenty dollar game, I would go as far as to say the best in the bargain right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to do in Just Cause. The back of the box advertises that there are over 300 missions. 
 Technically, this is true. There are a large amount of side quests to accompany the 21 story missions, 
 but you can ignore all of these if you wish since they aren't required to finish the story. All 
 of this would be great if the side missions didn't get old and repetative so quickly. They all 
 involve going from point A to point B, killing someone or stealing something, and going back to 
 your employer. These missions take anywhere from three minutes to thirty seconds to complete depending 
 on which vehicle you have. The only reason to do these are for the games achievements, but a lot 
 of time and effort must be put in and since they stop being fun in a hurry, it doesn't feel worth 
 it.
  
  Just Cause could have been something amazing. Its idea of over-the-top stunts and high flying action 
 certainly make for a fun combination, but most of the game feels unfinished. The shooting and driving 
 are sloppy and unsatisfying and the side missions feel like a waste of time. Here's hoping that 
 someone takes this idea and puts more effort into making sure that the rest of the game compliments 
 the action. Just Cause serves as a fun rental to mess around with simply because the stunts are 
 so cool. However, with all its faults, Just Cause is one revolution you don't have to sign up for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  I just got this game today (8/9/07) and I think it's pretty good. I did a lot of research on this 
 game before I bought it and didn't see too good things being said, but I tried it anyway and i'm 
 glad I did. The world in this game is HUGE. Bigger than any other game i've seen. There's also 
 a nice variety of weapons, and vehicles too. When you get to a really high point and just look 
 at the game world, it looks so great. Thats also what i love about this game, the graphics. But 
 there are a lot of side missions, which is good considering you can beat the main story mode is 
 a day. But if you don't have a helicopter of some sort, you will not be able to do all the side 
 missions because of how long it will take you to get around. Thats why people should wait to do 
 the majority of the side missions until after you beat the main story mode, because you can request 
 drops and they will bring it to you. You can drop a dirt bike, some kind of a truck, and boat, 
 and a gyrocopter . The gyrocopter is the best thing to use for getting around so you should do 
 wait until you get the gyrocopter than do the sidemissions because its fast and easy to use. This 
 isnt the greatest ame out there, but if you can pick it up for under $20.00 like I did, I think 
 its worth it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg25lax
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Just Cause has so much to offer but doesn't bring much to the plate. With really only 3 things 
 to do mission wise, you can find yourself doing the same thing ovver and over again. This is what 
 happened for me. I played straight through with the story missions expecting it to be long. Very 
 quick, unlike other openworld games. Then i moved to side missions which I found to repetitive, 
 so I started the liberations. Here lies the problem. When doing both the side missions and liberations, 
 you felt as if you already did it already. The story mode has more depth, but not enough. And the 
 races aren't anything special, making it seem like those were an after thought. But flaws aside, 
 the game is beutiful.
  
  Driving boats and cars, and flying helicopters and airplanes is something you can do for a while. 
 The landscapes are great, with sunsets that someone could mistake for real. Plus, Grappeling to 
 cars is a blast to do.
  
  With the flaws and good things whieghed up against eachother, the flaws win by just a little. This 
 game is something worth renting, and based on what you think, you can have the choice to buy it. 
 Why am I not giving my thoughts on buy/rent? Just Cause... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause puts you in the life of a guy name Rico. This game has several missions, but they go 
 by pretty fast. Your job is take over this island and take down it's president. You start getting 
 debriefed on the situation on San Esperito, by the way your in a plane. Your told to take down 
 the president. In the next scene your free falling into the island. In Just Cause your able to 
 pull your parachute and then un-deploy it as many times as you want (while your in the air) . As 
 unrealistic as it sounds, this game is mad fun! What separates this game from others like it is, 
 you have a health bar. you can only gain health while your at a safe house. That may sound easy, 
 but thats not the case. You also have limited ammo, so you must also refill your ammo at the safe 
 house. There are tons of missions to keep you occupied.. for less than ten hours. Even though it 
 sounds like there isn't much to do you can always run, fly drive, swim, car-jack in your spare 
 time. Plenty of things to when your not on a mission.
  
  The Explosions in this game are FANTASTIC!
  
  Summary: IF YOU LIKE Grand Theft Auto, Crackdown, 
 or Sandbox type games. THIS IS YOUR GAME!!!
  
  BUY??? NO! Rent this game if you can... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindSpike
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how I missed this game last year, but I did. In the recent recent absence of games 
 to market I have been playing some of the demos from XLive. WOW! I couldn't believe the demo inspired 
 me to go out and buy this game. I never get psyched from a demo. Anyway, I picked this game up 
 from EB for $30. Every bit worth the money. Graphics better than GTA series and NO LOADING. Talk 
 about killing time and having fun doing it. It's been a while since I had a game suck so many hours 
 away. It's just plain fun. I think GS was a bit too harsh and judgemental in its review, with comments 
 like, if you can suspend disbelief . HUH? Suspend disbelief in a videogame? No way!.. ummm.. come 
 on. Every game I suspend disbelief, even in Sim type games. It's a GAME! That can be said about 
 every game. Moving on... the sheer fun of hijacking helicopters and base jumping while shooting 
 horde of angry jungle residents is pure joy. Did I mention no loading and this simple fact allowing 
 you to not be bored? The draw distance and the size of the island is amazing. Is the gunplay a 
 simplified? YES, and I say GOOD!!! In order to manage the car jumping, zip line tagging, and stunts 
 from vehicles, it had to be. Otherwise I would be throwing the controller in frustration and annoyance? 
 Why must games all come with Master Degree in finger dexterity in order for them to be great? That's 
 pure BS! I'm glad the fun was brought back into an action games. In short, do yourself a favor 
 and pick this game up, especially at the bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mredible
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  this games isn't all about the story just messing around can be a blast. This game its like GTA 
 and Saints row on parachuting jungle acid, its great. The fact that you can run, drive, boat, or 
 fly over this huge island without any load times is awesome. The Story may be short but if you 
 liked it just do the side missions (there are tons) and liberations, theres also races and collection 
 missions. The action in this games is completely unrealistic, but that doesn't mean its a bad games, 
 it just means its more crazy and awesome. So if your a fan of GTA and Saints Row you shoulc really 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_6666
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The only good parts of this game i would say are the graphics which are stunning and the size which 
 is one of the biggest games i have ever played. But still everywhere you go looks exactly the same 
 as the place you had just been. The storyline is one of the worst i have come across. The weapons 
 in the game are descent but the melee fighting is bad and when i say bad i mean bad!! You can't 
 really hit someone unless you get up close to them and this feels poor when done and also looks 
 really crap. One thing i do like about this game is the parachuting. You can do this whenever you 
 fall from a height either from jumping from a cliff or jumping out of a helicopter or plane. I 
 have found glitches when you jump off a cliff you hit the side and cant get your parachute out 
 Therefore hitting the floor and losing a portion of your health.
  
  I think if they added more into this game like better side missions, a good co-op, more suburban 
 areas, more vehicles, better involvement with the gangs and a marker on the radar really why cant 
 we have a marker on the flipping radar is that so much to ask for. Just little things really.
 
  
  The lifespan i say is not a lot because the game is so repetitive its unbelievable so you will 
 play a couple of hours and get really board and go back to your other collections.
  
  The games not really that difficult because you never really die you can take more bullets than 
 a steal wall and still have half your health to easy if you ask me.
  
  It is easy to learn how to play since its a lot like games like GTA, Saints row etc just barley 
 any towns or cities just trees water more trees and a nice rock every know and again.
  
  It can be ok at times if your in the mood to jump out of a plane and parachute but it really is 
 a boring repetitive game and is'nt worth the money out of your wallet. i do advice to not buy this 
 game if you want to try it maybe rent it for a day or two because you wont miss it when it goes 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics I've seen on the 360 yet, the landscape is vast and has immense 
 graphics. The explosions and fire are very impressive for a game. The explosions especially are 
 good because of how good they look and the massive feedback you get in the vibration of the controller, 
 as well as the sound created by the explosion. Sound is pretty good, nothing too impressive except 
 for some elements in the game. The game-play however was not as great as everything else. The driving 
 is especially annoying sometimes because the cars drive so unreal-like. The physics are not very 
 good for the cars. The physics for the flying vehicles are good, again, nothing special but easy 
 to grasp and fun to play with. There was not much of a story present in the game, it was basically 
 about trying to rid of the government currently in place by assassinating the president. There 
 are other things to do though instead of the story missions like side missions, takeover missions, 
 races, and collecting missions. This game does not have much to it except for missions. There is 
 no money, or other things like that you would find in a Grand Theft Auto game. Even if it was not 
 meant to be like a GTA game it is still fun, just know it is nowhere near one. It is fun to play 
 and there are a lot of stuff to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersimpsons
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Just cause is a mixed game really. Always action-packed, fun, gorgeous looking. environments look 
 beautiful.. theres 83 vehicles in total. all of which vary from motorbikes to vans to sports cars.. mostly 
 do repeat alot when ur on the road..
  Moving on (the Story) now i havent completed it yet. so i cant really tell you how long it is. 
 so i roughly guessing 20+missions. im actually on the 13th.. i would say you'd complete it in about 
 8/9 hours.. not very long, but it'll be fun all the way through.. thats what i like about just cause 
 and i hope you do to. is the fun factor and is always action packed.. if there were none of those 
 in it. i'd certainly not recommend this to anyone. but becuase it has, i'd recommend it to everyone. 
 it has everything in there you need for it to be fun, fll of action and great graphics at times. 
 and i will say the Map is Massive. alot bigger than GTA SA... but can tend to repeat alot... but 
 i hope that dont put you off. SO GO BUY IT. IS TOTALLY WORTH THE MONEY!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  After playing games such as Grand Theft Auto and others, this was a refreshing change of pace. 
 I felt like I was on vacation with this game, with it's beautiful oceans and lush forests. Variety 
 is the name of the game in just cause. Cars, trucks, boats, planes, the'ye all here. The story 
 is one of a revolution, and it's handled fairly well, if not great. The missions, however, are 
 not very varied, and after a while, the game does get repetitive. Graphics are a mixed bag. The 
 terrain is gorgeous, while the character models and some of the vehicles are not too hot. Music 
 is a nice change of pace, if a little repetitive, too. Gameplay is handled fairly well, and control 
 is ok. By no means does Just Cause top games like GTA, but it is a welcome diversion from the city 
 life, and a solid game all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Just Cause is a GTA-inspired action game that takes place in a fictional Caribbean island. You 
 play as Sheldon, who is a Latino-American that works as a mercenary of some sort for the US government. 
 During the campaign, you must make friends with the local guerrilla organizations and try and take 
 down the corrupt government. The concept of the game is a free roaming, GTA type 3rd person shooter. 
 You have this entire huge island that you can roam around on. The island itself looks beautiful 
 full of color, brush, and other foliage, and the lighting effects are awesome. However, the game 
 play is a bit too repetitive. The games combat consist of getting near enough to an enemy until 
 you automatically lock on. From there, you just pull the right trigger a lot. There is a zoom button 
 that you can use, but it makes you aim the gun yourself and really just doesnt work as good as 
 just letting the game do the aiming itself. And sometimes when you get close enough to an enemy 
 and try to shoot, youll attempt some weird melee attack that usually never hits. So really, the 
 combat in the game is pretty bad and boring. However, what is unique about this game is its stunt 
 features. Your character is equipped with a parachute that can be deployed if you fall a short 
 distance. Couple that with a grapple hook that you are given access to shortly after the game begins, 
 and you have some fun. You can use the grappling hook to attach to cars and parasail behind them. 
 From there, you can reel in the line and jump to the car youre attached to. You can then get inside 
 the car or jump to another car. This comes in handy a lot throughout the story given that many 
 of the missions require you to kill someone who is fleeing in a vehicle. So basically the game 
 contains some neat and unique ways to jack cars and vehicles as well as make daring escapes from 
 a car before it is blown to shreds. In terms of story, the game doesnt have much going for it. 
 As mentioned before, you just kind of show up to this island that is apparently under the control 
 of a corrupt government. There is no insight as to why the government is corrupt or what they have 
 done, but you take their word for it. So then, you do missions for the local guerrillas and they 
 help you out in overthrowing the government. And thats basically it. There is no twist or anything 
 special. Its just a good scenario that allows for you to roam around an island and kill a lot 
 of things. The plot is also full of holes, but I dont think many will really mind considering 
 how bad it is. Also the mission structures arent very well done either. They really start getting 
 repetitive pretty quickly and arent that fun to begin with. However, there are a few neat missions 
 that are more unique than the others. As mentioned before, games environment really looks awesome. 
 You get a nice sense of this when youre riding in helicopters or planes. The environments are 
 lush and rich with color, cool explosions, awesome cloud effects, and nice lighting. However, the 
 character models could have used some work. The sound in the game is pretty much standard. The 
 voice acting is pretty cheesy and lame, but the ambient sounds are nice. There are a few neat little 
 tunes in there that youll hear as well. Really, the sound just is kind of there and does nothing 
 special for the game, for good or worse. The game does features a decent sized arsenal of weapons. 
 Pretty much some standard machine guns, a few different pistols, a rocket launcher, and a sniper 
 rifle youll probably never use. The pistols and machine guns all pretty much behave the same, 
 but have different clip sizes. Im not sure if the accuracy for each gun changes or not, but it 
 doesnt really matter given that it locks on to targets anyway. The game does feature a lot of 
 different drivable vehicles. Anything from cars, motorcycles, trucks, airplanes, jets, and helicopters 
 are pilot able. Aside from the main storyline, there are side missions you can do to build your 
 rep up with the two guerrilla factions on the island. They are pretty poorly designed missions 
 and start to repeat themselves after about the 10th mission. So youll probably get tired of doing 
 these pretty quickly. You can also liberate towns controlled by this other purple faction or 
 government faction. Again, all of these are done the same way and are boring. You simply start 
 the mission, kill a few guys, blow up 3 barricades, then press A at a flag. Then you can do the 
 lovely same 10 side missions there. Lastly, there are some lame collect missions you can do that 
 arent worth it. Just dont even attempt them. You just ride around the huge island looking for 
 a blue dot on your map and walk over a package. They suck. Oh, and some races you can do, but screw 
 that crap. Overall, Just Cause is a decently fun game that has a few unique ideas that are pretty 
 cool, but its boring gun-play and terrible story mode, and lack of content thereafter, will probably 
 make this a quick rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodmatt
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Just cause is a good game. i liked playing it and it was fun for about a week.
  nice graphics and the world you play in is very nicely made. The water is very nice and my make 
 you want to swim in it for a few hours. The main story is kinda short. You can't go through any 
 thing, if you hit a fence your gonna just crash and stop. lots of problems in this game. Some times 
 you can't even complete a mission because the object you got to blow up, kill, steal.. etc is not 
 there or you go right through it. Camera angles are hard to get use to at first but then you should 
 get a hang of it. All the cars look short and odd. the shooting in this game is not fun, gets boring. 
 For a cheap price i would buy this game, its different and its fun for a little while. give it 
 a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  From the start of this game you think wow how amazing is this. But once you get into the missions 
 you start to get pretty bored with just cause . The graphics are really good and the idea of Antonio 
 Banderas crossed with James Bond is fun but short lived. The island is massive and when flying 
 high in a plane or chopper you can see the amazing level of detail. The cut scenes seem pretty 
 quickly thrown together and the story is pretty boring. The most fun I really had in this game 
 was using the grappling hook to steal helicopters and then jumping from them to the nearest fighter 
 jet then using this to shoot down a few more followed by a freefall onto an oil rig without deploying 
 the parachute. The driving is pretty boring and sometimes it is pretty easy to get lost on the 
 island. This game has some great conecpts, although shortlived, and hopefully the second in the 
 series shall improve on these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Finished Just Cause and I have to say this is one mixed game that for everything it does right, 
 it does two or three things wrong. In the end it does come through as a solid action game despite 
 production decisions that make very little sense.
  
  Ill start with the graphics. Just Cause has some major draw distance that works well. There are 
 some things such as waves crashing on the shores and major tree shadows that tend to pop up but 
 for the most part the game looks good environment wise. A couple of things this game does even 
 downright impressed me; the way that driving on dirt roads for awhile makes dust accumulate on 
 the shiny cars, or the way you can actually fly through storm clouds was almost beautiful. However, 
 here comes the things that just dont seem to fit; the character models are pretty stiff and unimpressive 
 especially during the cut scenes, when your character commandeers a vehicle it looks like there 
 are quite a few missing animations during the whole process and the physics are just plain goofy 
 sometimes. It just seems off to me that the developers took so much time to make sure dirt cakes 
 onto cars and that the sky looks great, but when you bump into a tire it goes soaring off in the 
 distance or that the mouths dont sync up with the voices.
  
  Speaking of voices, for the most part they are done right and even the music has a Latin/Caribbean 
 feel to it that works perfectly in the game. But once again there are a few rough edges in the 
 sound department. The dialogue is simply cheesy and clich&eacute;, you have the U. S. agent who 
 pronounces every Spanish word poorly and makes little wisecracks, you have the tough female military 
 expert that adds slight innuendo to everything and you have the main character that sounds like 
 hes a cheap Antonio Banderas impersonator with his macho bravado lines. I wasnt expecting much 
 from the story but I was hoping for better than this. Sound effects also run the gambit from very 
 fitting to what the hell were they thinking? Everything seems right except for the fact that 
 most of the guns sound very similar and the when cars collide with something, it makes the sound 
 of two butter knives scraping together. Once again, just strange design decisions.
  
  The gameplay is the typical fare that youd find in a game such as Mercenaries or even Grand Theft 
 Auto. Car Jacking, shooting, assassination, planting bombs are all the things youre going to be 
 doing throughout the game. What Just Cause does different is to add death (and physics) defying 
 stunts and a magnetic grappling tool to the mix. These few additions are enough to breathe some 
 new life and make Just Cause a little bit interesting. What doesnt work very well is the take 
 over portion of the game. This is where you and your fellow guerillas storm a city or town and 
 try to wrestle control from the government. The problem is that its simply too easy. Unless the 
 defending army has tanks roaming the street, which is rare, the situation plays out like a cheap 
 death match against clumsy AI with life meters far inferior to your own. In fact the enemies you 
 face throughout the whole of the game are pretty underwhelming. Youll probably spend more time 
 dying falling from planes or running into buildings while parachuting than you will by gunfire. 
 Oh and speaking of gunplay, there was simply no reason to include auto aim while on foot. That 
 happens to be another poor decision by the development team.
  
  In closing, despite all the strange things thrown in, or left out of this game, I honestly had 
 fun with Just Cause. A sequel was already announced so hopefully some of these flaws will be fixed 
 or at least tweaked. It may not have been worthy of a purchase when it first hit shelves, but now 
 if youre looking for a quick tropical get away to overthrow an oppressive regime, then theres 
 no reason not to check out Just Cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  i played just cause , it was great and with a lot of things to do ( and thats what makes it special 
 ) , but i have finished it very fast , it was like maybe 24 missions ( or should i say 24 small 
 missions ) and thats it , the other submissions does not make the game longer too. : )
  
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * touch me , 
 tease me , kiss me , please me , i give to you just how you like it GIRL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerMatt
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Graphix- Good if a bit shallow as there are around thirty building in San Esperato you can go into 
 and even then the internal graphix let it down. Externally beutiful if ropey. Gameplay - YAWN - 
 Win Mission, extract, sky dive BORING! Side missions too easy! Riojas Takeovers too easy! Miltary 
 BAses and the final mission too damn hard! set your difficulty Eidos I don't expect I've done level 
 14 easy now for the final mission - oh anti-personnel tanks that's fair because they kill you in 
 one hit. Then you have the boring collect missions wow finish mission 12 and you get a gyrocopter 
 problem solved.
  
  Lifespan - Well if you can finish the final mission (Took me countless attempts) then you have 
 the military bases in each province to take over and then the Mendoza Airstrip if you do that - 
 I don't know base jump or sky dive until you're hearts content - I would rather switch to Dead 
 Rising or Lost Planet for stress relief as both games contain endless hordes of easy enemies pleez 
 plezz get one of these instead of Just Cause because the one word I'd use to describe it would 
 be - - - shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  About one hour into this game I kept thinking GTA and Saints Row were far better games than this 
 one. The graphics were so so, who cares about the stunt system and while the whole idea of destabilizing 
 parts of the island to reach a goal of owning the island is interesting I found it very boring. 
 About two hours into the game I put it down and that was it, sooooo happy that I have Blockbuster 
 gamepass and take one of these worthless games back and get a better one without coughing up another 
 $8. This one isn't even a rent, just get Saints Row or GTA 4 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause has a lot of promise, Sandbox games can be some of the very best games on a system, 
 that people play for months and months... or they can be some of the worst, sadly Just Cause falls 
 into the second pile.
  
  Let's start with the good points, graphically speaking, Just Cause is beautiful. You'll notice 
 this the first time you fly a helicopter over the jungle and see the mountain in the distance and 
 the blue water off the shore.... but that's about it.
  
  A lot of the problems with Just Cause seem to be very small, but make the world of difference. 
 For example, The police in just cause follow a 5 star system, one would assume that for each star 
 the chase would get more intense, well, you'd be wrong a lot of the time stealing a car is met 
 with resistance that for 1 star, is far too extreme, swat vans, and police cars swarm the screen 
 and ram you into tree's and other vehicles, while the police helicopters, which I Swear to god 
 just follow you throughout the game regardless fire rockets at you... ROCKETS!! FOR STEALING A 
 CAR!!!! Add this to the fact that a lot of the missions involve you getting places with police 
 or gang attention and the ridiculous size of the map and you can imagine youre going to spend 
 a lot of your time running through a jungle with a helicopter shooting a round of bullets that 
 always seem to land a few feet in front of you. The physics within the game are so stupid I'm surprised 
 they even shipped this game, many times police bikes will stop in the road and as you ram them 
 side on.... in a BUS.... you will be stopped dead while the bike remains in place.... a little odd 
 no?
  
  As wonderful as the graphics look the second you get to a cut scene they suddenly take a dive for 
 the worst and you feel like youre watching something created for the N64, the textures and lighting 
 on the video's are plane stupid and most people have a single shade for their skin with no imperfections.
 
  The missions seem to get very short towards the end as well, as if it had been rushed with you 
 simply having to drive somewhere and kill someone and leave. (Taking 3 minutes max)
  
  The last level (which you can easily reach in a number of hours) is stupid as well... the amount 
 of explosions on screen get to the piont were you can't actually see anything but explosions on 
 screen for upwards of 30 seconds. Just Cause really did have the makings of a good game and probably 
 would have been had it not been rushed and generally abused by its creators.... avoid this game, 
 like the plague.
  
  
  4.1 POOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  The gameplay of Just Cause is good sometimes and bad in others. THere will be a few times where 
 you just have no idea whats going on. Uh, well I accidentally just jumped out of my helicopter. 
 Ok, why is it still flying 500 ft up. And not moving anywhere. 3 (justcause) days pass. I just 
 want my helicopter back. Oh no. Anyways, shooting and grenade throwing was pretty cool, and it 
 worked out well. Driving was the same as any gta game.
  
  Graphics, maybe not the best you've ever seen texture wise, but the vibrant colors and the islands 
 really made up for some of the not-so-nice graphics. They were better than ok but nothing amazing.
 
  
  Sound. Little repetitive, don't you think? I heard the same spanish guitar playing after every 
 mission, that somehow I learned how to play it. Just kiddin. That didn't happen, but they just 
 kept playing spanish guitar and it got old, period.
  
  This is only worth one play through and you will have fun thats for sure but not enough that you`ll 
 play it again. No online (though I'm not sure what the online would've consisted of) just made 
 the value lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuffinPunk
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Just say NO! I can't beleive I paid for this. I read the reviews but didn't listen. It's all mindless 
 action but they forgot the fun. It looks pretty good but I've never been so bored shooting virtual 
 people. And the game world, OMG! Yeah it's big, but what's with all that non-interactive jungle. 
 It's really just there for show. Plus the missions and story sounded cool at first but end up being 
 lame and unsatisfying! The only fun to get out of this is with the parachute, but that gets pretty 
 old after awhile of just gliding behind cars that your attached to by using the repel gun. Take 
 pass and spend your money on something useful (like food) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Take Far Cry and Grand Theft Auto. Now make them have sex.
  
  Out comes Just Cause. This game has the open world, jack and vehicle you see feel of GTA, but it's 
 actually on a beautiful island setting, which is loosely based off Colombia. The map is massive, 
 and it's probably bigger than any map of the sandbox games today. The story is simple. Your name 
 is Rico Rodriguez, and you're out to stop the presidente of San Esperito, as he rubs shoulders 
 with a ruthless drug cartel. Viva La Revolucion!
  
  The action is absurd. This game is anything but realistic, so those looking for a real-life action 
 game need to press the back button now. This game features many ridiculous stunts, like hanging 
 off the back of a flying helicopter, using a grapple and hijacking planes in mid-air, infinite 
 parachutes whenever you need to use them, and much much more. The game is very arcadey and fake, 
 but that is part of what makes it an enjoyable experience. Sometimes it's nice to take a break 
 from Rainbow Six: Vegas or Ghost Recon and just blow %$% up again and again.
  
  Other than the stunts mentioned before, there's other stunts you can complete in land, sea, or 
 air vehicles. You can jump on the roof of your vehicle whenever you like, jump from plane to plane, 
 and jump from your vehicle straight onto another one so you can kick your way in the driver's seat 
 and take control.
  
  Sound realistic? Didn't think so. Mostly, you'll be using and noticing these stunts being completed 
 in the story missions and side missions. The story mode is way too short, clocking in at about 
 4 hours, but when you're done you can do takeover missions and help rescue the rest of San Esperito. 
 Now that the president is out, you must take control of dozens and dozens of drug landmarks. After 
 you complete a Take over mission, you can do the side mission which activates when you're done, 
 and go from there. The side missions can score you more weapons and safe houses, so it's a pretty 
 good deal. One note I must make about the takeover missions is that they're incredibly identical 
 to one another and extremely repetitive. The main reason I did them was to get more safehouses 
 and earn achievements.
  
  Speaking of which, the achievements in this game are actually a ton of fun to get. They're really 
 varied, so you'll find yourself doing a ton of little random activities to earn them. Main ways 
 to score gamerscore points are completng takeover missions, side missions, story mode, race missions, 
 collect missions, doing stunts in vehicles, jumping from a certain height, killing a certain amount 
 of people, and many more. They're really fun to earn, and they really aren't that difficult. So 
 even that Average-Joe gamer could probably score all 1,000 over time.
  
  Other than story mode and side missions, the game doesn't offer much more. A few race and collect 
 missions that are noticeable half-baked, so they're not that great. This is mainly the only complaint 
 I've got about the game. Not that much value here, although the price is officially lowered to 
 39.99, so it's 20 bucks off. The core gameplay is purely simple and very satisfying. The auto aim 
 is a bit too much, since all you have to do is look at an enemy and you're instantly locked on. 
 It's pretty much just a shooting gallery, but with all the explosions and blood and variety of 
 weapons, the basic combat remains entertaining nonetheless. Since the game has around 90 or so 
 vehicles to commandeer you can definitely expect to be in a vehicle for a good amount of the game. 
 And this is a good thing, because the vehicular gameplay throughout the game is well-done and very 
 smooth. Cops can be a little too strict from time to time, but what the hell, shoot the crap out 
 of them and head to your safehouse if you really get annoyed.
  
  As mentioned before, the island is loosely based off of Colombia, and it looks just as beautiful. 
 Clear blue waters, white sandy beaches, fresh lush forests and tropical vistas, you name it. This 
 place is like a gigantic 5 star resort. And thankfully, the developers did a good job animating 
 pretty much everything. The graphics on the 360 are obviously the best, but even on Xbox the graphics 
 are pretty impressive. As is the audio, although I wouldn't say it's quite as quality as the visuals. 
 There's some pretty decent voice acting and the explosions and guns all sound brutal and gritty. 
 Not too much to say about the sound. There's sound in the game, you can hear it well, and there's 
 some more sound. That's really all I have to say. It's good enough.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely a love it or hate it. Some people may like the ridiculous action 
 whereas some people think they are too mature and go back to playing Gears of War non-stop for 
 weeks. But if you're looking for a break from all the realism, Just Cause is definitely the direction 
 you need to be going. It's laid back, and simple but it provides some raw action that'll keep you 
 laughing in satisfaction for a decent amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me begin by informing you just what youll read on the cover
  when you enter your local store &amp; see this title on the shelf (in the UK anyway) .
  
  Just 
 Cause is bigger than GTA &amp; better than Oblivion. Dive into the best game yet on the Xbox360.
 
  
  One of those three statements is true and two are complete utter barefaced lies. Can you guess 
 which ones they are before I continue?
  
  Just Cause is what is termed a sandbox adventure. This particular one is set in some remote South 
 American archipelago. Your task is to liberate these said islands from its current evil dictatorship 
 which you perform by hijacking vehicles and by shooting people (as is the solution in all sandbox 
 adventure games naturally) .
  
  The game world is incredibly big. Big as in it would more than likely take you a whole real life 
 day to walk/swim one end to the other. While this is the games selling point it also ends up becoming 
 one of its biggest weaknesses. The majority of the world looks like it was made with such programs 
 as speed tree with barely any distinguishing features between the different islands. There isnt 
 any load times due to the dynamic loading system, but this is a standard feature nowadays and much 
 more impressive in games such as GTA or Oblivion where theres content to actually see.
  
  The other side effect of the world size is that its a pain the ass to actually get where you want 
 to go on the map. Cars, bikes anything short of something that flies above trees is completely 
 pointless in the game (and not only due to the terrible handling physics!) .
  
  Another selling feature of the game is its stunt system. This equates to being able to paraglide, 
 grapple, freefall, car-surf and other such activities. While amusing the first time you load the 
 game it unfortunately gets old really rather quickly. Its also more than often completely useless 
 in terms of completing your assigned missions.
  
  The core game missions are incredibly easy &amp; also criminally short (5 hours main story) . This 
 is aided by the fact that the enemy cant seem to hit you with their gun fire if you move, an ultra 
 forgiving lock-on system which nearly guarantees you cant miss &amp; that the fallen enemies drop 
 health packs by the bucket load. Basically the game AI is terrible, even more-so once inside a 
 vehicle.
  From not being able to shoot you on foot, once inside a car youll barely last 10 seconds without 
 being fishtailed or rammed into the nearest tree. It again adds weight to the fact that driving 
 anything other than a plane or a helicopter is a fruitless &amp; un-enjoyable venture.
  
  There are a handful of submissions. But the sheer lack of thought that was put into them and also 
 that its linked to get certain achievements almost makes you want to cry. All I can say is that 
 youll be doing some of them 50 times or more. That is 50 times of exactly the same thing over 
 and over again. If this is Avalanches vision of a good time then god help us all if Just Cause 
 2 does actually get finished.
  
  You get the feeling that the game was rushed out to be the first sandbox game on the 360 (which 
 I believe was beaten by Saints Row anyway) . As a result all the extra development time that are 
 put into good sandbox games such as GTA are missing.
  A nice idea ruined by terrible AI and an awful game experience.
  
  Finally, no its not better 
 than Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket22
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  It took me about 5 minutes to beat the first two missions. You don't even have to aim just pull 
 the trigger the computer will do the rest. The driving is so easy you can't really wreck in this 
 game. I completed on mission while every cop was chasing me and I still did not die. Poor just 
 plain Poor!!! I can't believe it's rated this high. Nothing left to say further it just has to 
 be 100 words for me to  today today today today today 
 today today today what what what what this is stupid!!! Why does my review have to be 100 words 
 when a game like this sucks so bad. I can write a review in one word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause was one of those games that interested me just because of how it looked: beautifully 
 dreamy and original because of the skydiving. I should have known better, because everything I 
 usually play just because it looks cool turns out to be not so cool.
  
  The plot in Just Cause places an undercover secret agent, Rico Rodriguez, in a tropical island 
 in order to overthrow a corrupt government and dictatorship. It all begins as you fall down from 
 the sky on a parachute, admiring the bird's eye view of San Esperito.
  
  In this virtual Cuba (the similarities are just too many not to compare San Esperito to the real 
 thing) , Rico embarks in a number of missions &agrave; la GTA, which obviously include tons of killing.
 
  
  The archipelago is quite massive and the landscapes are sure to take your breath away. Parachute 
 and base jumps are the best way to enjoy the view and the size of the gorgeous surroundings. It 
 does show what the 360 can do in terms of graphics, with little to no slowdowns in extremely detailed 
 environments that draw to the horizon. Exploring for the hell of it can take quite a bit of your 
 time.
  
  Since Rico is a secret agent, and due to the huge proportions of the island, he comes equipped 
 with this neat little feature that allows him to page the agency to send him a means of transportation 
 no matter where he is. You can get anything conveniently dropped off wherever you are, from a boat 
 to a motorcycle, even a tiny gyrocopter. You can even shoot out a grappling hook and get a little 
 parasail ride from whatever vehicle you chose to attach yourself to. With so much variety in transportation, 
 you just can't limit yourself to travel in a conventional way.
  
  Neat are also the stunts you can do, like popping out a parachute while you travel on a motorcycle 
 or boat, or freefalling off the highest cliff in San Esperito. You can actually shoot while parasiling, 
 which is pretty convenient with the auto-targetting feature.
  
  Unfortunately, there aren't many good things left to talk about, which is one of the main reasons 
 why I didn't write this review sooner.
  
  The missions and combat become repetitive quickly. You basically go to a village and liberate it 
 by killing everyone, destroy a barricade by killing everyone, take over some drug lords' place 
 by killing everyone, kill someone and pick something up. There isn't much variety in the missions, 
 and sometimes you can even get the same type of mission a few times in a row. You will also quickly 
 realize that all those villas are exactly the same: a round house plan with a balcony/terrace, 
 umbrella and chairs in the same spots, a helicopter up top... I mean, give gamers a little credit, 
 it's not like we don't notice.
  
  The safehouse is the only spot where you can save your game (aside from after finishing major missions) , 
 and it's also where you restart after you have died (kinda like in GTA you start back at the hospital) . 
 The problem with the safehouse is that the game tends to drop you from the sky and kill you right 
 there. Now that's what I call a bug!
  
  Other bugs included NPC's endlessly walking in circles or driving Jeeps in circles, or just the 
 Jeeps driving themselves in circles. Really thin trees that sometimes were breakable became like 
 concrete walls, and so did tiny rocks on the roads, which cause you to flip your car in a split 
 second.
  
  And what's the deal with the stunt position if you can't really do a stunt while you're in it? 
 Ok, I don't expect a secret agent to do some pirouettes on the bow of a speedboat, but it seems 
 pretty pointless to me. The stunt position ends up being nothing but a transition point to launching 
 yourself from a moving vehicle with a parachute.
  
  Just Cause could have been so much more. Fun and enthralling at first, the game's charm gradually 
 decreased as the game went on. And in the end, it was a matter of playing it just 'cause.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=justcause 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  It is one of the best games ive played. it was great fun running into a airport while being chased 
 by tanks. Such a varioty of transport ex. cars, motobikes, boats, helicopters, propela airplanes 
 and FIGHTER JETS (get them far into the game) . if you like gta you will love this. Best 2 thinks 
 of all, 1. over 1ooo sq kilometres to explore. 2. Its great how it takes time before they introduces 
 you new transport so when i flew and army helicopter i made mayhem. I recommend people who likes 
 GTA they will like this game too. The map is a free roaming but you will get tired and bored but 
 its great to do the missions you will not get bored at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardazu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause has an unbelievable entrance; breathtaking graphics stuns you for a minute then you 
 realize you need to remember something called parachute. You feel like you are in a real treat 
 as soon as you land. You are on a big island with lots of opportunities and it kind of ends there.
 
  
  Just Cause feels like it gives everything what the game has in five minutes. After that it is the 
 repetitive missions and side quests. The gameplay is easy especially with the auto-target. Even 
 you move the target close to the enemy, you are able to get a successful shot. The graphics are 
 amazing simply amazing , nothing else to it. Overall, if you don't care the game is short and if 
 you like open-map games you might find something you like. If not I would advise you to steer away 
 from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowenergycycle
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Ive never written a game review before this day, but following some unique experiences in the 
 last few afternoons with Just Cause, I felt it was time. Ysee, never has a game pulled my hair 
 out so effectively as this one  it is a game that simply does not wish to be played as the sandbox 
 chaos simulator that it otherwise claims to be. And I feel that the masses need to be warned before 
 somebody else makes the mistake of paying good money for this rubbish.
  
  Lets try the oft-used anecdotal style of review to further describe my pains
  
  Id just 
 found a helicopter after liberating a drug cartel villa (liberating, for the record, simply means 
 a lot of shooting) . It turns out these air transports are liberally spread throughout the island 
 of San Esperito, unlike in GTA where you have to really work for them (which maybe goes to explain 
 how crap they are) . Anyhow, I took it for a test run, and after the initial irritation of its abnormally 
 slow speed I decided that Id rather just jump out and carry on my exploration on foot. I adopted 
 the stunt position (which, oddly, was actually possible in the first place) and with another 
 flick of a button I was free-falling towards earth. A third button-press and I was now engaged 
 in a nice peaceful float down to terra firma. I relaxed as the tropical vista below slowly rose 
 to meet me. After what seemed like an eternity (everything in this game seems to happen at a snails 
 pace, as you will note) , I was finally almost down. Just a few more seconds and Id be running 
 So imagine my surprise when I was politely but suddenly informed that I was dead. Upon meeting 
 with the floor at what looked like a safe speed, I was now naught but a stain on the tarmac. Great. 
 And thanks to there being no real auto-save, that drug cartels villa needed re-liberating. Just 
 great.
  
  That was only minor though
  
  I took up the offer of a side mission to eliminate a cartel big cheese. After the regulation theft 
 of a motor-vehicle, I was on my way to my mark. But a minor slip on the road, followed by my car 
 becoming stuck between two trees, left me back on foot rather prematurely. Then I slid down a slope 
 and off the edge of a cliff (oh great Im dead, I thought but it turns out you can survive these 
 kind of falls with ease) . With dismay, I realised Id need to get back at the top of that cliff 
 to reach my target. So I set about climbing back up. But Just Causes cliffs are nigh-on un-scalable. 
 So for the longest time I simply scrabbled around at near-vertical ground, hoping to find a small 
 foothold so that I may raise a few centimetres up the slope. By the time Id gotten to the top 
 it had cycled from day to night to day again. Im not even joking. Anyway, back on with my mission. 
 I ran the rest of the short distance, only to find, to my horror, that just as I reached my target 
 hed been shot dead by the police. Return to your contact to complete the mission I was told. 
 All I wanted to do was shoot myself. But there are other activities on this stupid tropical paradise, 
 arent there?
  
  I decided to try out a race mission  there was one close by and Id just found a swanky looking 
 race car. Off I sped, in the general direction of a flag icon on the map. I paid no heed to the 
 little blue thing I clipped on my way out of the safe-house. Eventually, after driving into a blinding 
 HDR-enhanced sunset for too long, I found my way there and triggered the race. But by now a veritable 
 army of police helicopters and riot vans had amassed and swarmed my position. They repeatedly drove 
 ahead of me (somehow I mean, my car was super-fast, and my experience of driving their police 
 cars told me theirs certainly werent) , clipped my rear end and sent me spinning, pushed me into 
 trees and rocks, fired goddamned rockets at me anything to stop me racing. And why? Oh because 
 Id accidentally clipped a sodding police moped. This wouldnt be so bad if it were an isolated 
 incident, but in Just Cause you only have to fart near a chuffing policeman and they send in the 
 helicopters.
  
  On a fresh and deliberate rampage (because if you cant avoid it, just embrace it) I found my way 
 to what looked like the islands major airport. Actually, Id used my grappling hook to acquire 
 a police helicopter and then sloooowly flown overhead, landing neatly on the runway. I had every 
 intention of stealing an airplane if possible  they seemed like the last thing I had to experience 
 in this infuriating game before I took it back to Gamestation and swapped it. After a mildly exciting 
 pitched gun battle across the runways I jumped into somebodys private jet and pushed the throttle. 
 A heros exit I thought. Then the airplane just kinda well... fell off the runway. Straight into 
 the surrounding water. So I was forced to swim back to shore, and I was bloody determined to have 
 my airborne prize. Only swimming takes an even longer eternity than everything else. So for another 
 ten minutes I watched as my avatar breast-stroked his way to dry land (without need for any oxygen, 
 I may add) . Then I found that the entire airport was surrounded by an impassable wire fence. So 
 I had to run (again at snails pace) all the way around to the entrance. Finally, 20 minutes after 
 my initial embarrassment, I was back on the runway and inside a conveniently respawned jet. Off 
 I go again straight into a similar wire fence, destroying the jet immediately and killing me dead. 
 Time wasted: Id say a good half-hour considering the time it took to fly to the airport originally. 
 And for what? What gameplay treats had I discovered?... Gah! I cant even type Im so angry.
  
  After this I was respawned back at a safe-house, where a shiny new monster truck awaited me. 
 Hmph, I thought, its no airplane but itll do. Off I drove in a furious sulk. If it werent for 
 the fact that Xbox360 pads cost the earth, there would now have been a hole in the front of my 
 TV large enough to fit one. Still, the monster truck was kinda fun. Until of course I met with 
 another vehicle in a one-car wide chicane. Its fine, I thought. Monster trucks (as I have always 
 been reliably informed) simply drive over other cars. In fact, its an integral part of their job. 
 What else do they do? So imagine my surprise when my truck just refused to drive over the top of 
 what looked like a damn Mini Cooper! The two vehicles just sat there, entwined in some kind of 
 bizarre car-love, a twisted embrace of steel and rubber, the rear wheel of my truck twitching spasmodically 
 as it failed, then succeeded, then failed again to remember whether it was attached to the ground. 
 This is just stupid, I thought.
  
  The problem is, when Just Cause does work, it still isnt actually that much fun. All missions 
 include shooting, but the shooting is so easy it sucks the thrill from what has been the basic 
 bread-and-butter of computer gaming for 30 years. Really, I defy you to fail any mission through 
 your own actions. Thats not to say the mission will be failed for you by the game, but still.
 
  
  And as good as the game looks, the graphics arent all they crack up to be. Dead bodies just disappear, 
 fresh reinforcements similarly pop up right in front of your eyes, many buildings are missing polygons 
 exposing some weird scenery glitches underneath, the surf effect of the water crashing on the shores 
 is more often than not just broken. The weather effects are simply rubbish. And to be fair, a lot 
 of the time to fancy HDR lighting is a distraction. Dont get me wrong  on casual glance the game 
 looks stunning, but it doesnt look finished.
  
  And while there are a bucket-load of side missions to complete outside the fairly short main quest, 
 they all seem to revolve around the same two ideas: kill somebody, or if youre lucky, kill somebody 
 and bring back whatever they were carrying.
  
  This leaves the GTA-typical carnage-causing gameplay hook as your only real source of entertainment. 
 And as my anecdotes above suggest, the game just doesnt want you to enjoy that part very much 
 at all. The parachute and stunt-position gimmicks are nowhere near as fun as the developers probably 
 imagined, and half the time dont even work properly. The police only need a funny look in their 
 general direction to call in the air support. The population of stealable cars on the roads is 
 sparse and most of them suck anyway. The extraction and hot-drop facilities (where the CIA 
 fast-travels you to any safe-house or drops a vehicle off at your location) dont work when you 
 are at even level 1 on the police-chase-ometer. In fact to be honest they often dont work at 
 all. There is simply no challenge in getting into a cross-island chase  youll only die if a game 
 quirk kills you. It takes an age to get anywhere without transport  and one small mistake on the 
 roads will leave you stranded miles away from any wheels on a regular basis.
  
  In short, if you want to play a game that will ritually annoy the hell out of you without actually 
 rewarding your efforts in any appropriate way, by all means buy Just Cause. If you are not a complete 
 moron with a sick desire to put yourself through untold amounts of frustration and boredom, you 
 will rightly avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Really this is a great game I am not being generuos. I think this game is definitely worth buying. 
 Just Cause features a very free roaming game that is somewhat like GTA but it has some unique ways. 
 Alright here is the good/ bad
  
  Good: The Graphics are amazing don't listen to them. There is much to explore on the 100,000 acre 
 land are. The stunts are great and fun to use. Nice amount of weapons to use. The story is good. 
 Many vehicles.
  
  Bad: The gameplay gets very repetative. The land is not very different there is only a couple things 
 new for each place so there isnt much to see. The side missions areant that great. Glitches many 
 but really the game would suck without them.
  
  Warning Just Cause is not realistic at all but if you like GTA you will definitely love this game 
 I promise you that you will like it. 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this review short to avoid beating a dead horse. Open-ended games are a tricky and 
 risky genre to tackle for any developer, especially new developers. This is a perfect example and 
 should be a case study for Developers attempting to make a fun open-ended sandbox style game. Not 
 only is Just Cause boring, but the missions are so EASY that attempting them gets repetative beyond 
 the first 3 to 4 missions. Not only that, the controls just are not there. They do not feel solid 
 enough for me to want to keep playing. Developers I have visited recently have told me they are 
 focusing on testing their respective games so early in development their main focus is FUN. Clearly, 
 Avalanche Studios missed this integral important aspect of open ended games. Making it fun. On 
 to the good, Just Cause does have a likable if cheesy main character if you liked Antonio Banderas 
 character from Desperado. Also, the begining of the game is awesome. Plus, the draw distance and 
 some of the vistas of the island are beautiful so obviously the art direction was in capable and 
 competent hands. This game gets a 7.0 out of 10 for being unfun yet an above average effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeniceMenace
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game, pure and simple. And to me, that makes it worth playing and enjoying. One of 
 the best parts about the game is that nothing really slows you down. There are no long, drawn out 
 cinematics that you have to sit through like in some other games (Godfather) . This game lets you 
 decide what you want to do and how to do it. The story and characters are a bit dated, essentially 
 from the Regan era of Central American druglords and guerillas, but it still makes for a fun premise. 
 I wish there was more of an evil and danger element though. Many of the missions involve you taking 
 out bumbling government troops. Overall though, this is an easy game to pick and play right away. 
 Don't try to take it serious and compare it to other sandbox games. It stands on its own as a fun 
 diversion... Much like those Steven Seagal movies... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murphy_cfc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a really fun game with lots of shooting, explosions, car chases and action. The best 
 bit is the way you can have cars boats bikes and even helicopters delivered to you in seconds. 
 Also you can choose when you do your missions. When you get bored of just running about you can 
 get picked up and be delivered straight to the next mission or even just to the safe house to restock 
 on ammunition get your health back and save the game. Overall Just Cause is an action packed game 
 which can be played by all gamers and i would recommend to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Just Cause is a GTA clone where you play the part of a CIA agent (Rico) trying to Liberate an Island 
 under the rule of a Dictator.
  
  At First I didn't like the game very much , but found as I got into it , it became more fun.
 
  
  The actually Story mission's in the game do not take that long to complete and are relatively easy 
 to complete , except the last mission which is very hard in comparrison to the rest of the game.
 
  
  Saying that the game has a lot of side mission's which are fun for a while , but mainly repeitive 
 most starting where you liberate a setttlement and then capture a flag.
  
  The Gameplay in Just Cause isn't very good bullets fly madly around you , which doesn't damage 
 you very much and the enemy are quite easy to shoot , the game has an auto aim system which is 
 something I don't normally like in this type of game , but is suited to this game due to the poor 
 AI which just has hordes of enemies running around stupidly all over the place , it does get hard 
 to see who's on your side or not.
  
  The game has a Variety of Vehicles which you can use some of the cars handle well , some you will 
 be fishtailing all over the place , some of the Speed Boats handle well as do the Choppers , but 
 I found the planes a bit pointless.
  
  In the game you can do crazy stunts , like jumping on top of a car to another one and much more 
 , you can do some totally unbelivable stuff in this game which defies gravity , but this does make 
 the game some what fun.
  
  You also have collect missions in the game , where you have to find a certain ammount of the same 
 contraband , which would have been better if you weren't shown where this contraband was on the 
 map.
  
  Graphics are ok in this game the water looks really nice and some nice designs on the boats and 
 choppers but the cars and planes just don't seem to look right. Your main character looks a bit 
 bland and when hit by a rocket the animation looks toatally naff also there is not a lot of diffferation 
 between Enemies as well as most of the map , but the landscape looks ok even though the enemies 
 and rebels look a bit dated by todays standard.
  
  Just Cause is by no means a good game its easy , has messy gameplay and looks and feels a bit dated. 
 That said you can have some fun with this game but I wouldn't pay full price for the game and maybe 
 only want to pay under half the price of the full purchase.
  
  Its a shame though has the game seems like a good idea for the Sandbox genre and with more thought 
 in the Story , Side Mission and Game-play had the potential to be a Top Tier Title.
  
  This is the developers first atempt at a game and their immaturity really shows in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reefer999
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is just fun, i liked the game cause it is stupidly unrealistic! This guy has 
 like a magic parachute or something! It is well random... unlimited ammo for his main guns (how... magic 
 thats how!) !
  
  If you like games you cant really take seriously, then this is for you!
  
  Graphically it is rather good, you have a nice view when sky diving from a plane... makes the 
 game have a wow factor to it!
  
  I found that people died way to easy, including important people (bosses!) !
  
  Flying of a 
 bike using your parachute is always fun! and then grapple hooking a car that is driving by just 
 so you can paraglide wow!
  
  Fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have indulged in the GTA series from 3 onwards, nothing in this game will 
 particuarly surprise you. You can free roam, there are side missions &amp; you even have to collect 
 packages all very much like Grand Theft Auto. But the one major difference between this &amp; the 
 GTA series is that this takes itself to seriously. There is no radio stations in the cars taking 
 away the humour of GTA. Side missions are often EXACTLY!! the same as ones you have done before 
 &amp; even then they may not work. For example, one mission you have to collect a car &amp; drive 
 it to the drop-off point which is a garage. But the garage door won't open so you have to start 
 the mission over just so the stupid door opens. Yes the environment around you is impressive... for 
 5 minutes. Then you notice that everything looks the same. When people speak they don't open their 
 mouths &amp; missions which aren't an EXACT! copy of ones you have done before are so similar they 
 may as well be. Check your bargin bin but avoid it if you are a gamer score hunter as the achievements 
 are ridiculous, many are quite hard to get &amp; yield very low points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  this game is a diapointment i looked forward to but its not good the movment on the game is crap 
 becasue it locks on for u its just all to complicaited but its not very fun wiv in 2 missions off 
 the game i got board so im gonna make sure i not reccoment nobody to get this game.
  And most things in this game are so un realistic like when u want vehical to drop right inflornt 
 of your eyes it does thats annoying that makes the game easyier.
  the free fall mode might sound like fun buts its not realy it gets annoying like when u want to 
 land some where u land 5 mils off it so if u have an xbox 360 DONT get this game its not worth 
 ur money.
  
  Mssage me on:
  Xbox live gamertag: me360niall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Just Cause at first seems like your average free-roaming action game, but if you look a little 
 deeper and you will find a good enjoyable action experience that is over the top and something 
 you would only see coming out of the early 90s, this is probably Just Causes highest selling 
 point and shouldnt be dismissed.
  
  You play as Rico Rodriguez, a CIA black operative who is called out to overthrow the dictator of 
 San Esperito and help the guerrillas take over, the premise is interesting and relates to a real 
 world affair back in 1989. The character of Rico is very 2dimensional, all you need to know is 
 that he has an attitude and can deliver some terribly cheesy lines, Rico has an essence of James 
 Bond thrown in with a bit of Rambo, he is very athletic and can just about do anything, parachute, 
 jump from car to car, aircraft to aircraft and just about cause as much mayhem as possible. Just 
 Cause isnt really meant to be taken seriously, and is something of an acquired taste, the unrealistic 
 traits do project the game further to a certain level disbelief but they are easily the more fun 
 parts of the game, and therefore easily overlooked.
  
  As far as the story is concerned, it does ok, but its little to be desired, the FMV sequences are 
 mediocre at best but do give you some understanding on what you need to do and fill you in on the 
 current situation, there are a handful of missions but a ton of side missions for you to complete, 
 these mainly consist of liberations in which you attempt to overthrow one of the many military 
 or drug baron settlements and gradually liberate provinces. Other missions include racing, collecting 
 and basic side missions, overall there is a lot to do in Just Cause, but sadly the gameplay surrounding 
 most of these missions isnt all that great, the shooting aspect of the game is very repetitive 
 and mundane, this is due to the ease of killing soldiers with the lock on system that requires 
 very little skill, and the unrealism can counter attack you and increase the difficulty at some 
 parts. The vehicle aspect of the game is a lot better in comparison, even though the cars themselves 
 arent exactly perfect, the watercrafts and aircrafts are a lot of fun to handle and come in a 
 variety in designs, one of Just Causes high points is its amount of vehicles, 89 in total, if you 
 can think of a vehicle, chances are that Just Cause has it: cars, bikes, buggys, boats, speedboats, 
 planes and helicopters. You will be using these vehicles a lot during the missions and doing a 
 lot of crazy stuff in these missions that just adds a sense of action and thrill that not many 
 games can pull off these days, the balance between both vehicle and on foot action seems to be 
 stable, you will be mixing up both styles throughout the game, with that said the on foot action 
 isnt that great at all but still satisfying at times.
  
  There is a lot to drive in Just Cause and a lot to drive around. San Esperito is huge, roughly 
 1024 km in size, you wont run out of places to explore and there are no load times what so ever, 
 the game truly harnesses the Xbox 360s power, the world is completely immersive, the game generates 
 a superb feel of the tropics, primarily because of the brilliant weather system Just Cause has, 
 the water, trees and clouds look and feel like they should do, base jumping through the clouds 
 at sunset is a spectacle. Just Cause is a visceral-graphic experience that everyone should see. 
 But it does have its flaws, a lot of the environments up close do look poorly made, but its a 
 worthy sacrifice for the beautiful environment that is San Esperito. The explosion too are something 
 worthy of mention alone, they look great but dont entirely sound great.
  
  The sound effects in Just Cause could use some work, there ok, but not as perfect as the graphical 
 experience, the voice acting is also rough, no particular talent has been used for Just Cause and 
 it shows during the cut-scenes, However the ambience is spot of for the location of the game, whether 
 its in the jungle of by the coast, you feel like you are there, and the music also captures the 
 South American feel of San Esperito, each part of the game has a different soundtrack, whilst in 
 the sea its upbeat and when falling from the sky, its melodic and almost spiritual, overall the 
 music is great and is one of the better parts of Just Cause.
  
  In the free roaming aspect of Just Cause, there really isnt that much to do other than constant 
 base jumping from mountains and helicopters, the skydiving is that good, you will be tempted to 
 just drop out of an aircraft regardless of what you are doing. It seems that the cops will be on 
 you almost all the time which can be annoying in unsettled areas but it keeps the pace frantic 
 and in result brings you back for more over the top action, you will be rewarded for you efforts 
 with new safe houses that all have their own unique locations, some more unique than others. You 
 will receive vehicles and weapons all with their creative names, since there are no licensed cars 
 or weapons, you can expect to see some really imaginative and long winded names. You will also 
 receive 4 heavy drop vehicles, including a gyro-copter, the system is similar to pandemic studios 
 mercenaries and is useful when in troublesome situations, especially the gyro-copter, and a lot 
 of the time you will just want to take the quick way out, another tool that allows you to do so 
 is the extraction system, its very basic and only allows you to travel to the next mission or a 
 safe house but its just as useful as the heavy drop system, its a good example of just how big 
 San Esperito is.
  
  The achievements in Just Cause are very easy to get, some will only be 5 points but others will 
 be up to over a 100 points, completing the missions is an easy way to gain some achievements but 
 other activities like racing and liberating can get you a fair amount of points also.
  
  Just Cause takes a while to really get into, the unrealistic elements are an acquired taste but 
 are really enjoyable, not derogative. The world in Just Cause let alone is enough to enjoy this 
 game, but is sadly surrounded by slightly mediocre gameplay, if you love exploring huge worlds 
 and really appreciate long gaming experiences, than Just Cause is probably the game for you
  
  ~Death Burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup_92
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is epic. It achieves this in a couple of ways. First of all, there is the scale. This 
 game has the largest environment of any game I have ever played. Maybe not of any game ever, but 
 most defintely close. For example, it takes about seven minutes to fly from one end of the game 
 enviroment to the other (not includeing the surrounding water) in a jet. For driving the road from 
 one side to another, it was probably take half an hour. Walking, well, just too long. Secondly, 
 Just Cause allows the player to do things that only someone who is insane and can defy the laws 
 of physics would do. I'm sure many people have dreamt of doing things like holding onto the tail 
 of a jet and then kicking the pilot out and flying it away. Well, good news, dreamers. You can 
 do things like this in Just Cause. The bad thing being that once you do these stunts a few times 
 over, they may feel old, and there isn't too much else to this game. The story is not very interesting, 
 and none of the characters seem to care about what is happening. Also, the story and main missions 
 is quite short. Compared to Grand Theft Auto, the main missions are non existent. While there are 
 side missions, they are repetitive. The people that will get the most out of Just Cause are people 
 who appreciate nature and like to explore. The island in this game is spectacular. From the ground 
 or the air it just looks beautiful. The water and beaches look particularly great from the air, 
 as shallow water is brighter and deeper water is darker. Plus, there's a whole lot of it. After 
 owning the game for a month, I recently discovered a slew of islands I had never ventured to before. 
 So, is Just Cause revolutionary? No. Does it have a compelling storyline and acting? No. Is it 
 enjoyable? Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  There are many free roaming sandbox type games out at the moment and not too many of them work. 
 Just Cause is the only one so far on the 360 but it doesn't follow the trend of a clone. Just Cause 
 is fun, addictive and looks beautiful (apart from in the cutscences which just look hideous) apart 
 from that though Just Cause delivers thrills, spills and lots of explosions but those explosions 
 and thrills seem a little cheap and repetitive by mission 12.
  
  Side missions and liberations diverge from the main story line but offer you better weapons, vehicles 
 and more safe houses. Again they get repetitive but the achievements offer a way to plough on through 
 them.
  
  It's great fun check it out
  
  Thanks for reading TKQ out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game with good graphics and good physics. As you can see I used good alot. That 
 is becasue this game is good, not great or wonderful, just good. The game has a lot of great components, 
 driving is great, flying is great, skydiving is great, stunts are great. The game does not tie 
 all these aspects together to be a great game. The graphics are the best thing about this game. 
 The vistas are amazing and the water effects are very realistic, although there is the occasional 
 glitch. The missions are all basically the same, how many times do you have to blow up a freaking 
 barricade. This mission gets very repetitive really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Stunning visuals and background; sky diving is awesome; Achrobatic moves feel and look great; 
 huge island to exsplore freely
  
  BAD- Story is'nt too good; Gameplay is too easy; rubbish lock on
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Just cuase 
 is just like GTA with a huge emviroment to exsplore and free ranged missions to choose from, what 
 makes this game different is the awesome desgned Achrobatic moves were you can jump from you car 
 onto another and kill who evers inside, you can also have thrilling sky dive with a brilliant view 
 of the island and looks better and awesome when gliding in, you can also paraglide which you can 
 use to hook onto to cars and let them drag you, and you dont need to werry about running out as 
 its always with you, its usefull from a great hight!, theres plenty of missions to do which can 
 be realy fun, but the story itself is'nt realy good nor engaging and could've been alot better, 
 The gameplay with guns are realy good, but the lock on spoils it, aslong as the enemie is on the 
 screen you'll auto lock onto him, so theres no accurate aiming needed so this gives the boost of 
 repetativaty points even higher.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Thought the characture designs dont look to good, the colourfull backgrounds and stunning visual 
 of teh entire island makes the graphics good, the exsplotion also look great!, with only minor 
 glitches the graphics are realy good.
  
  SOUND:
  The voice acting is'nt overall great but they are decently good, theres breat brazlian style music 
 and sound effects. but other than that, i cant realy say nothing about the sound!...
  
  OVERALL:
  If your looking for a game to play till GTA4 comes out then give this a try, but if 
 you want a scapegoat, then get Saints Row insted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefreqfreak
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is fun on paper but once you have jumped from a car and mis-controled your parachute 
 into the oversized forest for the 1000th time, it gets annoying. You can do so many cool things 
 in this game and it looks Beautiful, but it disappointing that with all these moves at your disposal, 
 your guy has no ground moves and shooting is boring as hell. I was expecting this guy to do a back 
 flip, cartwheel; I dont know ROLL maybe even a duck? Shooting foes plays the biggest part of the 
 game and yet it is the most boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wraith808
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking at Just Cause for a while. It reminded me a bit of Tropico for the PC, which 
 I thoroughly enjoyed, but I was put off by the negative reviews. I shouldn't have been. I finally 
 rented it through GameFly, and ended up keeping it. Like an action movie, it starts out hard and 
 heavy and doesn't let up. You're Rico Rodriguezan undercover CIA operative specializing in regime 
 change, and you've been called into San Esperito to do what you do best- take out the corrupt Generalissimo 
 and help the revolution succeed.
  
  The gameplay is spot-on, in a GTA-inspired manner that allows you to pull off outrageous stunts. 
 It's all about style, as you don't get too bogged down in the firefights, inspiring you to pull 
 off outrageous moves while gunning down foes in the best action movie style. Along the way, you 
 perform missions to destabilize the region that you're in as you move along a board to claim territories 
 for the revolution. Sometimes it's causing a drug war to stretch the government's forces, and sometimes 
 you have to get down and dirty and take out the forces in the area. You're also building up your 
 reputation with the cartel and the revolution to get access to better weaponry and devices.
  
  The stunt system is a hilarious addition to spice up the GTA formula a bit- you can take over 
 just about any vehicle, and take to the skies with your every useable parachute, sailing above 
 your enemies, grappling to them and taking over their vehicles. It might not be realistic, but 
 it's cinematic, and fun!
  
  It's not perfect, and its for sure not politically correct, and it certainly doesn't pay heed to 
 physics in the stunt system. Notice I said in the stunt system, because the driving is spot on, 
 and there are a lot of little touches- from the music to the acting- that drive it over the top. 
 I'd definitely recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranjoyce
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  this game has no spirit the onlt thing i can find good about it is the sky diving the graphics 
 are bad for the 360 even though the world is massive 80% of it there is nothing to do i can find 
 this game fun at times when im not doing the main story as all the missions are exactly the same 
 its all go in shoot some goverment soilders and thats it this game is ok if thats all you want 
 to do but after the 4th time of doing it becomes very boring i feel that this game could of been 
 alot better if they had spent more time on the little things istead od trying to compete with the 
 size of oblivion all in all good points about this game fun flying over island fun sky diving bad 
 points the game is heartless no exitement some of the graphics are ps2 graphics e. g guns buildings 
 people. nothing stays for over 5 seconds after youve killed it, people die in the same way how 
 ever you kill them. and the game is to easy.
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Just Cause, an action based free roamer that takes place in one of the biggest gaming 
 environments seen in video games to date. While the game definitely lends itself to be a Grand 
 Theft Auto knockoff, it has a few distinguishing characteristics to set it apart, however, none 
 really ever rise the game to potential greatness.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY: In Just Cause, you play as Rico, an agency employed action hero who's sole purpose is 
 to promote guerrilla warfare and lead the citizens of San Espierto in rebellion against a corrupt 
 president and the government. Sound interesting? Well, it is in concept, however the game does 
 little to ever make you feel like your reclaiming a country so much as it makes you feel like your 
 wandering an unpopulated jungle wasteland. Even in the bigger city portions of the game, things 
 just feel empty. As hard as it may be to explain, theres always that gut feeling that there should 
 be something there.... and its not. Anyways, the story missions are fairly weak, often glitchy, 
 and backed by some of the cheesiest and lamest cutscenes ever. Combat isn't so much a matter of 
 skill as it is just pressing the right trigger, as the game always auto locks onto the nearest 
 enemy. Besides that, you'll spend a great deal of time taking over enemy strongholds by destroying 
 roadblocks... yeah... kinda boring after the 20th time. Rico can perform stunts between vehicles, 
 but often times things don't work as planned and the whole stunt system could just use an overall 
 revamp.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  If I could give two thumbs up to anything in Just Cause, it would certainly be the graphics. The 
 environment in Just Cause is massive, lush with detail, and filled to the brim with environmental 
 eye candy. Explosions look fantastic, cars are well detailed, and the overall feel of the game 
 can seem both dreamy and chaotic. It's a shame that most of this is put to waste, as the great 
 environment is pumping with potential yet never digs up a mission thats remotely interesting or 
 capturing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND:
  
  Just Cause is a mixed bag in the sound department. On one hand, voice work and cutscenes are absolutely 
 abysmal. On the other hand, the musical score is frighteningly fantastic. Action sequences yield 
 heart pumping tunes, yet on the contrast, diving out of a plane while soaring through the clouds 
 kicks in very dream-like and peaceful music. It's an excellent combination and works very well 
 with the games theme.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE:
  
  Just Cause is a relatively short game in the story department, and the side missions are uninteresting 
 at best. Paying any more than $20 for this game is not recommended, however, the large environment 
 and gorgeous graphics will definitely appeal to some. The fact of the matter is, the game has a 
 huge playing ground, but can never figure out what to do with it. None of the missions ever grasp 
 hold of using the environment to its full potential, and since the story is pretty easy to look 
 past, Just Cause isn't an easy game to fall in love with. I also can't forget the number of glitches 
 I encountered, causing random deaths, falling through the ground, error riddled checkpoints, and 
 an overall feeling of frustration and annoyance. This is not to say that Just Cause doesn't ever 
 have its moments, because it does, however they are few and far between, lost in a sea of boredom 
 and lack of interest.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT:
  
  I think the majority of this review tilts toward rent and not buy. Enough said.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  PROS: - Gorgeous and massive environment.
  - Neat stunt system gives the game an action movie feel.
  - Controls are relatively fluid, aside 
 from some rough spots.
  - Music is outstanding.
  
  CONS:
  
  - Missions are boring and uninteresting.
  - Stunt system doesn't always work well.
  - Voice 
 work is corny, cliched, and terrible.
  - Glitches and randomness cause frequent death and frusturation.
  - Side quests get old... fast 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Greedo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Because the demo is nothing like this. I don't know what the developers were thinking.
  
  A brief overview of the game: You're a stereotypical Latino who works for the CIA to try and start 
 a revolution using grappling hooks.
  
  Wait... Did I just say you work for the CIA and try to start a revolution? Kind of ironic isn't 
 it. But the story should be ignored, since that isn't the point of this game.
  
  The limitless possibilities of what you can do actually do have a limit. They are: Unique story 
 missions, Collect Missions, and City Takeover missions. And these are all fun. The Story missions 
 are (mostly) original and exciting. The collect missions provide a peaceful retreat from the action 
 wilst still getting achievement points. And the City takeovers provide more action once you beat 
 the story. They do get repetitive, though, so breaks between this game are a must.
  
  At first it might seem stupid that enemies die in two shots, but later waves of enemies will come 
 at you making it much harder, especially the helicopters with missiles.
  
  The cars don't handle realisticly, but this game isn't about realism. You can drive a motorbike, 
 deploy your parachute, grapple a bus, then release, grab onto a helicopter's rear wing, take out 
 the driver, and be on your merry way.
  
  This game is just... addictive. Thats what makes it good. And it's pick-up and play. You'll be 
 a pro at almost anything by 20 minutes.
  
  The graphics aren't as nice as other games, and some cars look like crap. But the lush jungles 
 provide some good eye candy. Cut scenes are nice, and mildly amusing, although some of the voice 
 acting is so cheezy you'll cringe... literally.
  
  There are a few.. Ok there are many graphical glitches. But it doesn't detract from the overall 
 experience that much.
  
  The guns sound ok, but just ok. Everything sounds ok . This game is just average, and nothing more. 
 But I recommend everyone to buy it once it gets thrown into the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Konda
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I just thought it was going to just be another GTA-clone. Actually, 
 this game is pretty good. Gameplay: Very similar to GTA so thus people will have a lot of fun playing 
 it. Also, it includes some cool stuff like parachuting and graphling to helicopters and planes. 
 Though they are not realistic, they are fun. Who says games have to be realistic?
  Graphics: The graphics of this game is great. It is defeintely much better looking than GTA. For 
 an open-ended game, this game's graphics are top-notch.
  Sound: The soundtrack is a little ehhh. It is not good or bad. Luckily theres custom soundtracks.
 
  Value: This game has over 200 side missions. If they made less mission with more variety, then 
 it would've been more great. The normal story is a little shrot though.
  Tilt: Personally, I think this is a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game had the potential to become a GTA beater but the developers screwed up completly. Where? 
 Where do I start is the main question. The graphics make the game appear good but that is the only 
 good thing about it.
  
  First of all the weapon thingthat you have certain slots for different weapons is stolen completly 
 from GTA but in this it works terribly. There are around eight different character models and they 
 still look similar. The whole deploy parachute thing is total crap and boring. The rampages are 
 so bad that at full level about four people come at you at the same time AND all drop health kits. 
 How does that make good rampages? You character (Rico something or other) can jump through helicopter 
 blades, swim forever, survive explosions with almost no damage and take over entire cites and when 
 hes done the poilce dont care.
  
  I dont care if its not meant to be realistic it sucks. The gun fights are so boring its not funny 
 to watch or play. The people who give you side mission all look like one of those French guys with 
 massive, stupid mustaches adn all say the same thing. Ohh and did I metion this game is extremly 
 repetitive? That Rico has insults like Dont forget you ear plugs ?
  
  So in other words this game sucks dont buy if you have common sense! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I am a great fan of GTA, so Just Cause gives me what I look for every once in a while in a game. 
 It has just enough content to keep me interested, and loads of fun things to do, while not being 
 forced to follow the story, I guess I have commitment issues with games.
  The surreal ability to hang on to tails of planes and helicopters and stunt jump into them is just 
 hilarious and entertaining. It has the GTA style features on it, but it just doesn't totally feel 
 like a GTA clone to me, which is pretty good, because we already have GTA to already be like GTA.
 
  The grappling hook is probably my most used weapon . The feature of grappling any passing vehicle 
 (land, sea or air) is pretty neat.
  This game has fun factor, even though it's considered short, it's still a good buy to have in your 
 library, or a great rental.
  I'm glad I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Just cause could of been better with the graphics. The graphics on cars let it down a lil bid. 
 The game is similar to gta games. There are some parts that are unrealistic about the game like 
 you can use the parachute as much as you want and you don't have to go and get a new one. The missions 
 let the game down a lil bid some missions are kind of boring and some are really easy. The game 
 difficulty should of been harder a lil bid. But if your done with the game the game gets boring. 
 I would say nothing to do besides shoot people and ride the cars and the boats. But there are fun 
 parts like getting on the mountains and jumping off the mountain with the parachute or jumping 
 out of the plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langhorne13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Just cause Just cause is set on a huge Caribbean island broken by various rivers, lakes and inlets. 
 One of the first things that must be said about just cause is that the map is huge. If you thought 
 the san andreas was big you are in for a shock, because just cause is simply massive, I cant even 
 begin to describe how humungous it is. One of the features that compliments the gigantic world 
 is that you can see everything from one point, obviously this doesnt have much of an impact when 
 youre just walking around at ground level, but when you get a plane up in the sky, it is the most 
 amazing view you will see in any video game to date. The bulk of the action in just cause is driving 
 and shooting. Unfortunately both have their flaws. The shooting is simple and very easy, the auto 
 aim does all the work for you, so much so that you dont even have to press a button for it to 
 aim, the game just sees an enemy and latches onto it, meaning that you can in fact just centre 
 over a group of enemies, hold the fire button down and watch as they all drop like flies as the 
 auto aim picks them off for you. As for the driving, most of the cars are as you would expect to 
 find on an island in the Caribbean, pretty bashed up looking and not very fast, as a result getting 
 around is a little dull and takes a pretty long time, which is why you will be using the extraction 
 function all the time, which takes you to safe houses peppered around san espirito that can be 
 acquired as you progress through the game. However this can get rather dull and makes you feel 
 as if youre not getting youre full $60.00 worth which is where the heavy drop function comes 
 in useful. Heavy drop delivers a vehicle directly to you by chopper although there are only 4 vehicles 
 available in this format and they have to be unlocked by progressing through the story mode. The 
 story mode itself is relatively short and the script is awful, as is the voice acting. Having said 
 that the clich&eacute; d script does have a so bad its funny value, and the bad voice acting 
 compliments it. One of the best mechanics in the game is the ability to deploy a parachute at almost 
 anytime, and although the mechanics of this are rather unrealistic it gives a thrill you wont 
 find anywhere else. Coupled with the parachute is a grappling gun which enables you to hook onto 
 any vehicle you come across and parasail using its momentum, also it lets you go into a stunt 
 position on the vehicle. From here you can jack the vehicle, re-deploy your parachute, jump onto 
 a passing vehicle, and jump off the vehicle altogether. Once you truly learn how to take advantage 
 of the grappling gun and parachute mechanics you can into some totally insane and absurd action, 
 skyjacking choppers, skydiving three thousand feet, deploying your parachute at the last possible 
 moment to save yourself from snapping your neck, then grappling onto a car and parasailing across 
 an island. The whole thing is just crazy and if you cant help but think, but thats impossible, 
 as you do these things, then just cause wont be for you, however if you can suspend your disbelief, 
 then just cause will be one of the most satisfying experiences you have yet to encounter. All in 
 all the vehicles handle well, and the crazy unrealistic mechanics open up possibilities you wont 
 find anywhere else. Although the game does have the feeling that it was rushed out, there a couple 
 bugs and a lack of a few animations it would have been nice for them to have put in, the sheer 
 intensity of some of the action found in just cause, makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasdan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty damn good, nice use of grappel hook and parachute. Stunts are what sell this game 
 though. The amount of shots to kill a guy is off, however.
  
  Graphics: Probably the best game I've seen on 360, besides Gears of War. It's a miracle that they 
 were able to pull of the consistent graphics in a huge area without load times. Excellent!
  
  Sound: Cool latin music mixed with some spy riffs. This is saying something as I don't normally 
 like latin music. Voiceovers could have been better.
  
  Value: HOLY CRAPPPPPP! So many missions, but mostly you make the fun. Excellent idea to make the 
 whole island chain available from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refoops
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  Just 'Cause is in many ways, an impressive game, and in many others. A strong letdown. The moment 
 you're brought into a game, you're coming down from above in a free fall flight. The colors of 
 the ocean and forests immediately grab you're attention. You get closer and closer to the ground, 
 until you finally open your parachute and slowly reach for the beach, and then arrives your first 
 firefight.
  
  I was immediately disappointed when I found out it was an auto-aim system. Which makes fighting 
 about as hard as pressing the shoot button. It's all most impossible to die as long as you give 
 at least a squirt of effort. The game gives you access to a 'over the shoulder' aiming view, but 
 it proves to be highly impractical and slow during a fire fight.
  
  The game follows the GTA formula similar to a lot of other games recently. You have access to a 
 large and quite beautiful world. Most of the environment is large thick rain forests and beaches. 
 Through-out the numerous towns you have access to Safehosues. These are small little areas that 
 provide a save point, access to ammunition and weapons, and a garage to store a vehicle. You can 
 access missions by finding them on your map. The game gives you a reasonably wide range of missions, 
 but it all seems to feel the same.
  
  A large feature of the game is the stunt system. From any vehicle or position you can usually perform 
 a stunt. From inside a car, you can jump onto the top, and from there you can jump up in the air 
 and access your parachute. You can grapple on to a plane in the middle of the air (Which is possible 
 by the very crafty handy dandy grapple gun in which you'll have access to soon in the game) , grab 
 onto it's wing, and jump into the pilots seat. None of this really makes and sense, but it can 
 be incredibly fun. If you're willing to be creative. You could call it stupid, or silly. Or you 
 could reach over to the side of you that's always wanted to be like James Bond.
  
  There are many different aspects of the game, Heavy drops, which allow a certain vehicle to be 
 airdropped to your position for aid, being able to liberate certain sections and towns by fighting 
 through authorities and police, and much more. Often you need to make your own fun, to make the 
 game what it really is.
  
  You might not like this game, you might love it. It's really up to you. I would recommend renting 
 it first, but if jumping from a plane onto a speed boat to run it off a cliff, access your parachute 
 and rip into a bunch of cops with a shotgun sounds fun to you...
  
  Why not?
  
  -Arman Sayedi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giordancool
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty dang good, nice use of grappel hook and parachute. Stunts are what sell this game 
 though. The amount of shots to kill a guy is off, however.
  
  Graphics: Probably the best game I've seen on 360, besides Gears of War. It's a miracle that they 
 were able to pull of the consistent graphics in a huge area without load times. Excellent!
  
  Sound: Cool latin music mixed with some spy riffs. This is saying something as I don't normally 
 like latin music. Voiceovers could have been better.
  
  Value: HOLY CRAPPPPPP! So many missions, but mostly you make the fun. Excellent idea to make the 
 whole island chain available from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  In Just Cause, you play as Rico Rodriguez who is sent to the island of San Esperito to help overthrow 
 the corrupt government.
  Unfortunately, none of the characters (besides possibly Rico) are memorable, they are just there 
 to give you missions.
  
  There are a total of 21 main story missions, which is a very small amount of missions due to the 
 fact that there are so many different types of vehicles and that San Esperito is BIG, and i mean 
 VERY BIG!
  The only positive thing about the short amount of story missions is that the games missions never 
 get repetitive. They are all really well designed and they are all pretty long, and each mission 
 is split up into checkpoints which saves you having to restart a mission from the start in-case 
 you get killed.
  
  If you like completing side missions and collecting everything and achieving 100%, the 21 story 
 missions won't bother you that much because there are something like 300 side missions to take 
 on.
  The side missions are ok, but they do get very repetitive.
  
  Up to now, Just Cause sounds very much like GTA, but this is where Just Cause steps into a world 
 of it's own.
  
  From the very start of the game, Rico has a parachute strapped onto his back at all times, which 
 he can use when he jumps out of a plane of helicopter.
  Also, if you are driving a car, you can just press A to jump onto the top of the car and go into 
 stunt position, then press A again to jump high into the air and deploy your parachute.
  This is great fun and gets better when you unlock the grappling hook. The grappling hook gives 
 you the ability to simply aim at a low flying chopper and grapple onto it, then you can get into 
 it and fly off.
  The parachute is very easy to use but the grappling hook is a little more difficult.
  
  Now, 
 because San Esperito is so big, it is very easy to get lost or stranded.
  With the press of a button (or two) you can call a chopper to come and drop you a bike, car, helicopter 
 or boat (some of which have to be unlocked) .
  The problem with San Esperito is that it's 80% jungle and 20% city, which is a disappointment, 
 because the jungle is not very interesting.
  
  In the end, Just Cause is a good game and you can really have a lot of fun after you master the 
 grappling hook.
  If you just like causing chaos, this is for you. But if you like long games with a really interesting 
 storyline, you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  This game is highly repetitive. Do secret mission... Unlocks new zone to over throw... Over throw 
 X number of towns, cities, bases. Unlocks new vehicle... Collect blue dots and get achievements. 
 And repeat... 300+ times.
  
  The plus side... Is that the graphics are mind blowing for a sand box type game. This game is unrivaled 
 in this area.
  
  Thats pretty much the sum up the game... Repeating steps, but with pretty graphics.
  
  It's 
 a great game to pick up and play when you feel the need to go jungle diving. It will last you about 
 15-20 hours of repetitive game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-O-R-D-A-N
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  This game is great i don't know why its had such poor ratings! But is it good enough to rival GTA 
 - well not quite not yet maybe in the future if they make a sequel then it could be in the standards 
 of the Grand Theft Auto series but not yet.
  Just Cause is a cross between Mercenaries and the GTA series it has the free roam when you dont 
 have to do missions and you can do side missions or just drive around and parachute down cliffs 
 and off buildings or simply go on killing sprees ! The graphics surprised me a bit, i have only 
 ever had a PS2 and got an X-Box 360 for Christmas along with Just Cause, i knew the graphics were 
 supposed to be much better on the 360 but in Just Cause it almost looks life like ! (in parts)
 
  This game had me hooked and i played it for hours and i am having a break from it while typing 
 this !!!
  Overall if you have a 360 i strongly advise you get this game you'll really enjoy it . . . . I 
 DID !!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeromir360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When i fist played the demo for Just Cause it was wicked, all of the parachuting, intense chases, 
 i loved it. It wasn't till long, long after I played the demo and it came out I rented it and right 
 from the start I knew this game would own. The first scene of the game you are flung out the back 
 of a plane and are sent skydiving hundreds of feet above the ground. The whole island of San Eperito 
 is beatiful from the thick, green jungle to the turqouse sea. Not to mention the island is 390 
 square miles. The story in just cause was very good but then again not the best, in some parts 
 it seemed kind of thrown together but the action wasalways fun and intense. The voice work in Just 
 Cause could defifnitly use work but the music is great, the graphics in Just Cause should have 
 received a better rating since they are amazing for and island as huge as san esperito. All in all 
 just cause is an absolute great game that you should definitly check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Just Cause features lots of fun from the start packed with a decent storyline to follow through. 
 Although the storyline is over quite quick the game still continues with side missions, collectables 
 and other things you have to do to complete it fully, this game will give you hours (Lots of hours.) 
 of fun even once you have finished it. While playing this game you sometimes get distracted from 
 what your doing because of the possibilities that lie within the game play, one minute you will 
 be completing a mission the next you are sky diving and doing insane stunts. This game has been 
 well developed, when playing you often overlook the fantastic graphics that have been incorporated 
 into this game but you soon realize as soon as you watch the trees and grass blowing in the wind 
 each tree and blade of grass working differently. Avalanche Studios have made one great game now 
 for the Xbox 360 I expect to keep up the good work and make some more. Just Cause is worth the 
 price as you will find hours of fun within it and you will find that it will keep you entertained 
 until the next best game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MANE629
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was perfect. It was about time somebody came up with a GTA-type game about 
 latin america. The only bad thing is that it gets a little too repetitive in the sense that you 
 have to go around liberating town after town after town. I think the graphics are amazing, makes 
 you feel in paradise. the creators gave it a nice touch. It really does feel like you're in south 
 america. there are tons of different planes, helicopters, cars and boats you can use. the story 
 line is pretty good, and realistic at most. it can relate to what latin america is living today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Just Cause, is easily a fun game to look forward to playing since, it has players jumping out of 
 cars and into the parachuting almost everywhere. I agree with gamespot, this is not, a game for 
 the realist, although I doubt their are that many anyway, since most games are not built on realism 
 or at least not entirely. STORY: In Just Cause, you are Rico Rodriguez who is a tough guy like 
 Antonia Banderas character, who works for im pretty sure the CIA, and so dos his friend Sheldon 
 and Kane a woman with a little history with him but you do not ever know of much of their past. 
 You are sent to San Esperito a dream Island, which sure dos remind you of Cuba, tisk tisk and 
 which is magically a beautiful tropical paradise that is a great acheivment in making a GIANT real 
 world paradise. You are sent to San Esperito to kill their dictator Salazar Mendoza, a corrupt 
 El Presdente who is in league with a drug cartel and many other bad things. You have 3 kinds of 
 friends on this Island and they can all help you out by giving you safe houses among many things. 
 The Peoples revolutionary army and the Rival drug cartel, the Riojas, and your 2 friends, who send 
 you your own agency safe houses, around the Islands.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Just Cause provides good amount of satisfying moments, which, has you jumping out 
 of airplanes that our in the clouds. Falling from the sky only to jump onto a helicopters tail, 
 then taking control of it and jumping out again and firing a grappling hook onto it which you narrowly 
 control it before it explodes onto the ground then, jumping out again on the tail of it and jumping 
 off it to and free falling from the sky onto a moving car, which u take control of and speed off 
 a cliff and parachute onto a speedboat and into the sunset! That is the kind of excitement Just 
 Cause provides. Now, don't get me wrong its fun from the beginning but that kind of thing gets 
 old pretty fast. Because the only thing you can really do is those things I mentied, although fun 
 theres no real excitement since the A. I. enemies and citizens are stupid.
  
  PROS: A tropical paradise, which feels all natural, Great variety of vehicles and cool stunts, 
 and I can't really think of any other great things other then the Main Mission and the stunts.
 
  
  CONS: It dos not have very many things to do; you will find yourself wondering around for secret 
 vechies, that our scattered across the world, yet even that seems boring. The only real fun thing 
 about this game is the Main mission, which is quite short by itself, although nice scenery it is 
 not very graphical, you feel at times like your in a old generational game, but with a huge world 
 that look like it has beautiful views yet are not very next generation like, No multiplayer and 
 the sound is not that great either, even the added factors of enjoyment like the never ending parachutes 
 don't make this game better then good and that slowly becomes more and more disastrous which make 
 this game hard to like.
  
  OVERALL: A lot of Time can be spent just flying in a helicopter over countless landscapes which 
 seem very wasted, other then completing the main mission, which is pretty short and doing stunts 
 all over the islands, you feel very bored after awhile because, other the main mission and the 
 stunts, which even those are not that great, feel like a game that was meant to be better but rushed 
 out before it even gave it more side missions and no multiplayer or really big replay value after 
 you finish the game. So I would recommend a rent at the most, because this game is ambitious but 
 it still goes wrong in so many areas that its unbelievable to me that it comes at such a high 
 price for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgpilot00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Just Cause turned out to be my longest rented game ever. I received this game from GameFly and 
 couldn't put it down. Graphics: What can I say? The graphics are absolutely beautiful. Everything 
 is so detailed, especially walking through jungles. The clouds, lighting, water and almost everything 
 in the game are amazing. This is one of the game's biggest strengths.
  
  Gameplay: Very easy to master, almost too easy. You can press RS to aim better, however the character 
 auto-aims anyway so there's no use for it. Gameplay is made easier by displaying different actions 
 available on the left side of the screen and the corresponding button to push. The stunts are fantastic... 
 and the most fun in the game. You can literally cross the entire continent without ever driving 
 or flying. Sound: The sound isn't revolutionary but it does it's job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlargon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is a very fun and ambitious game. For the first few days, I loved the game. I stayed 
 up late playing it while chatting with friends about it. A week later I was bored. It has cool 
 gameplay mechanism and a funny plot, but the side-missions are boring, glitchy, and repetitive. 
 You probably won't get more than 15 hours of gameplay out of the game unless you are going for 
 some of the many achievements that feel very pointless. I strongly suggest you rent this game for 
 a week or two, and if you really, really, like it, then you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szebesta151
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  this game is pure fun, im a huge fan of free roamers and exploring games and this is the ultimate, 
 san espiranto is huge i mean really huge! bigger than oblivion and san andreas, miles of jungle, citys, towns, and 
 sea to explore. However a map as big as this does have its down points getting from place to place 
 can become frustrating, mainly at the start of the game and also what it has in it size lacks in 
 substance miles of trees and rivers do get really boring after a while, however the occasional miltary 
 complex and airport keeps you going. Another great aspect of this game is the stunts, over the 
 friggin top they are but they are hugly fun flying of a cliff in a sports car during a high speed 
 chase, then jumping out pulling your parachute (which are unlimited) is much funner than running 
 down a corridor shooting things (which you can also do in just cause) . The story has an ok plot, 
 but its far to easy and much to short however this is made up with in side missions where you libarate 
 towns in huge battles with your gurrila allies. There are also huge amounts of vehicals ranging 
 from cars to planes. Weapons are great in this game as well although combat is a walk in the park 
 and no real challenge. So overall this is a great game that will keep you going till you collapse 
 of exhaustion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhutchison
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  If you play Just Cause by the rules (i. e. follow the main storyline) , the lackluster reviews are 
 right on target.
  
  But Just Cause is an open world game and that means you can play it using your own set of rules.
 
  
  I've played through the first 15 missions (about 2 hours) in order to unlock many of the weapons 
 and all of the drop vehicles (i. e. motorcycle, jeep, boat, and helicopter) that I can have delivered 
 to my location at any time.
  
  Now, as I explore the Just Cause world, I've got some relaxing guitar music playing in the background, 
 care of the Xbox 360's custom soundtrack support.
  
  Occasionally, I will enage in some mindless gunplay and intervene in the numerous engagements that 
 ignite right before my eyes.
  
  But more often than not, I can be found simply exploring the vast jungle universe that is Just 
 Cause - skydiving to be sure, but also deep sea diving, boating, driving, and, of course, flying 
 and just plain walking around and discovering stuff.
  
  Once you get past the high octane storyline that is the main game, there is so much more to find 
 and enjoy in Just Cause. The jungle setting with its little hideaways, villas, and fortified military 
 bases is ripe for exploration. What a respite from the urban jungle of Saints Row and GTA!
  
  Rumor has it that the next Just Cause will be set in a city environment. I'm sure I'll check 
 it out, but don't be surprised to see me return time and time again to the glorious tropical environment 
 that is Just Cause 1.
  
  After a long night of intense multiplayer combat, a relaxing jaunt through Just Cause is the perfect 
 way to close out the evening... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahamed
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  when you unluck all 4 agency vehicles, try the helicopter it is the smallest helicopter ever. and 
 it explodes faster then a car in an 80's movie.
  and dont teturn this game because of its easy, it gets harder and the 26 mission take forever to 
 complete let alone the side missions. i have done like 14 missions now. you get the helicopter 
 somewhere between mission 10 and 13. and now to fill the 100 words thing. asjf asfklsajfkl sakfljsalkfas 
 alskfjklasj aklsfjsakljf klajfka lkasjfkasjnc cjspoow afjofjamafa saajf jalkfjf laksfjsaklf lfaksjflasjf 
 lafjaslfj lfkjaslfkjsa lsajflasj cnofn lasf ekfnf jkjfkf fkjfkjlsajf lkasjfklas ckljfklw cklaskcmnm 
 nmkclsanm ncksancknasck ncklanscklasn fsaf fsfs fs fs f sf s sf s fs fs fs f s fs fs f s fs fsafas 
 sa f asf as fas fsafas f sa fas f as fsa f saf as f as fas f saf af as f sf efeg r r eh r v e f 
 e v e ve g e g eg e h h e he ef e g ewg gh eh reh re hr eh re hre h reh re hre htrh tr h thr htrhrthrth 
 tr htr htr htr h trh tr htr h trh tr ht rh trhtrhtrhtrh tr htrhtrhtrht rhtrhtrh trhtr htrhtrhtr 
 htrhtrhrthtr jy tjuy juy ujk uyk uy kuy k uy kuyk uy k kiu k sa f saf sa fasf saf saf safsafsa 
 fsa fsa f asf as fsa f saf sa fsa fs af saf sa fsafasfsafsaf sa f saf safsafsaf saf safs afsafsa 
 fsa fsafsa fsafsafsa safsafsaf asfasfsafsa fsafasfsa ffsafsafasf asfasfsafsa safsafsaf saf sa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  The one thing ive noticed that makes this game an enjoyable game to play is the freedom to hijack 
 moving vehicles such as air born helicopters to cars to boats using your grapple hook. When playing 
 the game ive noticed its handy to have a helicopter as its alot easier to complete side missions 
 rather than having to drive there as the roads are mostly off road making it a slow process.
  
  Sometimes when a destination is just too far away its recommended to head for the nearest airport 
 and steal a plane as it will be quicker but have to bail out in mid air when over the target as 
 there are very few clear areas to land and the planes easily explode when hitting trees and other 
 objects.
  
  Another thing ive noticed is that when crashing in a car or other road vehicles it dont seemed 
 to crash right they just stop and make a slight dent when crashing into a tree or other objects 
 so this is where an improvement of the game will have to be made. The air drop for vehicles is 
 very handy as there is alot of jungle in the game and can be very boring running to the nearest 
 road to hijack vehicles. when you are in a situation where you are in the middle of nowhere try 
 grapple hooking a helicopter to hijack it if there is one flying by, ive used this technique alot 
 and speeds things up in getting places
  
  Over all this game can be challenging enough getting to certain destinations because of the size 
 and not enough straight roads to speed things up in land vehicles so most of the time i use helicopters 
 (can be found at certain liberated settlements or flying by to grapple) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  It's sad t he game has such good looking environments when the rest is worthless!
  
  Graphics: Models are ho hum but the islands are AWESOME!
  
  Gameplay: You can do too much stuff 
 that is just dumb. I swear you can pull your chute out whenever you want. You can run and get it 
 out it seems like! The animations are also lame.
  
  Audio: Nice noises and sounds overall. The policia can be heard too many times though when you 
 really wouldn't be able to hear them.
  
  Overall I think this game was rushed and is pretty weak. I don't even recommend renting it. It's 
 that worthless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  While this isn't a been there done that, and Just Cause does try to add quite a bit that is new, 
 it just doesn't do a very good job at it. Now before the fanboys get mad at me, let me go ahead 
 and pound out a few points.
  
  Story - From what I got through, the story was ok, nothing spectacular, but standard video game 
 fodder. I'll let you guys read up on it in other reviews since it isn't my beef.
  
  Gameplay - The controls are difficult at best. The vehicles unresponsive, aiming is a bear, and 
 the 'next target' key never seemed to work for me. Of course this is made up for the fact that 
 with your base pistols you can blow holes in just about anything with just a coupe of shots.
  
  Graphics - Come on people, this is the 360! You can put more detail into it... look at Oblivion, 
 Saints Row, heck Test Drive Unlimited has better looking people.
  
  Sound - No disapointing, but it doesn't do anything special for me.
  
  Value - If you like 
 open ended gameplay, rent it... I can't advise this as a buy.
  
  Some content may not be appropriate for children - PARENTS, it is your duty to make sure you know 
 what games your child plays! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pieman_III
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. It had some great game play, the biggest game world I have ever seen, tons of 
 things to do, and crazy stunts to top it all off.
  
  The game play in this was just plain fun. Jumping from a helicopter gunning down a bad guy, grappling 
 a car, jumping on the hood, surfing it to the water, jumping off, putting out your parachute, jumping 
 on a boat and sailing off, while incredibly unrealistic is just fun to do. I loved flying across 
 the amazingly huge world provided in this game in all sorts of planes and helicopters, and driving 
 the many roads in the various vehicles. To me it felt like a mix of Mercenaries and Far Cry as 
 it had a a lot of Mercenaries game elements and the lever is very beachy, much like Far Cry. The 
 police chases, the missions, the races, the liberations, they all were fun, not to mention just 
 doing your on thing.
  
  Graphically, it wasn't super. It looked pretty bad at times and the cut scenes were just crappy 
 looking. The voice acting was ok (I found the one fellow, while yelling, sounded exactly like Tommy 
 Lee Jones) but a bit corny as well, and I hated when non Spanish people tried to sound as if they 
 were. All in all, this is a good game. I wouldn't necessarily advise buying it as it is somewhat 
 short, but at least it is good for a rent, and overall just a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcap8424
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, it's a GTA clone... we all know it. At what point can we stop calling all open-environment 
 games GTA clones? I don't know either just asking.
  
  Anyhow this game is a nice change of scenery. Most games like this are housed in a huge city. Which 
 is fine, but I think I prefer the jungle-like environment of Just Cause better. I'll admit that 
 some portions of the world are completely just trees and rocks (boring) ... not too much of that 
 in a city (although it's not all exciting) , but that's about the only advantage a city environment 
 has.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, the game plays fairly easy once you figure out how to use all of your 
 stunts. It won't take you too long to pick up on these as the controls seem fairly intuitive. The 
 game plays fairly easy and is somewhat repetive since you just go from zone to zone doing the same 
 thing over and over. For some reason though, I found myself wanting to finish the game (I was confused 
 too) . I don't know how to describe what this game has, but it's got it. It could be the variety 
 of vehicles and varying ways of completing your objectives. As far as weapons go, Just Cause has 
 a fairly standard arsenal. One item that will stick out to you is the grappel gun. This is used 
 to hook on to almost all the vehicles. When you hook on, you ride the vehicle with your parachute 
 open. You have several options at this point, detach and float away, reel yourself in and take 
 the vehicle for yourself, or just about anything else you can think of.
  
  Although I didn't find the game to be ground-breaking, I thought that you should at least give 
 it a look. Try out the demo on live, that's what I did.
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cultusatanas
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I think I'm getting bored with the whole sandbox thing, The missions are boring, the car physics 
 are clunky, the game in general is just too easy. The graphics are really nice though, but it just 
 feels like I've been there and done that. i guess if you like GTA esque games then you would like 
 this, but I'm pretty much done with them. I really enjoyed Saint's Row which is far superior to 
 this game in my honest opinion, don't know why, just do. Ine thing I noticed was that all those 
 little GTA type pakages are nicely marked on your map, so you don't really have to look for them. 
 I sure am glad I only paid 40 bucks for this and not full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadownetspy12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is definitely a keeper. Right off the bat, I would say that it is better than any GTA 
 game to date! Now, this might seem a little ridiculous, but the moment you've topped out above 
 the clouds in your airplane, and skydive to a beautiful landscape below, you'll (hopefully) learn 
 to appreciate all that JC has to offer. The dynamic weather system is captivating, and the insane 
 car chases are amazing! The motion blur effect helps to bring out the true 360 potential, and only 
 adds to the amazing... ness... of this brilliant game! I would ABSOLUTELY consider picking this game 
 up (if you're the type who likes these sorts of games, and can play them for hours) . I bought this 
 as my first game for the 360 because I knew that I would enjoy just picking it up, and playing 
 it.
  
  Don't get me wrong. This game isn't flawless. Sometimes you'll hear the police scream at you from 
 the ground, while you're in an airplane, or you'll be accidentally thrown out of a car, but these 
 are things that one could get past easily. I highly suggest this game, because... it will definitely 
 keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Chic environments // Lot's of cars and weapons // Stunts are ========== fun to perform 
 // San Esperito is huge ...
  
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: ... yet surprisingly empty // Gunplay is pretty straight ============ forward // Campaign 
 mode is brief
  
  Just Cause (originally planned as an XBOX exclusive) has made it's way to the 360, with mixed results, 
 but most of those are positive.
  
  The graphics are pretty slick and impressive, that is, except for the characters, some of which 
 look kind of cartoonish. Just Cause's fantastic audio is great when on standard speakers, and amazing 
 when on Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound systems, from the bellowing explosions, to the sounds of Rico's 
 footsteps. Most of the games aspects are well-presented, the beautiful environments and well-thoughtout 
 achievements, add much more replayability to the game. One major issue is the brevity of the campaign 
 mode, it will take roughly 7 hours to complete, but bare in mind, there are spots where you need 
 to aquire respect and attributes.
  
  In all, Just Cause is a well rounded game from the makers of Hitman and Tomb Raider, it may feel 
 rushed in some areas, but thanks to GTA-style gameplay, you'll have fun for quite a while ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Luckily I rented this game as I think I would have been disappointed if I had bought it.
  
  It starts out well, everything looks nice, animates smoothly and has a great sound to it. The controls 
 are well balanced and apart from a slight pause during jumping, it all runs along great.
  
  Getting missions is easy and completing them is satisfying and leaves you wanting to do more. You 
 can start out either by jumping straight into the story and working your way through that or start 
 completing the numerous other tasks open to you on the huge group of islands.
  
  I started by doing the first few story missions and then got sidetracked on some of the town liberation 
 missions, jumping back into the story as soon as I had liberated that portion of map I was currently 
 in. This method pretty much carried me through the game from start to finish.
  
  As far as I can tell, there are about 15 story missions, each taking from anywhere betweeen 10 
 minutes and 30 minutes to complete. Some of these are very easy while others are quite tricky and 
 require you to keep coming back to try again.
  
  On top of this there must be at least 40 town liberation missions. These though are not like the 
 varied missions and require you to just run into a town with some local militia and kill and blow 
 up almost everything in your path. At the end of it you either kill the boss man or swap the local 
 flag to mark it complete.
  
  This is fun in the initail stages but after the 30th time of doing it, the novelty does begin to 
 wear off.
  
  And so I move onto the more negative things that I found in the game. The worst for me is the random 
 deaths that occur while playing. It is so frustrating that if you garner the attention of an enemy 
 helicopter while on a mission, you can run around almost indefinitely with bullets raining about 
 you, but hardly ever get hit. Jump inside a vehicle though and you will be dead within seconds! 
 What's that all about?
  
  Also, it is not always obvious where you are supposed to go or what you are supposed to do when 
 you get there. Most of the time I ended up just looking at the map to find the next liberation 
 mission and from there continued on with the story, Part of the problem I think is that the game 
 world is so large and open it must have been hard to coherently put it all together.
  
  But these are small nags though in the grand scale of things. This game is huge and has a lot to 
 offer. On top of all the liberation missions there are loads of little missions where you get to 
 deliver stuff, take people out, scout out enemy installations and many more things. Then there 
 are the collection missions where you go around colleciing dropped items.
  
  On top of all this, I have not mentioned what you can actually do in this lovely looking world. 
 Flying is by far the best way to get around and there are loads of planes and helicopters that 
 you can use. On the ground you can appropriate any vehicle as long as it stops long enough to get 
 in it. Even in the water there are plenty of boats that you can jump onboard and sail about. On 
 top of that you have a re-usable parachute that you can open most of the time, from jumping off 
 high buildings and cliffs to getting up to speed on a motorbike and then pulling the ripcord to 
 fly up into the air and gently glide back down into the middle of any enemy installation.
  
  All these things and more go to make this a really unique game and one that has a lot of appeal. 
 So far I have ploughed over 24 hours into it (you get this stat and many more in game) and have 
 completed about 75% including the main story mode and there is still plenty of missions and races 
 still to do.
  
  It is a big game and one that should keep you coming back for more for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  While I understand the irony in what I'm about to say, calling Just Cause a GTA-clone doesn't really 
 do the game justice. Sure, it has open ended gameplay in a large setting, but the game is different 
 in more aspects than it borrows from said popular franchise. Being set in a jungle setting alone 
 is enough to differentiate this game from the pack. Aside from it's differences, the core game 
 just isn't very interesting after a few hours.
  
  Just Cause's main problem with it's open endedness is that there isn't much to see or do. In fact, 
 the locations you CAN do stuff are so spread out that going from point A to B takes far too long 
 in most cases and becomes quite boring very quickly. Driving anywhere is more of a hassle than 
 it's worth, and the main joy comes from flying. There is also a fast transport that works fairly 
 well, but it only takes you to the story mission you have to do next or a safe house you've unlocked. 
 Speaking of the story missions, there are only 21 of them... And finishing them all will only take 
 you about 5 hours. Normally in a game like this, that wouldn't be a problem since you have so much 
 else to do, but there isn't that much else to do in this game. The story missions are pretty varied, 
 some more interesting than others, and overall the story isn't bad. There are a few missions that 
 are extremely difficult and frustrating for no apparent reason, and a few others that are terribly 
 easy. Overall, the main missions are the highlight of the game... And clocking in at such a short 
 life span, it sums up the amount of enjoyment you'll get playing this.
  
  Other things to do in San Esperito include racing, liberating settlements (which liberate provinces 
 eventually) and side missions. Almost all the liberation missions are exactly the same with slightly 
 different surroundings. Kill guys, blow up 3 blockades, capture flag, repeat nearly 100 times. 
 The races are okay, nothing stood out to me about them except two of them I had a hell of a time 
 trying to beat before I just gave up. The side missions are all focused on two styles; go to point 
 A, get something, go back to point A or go to point B... OR go to point A, kill someone (thing) , 
 go back to point A or go to point B. Gets old after just a few side missions.
  
  The one thing that really cuts the experience short is the police that chase you are relentless. 
 If you nudge one car while driving you get 1 out of 5 on the police meter and either a billion 
 cops are after you, shooting you and ramming you or... get this... a helicopter will chase you and 
 shoot at you with rockets. For a 1 rating. I couldn't tell a difference between 1 and 5, really. 
 Most of the time this was more of an annoyance than anything else, but, boy, what an annoyance.
 
  
  One last thing to note about Just Cause is that it's terribly easy. Not only does it take seemingly 
 hundreds of shots to bring down Rico, but there are ammo restocks all over the place, as well as 
 ammo/grenade/health pickups from killed enemies. Explosions do a lot of damage, and I think the 
 only times I died were from rockets or grenades I didn't see next to me. I died a lot, but it wasn't 
 because the game is hard, just unbalanced with what can hurt you.
  
  Overall, after putting in around 20+ hours, I'm done. I beat it, I beat a liberated a lot of settlements, 
 I've flown/driven lots of vehicles... I've had my share. If you're tossing it up between this game 
 and say, Saint's Row, I would choose Saint's Row since there is so much more to do and overall, 
 just so much more fun to be had. That said, this game makes for a perfect rental since it's short 
 and sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frumpton
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  In Just Cause you play as Rico Rodriguez who is sent to the island of San Esperito to get rid of 
 the local regime there by overthrowing the big man, Salvador Mendoza. With the help of Sheldon 
 (a guy who wears Hawaiian shirts) , Kane (a tough woman with a lot of attitude) and the local resistance 
 force The people's revolutionary army of San Esperito. Many missions include breaking resistance 
 members out of prison, assignation, liberation and plenty of shooting. San Esperito is a lovely 
 island to explore, Most of it is forest and hills, while towns and cities dot around the place.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very nice indeed, since this review is taken form a Xbox 360 viewpoint, needless 
 to say though, the graphics should be very nice also on the other formats, PC and PS2. Unfortunately 
 though the sun sometimes is to bright and may visibility to drop.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is good. The guns could have had a bit more pop though. The soundtrack is a mix of Spanish 
 type music with electronic beats. The music is satisfying enough and does well to change depending 
 on the pace of the gameplay. Just about every body in the game speaks in a Spanish accent and uses 
 Spanish words like Amigo, Hombre and Senor but the rest is in English. Gameplay:
  
  Many gameplay elements are taken from the Grand Theft Auto series. The island Is GTA sized (in 
 other words massive) . The game is very free roaming, you can go to the other side of the island 
 if you wish to after the first mission, though I would wait a couple of missions so that the side 
 missions will open up and you get a couple of extra gadgets on your side. The game opens up very 
 nicely by you freefalling off a plane and seeing the island which the game will contain you. Its 
 a very smooth beginning that captures the essence of the game magnificently. Yes you can free fall 
 at very high heights. You have an unlimited parachute to save you from going splat on the groung 
 though. The parachute plays a big part of the game. While driving a car, pressing the A button 
 will cause to jump on the roof, another press of the A button will cause you to open your chute 
 and go hurtling into the air. A very useful gadget is the grapple, this allows you to grab hold 
 of cars and glide behind them, reeling yourself in allowing you to jump on the cars roof, or in 
 a helicopters case, the tail. This game is not for people who like realistic gaming, as this game 
 throws all real life physics out of the window. This game is meant to be unrealistic; you can jump 
 through helicopter rotors without a scratch, now tell me that isnt realistic. One of the main 
 focuses of this game is liberating San Esperito. This is done by liberating towns, cities and villages. 
 To liberate a location you may either need to capture the flag, kill a certain individual or just 
 kill lots and lots of people. In many cases though to get your troops to advance you need to blow 
 up barricades. One downside to the gameplay is the lock on system Just Cause uses. It is way too 
 easy and nice to you. As long as youre looking in the direction of the enemy you will lock on 
 to them. With the lock on its possible to kill 4 people in 2 seconds, its just that easy.
  
  Longevity:
  
  The Main campaign is very short, but if youre into looking in every nook 
 and cranny looking for that elusive extra, boy are you in for a treat. Plus there are 50 achievements 
 for 360 owners to achieve. These range from killing 500 people to do 50 side missions, so getting 
 them all should take you a while. Conclusion:
  
  Just Cause is a very fun and exciting romp of a game. it is a long as you want it. With just a 
 few bad points to mar its score. But if you ever played a GTA game and wanted a little extra, 
 this could be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelross
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Just Cause
  
  Just Cause ,for the most part ,is an enjoyable experience. The game is very noob friendly, with 
 a learning curve of around 30 minutes and fairly simple objectives for most , if not all of the 
 missions. But one problem with this is that the game seems too simplified. For example huge arrows 
 are placed over objectives and enemy AI seem to charge at you in the same way and formation with 
 each and every battle. The enemies never use the cover which is scattered all over the landscape 
 and are at best sloppy at aiming. The same cannot be said for Rico as the auto aim slapped onto 
 this game is so heavy that there is no difficulty at all in mowing down 100s upon 100s of enemies. 
 The best thing about Just cause is definitely the atmosphere which accompanies the island, the 
 feeling of paragliding around the island just as sun sets is brilliant and I found myself heading 
 to high cliffs at certain times of day just to plummet off them and soar around the sky for a few 
 moments. Another great thing about this game is the large variety of cars and guns to reek havoc 
 with all around the 1000km2 plus of island. Having played the game for a good few weeks now it 
 seems as if every few days theres a new car I see driving around the island. For the most part 
 these cars handle well, apart from some of the smaller vehicles such as the atv which skid around 
 with the slightest change of direction. One big criticism I have of this game is that although 
 the islands are hug , there doesnt seem that there is much to do. There are the odd races and 
 liberations for you to do but once youve done a good few of them there isnt much else to keep 
 your attention for longer than an hour. The lifespan of the game is not long and this is not aided 
 by the tiny main campaign of the game spanning only a few hours. If there is to be a Just Cause 
 2 already in development this is definitely something they need to improve. Overall I enjoyed this 
 game as it fun to play in short bursts as the missions dont take a long amount of time but for 
 &pound;50, this isnt the bargain of the century. If you want a burst exciting and fun gameplay 
 at the expense of lifespan then I recommend Just Cause, but apart from that Id save your cash 
 for any better alternatives that may appear later this year and into 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saintz_Row_666
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  390 Square miles. Do you have any idea how big that is? Not big enough to save this game from the 
 long fall. Don't get me wrong the game has amazing graphics and flying over the many small islands 
 and large regions of forest with high detail trees and vechiles below blows you away., but it stops 
 there. Apart from the graphics there is nothing else that really appeals in this game, sure i had 
 fun grappling a few cars and hitching rides across country but eh that can only be fun a few 100 
 times before it gets repetitive. What really lets just cause down is the missions, plain and simple 
 the missions blow, why you ask? Just Cause. Sorry i had to use that. But the missions lack anything 
 revolutinary all the same things you see in other games of these sorts, infultrate this, blow up 
 that, shoot him, get here, get there. The story line isn't had to follow, maybe as their is alack 
 of a story line there, you run along to your Mission Start point, do your mission that usually 
 takes no longer then 5 minutes and then you repeat over and over until boredom sets in. All in 
 all the game falls very short of anything even remotely fun, and if i were you i'd stick to saints 
 row or GTA on your Xbox or Ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is what you would get if you mixed James Bond action sequences, with Far Crys setting, 
 and GTAs gameplay. Basically the 3 blend into a perfect action game setting, thats surprisingly 
 a whole lot of fun. Read on to find out why. Graphically while the game is a port of a current 
 gen game, luckly there was a good amount of special effects, motion blur, long viewing distance, 
 and some amazing shine and effects thrown in to make the game look and feel more next gen. While 
 not the best looking game on the 360 its still a gorgeous game.
  
  The Gameplay is set up for some really amazing action. From Bond like moments like jacking helecopters 
 by grappling onto them and then kicking the pilot out to steal it, to just the sheer amount of 
 over the topness that consits with the games action sequences.
  
  The action its self is really fun, and theres plenty of awesome weapons, and health provided to 
 make it easy, yet still really fun. The controls are solid, the cars all handel superbly, and surprisingly 
 the helicopters and Jets both control amazingly! The story is mediocre at best, with average cut 
 scenes. But the action, and gameplay make up for these small short comings. If worked on a little 
 more Just Cause could of been even better than it was, but as it stands its still a great game 
 that I reccomend to GTA fans and action fans Alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I was so pumped for this game after playing the demo. But after playing the game, its not all that 
 good. The graphis are pretty decent, but the story line lacks the thing it needs to make it fun, 
 and make u wanted more. There are tons of side missions but they get OLD realy FAST. They didnt 
 add any mutiplayer and it could have used it to make it better. In the end with its short single 
 player and no mutiplayer this game is a rental, but i woodnt recamend buying it. This game could 
 have been good, if they fix the problems with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pep3_le_pew
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  i bought this game because it looked good on the advert and granted game play is ok but the graphics 
 side lets it down completely. this is a next gen console with excellent graphics capability and 
 to have a game that graphics blur's as you rotate the view and really bad aiming cross-hair to 
 me was a bad idea. it was a mistake for me to purchase this game and regret wasting my money. on 
 the other hand the stunts are pretty good but to me that didn't appeal at all. they could have 
 achieved much more with this if they wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mouthforbathory
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is very interesting in how it delivers on many fronts, has some significant flaws, yet 
 still seems to pull you in despite those the cons involved.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very impressive and I must say that the game's draw distance is insane. 
 The dynamic shadowing could be a bit cleaner, but when the game is in motion with the added blurring 
 effect, you don't even notice the discrepencies.
  
  Sound: The sound is good, yet their is the lack of music in any form. However this provides the 
 optimal oppurtunity to provide your own soundtrack. I highly recommend Motorhead as it goes well 
 with the action and pace.
  
  Controls: Decently placed for the game, very similar if not the exact same as GTA's button placements 
 in some regards. The autoaim makes the game too easy.
  
  Gameplay: This game is easy, especially when you can take so many hits, and the autoaim does the 
 job for you. The ability to go anywhere without barriers like GTA does is a big plus since it only 
 encourages exploration which is part of the fun for me. The GTA style mission setup does sit well 
 with me yet it seems unoriginal.
  
  Other comments: The overall Avalanche game engine is very impressive in what it does in Just Cause, 
 from day and night cycles that effect the shadows, to the overall graphics that contribute to the 
 beauty of the game. The lack of realistic physics did get to me some, especially when noticing 
 how slowly you free fall, but it tends not bother me so much in a third person game where you're 
 not so upclose and personal as in an FPS. One other thing I must mention is the completeness of 
 the enviroments. GTA tries to compress everything about a city into such small areas, whereas JC 
 went for a much larger scale and exceeded in creating in my opinion the most realistic overall 
 sandbox world in any game to date (albet the physics) . I'd say that one should at least rent the 
 game and it's ambitious approach that does deliver on many fronts very unexpectedly. It's not the 
 best game in the world, but hey, it's lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixthsquare
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  at first when the main character whtever his name is sky dives out of the plane your thinking owe 
 man this going to be awesome then when you hit the land and enemies come and you start killing 
 them without even trying with the auto aim you're like ok still cool just easy. when you get to 
 your safe house and start your first mission you realise how crappy the game look for a xbox 360 
 game. the missons are ok and the story line allright, but the driving is horrific. don't waste money 
 on this game ,rent it or let your friend buy it then borrow it , well no don't even let friend 
 waste his money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smccann01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  More fun than a barrel of Cheerleaders.
  
  Ignore the reviews and ask yourself this: - do you enjoy Grand-Theft-Auto-style gameplay? - do 
 you enjoy being The Good Guy? - do you enjoy being a bad-ass Good Guy? - driving, flying, swimming, 
 BASE-jumping, HALO-jumping - does this sound like a fun time? - exploring the biggest single-player 
 game world in any game without loading or hiccups?
  
  That's the Just Cause experience on Xbox 360. There is no reason not to get this game.
  
  Most 
 importantly, this game works. Nobody seems to have taken EA to task for its broken Tiger Woods 
 2007, or its broken Battlefield 2142 and all their respective bugs. And this game is a technological 
 achievement that outstrips both of those. This thing is Grand Theft Auto meets Oblivion - and it 
 makes them both look like Pong.
  
  A technological Tour de Force.
  On top of that, reviewers are complaining about graphical glitches that I just don't see. Just 
 Cause has a massive, detailed world, whose pop-in is negligible and realistic at its very worst. 
 No other game on 360 allows you to drop from 30,000 feet, fall through rain clouds, past high jungle 
 canopy and majestic cliffs, pull your chute and glide to a stop on a pristine, sandy beach. And 
 then go for a swim and see tropical fish and finely detailed coral under the water.
  
  If you own an Xbox 360, this is the game to get to show it off the system to your friends. Yeah, 
 the combat's easy, yeah, the story isn't that long. But the side missions (330 in all) and the 
 satisfaction that comes from liberating a settlement or hacienda is more than enough to make up 
 for it.
  
  Besides, who doesn't want to hang out at la playa con las chicas? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redskins5566
Rating: 1.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is trash from start to how far it takes you to figure that out. I played this game for 
 less than a hour and i had cars getting stuck in the ground and flipping from hitting a stick.
 
  
  First - you need sun glasses while playing the game becasue everything in the game shines in your 
 eyes like your are starring at the sun.
  
  Second - I dont know how they could make driving in a game so bad. Eventhing drives like a boat 
 on land but i think a boat would Drive better.
  
  Third - So many bugs. I was on my second or third side mission and i had to blow up a silo. So 
 i get there and im trying to blow up the silo but for some reason im able to run right through 
 it. Needless to say i coundnt blow it up becasue it wasent really there. Cars get stuck in the 
 ground just by driving around.
  
  Forth - I think the music is one crappy song that repeats i dont know i didnt listen to it long 
 enough.
  
  Fifth - The good old auto aim. You dont even really play the game it plays for you. Theres no kind 
 of lock on the game just locks on to the closest thing and then switches when whatever it is is 
 gone.
  
  There are some cool things in the game like the grappling hook that u can fly behind cars with 
 and some of the shots of the ski are cool but overall the game is crap.
  
  Please Don't Buy it I woundnt even rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_mac555
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  This game is only a rental, I feel sorry for you if you bought this extremely short game brand 
 new. I finished the game in a little over 5 hours. The graphics are good and a few gimmicks in 
 the game are fun like the grappling hook and stunts. I ran into a few glitches when in the PDA 
 menu system my game froze a few times. If you like realism in games this is definitely not the 
 game for you. I thought the vehicle physics were done poorly and not very realistic. This is a 
 fun one day Gamefly rental, but thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be awsome. But it somehow missed the GTA status it was going for. 
 My biggest problem with the game was the horrid cut scenes. The character models looked very unrealistic 
 and the audio didnt always match the lips. This just sucks you out of the experience. The most 
 redeeming factor of this game though is the enviornment. It looks absolutly beautiful. The cars 
 look amazing, the planes look amazing. The developers did a fantasitic job at that. So this game 
 is mostly a rent unless you truly fall in love with it. But, unfortunatly, i doubt you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomcage
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Just cause is a very nice looking game that can be fun to play. highjacking helcopters with grapping 
 hooks and jumping from plane to plane and crazy stuff like that is enough to recomend it alone. 
 However, the game suffers from some serious floors nameley the combat which on foot is borderline 
 attrocious. gun play in this game is just plain boring and seriously repetitive. the mini liberation 
 side games are also very samey and only get interesting if youve got some sort of attack helicopter 
 youve skyjacked. another issue is the fact that the island is too big and most of the island is 
 uninhabitable jungle with a few villages this makes traversing the game a serious pain in the arse, 
 coupled with a very poor and rather confuing mini map. whilst the island visuals and vehical detail 
 look stunning the npcs you encounter look rather crap up close. overall just cause isn't a bad 
 game the stuff involving parachuting and grappling hooks is pretty cool but there isn't really 
 enough to recomend it fully. Yes it is worth playing but im not sure its worth buying the game 
 may earn the dubious honour of being the first 360 game i trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Just Cause should not be compared to GTA as it stands on its own. It has beautiful graphics that 
 really stand out on the Xbox 360. I enjoyed looking at the quickly approaching landscape has I 
 dived out of my air plane for the landing zone. The only problem I have with Just Cause is you 
 will have to be a Xbox Live subscriber to get the required software updates. Just Cause incorporates 
 a new technology known as motion blur which looks awesome, but will also lock up your system if 
 it isn't updated. My system locked up quite a bit before the October 31, 2006 update was applied. 
 But now, the game is awesome!! I enjoyed the sound effects, especially the music since it adds 
 that Latin feel to the game. The voices are basic with the regular chit chat coming from every 
 character as you pass by. I also like the way the main character, Rico only talks when he has to. 
 This makes him man-of-few-words tough, and also everybody's hero.
  
  Overall, Just Cause is a truly an excellent game that is unique for its many insane stunts, and 
 drop dead beautiful graphics! Avalanche Studios and Eidos Interactive have done an outstanding 
 job in creating this highly recommended game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearinchaos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  I was a nay-sayer of this game from the demo to release, and when I played the full version I came 
 to realize that this game was actually very addictive and kept me wanting to play more. Graphically 
 its pretty nifty, so long as you dont get right up on the item youre trying to view, but the skydiving 
 graphics are what really amaze me. Music can be very enticing, but on the rare occasion you want 
 to just plug in an ipod and listen to it rather than the music. Story-line isnt phenominal, but 
 itll keep you playing none-the-less. Targetting is my only true **** about this game, because its 
 just not that great on manual control so you pretty much want to keep it on the auto-target feature. 
 Definately a game to pick up and play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  whether you are looking for a simple story mode game, or a time killer just cause is the game for 
 you. If you willing to see a lot of the same when it comes to the atmosphere, and gameplay, it 
 shouldn't bother you much.
  
  story - your a secret agent (Rico) who goes to this country (huge island) to take a crazy dictator. 
 and thats that, without giving away anything good. the actually story is very short
  
  gameplay - if your willing to do a lot of killing and a lot driving, and a lot of takeover, and 
 a lot of searching this game is for you. you end up doing more side missions than the actually 
 story mode. graphics - not impressive at all, but thats not the point of the game. its the gameplay.
 
  
  replay value - its there if your willing to go over 20 hours of flying, driving, and shooting.
 
  
  overall - this game while it caught my attention, it pisses me off with many glitches like not 
 giving achievements and doing thing over and over, or freezing and having to start over.
  
  not a must buy, and i wouldn't say its a must rent either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Think James Bond mixed with Syphon Filter and Far Cry and you get the just of Just Cause.
  
  Gameplay is what your thinking. You can perform extreme stunts on the fly You shoot lots of 
 bad guys. Complete different kinds of missions. Your main goal (without spoiling too much) , is 
 too liberate a small island in the Caribbean.
  Control is a bit loose, but overall ok. Using vehicles, especially air and sea is harder than land 
 based.
  
  Sound and music is done well. The tone of the game is excellent. Other than the horrible cut scenes 
 (partly because of the voice acting) , the developers did a great job.
  
  The island is fairly large, but on the sparse side. Most of it consists of uninhabited jungle or 
 water. There are plenty of side missions and extras to do. I spent about 26 hours with the game, 
 and am about 96% complete.
  
  Why won't I buy the game? (Other than being mostly done with it) The bugs and glitches. I'm not 
 going to get into detail. But the game could have used another three months in QA.
  
  Bottom line, definitely rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations of this game when I saw the previews for it, and for the most part they 
 were met.
  
  Gameplay is very simple to figure out you go and find missions whether that be liberations of military 
 controlled areas or side missions for different guerrilla groups which in turn adds up respect 
 points that open up different safe houses and many other things. You have the ability to release 
 your parachute while on the hood of any car and personally I think thats one of the best ways to 
 get into places with fences trying to keep you out. You can steal any car that is driving on the 
 road and do what you please weather drive it off a cliff, blow it up or use if for the missions. 
 You can save your game at many of safe houses throughout the map along with your car. There are 
 many safe house locations around the map but not all of them can be used until you put the proper 
 time in for the factions to unlock them. You can fly helicopters, planes, boats, and others. The 
 planes and helicopters are good because you can get around the map easier, and if you thinking 
 oh you'll just drive well good luck this map is huge. The only thing I don't like is the missions 
 can come a little repetitive at times but what game this big doesn't have that minor problem. Trust 
 me that little thing doesn't barely enter my mind as I'm playing it.
  
  Overall this game is going into the library because it will talke me so long to finally beat it 
 and explore the whole map. This game is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdZero54
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  At first look, Just Cause seems to be a pretty decent game. Fun gun play, pretty visuals and a 
 wide open environment. True the game does have all those aspects, there are many issues that keep 
 Just Cause from becoming a major hit. After playing for several hours, I was already more than 
 halfway through the game. At many times during the game I wanted to turn it off, but after completing 
 missions it would not give me a Save Now feature. It had this feature for several missions, but 
 most did not. To save you have to return to a safe house and safe there. This is OK if you want 
 to refill your health, but most to the times it is a huge waste of time. There were also many, 
 many cheap deaths, due to physics issues. A couple of times I was stuck in front of a car, unable 
 to move. I just slowly watched as my health drained and then I died. The same problem also occurs 
 with vehicles. One mission in particular made you drive a cocoa truck back to your base. Sounds 
 easy enough, but the AI is relentless on trying to stop you. Once they pull in front of your car 
 THEY WILL NOT MOVE! They just sit there as you drive to your destination. You can reverse and move 
 around them, however, more trucks come and just park in front of your car. On the plus side, the 
 game plays like a Hollywood action flick. In no other game can I open a parachute after I drive 
 a car off a cliff. If I wanted to, I could even grapple a helicopter going by to hitch a ride. 
 These little quirks are fun for the first few hours, then they start to wear then. Most of the 
 missions play the same. Liberate this area. Kill these people. Whoopee. I don't know if it was 
 just me, but sometimes it was hard to see the screen. I know this is a feature with the sun and 
 the glare on the game, but sometimes I just can't see anything I am doing. All in all, this game 
 is average at best. It has a few good things going for it, but the bad things stop it from being 
 great. But if you're a fan of films that involve blowing up entire buildings and walking through 
 thousands of rounds without getting hit, this game might be one to pick up. Although I would recommend 
 renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good i played it and it a pretty good game.
  The gameplay is good and the graphics are just awesome i can say...
  the view is amazing when 
 u look from far away to the islands
  But this game has a problem it is very easy to play just shoot and they die very easy i thought 
 it might be little bit different.
  Anyways.... The best in this game that it is Huge damm Huge i mean better than GTA to travel around 
 the island in this game.
  The sound in this game is are great and even the shooting part.
  
  Soo far from here what i see is that this is a worth playing.
  It is fun to play...
  just 
 looking at this game Just Cause means its just Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neurothustra
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be harsh on this game, and the reason for that is this: the game aspired to be great, 
 and it could have been great, but it severaly lacked polish and the control were abysmal. As a 
 result, you play a game where the intent of the developer is obvious but your ability to play it 
 that was is impossible.
  
  Though I played this game frequently over the span of three days, the button mapping and control 
 scheme seems diametrically opposed to the way my brain kept insisting to play. FOr example - when 
 you swim you move forward with the Left Analog+UP, but the moment you dive underwater you must 
 move forward by holding the Right Trigger to swim. This sudden shift in control was jarring, even 
 after playing the game for more than just a couple days. Likewise, my mind also never registered 
 the convoluted stunt maneuvers while driving. And the vehicle control itself was terrible - mainly 
 because the camera would roll if the car would roll, so if you drive up a hill and start to slide 
 down sideways, the whole screen tilts at an angle and you find yourself inadvertently tilting your 
 head along with it like a dong listening to a strange sound.
  
  And of course among the most baffling of bizarre button-mapping choices wa the grappling hook. 
 Situated among the rest of your arsenal, which is controlled by hitting left or right on the directional 
 pad, is the grappling hook. This means that if you plan on getting into a firefight, be prepared 
 to quickly switch between your gun and your grappling hook in time to latch on to a moving vehicle. 
 All the while, the X Button goes unused while on foot (because, of course, the X button is used 
 to fire weapons while driving, as opposed to the logical and natural assumption of the Right Trigger, 
 which is used to move forward) .
  
  Beyond the controls, which ultimately kill the game for me, is the gameplay itself. And really, 
 it's just an example of crappy action bravado:
  you've got a quarter health left, almost out of ammo and you're in an open field pitted against 
 an army and 2 apache helicopters... . Garbage like that just substitutes overwhelming odds with 
 good A. I. and challenging gameplay mechanics. Good thing though, that while these scenarios do 
 occurs, the bad guys have terrible aim, so long as you keep moving you'll lose very little health.
 
  
  That is, until the endgame, where you fight the aforementioned army and ever present, unlimited 
 ammo helicopters, but you also get bomber jets and missle tanks who all know where you are know 
 matter how deeply entrenched in the woods you are - and in spite of the large guerilla army that 
 is rushing El Presidente's base, all that hardware is aimed specifically at you.
  
  The game does something right though, with the beautiful, load-less island that is simply HUGW, 
 and teh skydiving/parachuting aspects. It really is fun and exhilarating to plant a bomb on an 
 enemy encampment and then run up to the nearby cliff and basejump to safety. SuperBad! In moments 
 such as these, I really wanted to like the game so much more than I did. But after I jump, parachute 
 and land, it's back to the same boring island. In short, the amount of time I was having fun playing 
 this game is too easily dwarfed by the amount of time I was playing the game and not having fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Its like a cross between James Bond and Grand Theft Auto. You can do stunts like 
 James Bond but most of the way the game play is layed out (stealing cars. shootin stuff. saving 
 your game, saving your cars) is like GTA. But you can do more things in it rather like GTA you 
 get rankings in 2 groups. Rioja and the Guerrillas. EAch one as your rank goes up they give you 
 better stuff or better safe houses. My favorite part is capturing the intl. airport and flying 
 the jets around blowing stuff up. I got addicted to it and kept playing non stop on the weekend. 
 It's a must buy for GTA or adventure lovers. Though it takes some time to learn what the symboles 
 mean and what to do in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  ok let me just clear up wat i mean. the sound on my game (mayb i got a dodgey copy) cut out wen 
 people were talkin it was like tryin to listen to a scratched cd. also graphic glithes really did 
 annoy me, i would be drivin a car one second. then al of a sudden im in the sea humpin the floor!
 
  the gameplay ie the controls etc. is awesome. definatly my type of game controls.
  i loved the unqiue bits you could do with the game. like jumpin to a car.
  the overal easiness 
 of this game left me completely it within 20-30hours. which is ok i guess but for a game with such 
 a wide play-land it kinda dissapointed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stenay
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying that after only just five hours of intense play, to my shock and terror 
 I have already seen the end credits, just as I thought the story was going somewhere, it is all 
 over.
  
  This game is at time a joy to play, using a fast variety of vehicles around the HUGE map, with 
 very limited detail, just miles and miles of dirt track and green fields.
  
  If you enjoy a tactical shooter, this one is not for you, with out a crouch button, the game makes 
 it impossible to play any stealth what so ever, it is basically a shoot fest.
  
  Heaps of weapons to choose from, is a real bonus to this game, from twin pistols to an RPG, as 
 you will wage war commando style.
  
  Another novelty idea in this game is the sky diving, parachuting, and car jumping acrobatics, or 
 even using a grapling hook to hitch a ride on a chopper or boat.
  
  Just cause is very similar to Saints row, in the way it uses the cop and gang chase rate, from 
 1 to 5, but you can't really tell the difference as the heat turns up, like in most of todays similar 
 games.
  
  The story, graphics and sound are all avarage, this game is more drawn to a younger audience, with 
 no need for a challange, that will be drawn to the unique aspects of the game.
  
  No online play is a disgrace, you can see the potential the game could bring online, a real shame.
 
  
  All up though, i HAD FUN playing this game, but did not get anything out of it, definetly a rental, 
 you could complete in a day or two at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  When the Downloadable Demo was available on XBL, I really wasn't pleased with this game one bit. 
 Either it was a bad time for me or either is just came off as a really bad game.
  
  But anyways, the game isn't really all that bad. I have been playing it since its release and I 
 just can't stop, well until the game is finished. Its basicaly just like being in South America 
 but on a bunch of huge Islands. On foot or in a car the Islands are so huge and covered in rain 
 forest. But you really get a feel of it huge lay-out in the air.
  
  Sometimes you just have to stop and look at the sceneary. But the game is just way to easy and 
 really long. After awhile you can get bored with it, but it is one of those hidden gems that merit 
 a rental.
  
  If you like shooting a lot of people and running from the cops and trying out all sorts of vehicles 
 to get the job down, this game is at least worth a try.
  
  On a High Def screen this game is stunning to the eye but just a few notches lower than GRAW. If 
 there were a Multiplayer to this title it would be some where on gamers maps.
  
  When you get bored and can't find a decent 360 game to play, pick this one up at your local rental 
 store and give this one a shot.
  
  Whoever thought to put a strip club in a valcano? Now thats HOT!
  
  I give this one an 8.7 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyzzvya01
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause doesn't take itself seriously. At all. BUT, that doesn't take away any fun from it. 
 People say it should be more realistic, better physics etc, but playing games isn't about realism. 
 Thats what the REAL world is for.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in just cause are exceptional on anything but PS2. Xbox and 360 versions are by far 
 the best, boasting massive draw distances and plenty of foliage and jungle.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound however, is pretty average. Guns sound lame, and the surround sound is backwards.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY
  
  There are lots of wow moments in Just cause, the first time you jump out of a plane at 6000 feet, 
 have an hour long chase with the police, or steal a speedboat and go cruising through the game's 
 beautiful rivers.
  Shooting is fairly straightforward, with an auto lock feature that eliminates the need for any 
 skill in aiming, and guns that are all basically the same.
  Parachuting is great, the ability to open and close your 'chute at will is an interesting and positive 
 addition to the game.
  
  Overall, just Cause provides a good alternative to GTA, and should keep you busy for a week or 
 two at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEM0NCHIEF
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay is fast and frenzied, at one moment you are on the ground fighting tanks 
 &amp; infantry and the next your using the grappling hook to catch a chopper to scorch the earth 
 of all living inhabitants. The problem with some of the stuff though is just the random glicthes 
 and quirks of the game, like when you are flying a chopper and just completely randomly die for 
 no apparent reason- it happens, no sams, no A-A, no other choppers or anything. Then another problem 
 is the balance of the weapons in the game- i. e you can stand in front of a turret for 20 seconds 
 and not die but one tank shot 15 ft away from you will take you down to half health or worse.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in Just Cause arent great upclose but I donk know of any that are better 
 from up in the sky when flying jets and choppers, the island looks amazing with the water and lighting 
 effects, also the foggy mist that surrounds the high mountain peaks is amazing. One other graphical 
 feature that is just stunning are the explosions, they are some of the best I have ever seen.
 
  
  Sound- This is where Just Cause suffers alot, the missles and explosions sound good but that is 
 about all. Most of the guns sound exactly alike, the cars sound similar except for a few and there 
 are literally 6 songs that the game plays all the time (one when you get an achievement, 3 for 
 just random driving and shooting, 1 for liberation and takover missions and 1 for skydiving- that 
 is really all there is) . Value- There is alot of value to the game, the island is 1,024 sq. kilometers 
 (that is HUGE) - many many guns and vehicles and just plain and simple missions out there that you 
 can go and do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElBarto111393
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is the new free roamer that plays the character of Rico Rodriguez, CIA agent trying 
 to put down President Mendoza of San Esperito, and power hungry tyrant.
  
  Pros: Absolutely HUGE world that's gorgeous to roam where ever you please; good variety of weapons; 
 fun missions; tons of side missions; drive anything you want; just fun
  
  Cons: Glitches are a serious problem; unrealistic to the max; barely dies
  
  This game is a 
 definent rent, but it's not a buy for everyone, unless you're a free roaming nut. Just Cause offers 
 a lot for a wannabe GTA, I even think this is a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  A year or so ago, we all heard about this game called just cause that was supposed to change the 
 3rd Person Crime Scene with its open ended maps, and great graphics. In those two aspects it delivers, 
 however it does let itself down in a few ways, Don't get me wrong, i am having fun playing it, 
 the stunts and unique features of this game make it fun to play, however the missions are varied, 
 they can sometimes become a chore. Also the main story is short. Now the good, there is a liberation 
 feature, letting you take control of the country, and also a good variety of weapons and vehicles. 
 It is great fun to play, and is worth a buy or rent, but something feels missing. Its worth taking 
 a look at for sure, but its nothing to dance around the room about, well maybe the size of the 
 map is :O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause pits you as an American secret agent named Rico who must use any means necassary and 
 the help of local Guerillas and Drug Lords to topple the corrupt government of San Esperito.
  
  This game is played like Grand Theft Auto - its open ended which means you can go anywhere 
 (and trust me there are ALOT of places to travel) , use any kind of vehicle (boat, planes, and cars) , 
 shoot people, throw grenades, do many side missions, collect things, etc.
  
  The more side missions you do for the locals, the more powerful equipment you earn like stronger 
 handguns and assault rifles or more durable vehicles like a tank instead of a car or a jet plane 
 instead of a helicopter. Also, by successfully completing these missions you unlock safe houses 
 where you can restock on ammo, heal yourself, store your favorite vehicles, and save.
  
  Just Cause has some nifty features to it like the stunt ability - this means you stand ontop of 
 a speeding car or dangle from the tailend of a plane a thousand feet up and can either jump to 
 another nearby vehicle, jump up and use your parachute, or just jump away from the vehicle. Thats 
 another thing: this game encourages you to use your parachute so you can see more of San Esperito. 
 Also, you can free fall from high places and depending how high you are you can see the amount 
 of detail done to San Esperito, travel faster, or just watch Rico fall...
  
  In addition to all of this, its up to you to take over or liberate settlements, military bases, 
 houses, and cities with the Guerillas and Rioja Drug Cartel. Everytime you complete one of these 
 you gain some points to further your cause in the game... and you go up ranks as well.
  
  The difficulty in this game varies, and its really annoying. Taking over settlements, for instance, 
 is SO easy and repetitive - run in, kill some people, blow up three blockades and (depending on 
 who you're with) either take over the house or capture the enemy flag. But then you'll have a mission 
 where you have to infiltrate a private island by boat and the MINUTE you get near it the sky becomes 
 black with enemy helicopters and they just blow the hell out of you with rockets. Lame. Secondly, 
 the sound effects fade in and out - sure the guns sound great but the vehicles have almost no sound 
 to them. What do I mean? Okay, lets say you find a muscle car thats suppose to sound ballsy.... 
 you get in and start it up, and it makes almost no noise. What the f.... but hop into a helicopter 
 and all you hear is the rotors twirling.
  
  Thirdly, driving cars is just annoying. Almost all the roads are dirt, so no matter what kind of 
 car you're driving, you lose control. Additionally, the roads are very narrow and since its a jungle 
 type island - going off roading is pretty much useless because you'll hi9t a rock or tree that 
 will stop your vehicle in its tracks.
  
  Finally, there will be speratic fighting among government troops and guerillas... and no matter 
 what you do, if you get clsoe your wanted level will get close. How lame.
  
  However, the graphics are truley breathtaking. Everything has a unique and authentic feel. Avalanche 
 &amp; Eidos really captured the beautiful of foilage, sun sets, clouds, lighting, the water effects 
 and even the stuff in the water... everything. Easily a 10 if not for the fact that when you talk 
 to people you're lips don't move and if your suppose to be in a 3rd world country of sorts why 
 do all the cars and weapons look like they are from the futuristic year 9503? Come on now.
  
  Musically, this game has its ups and downs. When your free falling from a bazillion miles high, 
 they play this song that has some chrous chants and what not and it really helps you relax and 
 take in the bigger picture. But then you'll be driving and they will play this ANNOYING upbeat 
 latin-style music.. Whatever. The voice acting, besides Rico, was just annoying.
  
  To sum it up, if you're looking to just jump from planes or do ridiculous stunts with some easy 
 shooting that all looks amazing, or if you want to try your hand at toppleing a government then 
 Just Cause is for you. But if you are looking for excellent open ended game play with a riveting 
 story, more developed characters and more violence then go with something like Saints Row or GTA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause has taken all of the carjacking, 3rd person action if GTA, nixes the sexual atrocities, 
 and creates a freeroaming game that will be well worth your 13 hours of story mode.
  
  Playing as Rico Rodriguez, a Latino field operative sent by the USA to perform regime change in 
 the Carribean on the island of San Esperito, you are tasked with much government butt to shoot, 
 blow up, and run over. From the moment you drop into the air above San Esperito, you will be stunned 
 by the awesome graphics of Just Cause. As you and your American allies dodge the corrupt authorities 
 of El Presidente Mendoza, you will be stunned by the clear quality of the explosions you create.
 
  
  The action is neverending. You will cross a virtual 250,000 lush island acres, using your grappling 
 hook to swing from car to car to helicopter to luxury jet.
  Plus, you will frequently ally with drug cartels and anti-government guerillas to liberate cities 
 and overtake rival cartels' headquarters. You will net yourself a boatload of Gamerscore points, 
 awarding bonuses for completing story mode milestones, avoiding the corrupt authorities, collecting 
 items, and liberating areas from the government's evil hand.
  Even after the 13 hours of story mode, you will continue to fight for the drug cartels and you 
 will still have many missions to run for the guerillas to eliminate the last throes of governement 
 from the cities of San Esperito.
  
  The soundtrack features all sorts of music that you would expect from a game set in the Carribean, 
 and it plays peaceful music during freefalls, and stronger music when you are in battle.
  
  Even though it costs $60 and features no multiplay, it is still a great alternative to the mindless 
 violence of GTA, especially for those lacking XBox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  When months ago i had news about JC, i felt it could be a good game. Free roaming style, jungle, 
 side missions, a game about revolution at an island. Seems nice.
  Well, today i have played the game for more than 10 hours, and the reality says taht this game 
 is a Just a mediocre one.
  The game have many flaws, and they are bigger than the good points:
  
  -As a third person shooter 
 it has Auto aim system. This make the game too easy and you have no challenge . Just press RT and 
 all your enemies are dead. Boring.
  
  -First game with eternal life. Yeah. Rico, the main character, has the longest life bar ever. After 
 10 hours i&acute; m still alive. Boring and easy again.
  
  -The cars models look chunky. And the towns. And a lot of models. And at night the game seems a 
 cartoon video. The graphics are not good. Yes sometimes you have a beautiful sky, some nice light 
 effects, some water reflections, at the distance the game looks good, but at the next moment the 
 visuals change and you feel the disappointment.
  
  -Repetitive missions. The same side missions all the time. Infinite side missions, but with the 
 autoaim, with the eternal life bar, is boring.
  
  -The map doesn&acute; t help you. Worst map ever. The GPS is bad. You need to open the map each 
 20 seconds. Do the developers know the GPS map of Test Drive or Sain&acute; s Row?...
  
  -Hidden packages with blue dots to find them?... Yes, one of the side missions, as GTA, is to find 
 hidden packages. But at your GPS you see where they are!!!!! Too boring.
  
  -The AI is terrible. When you are chasing by cars, these cars are too stupid.
  
  - You can 
 not drive and shoot at the same time. That is bad.
  
  -Terrible controls. Cars, planes, boats, handle bad.
  
  -Repetitive sound track. I use my MP3 
 to play the game..
  
  You can enjoy the parachute, some stunt things, but the game is pretty boring, and need at least 
 one year of work. Good idea. Bad resolutions.
  
  Don&acute; t waste your money with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: explodinglamas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  i was slightly unsure when i bought just cause, after looking at varied reviews and gameplay preivews 
 i still wasn't sure about it. as it seems all my doubts were quickly washed away at the very beginning 
 when you drop out of the plane and low and behold there are the islands.
  
  This game has made my jaw rop more than any other, the sheer beauty of the islands and their inhabitants 
 is amasing. I have never had so much fun in my life in a video game, there are so many 'wow' moments 
 in this game that it is impossible to stop playing.
  
  ultimatly this game has its few downfalls, to put it simply the shooting action is sometimes too 
 easy when you are on your own and there are some glitches in the game. these faults are nothing 
 in relevance to the enjoyment that i have gotten from this game.
  
  when you skyjack your first plane or helicopter you will know what im talking about when i say 
 'wow' moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It's basically summed up above. You may get a little dizzy or pi55ed off at 
 some of the crazy a$$ things that you can do. This doesn't matter though because Eidos has done 
 yet another fantastic job and like i said about DR, if you are yet to play it then do so ASAP. 
 Well there isn't really much more to say apart from that it is, like I have selected, just plain 
 fun. What more can I say, you've got to play it, so you be the judge. Hmm, that still wasn't enough. 
 Can everyone on the forums stop dissing the game. Just play the GD game and if you don't like it, 
 get over it and harden the fuk up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astarothgate
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Well to be honest it's good to have this type of game for the pc... although this is pretty much 
 a revamp of mercanaries for the ps2... practically identical in terms of presentation... in which 
 if you played mercanaries you get the idea of how this game will set you off to earn rep with the 
 different factions of the game world... to unlock different vehicles and the like... although the 
 graphics are alot better than mercanaries the physics in the game need some as well as the clipping 
 where you'll find youself stuck on cars, running underneath cars, and no gamepad capability as 
 of yet... leaving this port a ways behind it's console counterpart... although well worth checking 
 out controls are a little lacking in the pc version but hopefully will be patched due to the obvious 
 flaws it has... but check it out would be worth the time of those who like mercanaries... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldemon47
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Games often require one to accept things that may not be possible in reality. Picking up health 
 packs to save you from death or having unlimited ammo for a weapon are common things that we see 
 in games all the time and often ignore how ludicrous they really are. Just Cause from Avalanche 
 Studios isnt just asking you to bend the rules of reality. It wants you to break them and kick 
 them while their down. Its action is over-the-top, silly, but usually entertaining. Unfortunately, 
 many other aspects of Just Cause are dull and sloppy make it a game worth messing around with, 
 but not necessarily worth buying.
  
  In Just Cause, you are placed in the stylish boots of Rico Rodriguez, a CIA operative called to 
 the fictional Caribbean island of San Esperito in an effort to topple the corrupt rule of President 
 Salvador Mendoza. It seems the United States government is not too happy about his dealings there 
 and wants to make sure he doesnt make it to the next UN meeting. After meeting up with your contacts 
 Sheldon and Kane, they send you on a wild romp around the whole island, as if jumping on helicopters 
 was a normal, every day activity. Throughout the 21 story missions, youll make alliances with 
 drug cartels, blow up nuclear stockpiles, kill a whole lot of bad guys and, ultimately, send Mendoza 
 to his grave. While the story itself is serviceable, it rushes along a little to fast and never 
 really makes you care about the characters. Plus, the whole thing is only about five to six hours, 
 and doesnt really leave you with a satisfying conclusion. It wraps up all the loose ends, but 
 you dont feel like youve accomplished much, despite all the shooting and skydiving youll have 
 done by the end.
  
  The island of San Esperito is massive. It is much larger than anything seen in an Xbox360 title 
 and there is very little pop-in. Youll be able to see the whole island from high in the air, and 
 if you can see it, you can get to it. There are no invisible walls to prevent you from scaling 
 the tallest mountain or diving down into the deepest sea, and loading times are no where to be 
 found. However, with the exception of a few villages and cities, most of the landscape is forest 
 and ocean. It all looks good, but this means little variety in the environments, making it somewhat 
 dull to explore. Unless you really enjoy admiring the scenery, youll find this a little disappointing.
 
  
  The main attraction of Just Cause is the completely impossible stunts you can perform. Rico has 
 a parachute with him at all times that can be used to save him from a nasty fall and glide in for 
 a quick entry. Its unrealistic that the parachute never runs out and can effectively be deployed 
 feet from the ground, but youll grow to not care since it looks so cool. It never gets snagged 
 on tree branches or telephone lines either, so feel free to land in that dense forest without fear. 
 Its all very visceral and exciting the first time you do it and stays fun throughout.
  
  As if the parachute werent enough, Rico can leap onto any vehicle, including helicopters and planes 
 in flight, and either jack them or hang on for the ride. Rotor blades and propellers have no effect 
 on Rico whatsoever, so he can just dive right though them without hesitation. You can even jump 
 from vehicle to vehicle, although it seems Rico chooses proximity rather than personal preference, 
 occasionally resulting in him jumping to a vehicle that is on the brink of explosion, or even underwater. 
 Youll earn a grappling hook early on that allows for even more crazy combinations, like jumping 
 from a boat and latching onto a helicopter that flies overhead.
  
  While the stunts are fun to mess around with, many other gameplay mechanics are not as well thought 
 out. Since Rico is expected to liberate a country, its no surprise hell be getting into a lot 
 of gun fights. There are many enemies to shoot at, but its not any challenging or satisfying to 
 do so thanks to a lock-on targeting system that was supposed to take the hassle out of normal third 
 person shooting controls. It works well, but its far too automatic. There is no button to be held 
 down; just point in the general direction of your target and hell be highlighted with a circle, 
 indicating he is next on your hit list. This makes gunplay a matter of looking toward your enemy, 
 pumping the trigger, and moving on to the next one. It also doesnt help that your enemies are 
 not bright. They are all horrible shots. Youd think that five people with automatic weapons would 
 take care of Rico in a hurry, but its simply not the case. It seems that as long as youre moving, 
 they cant seem to land a hit. It is so pathetic, but not in a funny way. You want the enemies 
 to put up more of a fight. Sadly, they dont. These attributes combined make the shootouts boring 
 and overly easy.
  
  Driving is also a chore. While the controls arent bad per say, they feel to loose and the physics 
 are really unpredictable. Sometimes youll smash head on into oncoming traffic and come to a dead 
 halt, while other times your car will go flying tens of feet into the air. While its certainly 
 possible to get used to the driving mechanics, it never feels quite right. Cars bounce around more 
 than they should and result in some pretty frustrating circumstances. For whatever reason, the 
 enemy AI is much more aggressive on the road and will do everything in its power to stop you. They 
 will attempt to make you spin out or just ram you uncontrollably. You cant shoot while driving 
 either, forcing you to leave the safety of your car and fight on foot. But, as previously stated, 
 once on foot youll quickly dispatch of the bad guys, allowing you to be on your way.
  
  The island of San Esperito is truly a sight to behold. Its big, bright and beautiful from afar 
 and seems to showcase the power of the Xbox360. But, once you get up close to it, youll notice 
 some low quality textures and really awkward animations. Rico runs like he just had a bad night 
 in a prison cell and his jumping animation appears to be completely separate from his running, 
 resulting in a second long pause before he actually jumps. The real major complaint with the graphical 
 design is the cutscenes. They just look weird. None of the characters look like real people. Instead, 
 they look like clay slapped over a skeleton and the backgrounds sometimes appear to be flat. The 
 characters look cartoon-like, and it doesnt seem to fit with the in-game appearance. The whole 
 game seems to have a light hearted attitude, but this is just pushing it too far.
  
  The developers seemed to put more effort into the sound design than actual gameplay, because it 
 is quite better overall. The voice-acting is descent, although it does seem odd that everyone on 
 a Caribbean Island speaks fluent English and Rico occasionally sounds like hes bored. The driving 
 and gunfire sounds all do their jobs, but they arent anything special. What really stands out 
 in the sound design is the music. The Latino inspired guitars, drums, and vocals all fit perfectly 
 and sound great. Unfortunately, the music cant be turned on whenever you wish. It comes in during 
 specific moments, such as when an action sequence begins or when driving in one vehicle for a long 
 time, but when exploring out in the world all you have is the ambient sound of birds chirping or 
 waves lapping, which gets old quick.
  
  There is a lot to do in Just Cause. The back of the box advertises that there are over 300 missions. 
 Technically, this is true. There are a large amount of side quests to accompany the 21 story missions, 
 but you can ignore all of these if you wish since they arent required to finish the story. All 
 of this would be great if the side missions didnt get old and repetative so quickly. They all 
 involve going from point A to point B, killing someone or stealing something, and going back to 
 your employer. These missions take anywhere from three minutes to thirty seconds to complete depending 
 on which vehicle you have. The only reason to do these are for the games achievements, but a lot 
 of time and effort must be put in and since they stop being fun in a hurry, it doesnt feel worth 
 it.
  
  Just Cause could have been something amazing. Its idea of over-the-top stunts and high flying action 
 certainly make for a fun combination, but most of the game feels unfinished. Its shooting and 
 driving are sloppy and unsatisfying and the side missions feel like a waste of time. Heres hoping 
 that someone takes this idea and puts more effort into making sure that the rest of the game compliments 
 the action. Its serves as a fun rental to mess around with simply because the stunts are so cool. 
 However, with all its faults, Just Cause is one revolution you dont have to sign up for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  After hearing about this game in April I was so excited that it was coming out for the next Gen 
 Console I was really excited with some of the stuff you could do so comes sept.27th, 2006 I went 
 down bought it brought it back to my house. After two and a half hours it seemed to get really 
 boring and plus to add to that there was just too many glitches I mean a lot of people were disappointed 
 that these people who made this game were taking the full advantage of this game. Well I jotted 
 down some of the key points that made this game horrible such as: missions were not sticking to 
 the storyline all it was kill here fly there no sense of direction it was going into a downwards 
 spiral of consistent glitches like when you fly a plane you jump out and you automatically die 
 then you got restart to the last checkpoint.
  And the Graphics were some what of ps2 graphics I didnt like the face textures they looked too 
 cartoonish,
  Well I dont want to go on and on about this well I dont recommend this game to anybody who is 
 seeking action packed game.
  Ill give it a 6.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  HDR and Bloom are cool effects, but this game just never stops. Looking at anything is like glaring 
 into the sun, and the crazy colors does not belong anywhere in nature. This is all causing me a 
 serious headache when playing, it's almost a bit painful to look at.
  
  Nothing in the game looks real, or feels real. The controls and physics are all just off. Shooting 
 someone or something just feels all wrong too, and it's overly hyperactive auto-aim system almost 
 plays the game for you.
  
  I was really looking forward to this game, and expected something like a mix between Mercenaries 
 and Far Cry, but this game does not even come close to any of them in terms of playability or enjoyability.
 
  
  It's hard to totally butcher the game though, because clearly a lot of work has been put into it. 
 The world is huge, and there's plenty of things to do. But, it's just not fun when the realism 
 just is not present in the form of accurate physics, gameplay or graphics.
  
  Sorry, this one goes down the drain.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Free-roaming immersive worlds have become quite popular in games over recent years. With the debut 
 of mainstream, free-roaming extravaganza that was Grand Theft Auto III, the instant obsession and 
 love of being able to go where you want to when you want without any parameters instantly struck 
 gamers. It's understandable, really, considering human's natural desire to be free in what we do. 
 Since GTA III, countless games have capitalised on this free-roaming experience, offering gamers 
 the opportunity to run wild in large, open landscapes.
  
  While we all love freedom, there's been one small problem that has occurred with the implementation 
 of this feature in most games: the location in which these are set. Far too many games that have 
 implemented free roaming abilities have been set in urban locations, mostly within large sprawling 
 cities where the environment consists of little more than concrete gray. As such, the prospect 
 of adventuring into the wild has ultimately been limited by the number of highways in which you 
 can travel on and where these lead. While GTA: San Andreas had a fine attempt at further revolutionizing 
 the genre it first created, it still too was a little too limited to suburban locales.
  
  Fortunately, newly formed Swedish development studio Avalanche Studios has attempted to change 
 this tiring tradition with the release of their free-roaming title, Just Cause. While, yes, the 
 game does feature city streets to some extent, the majority of the gameplay is spent traversing 
 through colourful South American rainforests. Set across countless small islands, Just Cause features 
 free-roaming gameplay that isn't quite revolutionary, but refreshing. It doesn't introduce anything 
 wholely new to the genre. What it does do is refresh an experience that we are all tiring of, providing 
 open-ended gameplay that is much unlike countless other games in its genre.
  
  This is one of Just Cause' strong points. There's several other positive aspects that we'll cover 
 shortly, but the most important thing right now is to understand exactly what Just Cause is about.
 
  
  Much like other similar games, Just Cause' storyline revolves around crime. There are various gangs 
 and alliances featured in the game, each battling to take control of specific desires. There's 
 the drug cartel, the guerilla revolutionists and the corrupt government, of whom your sent in to 
 deal with. In Just Cause, you take on the role of none other than Rico Rodriguez, your typical 
 gun-totting, explosion-setting CIA agent sent in to overthrow the local government of San Esperito, 
 who are suspected of being involved in the creation and dealing of WMDs. Supported by two CIA agents, 
 your task is to discover exactly what the local government is up to and put a stop to it.
  
  It's your typical save-the-world-on-your-own type game, putting you in control of a fair variety 
 of different weapons and vehicles to aid you on your epic quest. You'll be able to drive and steal 
 vehicles at your discretion, as well as calling in vehicle drops using your informative PDA whenever 
 you are in need of a quick ride. There's four vehicles in which you can call in at almost any point 
 in the game, which include a high-tech speed boat, a 4WD, a dirt motorbike and a small gyrocopter 
 for getting into the air with little effort. Talking of which, Just Cause focuses a fair amount 
 of its gameplay in the air, offering up the ability to drive a variety of planes and helicopters, 
 as well as using your parachute to make your way around the large island. You can also make use 
 of a grappling hook to grab ahold of vehicles and then release your parachute to glide along behind 
 them. A useful and fairly unique feature for travelling around the large, sprawling landscape.
 
  
  The inclusion of a parachute is a very useful utility given the amount of flying and jumping from 
 atop of mountains you'll be doing. You'll soon find that the island's terrain is anything but flat, 
 and that being able to jump from a high position rather than wasting time slowly making your way 
 down is a very welcomed inclusion.
  
  The game offers up some twenty-odd story missions to play through, offering up an engaging storyline 
 and a fair variety in what you'll do. From performing assassinations through to sabotaging structures, 
 initiating car chases and removing entire armies make up a handful of the different missions that 
 you'll take part in. There's full cinematics prior to each mission, depicting briefing sessions 
 with your CIA contacts as you make your next plan to topple the corrupt El Presidente from control 
 over San Espirito. This also ties into some of the optional side missions that fills the island, 
 usually requiring you to help rebel forces overthrow government control in small provinces to slowly 
 starve the government of control over their own country. These side missions usually involve little 
 more than killing most of the government forces in the area and destroying a series of blockades 
 that finally lead to the province's flag, marking which team has rule over the region. Although 
 these missions are not necessary for progressing through the games central story-driven missions, 
 they offer some odd perks, such as improved relations between you and rebel forces, as well as 
 opening new safehouses for you to restock on health, ammo and retrieve new weapons. Gaining control 
 of new regions can be interesting to begin with, however, the repetitive nature of taking control 
 of each province quickly becomes tiring and looses its appeal.
  
  Other side missions range from collecting items, assassinating mostly unimportant figures, making 
 deals with foreign businessmen and participating in a series of unexciting and fairly pointless 
 races, which simply involve driving from Point A to Point B within a time limit.
  
  Just Cause is completely absent of any multiplayer functionality, which can be disappointing depending 
 on your point of view. Participating in full-scale wars on a tropical island paradise such as this 
 one could have been interesting. However, given the functionality and gameplay basing of the game, 
 we believe it would be very difficult to implement such a multiplayer mode successfully. We'd rather 
 see the development team put all their time and focus into creating a great single player experience, 
 rather than splitting their resources and working on multiplayer features that are bound to be 
 disappointing.
  
  Just Cause takes on an interesting graphical approach, offering a mixture of both lifelike and 
 cartoon-inspired visuals that are fairly unique to see. The game adopts some interesting use of 
 colours that gives it a kind of plastic appearance, with the colours of cars, trees and human flesh 
 not exactly realistic. It's good to see a game taking a slightly unique approach in the visuals 
 used, however, some gamers who demand more realistic accuracy in their games may be annoyed by 
 the developer's choice in art style. The game is presented with only the occasional loading screen 
 prior to a mission, with no loading sections interrupting play as you make your way across all 
 1,025 square kilometers of island. Animation is solid, albeit kept fairly simple, with many bodily 
 movements, especially the movements made by Rico, being used a little too often throughout the 
 game.
  
  There's some solid voice acting on offer here, ranging from the accent-heavy yells from the locals 
 through to Rico smooth and cool voice work. The game offers up a very exotic mix of music to accompany 
 your escapades across the tropical island.
  
  Just Cause is hardly revolutionary in what it offers. The developers appear to rely heavily on 
 the inclusion of parachuting as a main selling point. While this feature is a nice inclusion, it 
 hardly injects any new or refreshing gameplay experience into the game. Overall, though, Just Cause 
 is a solid offering of free-roaming action to be had, and it doesnt feel like another desperate 
 attempt to capitalize on GTAs success. Just Cause can easily, and quite comfortably, stand on 
 its own two legs, and is an experience that is worth a look for action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game. all the stunts in the game are cool and easy to pull off but the car controls 
 are a little tough at first. helicopters are easy to control. the game play is perfect. things 
 blow up nice and big. And the game starts strong and keeps it up. The sound needs something like 
 rock music on the car chases but overall the sound is good. you play rico . you can say rico loves 
 big booms and its cool that you hear him mutter to himself and at times they can be some what funny 
 like i have a self control problem . the levels are tough but check points make it easier. over 
 all this is a game you need to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  One of the most fun things about playing GTA San Andreas was going on top of the tallest building 
 and jumping off with a parachute. Unfortunately there wasn't much else that you can do. But Just 
 Cause lets do you do that as much as you like! Just Cause is just great. Being able to just leap 
 off tall mountains and jumping out of airplanes make this an instantly fun GTA clone. It's an easy 
 game though. Shooting guys requires almost no aiming. You just turn in the general direction and 
 spray. This makes missions fairly easy. Personally I don't mind that, but i'm sure people who look 
 for a challenge shouldn't look for it in this game.
  
  This game is really going to do a good job of keeping me busy until GTA comes out for the XBox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrybalsamo765
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Without doubt this game features some of the best graphics on the 360. The landscape looks awesome 
 when viewed in a plane or while skydiving and will amaze you every time to look at it. The transition 
 between night and day is very real, as are the cloud affects.
  
  The main missions are fairly diverse and with dozens of side missions it should keep you busy for 
 some time trying to complete them all. However, the side mission tend to be very similar and can 
 quickly become boring.
  
  At the heart of it, Just Cause is a very simple game. Shooting is very simple. The aiming is very 
 easy, too easy at times but useful in those large scale gun fights that happen from time to time. 
 Your character no abilities other than running, shooting and jumping.
  
  The simplicity is particularly apparent with the planes and helicopters in the game. For those 
 of you that have played (and in particular [like me] enjoy flying on) Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, 
 Just Cause doesnt match the fun GTA: SA created. Just Cause has mixed the roll and yaw controls 
 meaning that while flying is very simple, precision is lost. This doesnt affect planes too much 
 but warps alot of the fun out of flying the helicopters (and makes landing somewhat harder) .
  
  Along with the graphics, its the use of the parachute and stunt options that make this game 
 stand out. While shooting and driving are simple, they can become boring rather quick. The stunt 
 features gives you more options for driving or jacking cars. It is fairly easy to use, and when 
 mixed with the parachute, can provide hours of fun using either or both as you explore. With the 
 parachute, just searching for a good place to base-jump can make several hours vanish. When compared 
 to the likes of GTA and Saints Row, this game doesnt quite cut it. Its simplicity that, at times, 
 is its downfall. Although the game world is huge, there is little to do outside of the missions 
 other than explore. Whats makes it different is the parachute and stunts. These add a new twist 
 into the free-roam world and can give hours of fun. Overall, if you want a simple and fun game, 
 then Just Cause is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Many of these folks seem to be reviewing a different game to me. I've been playing this non-stop 
 for over a week and I'm nowhere near bored with it. The attention to detail is incredible, there 
 are so many little things to discover if you take the time - dozens of birds swooping between towering 
 cliffs - Rico's necklace flapping in the wind as he skydives from 20,000 feet as the sun rises, 
 turning the blue clouds crimson - fishermen with their lines in the shimmering water (you can even 
 watch them sell their catch in the local markets) - drunks hanging around street corners beneath 
 towering glass skyscapers. The feeling of speed when you're skydiving or racing your boat through 
 the canyons - the clouds that rush past, dappling the landscape in shadow, golden rays shining 
 through the gaps - blasting the heck out of a rival clan's coca fields in a military helicopter 
 you've just appropriated with your grapple gun - the rustle of the leaves as you fall gently through 
 the jungle canopy attached to your parachute - the tiny cars visible from hundreds of feet up as 
 you decend gracefully onto a moutaintop retreat and start blasting away the bad guys with your 
 shotgun. I could go on but I reckon I've already said enough.
  
  Oh, what the heck, there's so much to say: music is ace, gameworld is vast, graphics better than 
 anything else I've seen in 20 years of gaming (I am really not kidding here) and the gameplay is 
 fun; the most important thing.
  
  Anyway - buy it, play it, fall in love with it. Personally, I'll be playing this for years to come... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fight8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best that I've played this year, It will have you playing until your xbox over 
 heats, hah. This game isn't perfect, like all games. But i will talk about the bad aspects last. 
 You see the most glorifying aspect of this game as soon as this game starts, I of course am talking 
 of the draw distance. On top of that, this game has so much gameplay packed into it, you might 
 forget what time it is. This game has so many interesting vehicles and weapons that you have to 
 search for, which, combined with the collect missions, really make the time it takes to fly across 
 the game map worthwhile.
  
  Not to long after your amazement with the games graphics ends, you realize the bad side of the 
 game. Some of this games missions are just annoying. After all, how many times can you get blown 
 up by a tank before you just feel like breaking your controller? It is ever so more annoying for 
 the fact that if you die during a side mission or a liberation, you go back to the closest safe 
 house, which isn't very fun if your like me and you fly to other side of map and do missions over 
 there without any close safe houses.
  
  Well, if you over look the cons, this game really provides you with a wild action packed ride that 
 will have you on the edge of your seat the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics, I have to admit, are quite beautiful. The water, the forest, even the sand/dirt textures. 
 It all looks really good when your 30,000 feet in the air as well, which surprised me. I've also 
 never seen a draw distance this vast before. When you're in a helicopter/plane and you go way up 
 you can pretty much see across the whole map. The character models are really bad however, and 
 the blood spurts look like red pieces of cardboard shooting out of people where they get hit. Rico 
 is the only good looking character model in the game, and he's not that impressive to look at either. 
 The explosions are really nice as well.
  
  Gameplay:
  There is so much to do in this game it's amazing. There are so many side missions (I just looked 
 at the map and got overwhelmed) . The story missions are fun, but all the side missions can really 
 pass by time if your bored. The vehicles handle worse than in a Battlefield game, so getting from 
 point A to B can be a difficult and frustrating task, especially since you can get the police on 
 your tail very easily, and they are relentless. A lot of things need to be fixed; driving, swimming, 
 even the means for transportation. Getting stuck in the middle of the jungle or ocean and having 
 to swim or walk forever is really not what I bought this game for, but **** happens. Oh, and did 
 I mention that the A. I. is borderline retarded?
  
  Sound:
  The noises created by the jungles, oceans, and small cities/villages etc. are pretty good. It gives 
 a good sense of immersion. The dialogue in the game isn't the best, actually it's probably one 
 of the worst. Beside the cutscenes you will hear out of the blue comments that have nothing to 
 do with what's going on. This is one of those WTF moments where you just want to shoot someone 
 -- in the game that is.
  
  Overall:
  I would say this is for a select group.... you either like it or you don't. The demo is on the marketplace, 
 so if you like what the demo gives you, than this game may be a rental. I can't recommend renting 
 it or not, since this is a game where it entirely depends on the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo, i wasn't that excited to add this game to my collection but i have to admit 
 that i'm loving this game.
  
  The game smacks you in the face right away from the opening action. You freefall from an airplane 
 onto the island.... what a rush !! From there you have no time to think because you and your comrade 
 have to shoot and fend of island rebels that are after you. You are strapped to a Gun on the back 
 of a jeep and you fire at helicopters, jeeps and anything vehicle that is hostile toward you... Whew! 
 No time to ponder on how good this game is, i am the game. That being said, this is a great immersive 
 game that you'll want to keep coming back for more.
  
  To be frank, i am jaded after playing the masterpiece of island adventure, Far Cry, but Just Cause 
 actually is a masterpiece in its own right. I wasn't going to buy this game but i'm glad i did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostchessy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Consider this the opening mission youve jumped out of a plane and been gobsmacked at how big the 
 island your falling into nearly as big as a city of GTA but this is one of the small islands The 
 storyline is more understandable than that of GTA your a agent trying to help some rebels over 
 throw el presindente but when you get into a helicopter or any air capable machine you begin to 
 relise how big a game this is and after you fly across the small islands border you know that your 
 free to go anywhere no jets no bombs no ivisible walls your free as a bird and the cops cant bust 
 you-perfect! there are some gta bits in it you can nick cars some missions are abit gtaish (take 
 the truck some where in one pecie)
  but still just cause is not a gta its thing of its own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P3RN
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Basically as this is my first revew I will keep it short, This game is like total overdose with 
 a blob of mecenaries and with and a hint of GTA. I say a hint because You don't feel like your playing 
 GTA (for once) It does alwright in story mode but takes only 4 hours of play and is fairly easy 
 when you think about the too easy shooting. Any way when you get in your first plane your heart 
 throbs at the great graphics and the annoying blur and don't get me started on the grappel hook. Any 
 way the side missions and Peds are the biggest let down side missions are basicaly the same and 
 always have you swaping coca and assacinating a Fed so it can get boring but if you like stunts 
 this is a must have but I will end by telling you a secret place here is a hint VISIT THE VOLCANO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Firstly it needs to be said that all gamers should at least rent this action title just for some 
 of the totally original gameplay elements, and in all fairness this game can be completed on a 
 rental. There is replay value but the main story is so short it might make the whole replayability 
 factor a moot point, even with all the side missions.
  
  The game's whole focus is on pure fun through outrageous and explosive missions and stunts on an 
 open sandbox setting, which is a series of incredibly large tropical islands. The aesthetics are 
 amazing, and literally when you climb to the highest heights in some of the planes and choppers, 
 you will be able to see the whole area and weather formations... Even the sunsets and sunrises 
 are something to be admired in this game. The point is there seems to be no limit on draw distance, 
 what you see is what you get, and from a great height what you see will have you wandering how 
 you'll ever find the time to get around the whole island.
  
  Unfortunately, this incredible backdrop is let down by the mechanics of the game, and depending 
 on your ability to 'suspend belief' you may struggle with taking any real satisfaction from playing 
 it at all, as some of the stunts performed are so ridiculous an eyebrow or two will be inevitably 
 raised at first. Just one example is that fact you can freefall from a limitless height and land 
 safely on a car as long as you press a stunt button at the right moment! Also, you may find that 
 even though the scenery is nice, there is very little in the way of actually interacting with any 
 of it.
  
  For example, the grass will bend as you walk through it, but come to a shrub and you walk straight 
 through it like its not there, when you fall through trees, on your parachute for example, you 
 will notice the upper branches are more like ghosts and you will pass straight through like they 
 aren't even there.
  
  The shooting feels just as lazy, with a very loose lock on system that gives you the feeling that 
 you're not really in control of the shooting at all, and leaves a feeling that you're cheating 
 every time you shoot the bad guys.
  
  Despite some of these glaring issues that leave JC with an unfinished quality, it's still worth 
 picking up if only for the rental, as it shows an original and innovative style of gameplay, and 
 has a freedom of exploration that this reviewer feels has been unmatched thus far in action gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  the first thing you have to know about this game is the shear size of it, its 390 km in size, thats 
 50 times bigger than vice city.
  
  the story line itself is short just 20 something missions but the amount of side missions makes 
 up for this ,although these do get repetitive and you will get bored, the incentive to do these 
 though is that additional safe houses and vehicles become available .
  
  the graphics are nothing short of breathtaking , from the densest jungle to the highest mountain 
 ,every inch of this game feels like a living breathing tropical paridise although there are some 
 big settlements these feel bland and lifeless compare to other sandbox games but they are a worthwhile 
 addition as they offer a different type of enviroment to play in. the game uses bloom lighting 
 in abundance everything is shiny and there are an excessice amount of blurring effects and motion 
 trails, it does feel that these have been exaggerated to take away focus from the poor character 
 modelling and animations.
  
  the sound in the game is average, the various engine sounds are plausable and the enviroment sounds 
 are sufficent and although there isnt a licensed soundtrack there is some nice dynamic music that 
 changes according to the situation you are in, For instance when you are being attacked some rocky 
 music comes on and when your skydiving there is a chorus of voices which just hum and sing ahhhhhhhh 
 ,run up to a villa nd spanish guitars start to play etc etc.
  
  the gameplay is what really makes the game ,its very much a mix of mercanerey and GTA, pull down 
 heavy drops, call for an extraction, steal any car, use your grapple hook, parachute and sky diving 
 ability to surf the skies.
  you can make your own fun in this game as well for instance i myself spend a lot of time base jumping 
 and jumping off planes just to sky dive back to it and catch on.
  
  overall this is a great game ,sure it has its flaws but they are easily overlooked and you'll soon 
 forget them once you partake in capturing a village or jumping form a moving copter at high altitude 
 only to catch onto one much nearer the ground 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbmonkeyjerk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I have read many reviews about how bad the graphics are and I couldn't disagree more . These graphics 
 are beyond Oblivion and with no load times?! The scope of the island and the sights to see make 
 this one of the games of the year to defiently check out.
  
  The feeling of jumping a car off a cliff, grappling to a helicopter and skydiving into a valcano 
 to kill a policitcal leader is a rush beyond any other that has been delievered before. I say enough 
 reading these reviews, rent it first if you are still unsure if I am telling the truth when I saying 
 this game kicks all A$$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolt21
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Just Cause is supposed to be fun but it isn't in my point of view i think this game was a total 
 let down I waited so long for this game to come out which was before i had a 360. The game play 
 is really boring especially when you are want to do strictly missions it's just highly predictable 
 what the missions were going to be the missions were tasteless and the graphics arent using the 
 full potential that it deserves! Within 2 hours in the game you start getting really bored also 
 when you want to explore the world which is not all
  accessible will give this game a 5.9 I think this game was a Rip off and some people might think 
 this game is fun in there own perspective well thats there opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkycolts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for some time. I am impressed with the graphics, the shading 
 and the difference between night and day. The area to exploe is huge and can get overwheling at 
 times. The only drawback I see so far is that the map can be difficult to discren as to what the 
 icons are, since the appear to be very small.
  
  Overall, this is a great game and fun to play. A lot of new idea came with it. As a plus the music 
 matches the atmosphere of the came... which sets as a nice backdrop toyuor location. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miltonuts
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  This is the type of game you will either hate or love. It has both its positives and its negatives. 
 Lets start off with a comparision of the good and bad.
  
  Good:
  
  - Huge environment, 250,000 acres to explore.
  - Variety of vehicles that are always sweet
 
  - Music (at times)
  - Nice graphics on geography, vehicles, and main character.
  - Fun, but simple gunplay.
  - Controls for the most are part are good
  - Just about no loading 
 times at all
  
  Bad:
  
  - Graphics on cinematics are pretty bad.
  - Enemy character models are somewhat cheesy
  - Repetative cheesy sayings by just about all factions 
 (Police, Guerilla)
  - Side missions are somewhat plain
  - WAY TOO EASY...
  - Game does not really immerse you in story
  
  Ok now to explain these things more in depth.
 
  First off the environment is huge. It takes a long time to cross the map even with a plane or 
 helicopter. The thing about it though is that a lot of it is woods, You may think this is a bad 
 thing but it didnt bother me that much because there are still a lot of locations (Military bases, 
 safehouses, settlements etc.) The graphics on the land are very nice and have very vibrant colors 
 really putting you in the mood. The variety of vehicles is nice, including many types of helicopters, 
 planes, boats, and cars/trucks. All of these types of vehicles have a type of weaponry attached 
 to them at some point. The plane and helicopter allow u to go up really high to show the true vastness 
 of the landscape and also allows you to jump out and freefall for quite some while. I have found 
 my self freefalling for about 2 and a half minutes to 3 minutes. The grappling hook is a pretty 
 cool item and is obtained early in the game through the main story. It auto locks onto possible 
 vehicles including helicopters and boats. Using the grappling hooks on the helicopters can become 
 somewhat annoying because u have to attach to the back of the helicopter to make a succesful jump 
 to it, but after a while you get used to it. You can also parasail using the grappling hook and 
 if u connect to a consistently moving vehicle you can go up pretty high just from parasailing. 
 The music is both good and bad. Sometimes you find the music just annoying and crappy. I found myself 
 having to turn it down a bit because it was just blairing and began to annoy me. During freefall 
 the music is calm, relaxing, and perfectly fits the mood. The action camera in the game was annoying 
 as well. It was way too sensitive. I would hit a little hill and my car would take off 4 feet off 
 the ground and it would slow down into action camera which disabled me from controlling the vehicle 
 during the show. I found my turning off of this option greatly improved the gameplay. The gun play 
 in this game is alright. The unfortunate thing is that there is no challenge in the aiming system 
 because it locks onto enemies automatically as you go anywhere near the enemies. An alternative 
 to this is clicking in the right analog which allows you to aim with more precision and it does 
 not lock on to them automatically. A good thing is that there is a decent variety of weapons, but 
 it doesnt matter because you have an unlimited amount of bullets with the dual pistols. The graphics 
 in the cinematics are pretty generic and cheesy. The enemy character models are also kind of weird 
 looking. They remind me of a tomb raider 2 model but enhanced, I wish they looked better and also 
 they die in the same repetitive ways, at least it seems that way. Also everything the people say 
 are repeative as well... Liberta!! Liberta!! The side missions are somewhat varied and are short 
 but fun for the most part. You go and do things like assassinate people, or steal a type of vehicle, 
 or retrieve a package. There is also Settlement Liberations. The objective of this is to create 
 chaos and confusion by killing government troops or an opposing drug faction's troops, and also 
 there are blockades set up in which you blow up and then eventually capture the flag. The one thing 
 that bothers me is that this game is way too easy. You can stand still and wait to be shot at and 
 most of the time they miss. It seems as i've progressed though I lose health a lot quicker, so 
 who knows. Unfortunetly there is no option to increase the difficulty at all. This game is not 
 the type of game that will immerse you in a deep story, but is more a shoot em' up action adventure 
 game with a good amount to offer. And even though there are some cheesy things about it and a few 
 flaws it's a really enjoyable game, with good potential. I would say try the demo but also take 
 into consideration i found the demo to suck compared to the game, because of the restriction of 
 where you can go, and it forces you to do the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Wow is one key word the Map Is Huge The realisam is thrown out the window here does that matter 
 Nah not really this game is great its like a James Bond Type Story that adds Sky Diveing and Loads 
 of fun the Stunts are Fun and Abserd as well I Like Base Jumping the Grapleing Hook is fun Lock 
 on to cars theres fun to be had there the Missions airnt all that well But that doesnt matter will 
 this Keep you going Untill GTA 4 Well I Can Say Yes Its a Must Own for Fans of free roaming I mean 
 ive read some users are makeing there own Missions and Routes this game offers that Kinda freedom 
 its insane Just the stuff you can get in to but again all i can say is WOW This game is great do 
 your self a favor and go to EB-Games and Pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidfrog
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game has some wonderfully inventive and fun ideas. There's a genuine thrill in sky jacking 
 a passing helicopter, or parachuting off the hood of a car you just drove off a cliff. Unfortunately 
 the main game is too short to be engaging, and there are really only two types of side missions 
 that get recycled again and again (fetch this thing and bring it back or kill this person and then 
 go back to your contact) . Personally I spent most of my time doing the liberation missions, because 
 they were the most challenging and the most fun. I would recommend trading in some older games 
 to cut down the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyad
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Initial Comments
  
  It is comparably offensive to its genre as to what Bruce Lee: Quest of the Dragon was to the Beat 
 em up genre. The feel of the design and build quality of the game appears utterly amateur, and 
 the idea of basing the parachute ability found in GTA San Andreas as the main selling point of 
 the game shows a sheer lack of imagination. Visuals &amp; Audio
  
  Visually there is not much to write home about either. The graphics are well below par for next 
 gen, and the cut scenes look like they were grafted from a poor xbox title. The animation on the 
 main character is laughable. He appears to based on an injured Antonio Banderas character from 
 desperado, appearing to be barely able to carry his weapon of choice due to some sort of horrific 
 injury to his arm. The Audio is worse again. The repetitive Latino rock guitar score which repeatedly 
 kicks in when there doesnt seem to be any need for it starts to grate after the first 30 minutes. 
 After turning off the music I at least expected to be half impressed with the SFX generated by 
 the huge island available to explore. I was wrong; it would appear that whoever was responsible 
 for this fundamental part of the game was underwater while doing it. Muted explosions, gun fire 
 and hapless attempt at creating a tropical paradise sound authentic were almost the final nail 
 in the coffin.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The ability to deploy a parachute and parasail from location to location is a decent idea to integrate 
 into a shooter. But to make this the most enjoyable part of the game is an insult to the paying 
 public. You can do the real thing for about &pound;25! Gunplay, a fundamental part of the game 
 appears to have been completely overlooked. The auto targeting system is far too generous and the 
 shoulder view or free aim option is jerky and poorly done. There is also another oversight, the 
 character has the ability to strafe while in combat but would it have hurt to maybe use a bullet 
 time ability to spice up the gunplay. Another of the games apparent selling points is the ability 
 to use any vehicle. Once you realise that the island is full of 1950s Cadillacs and burnt out 
 mopeds the novelty wears off a bit.
  
  Conclusion
  
  CRAP! Dont go anywhere near it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Its a nice game game just to pick and start having a blast. Its not seriouse but its fun at the 
 same time. The Graphics are brillient best ive seen so far with no loading times apart from when 
 you load up from a saved game thats the only loading time you get. The AI IS some what frustrating 
 where the police (enemy) just sticks to you like glew when they are attacking you and that can 
 be very frustrating when driving. But apart from the enemy AI driving i like the game i like the 
 aiming feature to it although it can get easy at times. Since ive got it ive done a lot of just 
 flying around in the helicopters i love just flying around. Ive done missions but mostly ive done 
 the free roaming so after the missions this has replay value for just going about the islands and 
 just messing around.
  
  8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karter15
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  CONS
  An interesting game for about the first 10 minutes. Everything about the game gets repetitive and 
 offers nothing to cover it up. Many details from major to minor ones seemed rushed. Some of the 
 controls could have been made better (mainly flight) or at least customizable beyond choosing 2 
 control schemes. Often times not able to deploy parachute in critical situations forcing you to 
 fall to your death or near death. Not much incentive to use boats or land vehicles. There's always 
 a feeling of just wanting to get the mission done that you grab the first helicopter or plane you 
 see to get to your destination.
  
  PROS
  Amazing graphics. Nice selection of vehicles. Locations of where collectables are appear on the 
 map. Size of map and how high you can get above land is very impressive.
  
  Overall, the game needs more work. It has potential and could have used another year or two in 
 development. The best thing this game has to offer are some options for future games of the genre 
 to borrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around great. It brings a sense of this could happen with all of the tactics you 
 can use to stay alive. This game allows youi to win the fight your way. You can use stunts and 
 guns to give the police one heck of a fight and have them chasin you around the island. Or if you 
 perfer you can just drive around having the time of your life by jumping out of planes. But anyway 
 you slice it this is one great game and is worthy of what they charge for it. When this game came 
 out many nay-sayers said that it was not worth it but when you play this came I think that you 
 will be presentally surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennishardcore
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  i bougt just cause by the media markt [netherlands]
  and the firts thing i see en heart was that the noise at a cut sene there was en then no noise 
 and then again noise .
  i have bring the game back and i have get an other and it same story again
  so i gain back to 
 the store and get my money back.
  i dont no if people have got this to .
  sorry for my bad englisch.
  
 
  i got this once whit eidos whit hitman that the sound was there and then not
  so i hopew eidos do better there job whit no bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defaillance
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  The game has great environnement, Lush jungle and a good ambiance, The sound track is a little 
 repetitive but goes great with the Chicanos Feeling of the game. There are many vehicules to play 
 with and a stund mode. there are well over 80 vehicule across the maps. HUGE landscape many miles 
 across. The AI has good paterns but somehow dumbed down. Wish they had made the whole shooting 
 section harder a la Halo2 since the gunplay is a little easy making this game too short to complete. 
 you simply run into enemy's and empty your guns. still a good purchase this game look amazing on 
 HD, Bright and crisp pictures, makes you want to take a vacation down south ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamza3000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  STORYLINE:
  
  San Esperito, an island Nation, has come to the attention of the Defense Department by virtue of 
 its attempts to purchase enriched uranium on the world market. Not a good sign. Nobody buys Presidents 
 Mendozas lame excuses that he wants to make San Esperito energy self-sufficient within a decade 
  no, its clear hes buying this stuff for weapons. Like all dictators, hes dreaming of WMD.
 
  
  Nobody knows what San Esperitos military ambitions are but it doesnt matter: regime change is 
 the only option. Of course, the operation has to be completely covert, no fingerprints - the US 
 is totally uninvolved. There are all sorts of secret deals, arrangements and embarrassments that 
 could be exposed if any official connection became known, what's more the power balance between 
 the military, drug barons, police, and oppositional guerrillas is very delicate, maintained only 
 by a very fragile bond of fear and insecurity. This is a job for the Agency. And if its a job 
 for the Agency, then its a job for Rico Rodriguez!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  With 100+ vehicles at your disposal choose from choppers, boats, cars, bikes, mini-subs or jets 
 to explore 250,000 acres of the tropical island of San Esperito.
  Skydive, parasail, machine-gun, car-jack, base-jump and bazooka your way through missions as you 
 lead a nation to freedom.
  
  FEATURES:
  
  Your Playground = 250,000 acres of mountains, jungles, beaches, cities, and villages to explore, 
 quite possibly the largest environment ever seen in the gaming world.
  
  Freeform gameplay =
  
  approach missions in any way you like, or break off from the fight and 
 enjoy exploring the islands landscape.
  
  MASSIVE SELECTION OF VEHICLES =
  
  Numerous varied, exciting land, sea and air vehicles. There are over 100+ vehicles in the game.
 
  
  WEALTH OF MISSIONS =
  
  Story missions, side-missions, bonus missions and many more all ensure there is plenty of action 
 spread throughout the islands.
  
  MY VEIW =
  
  Well, Just cause is the best game ever, I agree with that. This is the first game that has the most 
 area to play in.
  
  VIVA LA REVOLUCION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbz001man
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The first time you pop Just Cause into your 360, you will be amazed with the general scope and 
 outrageous stunts the game has to offer. With an immensly huge island that stretches for miles 
 to the horizon, full of jungles and trees and towns and roads, all easy to see on an HDTV from 
 the start, clouds blowing through your hair, it's clear Just Cause is more than a GTA. Visually 
 the game is intense. Character Models could be a bit chrisper, and the vehicals could use a bit 
 more polish, but those are but minor details and shouldn't bother you much. Oh btw, the explosions 
 are real pretty. In terms of sound, nothing to write home about.. I really love the pause menu 
 music, but that's about it.. voice acting is minimal but decent. Gameplay, well.. phew.. there's 
 a LOT to do when you first start out. You'll be jumping on top of a car, kicking the driver out, 
 driving it off a cliff, jumping on top of the car to release your parachute and immediately flying 
 to the tail of a helicopter where you'll jump through the blades, kick the pilot out and start 
 firing missles at the cops below you, at which point you might jump out, grapple a boat using your 
 cable, real in, kick the driver out, go and ram the boat on land, jump out and land on a car. and 
 yeah, that all took maybe 1 minute. Just cause is 60 seconds of crazy multiplied by about 500. 
 It's not a huge length game, but I never got sick of the crazy stunts Rico does. None of the controls 
 are perfect, they all have some slight things off with them, but nothing that's going to ruin the 
 game for you. driving is a bit too touchy, the helicopters are too slow. Jets are fun! boats are 
 actually the vehicals I had the most fun with. On foot (though you won't do a lot of this) is satisfying, 
 but shallow. The lack of a sprint button, and the fact that sometimes you'll realise you've got 
 about 2 minutes of walking ahead of you is obnoxious, but again, it won't ruin the game. Gunplay 
 is sorta boring, and way too easy. there's no real max payne moments here, which is a shame, considering 
 the nature of the game, I was kind of expecting that... oh well. The plot is forgettable. I didnt' 
 really care. The main fun i found in the game was just DOING stuff with friends over, seeing who 
 could link together the craziest stunts, that sort of stuff. Anyway, this game is DEFINANTLY worth 
 playing, just because it's FUN for a while, unfourtunately, this fun is worth about $20 or a rental 
 not a $50 price-tag (GameZnFlix all the way!) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Since the first time Wolfenstein 3D's pixellated blood crossed the screen, games were criticized 
 for negatively influencing our youth. Being an avid gamer, I've never put any stock in these claims. 
 But after a look at Just Cause, I did a 180, and I'm almost ready to volunteer for the Army - Jack 
 Thompson's army, that is. I headed down to my local Blockbuster to pick up a copy, thrilled that 
 the game I had been eyeing for months had finally been released. After a quick drive home, I popped 
 it in, and booted it up. For those of you who don't know it, the game is set on a fictional island 
 in the Caribbean, where evil fascists have taken over and are trying to put the little people down. 
 As soon as I set foot on San Esperito, I said, Hey, that looks just like Cuba! The evil officials 
 all wear military garb, and sport mustaches and beards... Sound familiar?
  
  The similarities didn't end there. In Just Cause, you play as Antonio Banderas' twin brother, Rico 
 Rodriguez. Decked out in black from head to toe, Rico looks like James Bond's goth son, and has 
 the skills to put Jimmy to shame. He boasts a grappling hook, which he can use to hoist himself 
 onto whatever happens to be flying by at the moment, and a parachute that can deploy at a moment's 
 notice. Unfortunately for Rico (and the player) , he doesn't quite have the finesse to pull them 
 off. Hitting A will get you into Stunt Position, where you hop on the top of your current vehicle. 
 You can then hop onto other vehicles, although this is about as difficult to pull off as it would 
 be in real life... The game doesn't take the angle of your camera into account, so if you hit the 
 button at anything but the perfect time, you could be hopping onto the vehicle behind you that's 
 about to explode. This will happen quite a bit, and the save points are a bit of a pain to manage, 
 so no props given for what would be a cool feature.
  
  Graphically, the game looks quite a bit like Far Cry, with an expanded draw distance. The NP-characters 
 are feebly modelled, so it feels kind of old. But as I happen to like the way Far Cry looks, we'll 
 give it some props here. The graphics hold up solidly even at 10,000 feet, when you hop off of 
 a plane and parachute to the ground. The weapons are all the same, as are the vehicles... The monster 
 truck that I was so stoked to get? A car, with big wheels. Helicopters don't vary all that much, 
 although the F-16 is pretty fun to ride around in. The side missions become more of a chore than 
 anything else, too -- there are only so many barricades that you can lob grenades at before you 
 just go, Can't these poor, oppressed, horribly-modeled peasants take care of this themselves? 
 
  
  The freedom is great, and the most fun you'll really have playing Just Cause is just farting around 
 on the Island - literally a sandbox that you can fly around and around. It's kind of like Mercenaries 
 that way... Now that I mention it, it's kind of like Mercenaries in a lot of ways, except with 
 more propaganda and a grappling hook. Enjoy, but don't fall for it.
  
  --B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cook66
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Would you like to experience intense action while flying through the air, shooting everything in 
 sight and perform the most extreme stunts ever seen?
  
  Then this is the game for you.
  
  Rico (you) is equipped with a parachute, tons of weapons and a physique which makes him the 
 ultimate CIA agent.
  
  Rico's mission is to liberate a Caribbean country consisting of several islands which makes up 
 the biggest open ended gaming environment ever seen.
  
  You will complete your missions by soaring through the air, jumping from airplanes to choppers, 
 using your grappling hook to steal anything you want or need.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The first feel of the gameplay in Just Cause is great, its easy to learn and a lot of fun. However, 
 if you want something which you can imagine someone actually managing to do in reality, you will 
 not find it here.
  
  Shooting has been altered from the demo and is now a lot easier, any hostile target will be auto 
 aimed as long as you are facing them, and it is also possible to zoom in which makes the shooting 
 play like an fps, but this is something you never have to do during the entire story.
  
  When you walk around you can jump with the b button, he can jump pretty far, but he can't climb 
 ledges the way you can do it in Saint's Row or GTA: San Andreas.
  Should you fall without pressing the jump button you can literally fall a hundred meters down without 
 taking much damage, which is a bit stupid.
  
  Swimming is pretty easy, but you can sometimes get stuck making you unable to move for a short 
 while. And Rico can hold his breath forever.
  
  Flying choppers and planes is great fun and very easy. The weapons some of these vehicles have 
 are missiles and machine gun, which auto aim on anything you want gone.
  
  Ones of the most fun part of Just Cause gameplay is the stunt position, which places you outside 
 of anything youre driving, here you can chose to enter the vehicle or jump off it.
  If you jump off you will fly through the air, you can easily land on nearby cars or choppers making 
 it possible to steal anything at any time.
  
  After completing a few missions you will unlock the Grappling Hook, this can be used to grapple 
 on to anything which moves and allows you to paraglide behind it, you can also shorten or lengthen 
 the line, making it possible to get close enough to steal whatever you need, this feature including 
 free fall and stunt position opens for a lot of crazy gameplay, and lets you pull off the most 
 extreme stunts ever seen in a game to date.
  
  You also got a parachute which can be used an unlimited amount of times, it is easy to control 
 and you can glide very far with it, making BASE jumping from high cliffs an awesome experience.
 
  
  Overall the gameplay is great fun, but it can be a bit stupid at times, some bugs here and there, 
 but nothing too bad.
  
  Graphics
  
  There has been a great amount of discussion over the graphics in this game. It has pretty poor 
 graphics in cities and not too great character models, but not as bad as some want you thinking.
 
  The jungle look pretty good, but it's very repetitive, and you can walk through a lot of brush 
 and small trees, which looks pretty bad at times.
  
  Cars, choppers and planes look good, but there is not much damage detail, and the explotion graphic 
 on them isn't very interesting.
  
  But nothing, and I mean nothing can be compared to how this game looks when you are two thousand 
 meters up in the sky, flying through clouds and looking down at the beautiful Caribbean landscape, 
 with tons of islands and great mountains, this looks so good that after 20 hours of playing I still 
 like to take a chopper into the sky, drop out and just enjoy the scenery.
  The overview look of this game is in fact so good that I'm willing to overlook all the other issues 
 I have with the graphics, it is definatley beautiful.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is pretty good, but nothing extraordinary, the voice acting is really bad, and sometimes 
 ridiculous. But the music is good, and fits the game perfectly, also changes according to what 
 you do. Vehicles, explosions, and the sound you hear flying through the air is impressive, but 
 the gunfire is pretty bland.
  Overall the sound is good, and unless you buy a game solely based on the sound effects you probably 
 wont have any problems with it.
  
  Main Story
  
  The main story is way too short, I completed the game in less than 10 hours, and I did a lot of 
 free roaming and time wasting, so if you do nothing but missions you could probably be done even 
 quicker than me.
  The story is on the other hand not the only thing to do here; you got collect missions, side missions 
 and other tasks as taking over territory, which will add up the game hours pretty quick.
  
  The quality of the story is a bit lacking, with stupid conversations and ridiculous cutscenes, 
 but that doesn't mean it's not fun.
  
  I wont reveal anymore about the story, play it for yourself and see. ;)
  
  The Bugs!
  There 
 is a lot of bugs in this game, as you might have read about in the forums, but the game rarely 
 crashes and the bugs rather makes thing easier than harder.
  There are some errors where the interface you've seen shortly before a cutscene gets stuck, but 
 it's not that horrible. The bugs did not ruin my experience of the game, but it was pretty stupid 
 at times.
  
  Achievement Points
  
  Getting a good amount of points in this game is not at all hard.
  
  I got about 450 points 
 in less than 10 hours, and the only reason I haven't got them all yet is because I've been playing 
 other games.
  
  You get all the points playing single player (there is no multiplayer) and a good amount of them 
 is gained from the main story, you also get points for races, stunts and side missions, all which 
 are very easy to get, but require that you spend a little time doing it.
  
  The hardest achievements are without doubt taking over the entire island; you have to take town 
 by town, something which can get hard once you get to the cities, where they got rocket launching 
 tanks and choppers coming after you.
  
  However, out of all the 360 games I've played (not that many yet) this is the one which gives out 
 the quickest and easiest points.
  
  Conclusion
  
  This game is definitely worth buying if you enjoy stunts and pure open ended gameplay.
  
  The 
 game can be very easy, but if you want 100% completing it will require a lot more effort.
  
  It is without doubt one of the most interesting concepts I've seen in a while, but it could 
 have been done a lot better where it not for all the minor and annoying bugs and errors. The game 
 feels like it has been shipped off too early, but it is still a whole lot of fun.
  
  Now please excuse me, there is a settlement which needs liberating.
  
  Viva la Revolucion! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  like this game is good maybe a lil rushed to get it out there but still good one of the best for 
 the xbox 360 Just Cause offers the freedom to tackle your assignments however the gamer wants: 
 playing the island's factions against one another, inciting a rebellion among the masses and building 
 alliances with rebel forces and drug cartels. Gamers will be able to perform amazing over-the-top 
 stunts; jump from vehicle to vehicle, base jump, skydive, parasail and more. The island can be 
 explored by land, sea and air, as gamers have at their disposal one of the most varied and exciting 
 array of vehicles ever seen in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjarvis321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  First of all having a game thats 24times bigger than Oblivion is AMAZING. Having be able to drive 
 ANYTHING, from planes to cars to bikes to boats, to yachts to helicopters.... and having absolutly 
 NO LOADING TIMES DURING EXPLORING THE GAME..... makes this game's gameplay a 10/10. End of story, 
 no matter what the physics or whatever, having be able to jump from one plane to another while 
 in the sky is brilliant... Having to skydive from over thousands of feet in the air, LITERALLY, 
 IS AMAZING. The storyline isnt as long, but it can be depending on how you play it. But i can assure 
 you exploring a game that takes 40-50mins to drive round completly literally! is a long enough 
 experience.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Amazing city visuals, especially while in the air!, you can see everything with the most detail. 
 Upclose character models are DECANT, but could of been better, however the landscape visuals of 
 the cities make up for that. The sea ocean itself is so rich in detail its astonoshing really.
 
  
  SOUND
  The sound is nothing special, but nothing horrible. It has decant vehicle sound FX and enviromental 
 sounds are decant. Voice acting is also something cool, however it could of been abit better.
 
  
  VALUE
  Like i said before, depending on how you play this game, it can last you over 20+hrs or forever 
 if you explore the world of this game!. The storymode itself is kind of brief but the visuals and 
 size of this game makes up for it. Its just so amazing when playing this game to its full potential, 
 i promise you.
  
  REVIEWERS TILT
  Well i am from the UK and i have the PAL version, and from what i can see in the UK every XBOX 
 360 magazine has given this game a 9/10 GOLD EDITORS CHOICE AWARD. Even IGN UK has given this an 
 8.8/10, which is distinctivly high.
  I myself give this game a high 8.7 score, which it deserves. This game is really a must have for 
 anyone who can use their imagination and fulfill the games massive potential.
  
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonaldsSpoon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  This will last you about 6-7 hours depending on your route, the direct route will have you all 
 done and dusted within that time frame, now if your going to play this game like I do you will 
 not finish as fast. (I roam about looking for one of 300 side missions)
  
  Sounds
  Suck... well not totally but the incidental effects are missing the cutting edge, the rest of the 
 sound you would expect is al intact so unless your a sound whore your not going to hold this against 
 this great game.
  
  GFX
  Simply astonishing. Draw distance is great and you can see all the detail even skydiving from 10.00 
 feet, most worlds that let you get high altitude usually fail when you look about and notice the 
 world your in is like a goldfish bowl.. not so here this baby is wide open and no feeling of restrictions 
 forced on you like the goldfish come wannabe sandbox incantations. If you like lush green jungles 
 with sunlight melting through every branch and water so inviting you just have to take a dive then 
 buy this game, so what the gameplay is not 100 percent, the amazing visuals make up for this ten 
 fold.
  
  The confusion over IGN review
  If you notice, most of the places on the web are giving this game high 7`s and not mutch more, including 
 IGN`s confusing double barrel, the reason is because the UK has a slacker policy on political issues 
 unlike the more stringant US. it seems the US reviews (most of them) held back because they did not 
 know the political outcome of condoning sutch a castro like game and do not wish to condone the 
 whole thing because of old ties and polotics.
  The uk review is the simple ... Truth if you like. ie its a dam good game so review it without scruples 
 instead of mezmarising your public with 2 reviews just because you do not understand polatics///or 
 perhaps because you do. ITS A GAME NOT A FECKING WAR CRY. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
