-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kameo: Elements of Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/kameoelementsofpower/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inventive, fun gameplay involves transforming into various cool, kooky creatures.
 Plenty of variety will keep you guessing and entertained.
 Drop-dead gorgeous visuals showcase the power of the Xbox 360.
 Beautifully composed orchestral score, as well as tons of amusing sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disjointed introduction may be frustrating.
 Fairly short game at fewer than 10 hours in length.
 Two-player cooperative mode isn't very compelling.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 96 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 6,735 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 7, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Plenty of original, funny, visually stunning, and fun-filled moments await in Kameo: Elements of 
 Power, which is the first Xbox 360 action adventure game, as well as a standard-setter. 

  The next generation of gaming is off to a very good start. As the first Xbox 360 game to be released, 
 Kameo: Elements of Power turns out to be a fitting showcase for Microsoft's powerful new console. 
 For that matter, the game's really no worse for wear despite several production delays during its 
 many long years in development. This colorful, creative action adventure game is one of the most 
 family-friendly titles among the Xbox 360's starting lineup, but it'll provide a great experience 
 for just about any kind of game player. It's packed with clever and entertaining action, not to 
 mention some of the most highly impressive, razor-sharp graphics you've ever seen, along with terrific 
 music and sound. Kameo feels rather disjointed at first, and it's not a particularly long game, 
 but it ultimately provides a rousing, memorable journey that'll be a fine way to excitedly spend 
 some of your first hours with the new Xbox.  

          Kameo: Elements of Power takes a little time to get warmed up, but it packs in one great 
 adventure once it gets going.     

  There's not much preamble at first, since the game thrusts you straightaway into a fairly challenging 
 battle without bothering with a proper introduction. You play as Kameo, a slender elf princess 
 with fairy wings and the unique ability to transform into a variety of different, unusual creatures. 
 She's single-handedly assaulting an ominous castle occupied by untold numbers of surly trolls and 
 their ugly, presumably smelly industrial contraptions. It turns out that Kameo's wicked sister, 
 Kalus, is apparently in league with the vile troll king, Thorn. Together they've kidnapped Kameo's 
 family and now threaten the Enchanted Kingdom, Kameo's home. So Kameo does what any young lady 
 would do in her place, assuming that young lady could also transform into a yeti, a plant with 
 boxing gloves, and a roly-poly elephant-mole thing at the drop of a hat.  

  The opening level of Kameo definitely shows off the game's fantastic visuals and audio (made exponentially 
 better if your Xbox 360 is hooked up to a high-definition display and a 5.1 surround-sound system) , 
 as well as its distinctive mechanics. Provided you have some experience with other action adventure 
 games, this one's easy to pick up and play, thanks partly to the responsiveness of the Xbox 360's 
 excellent but familiar gamepad and partly to the onscreen prompts that constantly remind you which 
 buttons perform which functions. Controlling the action from a third-person perspective, you can 
 make Kameo run around (or hover around more quickly) using the left analog stick, and you can freely 
 rotate the camera using the right stick. Kameo's attacks and other moves are mapped to the shoulder 
 buttons, while her transformations are mapped to the face buttons.  

  For instance, she can morph into the pugilistic plant Pummel Weed at the touch of a button, at 
 which point she can execute left and right jabs using the respective triggers. Pulling both triggers 
 at the same time causes Pummel Weed to burrow into the ground, letting it slip under gates and 
 also setting up a powerful uppercut. Kameo isn't much of a fighter herself, so she must switch 
 between her different forms to overcome various obstacles and defeat all types of different enemies. 
 Yet despite the relatively simple controls, the early going in Kameo may still be rather confusing, 
 since you aren't given a clear sense of what's happening or how to play. Unless you've played a 
 bunch of Metroid Prime, it'll especially take getting used to controlling the elephant mole guy, 
 Major Ruin, who rolls around like a ball. Luckily, the game's got a built-in help system in the 
 form of a self-important (but generally helpful) talking book that's always there to give you advice 
 about your situation. So with a little patience and a few voluntary hints, you should be able to 
 cross this first hurdle without too much trouble.  

  Suffice it to say you don't manage to take down Kalus and Thorn so soon. Bizarrely enough, once 
 you finish the lengthy introductory mission, you'll find yourself in the Enchanted Kingdom being 
 instructed on the very basics of gameplay -- such as how to move around and rotate the camera -- as 
 if you hadn't figured all that out already. It's as if somebody decided at the last minute that 
 the original opening of the game was too bland, so the flashy castle level was tacked on in front 
 of it. Whatever the explanation, between the potentially frustrating first level (which forces 
 you to get comfortable with some of the game's most advanced mechanics in what's quite literally 
 a trial by fire) and the unnecessary and late instructional how-to back at the Kingdom, the first 
 hour or two of Kameo may have you shaking your head. But then the game sets you off on a much more 
 satisfyingly coherent sequence of action, exploration, and puzzle-solving sequences. And soon enough, 
 the false start will be forgotten.  

          Just as you probably hoped, this game looks considerably better than anything available 
 on other consoles these days.     

  There's a lot of variety in Kameo. When you're in the Enchanted Kingdom, there's no danger. It's 
 just you getting to flit around in a vibrantly detailed storybook world, talking to some goofy 
 characters, finding hidden items, and so forth. The richly detailed gameworld rewards exploration 
 to a certain extent, since you can find helpful items and other little secrets by straying from 
 the beaten path. However, even though the gameworld consists of big, fairly open-ended areas, it 
 isn't difficult to tell where you're supposed to go next thanks to the presence of a minimap, in 
 many cases.  

  When you're traveling across the Badlands, the biggest area in the game, there's a full-on epic 
 feel as you gallop on horseback amid ranks of literally thousands of warring elf and troll warriors. 
 The Badlands sequences prove to make for some exciting interludes, as it's here that the troll 
 armies are attempting to take down the shields protecting the Enchanted Kingdom. Meanwhile, you'll 
 be called in to aid the defense. Massive troll artillery pieces and the huge scale of the conflict 
 combine to make for a sharp contrast to the solo action adventure sequences that the game mostly 
 consists of.     

   

  You'll also find some well designed puzzle-oriented adventure sequences as you search for additional 
 creature forms. Each one is held captive by a shadow troll, a scary-looking creature that resides 
 in a hidden lair of some sort. The shadow troll battles are all pretty much alike. They're progressively 
 more challenging each in turn, but the battles are introduced the same way each time, and you'll 
 use the same tactics to beat every one of these fiends, making for a sense of dj vu after a while. 
 Nevertheless, these showdowns are exciting if only because you'll always look forward to getting 
 new creature forms in Kameo, since each one is distinctively different and has plenty of personality. 
 As for the shadow trolls, just getting to face off against these guys can be a challenge, since 
 their bat-infested domain tends to be closed off to the casual traveler. You'll need to make careful 
 use of your available creature forms' abilities to find access to the shadow realm -- so you can 
 then proceed with the rescue.  

          Kameo's various elemental warrior allies definitely steal the show. It'll be hard to choose 
 a favorite.     

  Despite having numerous tricky puzzle sequences in it, Kameo never stoops to the formula's lowest 
 common denominators, which means you don't have to worry about tediously pushing blocks around 
 or hunting for keys. Instead, Kameo's puzzles are more subtly interwoven into the action, and they 
 tend to be combat-oriented, which helps make them fun. And if the going gets tough, you've always 
 got your magic hint book to guide you through. If anything, the book is maybe a little too zealous 
 in offering you assistance, as it will volunteer its aid seemingly the moment you pause to figure 
 out what to do next. It won't give you a hint unless you actually prompt it to, but it's hard not 
 to give in to temptation if the book keeps urging you for a chat. If you've got strong willpower, 
 you can optionally toggle off the book's banter, limiting yourself to using your own devices as 
 you brave the game's challenges.  

  Of course, Kameo also features some full-on action levels, kind of like the one at the very beginning 
 of the game. These combat-intensive sequences often force you to finish off groups of trolls and 
 troll sympathizers before you can proceed to the next area. And since combat in Kameo is dynamic 
 and fun, that's quite all right. As you gain access to more and more creature forms, the ways in 
 which you can beat up large numbers of trolls becomes decidedly varied. No matter whether you're 
 scorching them with the burning breath of Ash the dragon, impaling them and using them as projectiles 
 thanks to the brawny Chilla, or pelting them with the stony bits comprising Rubble, chances are 
 you'll have a consistently good time battling Kameo's foes.  

  On top of that, the action sequences tend to culminate in combat against a big, nasty boss opponent 
 of some sort. Beating these is trickier than it is difficult, but the bosses themselves are so 
 neat to see in action, and the music tends to be so frantic, that these fights serve as some of 
 the best parts of the game. In all, the action sequences of Kameo make up more than half the game, 
 but the other types of gameplay surrounding them meld together seamlessly, making for an adventure 
 that feels refreshingly diverse. You're never stuck doing the same type of thing for more than 
 a few minutes at a time before the game pushes you on to the next in a series of entertaining sequences. 

          The downside of Kameo's well-designed hint system is that you can blow through the game 
 rather quickly.     

  Sadly, the adventure is over too soon -- after maybe just eight-or-so hours of gameplay. There's 
 some more for you to see and do after you've finished the main quest, but the main quest feels 
 like it really could have benefited from at least a couple more action levels, since you really 
 don't get much chance to use all the creature forms to their fullest potentials. By the time you've 
 got all 10 forms, or most of them, the gameplay potential is really tremendous, since you're free 
 to switch forms at any time -- and it's easy to do so. The game comes up with some really inventive 
 ways for you to combine the various creatures' abilities, but you'll probably be left wishing for 
 more. On the bright side, Kameo certainly doesn't overstay its welcome, as you'll probably be enjoying 
 playing around with all your various creature forms right up until the end. What helps is that 
 you can pick up special fruit during the course of your journey, which lets you upgrade your forms 
 with new or stronger abilities. Most of these extra powers really aren't vital, but getting to 
 pick and choose from upgrades for all your favorite creature forms helps give the game more depth. 
     

   

  There's a two-player split-screen cooperative mode in Kameo, but it's not substantial. It simply 
 plops two players instead of one into the game's various action sequences, without so much as bothering 
 to distinguish between who's who (you're both Kameo -- same outfit and everything) . These levels 
 were clearly designed with the solo adventure primarily in mind, so they don't present any significant 
 challenges suitable for two players. And most of the entertainment they do provide comes from the 
 inherent novelty of playing the game with a friend. Besides, since the co-op missions must first 
 be unlocked in the solo adventure, this means at least one of the two players will already know 
 the given level from top to bottom. If one player lags behind the other, he or she automatically 
 warps farther ahead. So it's easy for the more-experienced player simply to tow the other player 
 along. Still, at least the cooperative option is there to potentially prevent two kids in the same 
 household from fighting over who gets to play the new Xbox 360.  

          The game keeps throwing you in one new situation after another. The massive battles in 
 the Badlands break up the more-standard action sequences nicely.     

  Even if you're stuck sitting around watching someone else play, it could be worse, since the game's 
 gorgeous, beautifully detailed visuals really are a pleasure to take in. While Kameo herself looks 
 rather generic, with her anime doe eyes and her plain black tresses, the other characters she'll 
 encounter and the environments she'll explore look marvelous. The environments run the predictable 
 storybook gamut of everything from meadows to ominous caverns to frigid mountains, but all of it's 
 beautifully stylized, filled with lots of little visual flourishes, and just plain great-looking. 
 The characters populating the game are much more inspired, especially Kameo's creature forms, each 
 of which is brimming with weird, cute personality. Rubble, a living pile of rocks, chuckles contentedly 
 whenever he performs his explosive attack, leaving behind just his head. 40 Below, a frozen creature 
 that rides on a snowball as though it were a unicycle, can summon a spiky projectile that can be 
 thrown like a bowling ball. All the while, you can see Kameo's form faintly outlined within each 
 of her elemental warrior comrades.  

  Overall, the game strikes a fine balance between familiar storybook scenery, with all the sorts 
 of colorful kid-friendly characters you'd expect, along with much-more-unusual imagery that older 
 or more-experienced game players will appreciate. The game is technically outstanding, too. There's 
 a transparent save system, so -- provided you have an Xbox 360 hard drive or memory unit -- your progress 
 will be saved often, automatically, and without a hitch, relieving you from having to waste time 
 with save menus or save points. Loading times are minimal and the game hums along at a nice, steady 
 frame rate, despite how much seems to be happening onscreen at any given moment. And it all looks 
 markedly impressive on a standard television. But again, as will likely be the case with most any 
 Xbox 360 game, you really need to see Kameo: Elements of Power running on a 720p high-definition 
 display to truly appreciate its visuals.  

          If you made playing through Kameo your first order of business with your new Xbox 360, 
 that would be a fine choice.     

  The sound presentation of Kameo is possibly even better. A stirring, fully orchestral musical score 
 (complete with choir vocals to accentuate many of the game's more awe-inspiring sequences) fits 
 the action wonderfully, instilling in Kameo a truly epic, high-adventure feel. It's really an amazing 
 soundtrack, but the rest of the audio lives up to it quite nicely. Good-quality voice-over can 
 be heard throughout the game, and the dialogue is frequently quite amusing thanks to some funny 
 accents used for some of the oddest-looking characters, like this one octopus-headed little thing 
 that talks like a Valley girl. Much of the sound works on subtler levels, too. So if you listen 
 closely, you'll be able to discern the distinctly different noises each of the creature forms makes 
 while walking and things like that. From the squishy pitter-patter of Deep Blue's suction-cupped 
 feet, to the meek whimpers of the dimunitive-but-deadly thermite, these little touches contribute 
 immensely toward giving the game its charm. And if you've got it hooked up to a 5.1 surround-sound 
 system, you'll enjoy listening to it all the more, as the effects naturally come from all directions, 
 immersing you in the experience.  

  The only disappointing thing about Kameo: Elements of Power is that it doesn't last longer. It 
 doesn't necessarily feel short, since it's jam-packed with things to see and do, and it keeps throwing 
 new experiences at you from start to finish. But since the combat is mostly pretty easy, and since 
 the puzzle solutions are always right there (courtesy of your talking hint book) , you should be 
 able to blow through Kameo pretty quickly, at which point the bonus extras and score challenges 
 probably won't keep you busy for too much longer. Nevertheless, Kameo is absolutely a great game 
 for as long as it lasts, and it's made even better thanks to its state-of-the-art presentation, 
 made possible by the Xbox 360's sheer muscle. Straight out of the gate, Kameo: Elements of Power 
 sets a high standard for how stimulating, creative, and entertaining this classic blend of action 
 and exploration can be on the Xbox 360.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (441 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  Kameo: elements of power is an interesting game but its also not so interesting as well. This game 
 does so many things right yet at the same time it does so many things wrong. It actually allows 
 you to use the powers you have unlike in some other games where you HAVE powers but never get to 
 use them. So then it would make sense to be able to USE those powers to their fullest, well that's 
 not entirely the case I mean kameo does use her powers a lot in fact she actually morphs into different 
 forms that's how well she uses them. But kameo never shows off any over the top attacks or any 
 cool acrobatic abilities and with the sheer amount of power she has you'd think that shed at least 
 be able to do something insane with her powers , but that's just not the case here.
  
  Not much can be said about the enemies they don't deal out that much damage to kameo and their 
 not that hard to kill. But their are a few major things wrong within with the game llike for instance 
 the controls which are just insanely annoying not because their hard to understand what button 
 does what but because when kameo morphs into major ruin and shes rolling around as him its hard 
 to steer where you want to roll her and if you want her to go straight she rolls another dirdtion 
 sometimes getting knocked back or sometimes missing altogether and rolling off of a ledge.
  
  This is the kind of stuff that should have been tweaked a bit more if Rare wanted this game 
 to be even better. But in the end kameo: elements of power does what it needs to do to pull you 
 in show you a new world and lets you enjoy it the way you want to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Rare has generally been known to me for great, unique game, and Kameo: Elements Of Power is no 
 different, it fantastic. In Kameo: Elements Of Power you play Kameo a girl who is on a mission to 
 rescue her family members from the evil troll king- Thorn, all the while trying to obtain all 10 
 of the elemental warriors that she can use to rescue her family, it all being set in a mystical 
 kingdom. The graphics for the game are very colorful, and refreshing. Another thing that I love 
 about this game is the war scenes-in which you often are placed right in the middle of-between 
 the Trolls (bad) and the Elves (good) in a place called the Badlands, which I find great. And though 
 this game is marked as a Action/Adventure game, I definitely mark this game as a 3D platformer, 
 it definitely has all the tendencies of one (just saying) . The game can also be very challenging 
 in parts, but in a good way that leaves you feeling like you have actually accomplished something. 
 And in the end you will probably look back on the game as a very enjoyable experience, which is 
 why I would recommend this game to almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  The Good: Charming graphics, good audio, lots of different creatures to play as, epic bosses
  
  The Bad: Either too easy or too hard, little replay value, boring extra modes, watered down 
 story and characters, downloadable content broken?
  
  We all know what to expect of games that are launched along side brand new consoles, and that isn't 
 very much really. Launch titles usually are just a handful of games that kind of give us a taste 
 of what the new console is capable of and nothing more. Kameo was just one of those games with 
 beautiful graphics (for it's time even) fun game play, and well that's about it. Kameo fails to 
 develop a really good story and characters to be in that story, but what there works and it's enough 
 to keep you hooked for the 5-6 hours you spend playing this.
  
  Kameo is an elf (they can fly now?) who's sister betrayed their kingdom and woke an evil troll 
 named Thorn. The whole game is about you setting elementals free and using them to work your way 
 to Thorn. There are 10 elementals all together and each of them are well designed and very unique 
 in their own rights. Kameo is a platformer developed by Rare so you kind of know what to expect 
 here. Surprisingly (for a Rare game) Kameo is fairly easy and the only frustrating moments are 
 bugs or design flaws more than mechanical issues with controls or cameras. The game is peppered 
 with collision detection issues and just overall errors. These don't hinder the play, but tend 
 to make you more frustrated than you should be. Anyways, most of the game consists of you switching 
 between these elemental creatures and using them to kill enemies and solve (simple) puzzles. For 
 example the first elemental you'll get is Pummelweed; he is a plant who can go under ground and 
 uppercut, and do jabs. You may need him to get under low hanging doors or walls or use him against 
 specific enemies. A second creature you get is Ash; he is a dragon that came shoot balls of fire 
 and you can use him as a flamethrower.
  
  Some enemies are more weak against him than others so there is strategy that comes into play here. 
 Elementals can be changed on the fly via the four face buttons and attacks are done with the triggers. 
 You can go into your Wotnot (book) and assign different creatures to your buttons. Of course you 
 have to catch these creatures by finding shadow trolls and defeating them in a manner of throwing 
 light trolls at it. Once the troll is defeated you absorb your elemental (and get an achievement!) 
 Your main goal is to rescue your family members and this is down with epic boss fights (that can 
 be TOO tough) . At the end of each level you get to fight a huge boss that involves using certain 
 elementals (usually the ones you've most recently captured) .
  
  Now you can upgrade your creatures powers by finding fruits around the world or buying them with 
 coins. These powers are needed to become more powerful and help you through the entire game. Of 
 course finding all these fruits is nonsense knowing Rare so just finding the ones you come across 
 is sufficient. The game also sports a co-op mode so you and a buddy can have at the baddies in 
 this game, or you can do a time trial mode or a "level-by-level" mode where enemies get increasingly 
 harder. I find all these modes uninteresting since once you beat the main game you'll be pretty 
 sick of this game to begin with anyways. The game is very repetitive even though there are multiple 
 creatures to play as they all end up being the same in the end.
  
  The only really awesome part is mowing down thousands of trolls with a charging horse in the Badlands 
 (between levels you do this to save shield generators) which really showed off how many enemies 
 can be shown on screen at the same time. I have to admit though the enemy AI is pretty decent so 
 don't get the game wrong there. There are some downloadable costumes for Kameo, but for some reason 
 the game never recognized these I have no idea why. If you skipped out on this launch title I suggest 
 you go pick it up for less than $10 pretty much anymore.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smugz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  My friend let me borrow this game out of the blue. He was like, "Hey I'm not playing this so you 
 can borrow it for a while." I'm like... ok... He couldn't really explain to me what it was like, 
 so I decided to pop it in and find out. He said it was kidna like Spyro... It's not... unless you're 
 thinking of the Legend series.
  
  The intro was nice and the music and things seemed good but I was a bit put off by the fact that 
 my first stage was a castle stage in utter chaos. I had no idea what to do and there are all these 
 trolls and things running around trying to beat me to a pulp. I picked up the fact that I could 
 transform (kinda like Scaler... another game that is surprisingly good.) 
  
  After a few hours I got through the first stage and was hoping the game wasn't all like that... 
 I soon found out that it wasn't. 
  
  When I got to the main area (forgot what it's called but Kameo's homeworld I guess) , I was happily 
 greeted by the nice scenery, music, and somewhat talkative NPCs. 
  
  Then I was walking and was then realizing that the lighting was changing and POW, a full day cycle 
 complete with sunset and sunrise. Another great plus in the game. 
  Another wonderful thing is the water as lame as that sounds. It was surprsingly good. There were 
 a few things that looked odd (no real splash effect and water falls look a litte strange) , but 
 that was still not a problem.
  
  I think those things are very good to have in games like this because it enhances the experiance 
 by a long shot... at lesat for me it does.
  
  Another thing that helps is the gameplay. I've not beaten it yet but it doesn't seem very repetitave 
 either. Sometimes controles seem a little odd but that's ok. It's a pretty fun game.
  
  I also like the sound engine in the game. Very nice sound effects (although I recignize a few from 
 other places) and sound panning programming as well for synthesized surround.
  
  Overall this is a very nice, fun, and beautiful game that I can see myself playing again sometime 
 later because it's not simply a "beat-um-up" game or at lesat it doesn't sem that way.
  
  I'd advise at lesat renting this game if not buying it. The developers did a great job on it.
 
  
  It's the graphics and evnvironmental soundings (and music) that can keep me playing the game for 
 hours... even if I'm stuck.
  
  This is a great game to at lesat try. 
  
  If you like action adventure games and if you SOMEWHAT like Scaler or the Legend of Spyro series, 
 I would definatly reccomend this to try out as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  The underlying concept in Kameo has potential to make a decent platformer. The ability to change 
 into different forms that have different powers is fairly unique and could open a game to some 
 very interesting puzzle solving. Unfortunately, Kameo fails to accomplish this task.
  
  Throughout the game you collect ten different elemental warriors, each with their own abilities. 
 Unfortunately, many of these abilities are bland and fairly uninspired, and frequently amount to 
 nothing more than what would have been accomplished by having Kameo learn to use a bow and arrow 
 or some other weapon or item. More unfortunate than that, however, is how limited most abilities 
 are. Some characters will barely be used. Rubble's usefulness in the main story is gone shortly 
 after you get him. Pummel Weed quickly becomes too weak to be of much use in fights. 40 Below's 
 ability to ride along ice paths is used only once immediately after attaining the character. Even 
 forms that are useful and used frequently like Major Ruin, Chilla, and Thermite have fairly limited 
 uses, making for a lot of repetition. Having to use Major Ruin to roll along a path and then convert 
 to Chilla in mid air to grab onto an ice wall is used far too much. At the end of the game, there 
 are multiple instances where in order to progress you must use Thermite to get a large troll to 
 reveal its weakness and then convert to Chilla to throw icicles at it.
  
  Putting aside the uselessness and repetitiveness of many of the abilities, one warrior stands out 
 as being worse than any of the others. Deep Blue (the only character able to swim underwater) has 
 such horrendously annoying controls that it makes the few segments where he is necessary painful. 
 Of particular note is the boss battle where you must use him to go underwater and shoot his torpedoes 
 at the weak spots. This battle (quite possibly the most frustrating part of the game) is made all 
 the more annoying by needing to use Major Ruin to launch bombs at the boss in order to trigger 
 the enemy's descent into the water. Rolling things around is very annoying and incredibly nitpicky, 
 and is necessary at several times in the game. Even worse is when you need to position Major Ruin 
 perfectly and roll quickly into them. Even a slightly wrong angle will have the spherical item 
 flying off in a completely unplanned direction.
  
  The controls are problematic at other times due to an inability move characters very precisely. 
 Rolling 40 Below along narrow ice paths results in many annoying deaths. Trying to use Ash's effective 
 fire breath on enemies is difficult since positioning him in the right orientation to be most effective 
 is nearly impossible.
  
  Taking all of this into account, Kameo is missing something crucial to all games. The fun. The 
 game really amounts to little more than a series of repetitive or annoying tasks.
  
  Kameo's plot is also incredibly generic and weak. Basically your sister is jealous about your ability 
 to control elemental warriors, and launches an attack on your home with the aid of the Troll King 
 Thorn, and also kidnaps some of your family members. The oracle lady you meet early in the game 
 transparently has ulterior motives, though very little is done to ever explain exactly what they 
 are (there are brief glimpses during the final scene) . The game's ending is incredibly cliched 
 in many, many ways featuring such overused ideas as when a character comes to the sudden realization 
 that he or she has been wrong, and the individual who sacrifices him or herself to save the world. 
 If a platformer isn't going to make the effort to design a decently strong story (such as in the 
 Sly Cooper or Ratchet and Clank series) then they shouldn't even try (such as in the Mario games) .
 
  
  Is Kameo completely awful? I suppose not. It's an improvement on the boring Conker (see my review) 
 and Starfox Adventures. But it still fails to entertain enough to be considered decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  "Kameo" is a solid title geared towards a younger audience, but provides enough variety and challenge 
 to satisfy gamers of any age. The game revolves around an elf princess named Kameo who sets out 
 to free members of her family who have been kidnapped by the troll king Thorn. Along the way, Kameo 
 acquires the ability to transform into a variety of unique creatures, all of whom have their unique 
 abilities.
  
  The game combines a good mix of platforming and combat, and provides an impressive amount of variety 
 in both by using the creatures' different abilities. Towards the end of the game, players will 
 be swapping creatures on the fly, sometimes in the heat of combat. "Kameo" shines best when it 
 challenges players to make use of different creatures' abilities to overcome an obstacle or adversary.
 
  
  However, Kameo is a linear game with tight and very restricted levels. Certain segments that require 
 backtracking feel out-of-place and unnecessary. And while the story and art style are solid, no 
 aspect of the game stands out as exceptional, save for the variety of playable creatures and their 
 abilities. All in all, "Kameo" is a good game with a creative concept, but falls short of being 
 a "Rare classic." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Kameo reminds me of Star Fox Adventures and a little bit of Legend of Zelda. Unlike most rare game 
 where you take control of an animal or a creature you take care of an Elf (Kameo) . The game is 
 loads of fun and the Idea of the Elemetal Powers works great. The storyline I thought was quite 
 brilliant for a the type of game. You play as Kameo who's Family has been kidnapped by her sister 
 after she brings back a gigantic troll named Thorn it is now up to you to save your family from 
 the clutches of Evil. While the Music is nothing special it does fit the game and make a great 
 expericnce. You will also have to take some time to try and figure out and figure out how to beat 
 bosses and make it to new areas. Rare still has the Magic touch with games, I thought after they 
 left nintendo that this company would go downhill, but this game proves that they still have the 
 great game making abilities while I eventually hope to see a sequal to Kameo I also hope that I 
 will see more games from Rare period truly a classic that needs to be added to anybodies collection. 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  Kameo has alot in common with Star Fox Adventures. Well, for one, they're both Rare games. The 
 other big connection is they were both in production with previous gen-systems and they were both 
 released early in their new gen systems lifespan. They're also both inspired by the Legend of Zelda 
 in a way. 
  
  I think I had more fun with Star Fox Adventures. It had it's share of problems too, but I just 
 wasn't feeling it with Kameo. The dungeons were extremely lame, boss fights were to easy, the story 
 did nothing for me. I wasn't a fan of the controls either. I liked how you can summon elemental 
 spirits for puzzle solving, but there was little variation on the puzzles. 
  
  I think Kameo could have used more polish.
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Kameo 
 is an action game not to far removed from the Legend of Zelda or at the very least Summoner 2. 
 I'm not a big fan of the control scheme this game had, but you do get use to it. Basically, you 
 control Kameo, and you have 3 hotkeys with the Y X, and B buttons. These hotkeys will summon up 
 your Elemental Spirits. Each Elemental Spirit has a few attacks and abilities. To use these attacks 
 you have to use the L and R trigger. While this is not as frustrating as Enclave was, it's still 
 not fun to use. 
  
  Each Elemental Spirit has 4 optional abilities they can learn. To learn them, you have to find 
 Elemental Fruit and use those to buy the new skills. Kameo doesn't learn any skills in the game, 
 actually she barely starts off with any to begin with. All Kameo can do is float and kick, that's 
 the extent of her abilities. Kameo is nearly useless. You can boost your Max HP by finding Elixirs. 
 Besides that, you can equip 4 different accessories that can boost your strength or defense, but 
 they often make another stat weaken. 
  
  The dungeons are extremely linear, so that makes the puzzles extremely easy. When you know you 
 can't leave a room and that you will always have to trek forward, it's not hard to figure out puzzle. 
 You use your Elemental Spirits to figure out puzzles. They have their own unique abilities. 
  
  Boss fights are basically puzzles too. They're kinda similar to a Zelda boss fight. You have 
 to wait for an opening before you can make your attack, but unlike a Zelda game, you rarely attack 
 them melee style. Boss fights are actually stupid amounts of easy too. In a Zelda boss fight, the 
 boss has a weakness, and it's easy to figure out too, but the bosses rarely SHOW you the weakness. 
 In all the Kameo bosses, they basically show you in plain sight what to do. For example, I fought 
 a giant Robot, and he basically lifts open a flap exposes his weakness. Why would he do that? It's 
 just dumb and frustrating.
  
  The controls are ok at best. The only annoying part in the game happens to be the underwater levels. 
 You can't control yourself underwater very well. 
  
  I HATE how you can't save your own game. You have to wait until you enter a new area or find an 
 item for the game to save automatically for you. This is frustrating when I want to quit the game, 
 but can't because I can't remember the last time the game saved for me. 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Kameo. You are an elf woman, whose family 
 is kidnapped by an evil troll king, while all the Elemental Spirits of the world are captured by 
 demons. It's your duty to regain these Elemental Spirits, so you can fight against the evil Troll. 
 
  
  Yeah that's practically the storyline. It's not that interest, and quite franking, I hated most 
 of the characters.
  
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics look like a high-res Xbox original game. There are some parts that look impressive, 
 mostly the few cutscenes, large areas and massive amounts of characters on screen at once. The 
 rest just looks last gen, especially the textures on the main field in the game, you can see every 
 repeat texture. 
  
  I mostly hate the dialog scenes between the characters. This is something that Western developers 
 rarely get right. When the characters talk, they NEVER make eye contact, they just stand there 
 doing their random arm waving and head twitching. It drives me nuts watching to characters waggle 
 around while trying to talk. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The music is a standard Lord of the Rings inspired orchestra affair with other generic electronica 
 scraps slapped in for good measure. The music is totally forgettable. The voice work is also pretty 
 generic and annoying. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is pretty similar to Ocarina of Time. You have a main field, which links to about 4 or 
 5 towns. There aren't many secrets or things to do on the actual field, besides a few abandoned 
 huts which contain minigames or items. Each town (excluding your original starting town) has a 
 dungeon, and the game ends with two dungeons. So it's not a massive game by any means. You can 
 ride on horse back between towns, which is another big similarity to Ocarina of Time.
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  12:27
  
  Despite the lame and predictable 
 storyline, the ending sequence was rather cool. The game saves for you after it is all said and 
 done, and you can go back into the world to find the rest of the secrets if you want. Which is 
 nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a solid adventure with a light hearted setting. During your adventures you will collect 
 Elemental Warriors which you can morph into, and using their varied abilities to effectively beat 
 enemies in combat and solve puzzles are the chief aspects of the game. The story is not terribly 
 engaging, but the gameplay elements come together well enough, and the game keeps offering you 
 new things to do.
  
  The game throws you into the thick of things right off the bat, with you in control of Kameo (an 
 elf) and in possession of 3 Elemental Warriors (which you will soon be stripped of) . The immediacy 
 is a bit daunting, but it doesn't take long to get to grips with the controls, even though they 
 may initially seem awkward. The A button is your interact button, and also to change into Kameo 
 when you have transformed into an Elemental Warrior; the other face buttons are used to change 
 into the assigned Elemental Warriors. These are pictured near the top of screen, so you always 
 remember which button to push. To perform attacks or actions with your current character, you will 
 press a trigger, or both simultaneously. Available actions and the required buttons are shown unobtrusively 
 at the bottom of the screen at all times, so you won't have to memorise every action for every 
 Warrior. Once you've completed this impromptu tutorial, you will launch into a proper one, which 
 seems a bit backward.
  
  You learn that the Elves have tried to keep the peace with the Trolls, but they have broken the 
 truce and a war is raging on. Your sister Kalus has also betrayed you, and is siding with Thorn, 
 King of the Trolls. Your ancestors have also been kidnapped. To defeat the threat and save your 
 relatives, you will need to recover the 10 Elemental Warriors. Each of these have multiple abilities, 
 and they will be required to complete your journey. Kameo can hover around environments quickly 
 and has a flip kick, but she isn't much of a fighter. You will soon find Pummel Weed, who is likely 
 to be your standard combat Warrior of choice for the first half of the game, and progress from 
 there.
  
  Environments can often be quite vast, and at times upon entering an area you will get a camera 
 tour through the level to show you where you need to go, and to give you an idea of which Warriors 
 you will need to rely on. Some of the areas are friendly, where there is little combat, but you 
 are required to traverse them and find the way to the next area. These areas often have inhabitants 
 that will talk to you, or shops where you can buy items. The action levels forgo friends for foes, 
 but still retain the traversal aspect and even some light puzzle solving in combat itself.
  
  Graphically Kameo has aged since it launched alongside the Xbox 360, but not considerably. 
 Some models have low polygon counts or plain textures, but everything is still bright, colourful 
 and nice to look at. Some environments have their fair share of straight edges, but are still expansive 
 and well-designed enough that it hardly matters. Animations are great, aside from the odd clipping 
 problem. The game has a good sense of charm in its simple and bright artistic design. For example 
 one of your Elemental Warriors is Rubble, who is a pile of rocks with a head-shaped rock on top. 
 Stop moving for a moment, and he will bounce his head and flip it in the air in a playful fashion.
 
  
  It's the Elemental Warriors that are the star of the show and gameplay. As your stable of Warriors 
 grows, you will have more abilities available to you, and be able to reach locations (or discover 
 secrets) that you weren't able to before. For example, Pummel Weed can plant himself in the ground 
 and move along to get under small gaps, and Deep Blue is the only Warrior who can swim underwater 
 and reach caves. It's using these abilities in tandem that feel particularly good. For example, 
 using Major Ruin's dashing technique to launch off a ramp, changing into Chilla midflight, and 
 digging his ice spikes into an ice wall that he can climb. The joy comes mostly from discovering 
 these combinations yourself, so I won't spoil any more of them. The sense of discovery continues 
 regularly throughout the game as you unlock new Warriors, and different obstacles are put in your 
 way that you have to solve.
  
  Not that they are too troublesome to solve. The combat is generally easy, and the puzzle elements 
 are pretty straightforward. At the beginning of your adventure you are given the Whotnot Book, 
 which is enchanted by the wizard Ortho. If you ever get stuck, he is usually able to tell you what 
 needs to be done. In fact, he is a little overzealous. Almost immediately after you come across 
 an obstacle, Ortho will let you know that he has a hint for you in the Whotnot Book. It's much 
 more satisfying to ignore it and solve it yourself, but I did turn to the book a few times on my 
 adventure. It's not too instrusive, but you can turn it off if the feature annoys you. If you fall 
 off a ledge, you spawn back in the level and lose some health. If you lose all of your health, 
 you can continue. There is little penalty, as the game autosaves every few minutes. The Whotnot 
 Book also houses information on the Warriors you have. Elemental Fruit can be found around the 
 land, and can be used to purchase upgrades or new abilities for your Warriors. A few of these will 
 be particularly helpful, but most simply add flair to attacks, and aren't entirely necessary; at 
 the end of the game I had quite a number of Elemental Fruit I hand't bothered to spend. You can 
 assign Warriors to face buttons from within the book, or in the game by holding a face button and 
 choosing a Warrior from a radial menu.
  
  Bosses look mighty intimidating, and are some of the best battles. These usually require good use 
 of a couple of the Warriors, and soon you will have the pattern and a strategy in place. A couple 
 of them became a bit on the tedious side, requiring you to perform the same actions too many times, 
 but most of them were quite fun. For example, one of them is a huge tree with a gnarly face who 
 shoots roots out in your direction, and periodically shakes its upper limbs to let loose some Trolls 
 hiding among its branches. As well as the bosses during action stages, you will also come across 
 several Shadow Trolls, who are holding the Elemental Warriors hostage. These you can only combat 
 as Kameo, but you will need to commandeer a Lost Soul and throw it at the Troll when it materialises. 
 These battles all follow the same basic premise, but they will scale as you progress, requiring 
 you to hit them more times as they introduce new attacks.
  
  It seems the story is aimed at being accessible, but is entirely boring and forgettable as a result. 
 While most of the voice acting is adequate, it seems that each actor was given free reign to interpret 
 their characters however they chose and to come up with whatever thickly accented voice they wanted. 
 So while none of them are bad on their own, they seem to lack coherence against the story or setting. 
 This makes the story not very engaging, and I found myself skipping a lot of the scenes, which 
 I normally don't do, to get back into the action. You can talk to some characters in the friendly 
 areas, but they usually don't have too many discerning features and often look alike, so it is 
 hard to connect with anyone who isn't one of the few main characters in the story.
  
  There is a local co-op mode, but it is limited. Once you complete an action stage in single-player, 
 you unlock it for multiplayer. Thus it is just the same level again with a friend. This seems like 
 a lost opportunity, as the potential combinations of Warriors lend themselves to a truly co-operative 
 experience. Specific Co-op levels that required two people to work together to complete would have 
 been very rewarding. This ties to another lost opportunity in the single player campaign. The game 
 takes about 10 hours to complete, but it doesn't feel as though all of the Warriors and their combinations 
 were explored to their fullest. One of the Warriors unique skills was only used for a few minutes 
 after retrieving him, and then was never needed again. Bosses could also have been improved by 
 requiring more than just 2 Warriors for each one.
  
  In all Kameo is a solid adventure. While the story is lacklustre and lacks engagement, the gameplay 
 will keep you interested enough to see it through to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjw514
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool! I got it like last year and still haven't beaten the game! As you progress 
 through the game you gain elemental warriors and it's very hard to get them because you must either 
 go into the spirit relm and fight these light spirits and this dark spirit who has trapped the 
 warrior or fight a boss to it and th bosses are super tough! So you must work with the warriors 
 you have and you may be trying every warrior you have to defete a boss but reallly it takes about 
 on or two of them just to defete the boss. I had to learn the hard way. I can't count how many 
 levels there are but I am going to say about 8 or 7 I can't remember but they are long and not 
 so easy because there like little bosses you have to face and there are going to be about 2 or 
 3 of them. So you must really work with your warriors. There are 10 warrior all with unique powers. 
 Also you can play as Kameo! She can hover to get around easily and also she can do these flip kicks 
 to take out trolls and the trolls go flying! This game isn't based on a series or tv show or a 
 movie either so all the suspense kills you it's really nice if you like that feeling like what 
 is going to happen. So yeah I would definatly recommend this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman501
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game has a couple of good points and that is all. The graphics are good and the problem solving 
 is ok if it wasnt for that stupid what not book who gives you the answers.
  
  The game does not immerse you at all, it feels broken and lacks fluidness in the story. The story 
 doesnt grab you at all and the differents lands are just not connected in any way. Fighting is 
 easy (very easy) and it does not feel rewarding when you kill an enemy.
  
  You get to change into a variety of different characters but as soon as you change into one the 
 next problem is solved using that new character (Dah) . Actually the best point of the game which 
 i forgot to include in its good points is the final boss battles, they are extremely well done 
 but once again if that stupid what not book didnt reveal the solution it would have been alot better. 
 Some people may think dont us ethe book but because its in the game you feel its part of the game 
 and its too tempting, should not have put it in serves no purpose at all.
  
  Overall the game feels like parts have been added on and the person who wrote the script should 
 be given the ass. Dont waste your 10 bucks go and get a big mac meal instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  being the first 360 game and all, kameo shows a lot of promises as a 3rd gen console. yes the graphics 
 are amazing to look at and game play are inventive and entertaining. 
  
  Bad:
  that been said, kameo seems to be a cliche. sure, it is fun collecting avatars and transform to 
 multiple different funny creatures, but kameo doesn't offer much at all. the first part of the 
 game can be fairly frustrating, regarding that it lacks of introduction, and after exploring the 
 world of kameo, you'll find that kameo isn't that different at all compared to other kid's fantasy 
 action adventure. 
  
  Overall:
  the game is a little bit challenging though, you need to use brain rather than skills to surpass 
 this, in other words puzzles are fun and you need to use your creatures to your advantage. this 
 is a good thing cos it doesn't just leave you you to smash things up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought "oh god... how stupid does this look?" But then i saw the trailor 
 for it and I was blown away, and bought it the next day! To just give you some background about 
 the game, Your a fairy named Kameo who is trying to rescue your elemental ancesters and defeat 
 Thorn, who is the Dark Troll King... and he had help from Kameo's sister (I think) . Anywho along 
 the way you obtain the ability to transform into these awesome creatures, whom of each have their 
 own unique abilities that you will use throughout your journey! The only thing I didnt like was 
 that the main character is a fairy... who doesnt do anything but fly and back-flip kick, which is 
 a dangerous move cause you will end up getting beat up anyway. You will probably be Kameo in fairy 
 form for about an hour through out the entire game (exxagerated) . However, this is definately an 
 extremely fun adventureous game! The visuals are extremely beautiful, and the graphics are what 
 we, as gamers, would expect! This is the best game RARE has done since donkey kong! A definately 
 must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosterbeast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Kameo brings the "lite" feel to all recent video games. This game is just plain fun. You can spend 
 hours with this game and not get frustrated with its mechanics. The many characters and adaptations 
 of this game will keep you very intrigued. Visually beautiful with a full range of camera movement 
 and characters modifications will keep this game limitless. The main story the game is very straightforward 
 and direct and will not lead you off exploring far reaches of the map collecting crap! On the other 
 hand side missions can be very rewarding and very easy to accomplish. When I purchased my xbox, 
 this game came with the console. Being a male I went out and bough all of the coolest war games. 
 After completing those I decided to try "kameo" and was pleasantly surprised. Kameo offered more 
 fun and hours than any other game I have played to that date. This game is a keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a instant classic. It was one of the best game I got for my 360. It reminds me of 
 crash bandicoot with a order of fairies, elementals, and fruit. It is cool when roll into a enemy 
 and knock him over the edge.
  
  The last stages are epic, the feeling that you are going to the last boss is contagious. The worlds 
 are graphically rich and everyone had their personality, the lenght of the game that is often criticize 
 around the reviews, personally is think is just right. 
  
  The world is so colorful and breathtaking, and i can garuntee there is not any other game as fasinating 
 to play in on the 360. The world the create is one you just want ot be in, with colorful flowers 
 and beautiful waterfalls everywhere. One of the most visually impressive feats of the game is the 
 "badlands" where thousands of npcs can be found waring with each other. Its really quite an impressive 
 thing to see.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  It took me a long time to start looking at some of the 360's earlier games but I finally broke 
 down to try Kameo.
  
  Good: Kameo's learning curve is pratically non-existent. The game purely wants the user to start 
 off having a great time. An adequate skill level is required but not really necessary just focus 
 on either LT or RT and you'ee do fine. The boss are fine once you figure out how to defeat them. 
 Bosses are not impossible, any gamer should figure out how to take them down. And even if you have 
 problems you have the option of accepting hints. The game flows well, the graphics are great, and 
 the plot good.
  
  Bad: Nothing really bad. Sometimes it feels like a kiddie game but once the game draws you in (which 
 it does quickly) you'll start enjoying yourself and laughing at certain scenarios.
  
  Overall: This is a B+ game, worthy of purchase, and a all around good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Kameo with the expectation that I would have a decent time, with a lot of little action 
 and fighting elements which I would enjoy for a few hours of gameplay. What I got was a colourful 
 and fun platformer.
  As much as I love plot, this game didn't need its plot. It was a shallow plot with unlikeable characters 
 with no depth and Kameo herself is insanely annoying. On the other hand, the game is creative among 
 an uncreative mass of games, and as a launch title, could have been worse.
  The combat isn't great, and the navigation could have been a bit better (especially with the short 
 and unneeded cutscenes which frequent the levels) . The game decided that instead of focusing on 
 fighting and killing, it would mostly focus on travelling around puzzle-platform style, using the 
 monsters' powers to solve problems and defeat baddies. The game implements this system pretty well. 
 The complaint is that the game is very easy; it can be completed easily in one sitting if you're 
 determined. The last boss is kind of a joke, but it is altogether a fun, if short, game.
  The monster powers can be a little useless once other monsters come along. The water form and the 
 first rock guy become pretty well useless after their respective levels and once you have Thermite, 
 there's no reason to fight anything as anyone else.
  Towards the end of the game almost all the puzzles are solved with Major Ruin and Thermite, and 
 there's a distinct lack of creativity in the puzzles toward the end.
  For all that, the Boss battles minus the last one are all very fun and remind you a lot of Zelda-style 
 bosses where it was important to find the pattern, see what you need to do, and solve the puzzle 
 to damage the baddie. This is something that new games seem to forget was an excellent formula.
 
  This game was good, but it could have been better, if it were more challenging and some more puzzles 
 and it would have been a lot higher of a rating. Even so, it's still a shiny little platformer 
 amongst the cesspool of sh*t like Jericho and Kane and Lynch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a instant classic. It was one of the best game I got for my 360. It reminds me of 
 crash bandicoot with a order of fairies, elementals, and fruit. It is cool when roll into a enemy 
 and knock him over the edge. Or even when you upper cut a goblin and he lands on your sharp iceicles 
 that are on your back. The game is a good game for kids who like game where you can change from 
 a dragon, to fairy, to a squid type thing. Overall the game is very long. there are many thing 
 you can do. Like find fruit that will upgrade your health or buy a new outfit for your elements. 
 If I had to choose between this game or any other game like it.... I would basically have to take 
 a gun an shoot myself because it would stop the thought of having to play game trying to be Kameo 
 or simply Kameo. if they make a sequel or event a prequel. I would simply go off the wall until 
 my head exploded all over the place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a launch title for Xbox360 and developed by Rare. This means that it 
 looks and feels like a Nintendo game. This is not a bad thing, but sloppy controls will take most 
 of the fun out of the actual gameplay.
  
  Story of Kameo is not unique or interesting in any way and its plot might just be straight from 
 a Zelda game. Kameo is a daughter of an elf queen Theena and receives the power of transformation 
 as a gift. For this reason Kameo's sister Kalus grows jealous and releases Evil Troll King Thorn 
 from captivity. Thorn then unleashes his army upon the world and captures 3 Ancestors and 7 of 
 the 10 Elemental warriors. Kameo must now rescue them all and defeat the Evil Troll King Thorn.
 
  
  At first Kameo makes a strong impression, which is thanks to its audio visual presentation. Graphics 
 are bright, detailed and colorful creating a kind of story book feel as a whole. Music is orchestrated 
 and its tunes will stay in your head for a while after you've already stopped playing. Sound effects 
 are good as well and voice acting is very professional all the way. Characters speak, but still 
 there are subtitles like in a Zelda game and this makes it very easy to follow the events that 
 take place on screen. Unfortunately you may not care about the story in any way, as I said earlier.
 
  
  Gameplay is just like in a Zelda game: a third person action game in an open world where you complete 
 missions, which usually means exploring a dungeon and fighting a big boss in the end of it. Map 
 design and the world itself is open, but the story moves forward in a strict path and you always 
 know what to do and where. This keeps the story moving forward, but also takes away the fun out 
 of exploration.
  
  What makes Kameo unique are the 10 different Elemental warriors. After absorbing their abilities 
 Kameo can transform as them at any time and you'll end up changing from one form to another very 
 often: you'll fight and solve puzzles by using these warriors all the time.
  
  At this point needs to be said that kameo does include a tutorial, but only AFTER the first level 
 of the game. This means that you get to learn the ropes after you've already learned them earlier 
 in order to get pass the first level. In my opinion the first level of Kameo should have been replaced 
 with a cutscene.
  
  Story progresses mostly by using these cutscenes, which can't be skipped for some reason. This 
 is especially irritating in boss fights, because you may need to watch that same cutscene over 
 and over again. This should not happen anymore in games.
  
  Save system is great and automatic. By great I mean that saving happens quite often and usually 
 you don't end up being too much frustrated because of this aspect of kameo.
  
  Controls are too sloppy. Very often you need to perform some critical action like pushing a rock 
 from point A to point B. This would be just fine, but sometimes it feels like pushing a golf ball 
 in straight line by using a sharp wedge so in other words it's nearly impossible. Camera doesn't 
 help much either, because it's usually in the wrong place when you need it to point to a specific 
 direction.
  
  Boss fights are usually highlights in this genre of games, but in Kameo they are the worst part 
 of the whole package. Bosses are big and pattern based, but fighting them boils doing to testing 
 your patience in dealing with sloppy controls and trial & error gameplay.
  
  Kameo also includes a split-screen co-op, but you can play it only after you've unlocked those 
 levels in single player. In effect co-op seems just an unnecessary add-on. There's also a mode 
 to collect as much points as possible, but it will not keep you interested for long.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power has its ideas and features, but ultimately it doesn't know how to be an 
 Xbox game nor a Nintendo game. Check it out if you find it in a bargain bin for a cheap prize. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  And Kameo is almost another amazing game in there collection, as much as i like this game and enjoy 
 the world Rare has created there is some little flaws that i will get out of the way first, there 
 is a few controlling problems, they are pretty minor but show up some times, its like some of the 
 Monsters feel clunky some times, especially the underwater ones, but once you get used to it, its 
 much easier to controll but apart from that, there is no real problem with the game, i was shocked 
 to see how much Rare have applied to this game, not only is there 10 different monsters you get 
 to play as, each other them has different and upgradable moves, and different skins, also some 
 crazy downloadble ones, free of charge off marketplace. The Graphics has RARE written all over 
 them, amazingly styled and great bright colours to look at! Gameplay is fun and varied through 
 out.
  
  I have just thought of another minor problem, the game throws you in the deep end from the start 
 and things are a little confusing on the first level then it offers a tutorial on the next level, 
 not very helpful but still fun to find out the things for yourself.
  
  Well the world of Kameo is surprisingly large and detailed, there is a few villages you can go 
 to, each with its own style and NPC's that reside there, and a few of them will offer different 
 side quests for you to complete, none of them are really that long but remain fun and each of them 
 reward you with a type of that fruit that you need to Upgrade your monsters moves, also each village 
 has a small shop, and you can buy various things, like health, a Elixar which will extend your 
 lifebar, theres one at each shop and a few hidden around the world. Kameo is a fun and relaxing 
 game, its great to explore the world and do different things, you dont have to do missions but 
 its best to so you can unlock more the Monsters then go back to areas before that you found but 
 couldnt reach. 
  
  Overall this is a complete package aside from the small controll issues and the first level, this 
 is a great game and becauses it been out for a while, the price for it has dropped, so if you havent 
 played it before and are interested in a great game that will relax and entertain you, Kameo: Elements 
 Of Power is yet another great title by the legends that are RARE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braxon1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Picking this up 3 years after it came out I have to say it's well worth the $10 I payed for it 
 and more. The concept of the game is what RPG's are made of. The graphic are very good for a game 
 this early in the 360's library. I enjoy the system of being able to change your abilities in the 
 game. Also the use of the triggers opposed to the normal button masing is very cleverly executed 
 in this. I haven't been able to put it down yet. I would recommend this to anyone looking for a 
 good, interesting RPG to play. I also think it has a very good achievement list, most of the achievements 
 are do-able even the co-op ones. The only downfalls I see are having to spend points to play the 
 game in expert mode and some of the NPC's in the game see a little out of place or all-together 
 useless. I have not tried the Co-op yet but it does seem very appelaing and the time challenges 
 enhance the re-play value of the game by alot. Definitely a game worth spending time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papi_lekker
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  graphics: insane high resolution textures, shader 3.0+, hdr lighting, depth on field and the technical 
 list goed on. the graphics are very atmospheric, and dont forget the 300 enemies on screen at once, 
 wich is very impressive. there is just nothing bad looking about the game, even the art style is 
 very original.
  10/10
  
  gameplay: every level has its original gameplay mechanics, because every level you unlock a new 
 character. the platforming is insanely addictive, and they never overuse any of these gameplay 
 mechanics. it is a very original experience. 9.5/10
  
  sound: the voice acting is amazing, the soundtrack is very epic and atmospheric, and sound effects 
 are the typical RARE sound effects. 9/10
  
  replay value: this is the only area the game fail at. the single player is about 8-10 hours long 
 depending on skill, there are some side quests, but when the story is done, it feels like you dont 
 want to go back. theres a scoring system tough, wich let you play through some levels to earn achievements. 
 in total you spend 20 hours, wich for 20 dollars is actually pretty good, but we're going by the 
 standard of its original price. 7/10
  
  in the end, if you dont own this game, its definitly worth getting, its an amazing story and has 
 amazing gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  In Kameo you take the role of a little princess from a cartoony world, and you travel into other 
 worlds trying to stop the goblin trolls from taking over. Your princess isn't much to fight with 
 as she is basically a weak fairy; however throughout the game you find magical monsters that you 
 can harness to be your allies. Using magic, your princess turns into these monsters, controlling 
 them and their unique abilities' and features. Once again, rareware pulled through on the visuals 
 and charm of the game. All the monsters, including the baddies are awesome. The monsters you turn 
 into vary greatly and all have different capabilities. While one can scale walls and cliffs as 
 the form of a sabre toothed polar bear, you can roll around battle fields, crushing your enemies 
 as a giant pre-historic looking tortoise. This is only two of many more monsters you can turn into 
 and control making the game a joy to play. You can switch manifestations at any stage in the game, 
 so you during combat you can roll your way through the regiments of trolls, then turn into the 
 bear on the other side, and launch icicles from your back at them as they try to recover and regroup. 
 Thats not to mention you can also turn into a dragon, and blunder the large game world, flaming 
 green crocodile looking goblins into oblivion. Cool? I think so. 
  While Kameo was a release game for the xbox 360, I still think it holds up to most cartoony games 
 today. Rareware always make awesome characters in charming worlds combined with easy controls and 
 a joy to play for all ages. Kameo is a pretty tough game, having some frustrating "puzzle solving" 
 moments however they are few and far between. It's been a while since I played it, but I can honestly 
 say it is a fun game to just pick up and play, as are all of Rare's creations. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, this game should definitely be rented before you buy it. It's fun for the first 
 3-4 hours, then it becomes dull. 
  
  Gameplay- 7/10 - So you get control of these Elemental Warriors, blah blah blah, you have to use/collect 
 them to save your royal family from your evil step sister and the troll king, Whoo Hoo. You assign 
 different warriors to either B, Y, or X, and you can switch between them in real-time, which is 
 pretty cool. You can rack up a combo by switching between characters and dealing pretty cool attacks, 
 which when the meter is maxed out (done by getting combos) you'll enter a "slow mo" mode, which 
 isn't as fun as I though it would be. Some of the warriors are a PAIN to control, some feel sluggish 
 and tacked on, others feel over powerful but pretty easy to control (but hey, it's not a bad thing) . 
 You'll have to switch between warriors to solve puzzles in the area you're currently in, which 
 will probably have a shadow troll in it, and when you kill it, you'll receive yet another Elemental 
 Warrior.
  
  Sound 8/10 - This game has a neat soundtrack, most tracks fit in perfectly with what's going on 
 screen, and it's never annoying. Some characters voices are pretty annoying, though other voice 
 overs are done pretty well.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - It's a pretty game, it has a nice use of colors and some pretty interesting environments, 
 though the game looks a little dated and it under uses the power of the Xbox 360. It looks great 
 nonetheless. 
  
  
  Overall, I really wouldn't say it's a "kids" game, but it is for the younger crowd, maybe below 
 the age of 14, this game wasn't for me, but it did have it's moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a decent game and the graphics are quite impressive considering this was a launch title. 
 The game is somewhat easy since the game will drop clues and eventually tell you exactly how to 
 do a certain boss or puzzle. The story is thin and will take the average gamer under 10 hrs to 
 complete if you don't wish to pick up every little hidden items. The controls are well done except 
 for a few instances like when you're morphed into the water creature and you are swimming underwater, 
 the camera fails to follow you correctly.
  
  Speaking of controls the game gives you the ability to morph into all sorts of creatures that gives 
 you different abilities. So basically the game consists of sections in which you must figure out 
 which creature to use to do certain actions. Most of the time it's a recently acquired creature 
 so figuring out the puzzles won't give you a brain cramp. If you are really stuck, the game will 
 drop clues or just even tell you exactly how to do it. 
  
  There's virtually no one online so I couldn't test the multi-player aspect of the game. The game 
 was cool but with so many other current great games to play I was anxious to get it done. It deserves 
 to be checked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan689
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Kameo is the very first release game for the XBox 360. While it has been out for a few years this 
 game still shines.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The world of Kameo is bright and colorful. More importantly this game highlights the 360's next-gen 
 graphics. The graphics can and have stand up to the test of time. Despite being a few years old 
 the graphics are still amazing.
  
  Sound: 7
  The music in the game is appropriate to the feel of the game. The score is wide ranging depending 
 on where you are throughout the realms. Each area has it's own theme and the score captures the 
 essence very well. The let down comes in the various npc's throughout the game. They tend to just 
 repeat themselves if you are near them. This leads to minor annoyances when you are trying to solve 
 a puzzle and you hear giggling or grumbling being repeated as you are trying to think.
  
  Story: 7
  The story is quite simple but very effective. Kameo needs to rescue her family. To 
 accomplish this feat she must defeat the Troll Chief and her traitorous sister.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay is fun and the learning curve is fairly short. The game does not really 
 have a bad difficulty and luckily the player is not penalized for dying. The farther into the game 
 the more ingenuity that player has to use to defeat the ever fearsome trolls. Unfortunately, the 
 gameplay is a little short (averaging about 15-20 hours) but it is still a fun filled adventure. 
 The combinations can be tiring on a player's hand as it requires a lot of button mashing at times.
 
  
  Overall: 8
  In the end Kameo: Elements of Power is a fun game that proves that the Xbox 360 is a winner. This 
 family-friendly game is a good buy for those wishing to find a game for their children but it is 
 also surprisingly fun for adults as well. The ability to transform into the ten different Elemental 
 Warriors (Each needed to unlock portions of the game) is unique piece that proves that this game 
 is a winner as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This was the first Xbox 360 game I got, along with Perfect Dark and in all honesty is okay. Even 
 though it's designed for 12 year olds it's a game for younger children probably for between 7-12 
 year olds. When I got it I was 13, 15 now, and the graphics amazed me, even now compared to Mass 
 Effect the graphics are just as good. The ability to morph into a Yeti, Dragon, Boxing Plant (Yes 
 boxing plant) must be one of the things kids dream of and it blew me away...
  
  As said before the graphics are brilliant and so is the gameplay. The ability to morph adds to 
 this as you can set things on fire as a Dragon, Impale them on your back as a Yeti, beat crap out 
 of them as a plant, eat them, kick them... theres so many things you can. You're also able to upgrade 
 your morphs to do more moves and make them stronger which adds to the gameplay.
  
  The only bad thing is the Story which lets it down... You're an Elven Princess whose family is kidnapped 
 by Thorn the evil, king troll and it's up to you to save them... it's very Cliche'd but it doesn't 
 really matter if you don't give a crap about the story...
  
  This is definitely a game for kids and the kid inside you, if you love platforms BUY THIS you'll 
 not be disapointed. *If you are this is my opinion we all have different views*
  
  Pro's
  
  -Geat Graphics
  -Good Gameplay
  -Ability to Morph kicks Ass
  -Easy Gamerscore
  
  
 Con's
  
  -Story is Cliche'd
  -A bit childish
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliomarim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Nostalgic, the magical game that is *cof* Rare to see nowadays.
  
  Only Rare to create this kind of games ans still sound fresh, and original. The elemental warriors 
 is a fine idea, and uses well the gameplay of each one and the X360 joystick, great layout for 
 buttons.
  
  The last stages are epic, the feeling that you are going to the last boss is contagious. The worlds 
 are graphically rich and everyone had their personality, the lenght of the game that is often criticize 
 around the reviews, personally is think is just right. I prefer to actually finish a game more 
 than one time than do never, or finish a 200 hours game and never play after.
  
  By the way, this is not the purpose of Kameo, to be a long length game, so i don't see the point 
 of everybody mumble about that.
  
  Oh, and almost forgetting, remarkable soundtrack, the strong feature on the game.
  
  9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Kameo is one of those games that may be overlooked by a lot of Xbox 360 owners because of it's 
 cutesy characters and childish storyline. But after finishing this game I can honestly look back 
 and say that those are it's only weak spots.
  
  The game is a classic action adventure title with loads of cleverly designed fighting tecniques 
 and a good mix of simple puzzles to solve. Mixing in a bit of a scavenger hunt now and again the 
 game manages to give you plenty to do without feeling like it's leading you by the hand 100% of 
 the time.
  
  The highlight of the game has to be the robust combat system which provides you with a maximum 
 of 11 different charaters you can swap between to accomplish your goals. Each of the 10 Elemental 
 Warriors you add to your party along the way offers a wildly unique collection of special attacks 
 and fighting styles. The levels are brilliantly crafted to require you to use the different abilities 
 of each of those characters many times throughout the adventure to accomplish your objective. 
 
  
  The clever and satisfying combat hits you immediately, as does the gorgeous and imaginative level 
 design. But what doesn't hit you is the added depth to the combat that was added simply to encourage 
 you to replay this game or specific levels. If you choose you can plow through the game just trying 
 to get to the end of each level. And if you do you'll spend from 10-18 hours depending on how much 
 hunting you do for the fruit required to upgrade your warriors. But if you dig deep you'll discover 
 that the combat system is much more rebust than you intially though. You get scored on your combat 
 skills and you'll need to use both your head and your quick reflexes to maximize those scores. 
 If you succeed in mastering the combat you will be rewarded with acheivements for doing so. Turns 
 out, playing through the game is easy, but maximizing your scores to get the acheivements is incredibly 
 difficult. And there in lies the replayablilty.
  
  On top of that, you can play six of the main story levels over in co-op mode with another player 
 to further unlock more acheivements.
  
  Graphically the game looks very good and is easy on par with most next-gen games of the same style. 
 The sound is amazingly detailed as well with excellent use of the 5.1 audio and appropriate ambient 
 sounds of the villagers talking and working as you wander around.
  
  A few of the characters are a little tough to control but you feel like the control difficulties 
 are appropriate considering the character design and abilities. The overall frustration level is 
 very low due mostly in part to great controls but also to an overabundance of checkpoints. Just 
 about every little thing you do generates a checkpoint and so replaying difficult levels is non-existant 
 in this game. 
  
  The entire experience is a complete joy from begining to end and after spending 18 hours with it 
 I think my only negative marks are for the length. It certainly seems long enough to be a complete 
 game worth your money but it's so enjoyable you just hate to see it end. Fortunately the replayability 
 is extremely high for reasons touched upon above. With the Platinum $20 edition out now there is 
 no excuse for not giving this game a go. Hopefully enough people will check it out and that will 
 encourage the developers to make a much needed sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAlphaGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: elements of power is a great game. it was the very first game i had gotten for my new xbox 
 360. i love it mostly because it is sooooo different than any game i have EVER played. the ending 
 was fantastic it was really exciting. this game is great for ALL ages. my 7 year ol cousin taylor 
 was able to beat the game. at some points it gets VERY confusing. I have always liked RARE it has 
 always been a highly appreciated gaming company. i remember the Epic games they made for nintendo 
 64. rare is owned by microsoft like i have said in my recent reviews microsoft is great. SERIOUSLY 
 who hates donkey kong and diddy kong. they have always been in great games sooo kameo is a reat 
 game i would prefer it to alot of my friends although the game can be a bit kiddy at times
  i have a gaming clan named h4z4rd if you wanna see the link here it is
  
  http://h4z4rd. webs. com/ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  A shape shifting fairy that has a skimpy two peice on, and more than enough junk in the trunk seems 
 like an idea gamers can get behind (no pun intended) , but Kameo is missing the charm found in other 
 Rare games and ends up being an overall disappointment. 
  
  Rare has a pretty good track record when it comes to solid games. All the way back to DK Country, 
 they have been at the forefront of visual technology in console gaming. Kameo is no different. 
 Elements of Power is a beautiful romp through a colorful landscape of primary colors. The graphics 
 are so good that at first you almost overlook the fact that you really aren't having that much 
 fun. 
  
  As Kameo, you have the ability to transform into many different "elemental warriors." These warriors 
 are used to navigate through much of the levels, there is rarely a time when you need to use Kameo 
 in her normal form. 
  
  The main thing that is wrong with Kameo is the controls and control scheme. The warriors are hard 
 to control and having all attacks mapped to the analog shoulder buttons limits the speed and accuracy 
 that you can have with the characters. Also with more than 10 different warriors and only 3 buttons 
 to assign them two, you will be popping in and out of the "Whatnot" (the book that houses all your 
 powers) a lot. 
  
  The level design is decent but nothing to be excited about. The only level that was really exciting 
 and interesting down to the smallest detail was the final air-ship board. All of the Boss battles 
 are very well orchestrated and rather difficult, but that doesn't save the overall feel of the 
 game. The sound is very reminiscent of other rare games and I swear I heard some re-used sound 
 effects (from Grabbed By the Ghoulies) .
  
  Most of the characters are forgettable and replaceable, but the warriors all have a distinct charm 
 to them. Had Rare taken a step back and tested this game with a broader audience, they probably 
 would have spent a few more months smoothing somethings out, but as it stands Kameo feels like 
 an unfinished forgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Kameo, a elf princess with fairy wings that can transform into a variety of different, unusual 
 characters. She's single-handedly takes on hordes of troll armies to claim her rightful throne 
 and the Element of Power. Kameo's wicked sister, Kalus, is teamed up with the wicked troll king, 
 Thorn. They had kidnapped Kameo's family and now threaten the Enchanted Kingdom. So Kameo transforms 
 into ten different creatures to make sure that the kingdom is set to right. Each of her transformations 
 has its own special attributes, there's Pummel Weed, Rubble, Ash, Deep Blue, Major Ruin, 40 Below, 
 Snare, Chilla, Flex, and Thermite.
  
  The actual game play Is fun, flawless, and easy to use. The voice acting is great and has a good 
 share of amusement. The graphics are color and with great attention paid to detail. This game is 
 a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. Microsoft picked game to be one of the kick-off games for the 
 Xbox 360 console and it was a winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignore78
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  this is a really good and fun game to explore, little to short but its ok.
  the graphics are stunning, and the controls are great.
  
  reminds me of the classic game "wonder 
 boy 3 the dragons trap"
  how you can change character to enter different areas.
  but kameo is nothing near as good as wonder boy.
  
  in kameo, the beginning is not so good. 
 it ruins the fun of wanting to se what creature you can be next, when you already played them in 
 the beginning.. 
  
  doing exact the same thing over and over and over, its no fun at all..
  you know what to do to 
 unlock the next creature. YES , defeat the black troll thing, then in the next level, its another 
 exact the same troll again ,, why isnt there any other bosses?? how fun is that.?
  
  the whole thing with excitement playing a game is the bosses..
  its a big important part of the 
 game..
  
  it could be so much more 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan659
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is the best launch game for the Xbox 360 and is still a great. The graphic 
 are wonderful and the isn't the longest but i played it and beat it 4 times, so in my opinion the 
 repay value is high. The point of the game is to beat this troll dude named Thor and reuniting 
 you and your family. So in the beginning you can transform into 3 different creatures a ice dude, 
 punching dude and a rolling guy. so a bunch stuff happens you go into a awesome epic battle that 
 huge  awesome but its not that long!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 which pisses me off so in the end its great and you should check it out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Angel_14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + beautiful visuals
  + classic gameplay
  + very unique
  + just plain fun
  
  Cons
  - Linear Story
  - Cheesy Voice Acting
  - Short / Easy
  - Not for Everyone
  
  
 
  Being a lunch game for the Xbox 360, and an original I. P. for fan favorite developer, Rare, expectations 
 were pretty high for it. Initial reactions to this game where mixed, alot of them where dissapointment, 
 but over two years after the launch of the system, Kameo still holds up and is one of the most 
 visually compelling and unique games on the system.
  
  The gameplay is classic Rare. It involves transforming into various little creatures to solve puzzles 
 and fight enimies. It plays along the line of somethign like Zelda or the Rare masterpiece, Banjo-Kazooie. 
 It isnt a game for everyone, it isnt fast paced, or violent, but I found it to be a fun and charming 
 experience.
  
  Kameo boasts some absolutely gorgeous graphics. The world is so colorful and breathtaking, and 
 i can garuntee there is not any other game as fasinating to play in on the 360. The world the create 
 is one you just want ot be in, with colorful flowers and beautiful waterfalls everywhere. One of 
 the most visually impressive feats of the game is the "badlands" where thousands of npcs can be 
 found waring with each other. Its really quite an impressive thing to see.
  
  Overall, Kameo is a great game with beautiful visuals, and classic rareware gameplay, and is too 
 this date one of the most unique games any one can find on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game i didn't know what to expect. It seemed like an really strange game so for 
 $20 I thought why not give it a try. I was quite impressed by the visuals and the gameplay was 
 pretty good but it was a little annoying when you are Kameo and you can't jump. The game was indeed 
 very strange though because you are this girl who can change into all these weird monster things. 
 The first level had a massive glitch as well. If you exited and saved the game when you went to 
 load that game again, you could not transfor into any of the creatures, meaning that you will be 
 unable to complete the level and will have to start the game all over again. 
  
  Kameo was fairly addictive though and it was good when you unlocked new characters but I think 
 the length could have definately been impoved and the gameplay made a little more interesting. 
 Overal this game was good, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I would compare Kameo to some parts of Zelda. Its largely a puzzle game. Where you need to figure 
 out what to do next. Most of the time its painfully obvious, leaving the player nothing to do, 
 but to move to the right area and press the right button.
  
  Every once in a while, something will not be as obvious as the designers thought, and you are left 
 wondering what to do. These moments are rare, and the game does have a hint system, but I was occasionally 
 left wondering what to do. And it is not always obvious what you can do now, and what requires 
 a new creature form, that you do not have yet.
  
  Some of the forms Kameo can take, are little more than puzzle solvers, and not really helpful in 
 general situations. 
  
  In addition the game is rather short (a dozen hours, or less) . But in general the game disappointed 
 me, because it felt so small. The gameplay areas are small, often just one room or a small outdoor 
 area. Parts of the game feel like they were designed with the N64 in mind (that was the original 
 target system for the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a bitter-sweet game that has its good and bad points. The visuals are stunning as is the 
 sound. The gameplay is VERY short lived and can only keep someone hooked for so long. The combat 
 system is innovative and fun to use. Although some of Kameo's elemental warriors are harder to 
 control then others. The combat is fun but can occasionally get boring and repetitve. On the other 
 hand the boss battles are a lot of fun and are kinda challenging. Overall, kameo is a great game...... for 
 a few hours. So if u have an xbox 360, this is the rental game for you!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I did actually finish the game, not because I wanted to, but because I spent so much time on it 
 already, I felt obligated to.
  
  Man, this adventure game started out well enough-pretty graphics, interesting characters, but then 
 it got to be tedious. The different characters Kameo could turn into got progressively worse as 
 the game carried on. There were occasionally some good boss fights and at least it was pretty. 
 But this game reminded me of the Japenese adventure games (e. g. Mario and Sonic) but didn't have 
 nearly the kid like imagination and sense of wonder like the Japenese counterparts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  This is a good game the graphics were beautiful the story line was good the character design was 
 good. I think this was a great game to be launched on the xbox 360 first I just wish that they 
 gave kameo more moves and that you play as her more that the creatures that she morphs into. Other 
 than that I like the game the puzzles are not too hard and it a really good way to pass time quickly. 
 I'd just recommend this game to people that like these types of games.
  This game looks really good on a HD tv I think that's what got me liking it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Kameo is the first game for the Xbox 360, and thought it may seem as a strange choice to launch 
 the most powerful gaming device on the planet, it certainly delivers in all areas.
  
  You play as Kameo, a young elf, who's sister has become tired of being overshadowed by Kameo, so 
 she revives an ancient Troll King, and they work together with an entire army at their disposal 
 to try and bring down the Elf Kingdom, by kidnapping all members of the royal family. When Kameo 
 finds out, she goes on a rescue mission.
  
  The game starts out kinda weird. It is a little bit of a tutorial level, but it still feels like 
 it just throws you to the dogs. You have four forms you can turn into, Kameo, a plant monster which 
 boxes called Pummel Weed, a ice gorrila called Chilla, and a rock armadillo who can roll around 
 at high speeds called Major Ruin. Thoughout the game, you can unlock new monsters, each which is 
 handy in a different situation, though you can only have three assigned to the X, B, and Y buttons 
 (one each) . Having to constantly flick back and forth between the menu screen to swap these can 
 become tedious, there is a shorter way, but it isn't really helpful at all. But, if you ignore 
 this, there is much fun to be had.
  
  The graphics are stunning. Each character is detailed brilliantly, from the monsters to Thorn, 
 the Troll King. Kameo especially, her character will move fluently between jumping, flying and 
 running. One thing I noticed, in a game where it would be assumed for little kids, Kameo has one 
 of the shortest skirts in video gaming. Go figure. The voice acting coulda been a teeny bit better, 
 but this game is done by Rare, so they will kinda just move their mouths, kinda like in Banjo Kazooie 
 (did I spell that right?) . The amount of stuff they have going on at once is great. My favourite 
 part of the game was jumping on my horse, and ploughing through an ENTIRE ARMY OF TROLLS without 
 being stopped at all!
  
  There is plenty of stuff to unlock after finishing the game, which will mainly involve playing 
 the action stages over again to achieve a higher score, a surprisingly challenging feat I might 
 ad.
  
  Multiplayer? Well, there is a Co-Op mode, and it is fun, but the game was designed as a one player 
 game, and yeah, having a mate is fun, but bosses are too easy, the baddies get taken out a million 
 times faster, but hey, it's cool cause then it is a pick up and play game.
  
  Overall, Kameo has it's little problems, but it is worth playing for the HOLY @#!$ moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm 25. If I was 13, or perhaps even a bit younger, Kameo would probably hold my attention for 
 a lot longer than it did. I saw it in the bargain bin and thought i'd give it a whirl. There's 
 a good variety of elemental warriors you can morph into and they're all characterful with their 
 own particular functions in the game. It's fun for a while playing around with all the crazy powers 
 you can perform and generally beating stuff up but the whole game feels a bit linear. Even though 
 there where a few opportunities to explore it never really felt like there was much incentive to. 
 One madly frustrating part of the game is how it deals with the underwater sections, the controls 
 are unweildly. The boss fight where you have to use your underwater elemental is hard to win purely 
 on account of the cumbersome controls. I'd say this one's worth a rent if you like colourful childrens 
 stories or want to try something slightly unusual. I played Kameo for about a week before I got 
 tired of it and I traded it back in for something else, it was fun while it lasted but I prefer 
 games with a greater sense of realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billnye69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Glossary: 1: First Impressions 2: Graphics. 3: Gameplay/Controls 4: Sound. 5: Story 6: Overall/value. 
 7: Bills Stupid Complaints. 8: Bills Favorite part in the game. 9: Hits and misses
  
  1: First Impressions (8.5/10)
  
  When you look at the back of the game case in the store for 
 this game, you get the impression that its just another adventure game with nothing new to offer 
 aside from the ability to change into creatures. After buying the game for a good price of $35, 
 and jumping into the first level, it was very different then what I expected the game to be like.
 
  
  The first level was pretty wild in terms of what was going on around you, dragons flying around 
 and shooting fire at you, trolls crawling up the walls and catapults launching junk, while you 
 try and attack a castle where your family is being held hostage. (OMG, what a twist) Regardless, 
 it was a very full environment to look at even though you cant get everywhere, it was a nice starting 
 level. I was also surprised at some of the ways you could kill your enemies in that first level. 
 From the general look of the game I wasnt expecting you to be able to uppercut and impale my enemies 
 onto spikes along the wall. After being able to do that and to see a little blood and suffering 
 on those evil trolls, the game was looking better and better. 2: Graphics (7/10)
  
  Looking at the general landscape and background of the game, I thought that the graphics of the 
 plants, mountains and grass could have been a bit better, it was looking more like Xbox 1 quality, 
 I expect something better from next gen games and this game was lacking in that area. The game 
 did have those little extras in graphics though, small bugs and animals running around, lava flows 
 and water falls, which was all nicely done.
  
  The graphics for your abilities as the warriors looked better but I thought that they still werent 
 up to next gen standards aside from Ashs flames though, they looked well done and fire is hard 
 to do. The cinematics werent half bad, but I think the cartoonish style to the game brought them 
 down overall for me.
  
  
  3: Gameplay/Controls (9/10)
  
  The gameplay was very well done, it was very easy to flow between warriors while fighting which 
 is very handy and looks cool to. Targeting was easy considering the computer auto targets the closest 
 enemy to you, this can be a small problem in the odd situation if you are surrounded and want to 
 target the guy behind you but the comp targets the guy in front for you.
  
  Over the course of the game, you have to collect new warrior spirits, that once found are able 
 to transform into to use in battle. They had a nice solid number of 10 warriors buy the end of 
 the game, although I wish they hadnt done doubles so much. There was 2 ice, 2 water, 2 earth, 
 2 fire and 2 plant. It would have been nice if they could of done something like added in a electric, 
 air and some others in there but oh well, it didnt hurt the gameplay really.
  
  Each level has lots to do, such as side quests and fruit finding and was a good length but there 
 wasnt enough of them, there could have been a lot more levels, like double the amount. A definite 
 miss there.
  
  The abilities for each warrior were all fun to do and it was nice to see little to almost no copies 
 of abilities on different warriors, each warriors abilities were unique to them. Some of my favorites 
 were Pummel Weeds up-rooter ability, I used it a lot because it was funny and Chillas ability 
 to impale trolls on his spiky back. Lol You can also obtain new abilities by upgrading each warrior 
 with elemental fruit which are kinda like the heart pieces from Zelda, most are in plain site but 
 some are hidden as well. (I have found 98 of 100 ;) )
  
  4: Sound (7/10)
  
  This section is only here to make the review complete, I really dont pay to much attention to 
 sounds in the games I play. All I can say is that in this game, the sounds are all fine, nothing 
 bad you have to listen to really. Nice voices for all the characters, although some bad mouth timing 
 with some of the words in cut-scenes.
  
  5: Story (3/10)
  
  Pretty basic story, family gets captured by bad people, you have to get more powerful to save them, 
 defeat the bosses and get family members back, someone on your side is really a bad guyblah blah 
 blah, moving on.
  
  
  
  
  
  6: Overall/Value (8/10)
  
  Overall, it is a well put together game with plenty of action and fun ways to kill things to satisfy 
 the hardcore to casual gamers. There is a co-op mode which is a nice addition even though I havent 
 played it yet. Being able to replay pasted battles also adds some value to the game. There could 
 have been a lot more in terms of hours of gameplay, it only took me 2 days to beat this game. I 
 played for a few hours on 4 sit downs and ended up finishing it very quickly. The final boss battle 
 was boring as hell though.. long and boring. .
  
  7: Bills Stupid Complaints This is a list for me complaining about stuff that wasnt in the game 
 that should have been. :P
  
  1  Where is the nudity?
  2  No enough gore
  3  why cant you kill the villagers in all the towns?
  4  The game had no bathroom for Kameo.
 
  
  8: Favorite Part of the Game
  
  The best part of the game for me was when you got a new Elemental Sprit and it goes into your eye 
 and then this, Im all powerful cut-scene plays which I thought was killer and laughed every time 
 it played. LOL!
  
  9: Hits and Misses
  
  Hits  Lots of Warriors Lots of Warrior Abilities Good flowing controls
  
  Misses  Game is 
 way to short Final boss fight was long and boring Not enough types of Warrior Elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a game where you have this power to take a form of a creature which each have their unique 
 abilities. The story is that your sister betrays your family by kidnapping them and working with 
 this evil troll king name Thorn. Now your off in this adventure trying to save your family and 
 get your powers back which you loss in the beginning of the game. This is your standard adventure 
 type of game where there is some forms of platforming, puzzle solving, and exploring. There is 
 still plenty of action if you're still wondering about that and some impressive large scale epic 
 battles too. By epic battles I mean hundreds of enemies on screen. There are many humorous action 
 where you do some funny brutal things to the enemies as the troll scream in agony. The puzzle solving 
 in this game require each elemental warriors as you progress through the game. One elemental warrior 
 is Major Ruin which can roll ups into a ball (like an armadillo) and can go up rams on across steep 
 pits. Another one is Chilla which is a ice gorilla and can climb up walls or throw sharp icicle 
 at enemies. There are many more warriors and each can be upgraded for more special abilities by 
 collecting fruits scattered and hidden throughout the game. Once you're done with the game you 
 can go through it again in co-op online or off which is up to only 2 players. If that still doesn't 
 satisfy you there are plenty of achievements to unlock and many things to collect to keep you busy. 
 The graphics in this game is good but not anything spectacular. I'm kinda impress that they can 
 fit hundreds of enemies on screen with no framerate problems at all. Each character model is really 
 well done with good amount of details. The audio is excellent with a pretty good soundtrack. The 
 voice acting is well done and the sounds effect feel about right. Overall this game is worth picking 
 up if you like action adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Ok kameo has had a long history.. When Rare was still with Nintendo Kameo was suppose to be on 
 the Gamecube.. However when Rare Left Kameo Left with them and got canned for the Gamecube.. Then 
 Rare came with Microsoft.. and they made Kameo for the Xbox.. however the 360 was comming out and 
 Kameo was almost done.. but they delayed it agian because of the new 360.. so thats 2 systems down. 
 but Kameo was not going to be denyed from comming out.. When Xbox 360 debuted one of the games 
 on the list was Kameo.. and its really one of those great Platforming games that Microsoft lacks..
 
  
  Kameo is a game based around a little Fairy Kameo who tries to defeat her realitive from taking 
 over.. in process she looses her powers to use different creatures. Your quest is to get back your 
 old ablilites and get new ones on the journey on your way from beating evil! Each Creature has 
 different Stregths and weaknesses. and each have different abilities you have to use to advance 
 in the game.. Some are very strong.. others are uder water divers each having personality of there 
 own.. Kameo's gameplay is actually quite fun.. the stages are bright a beautiful and they are overall 
 well made and fun.. the graphics in the game are great showed what next gen gaming looks like.. 
 In a System largely based off first person shooters and Mature games.. Kameo is really a breath 
 of Fresh air and without Rare's Colorful and family Friendly games the 360 i think would be in 
 trouble! the only problems with the game is that the storyline is trash.. nobody cares about and 
 the actual character Kameo is very unlikeable.. maybe because she is a girl, maybe because she 
 is a fairy, maybe because she has no personality, maybe because she looks really weird what ever 
 reasons i just don't like her.. now her Creatures she turns into is great! i like many of them 
 if not all of them..
  
  Rare has yet agian made another memorable Game.. Kameo has some ruff story telling a weird characters 
 that kinda make you crindge but as far as gameplay and graphics go this feels like an old N64 Rare 
 game and they were great.. the next games are learning and taking stuff from this game but Kameo 
 is a great Adventure game for the Xbox 360!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Many great things about this to fighting big battles can get hard at times but great 
 and deverse levels more then make up for this
  Graphics: Looks Brilliant. many colors, lots of frames, and detailed characters and backgrounds
 
  Sound: Nothing too memorable but you might like a few tunes.. and sound effects are good
  Value: pretty long game ( i am not sure how long) with many creatures and can be replayed Kameo 
 can last you for a while
  Overall: I rate this game a 8.7 thats the real score! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Plot
  
  When Theena the elf queen gives her daughter Kameo the power of self transformation, her sister 
 Kalus grows jealous, and releases the ancient curse which held the Evil Troll King Thorn captive. 
 Unleashing his army upon the world, Thorn captures the three Ancestors and the ten Elemental warriors. 
 Guided by the Mystic, Kameo must rescue them all, and ultimately defeat Thorn.
  
  Warriors
  
  Kameo's main objective during the game is the 10 Elemental warriors, which she 
 must collect to progress through the game. At the beginning Kameo has the power of 3 elemental 
 warriors, but these are lost due to an attack from the game's main boss Thorn. Kameo must defeat 
 shadow trolls to regain the elemental warriors, although the ancestors will also reward her with 
 a warrior.
  
  The names of the warriors are as follows: Pummelweed, Snare, Rubble, Major Ruin, Ash, Thermite, 
 Chilla, 40 Below, Flex and Deep Blue.
  
  Kameo battled through the badlands and each of the elemental temples to rescue her ancestors: Halis, 
 Lenya, and Yeros. She in turn defeated three demons who held her ancestors. She also helped repel 
 the troll invasion of the Enchanted Kingdom by protecting the three elemental shrines. Eventually 
 she saught to confront Thorn in his domain.
  
  Farron, the army general, lead a full scale assault on the troll forces while Kameo made her way 
 to Thorn's Pass. There she confronted Lord Drok, a huge hulking robot made by the Trolls. The trolls 
 then lead an airship strike consisting of thousands of ships. Kameo sabotaged the ships and finally 
 made her way to Thorn.
  
  In the end Kalus comes to her senses, and after Kameo has worn Thorn down, Kalus turns herself 
 and Thorn into stone. It is also revealed that the Mystic was manipulating both Kameo, and Kalus.
 
  
  The mystic's motives are unknown but it is assumed that the mystic wanted the power of the elemental 
 warriors. It is also known that she held an orb that could allow her to transform into the elemetal 
 warriors. If Kameo had not gone to Thorn's pass the Mystic would have taken the Wotnot book from 
 her. The Mystic flees at the end of the game and there is possibly a sequel in the works.
  
  Development history
  
  Kameo was originally slated for the Nintendo Gamecube and was set 
 to be one of Rare's flagship titles for the system, along with Star Fox Adventures and Donkey Kong 
 Racing. However, when Microsoft announced its purchase of Rare in late 2002, Kameo's future was 
 put in question. It was decided that work would continue on the Xbox, and a planned release date 
 of 2003 was given. After several revamps, causing repeated delays, Kameo was put on indefinite 
 hold in late 2004. Following this, rumours began that the game was once again undergoing a platform 
 change, this time from the Xbox to the Xbox 360, where it was officially, the first game for the 
 system.
  
  Also, with the launch of the game brought with it the sale of an official soundtrack featuring 
 27 musical tracks from the game.
  
  Reaction
  
  Critical reaction was mostly positive, receiving a combined score of 80% on GameRankings] . Most 
 reviewers praised it for its fun and inventive gameplay and orchestrated music, but criticized 
 it for its rather short length.
  
  Game reviews * GameSpot - 8.7 out of 10 * GameSpy - 4 out of 5 * IGN - 8.4 out of 10 * Yahoo! Games 
 - 4 out of 5 * Official Xbox Magazine - 8.5 out of 10 * Official Xbox Magazine UK - 9 out of 10 
 * TeamXbox - 8.8 out of 10 * Game Informer - 7.5 out of 10 * X-play - 4 out of 5 * Electronic Gaming 
 Monthly - 6.0, 6.0, and 7.0 out of 10 * GamesMasters - 95% * GamePro - 3 out of 5
  
  Downloadable Content * Rare released a skin set for Kameo and her Elemental Warriors shortly after 
 the game's release called the Winter Warrior Pack. This dressed each character in festive, holiday-themed 
 skins. It is currently available from Xbox Live Marketplace for 200 Microsoft Points. * Rare has 
 also released a free download to enable cooperative play over Xbox Live and System Link. Previously, 
 the feature was split-screen only. * In September 2006, Rare released a new download on Xbox Live 
 Marketplace. Called the Power Pack, this cost 400 Microsoft Points. This download adds three new 
 modes to the game with the emphasis on multiplayer content. The first mode is Expert Mode, which 
 can be played in both single-player and multiplayer. In this mode, the levels are mirrored and 
 enemy placement is a lot tougher. Many things also happen which never happened the first time through. 
 In multiplayer mode, players share continues. The second mode is Rune Battle. This is purely a 
 versus mode with each player trying to have the most runes by the end of the level. Runes can be 
 earned by defeating enemies, smashing open objects and attacking the other player. Many new powerups 
 exist to further enhance this mode. The final mode is Time Attack, which is multiplayer only. Players 
 must get to the end of the level before time runs out. Each checkpoint passed adds a little more 
 time to the clock. Working closely with your partner is essential for this mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Of the entire Xbox 360 launch line-up Kameo: Elements of Power was the one game that had me most 
 excited. It wasnt another racer, shooter or sports title at the systems launch, and with the 
 delay of both Oblivion and Dead or Alive 4, my hopes fell squarely on Kameo to give me that action/adventure 
 fix I needed so badly, and to help tickle the fantasy bone inside many gamers. Clearly there was 
 no way that it could be bad; it was in development for over six years and at the very least that 
 would mean that gamers were in for one epic experience. How wrong we all were, to have placed our 
 faith in an original, untested IP. Kameo was nothing more than above average, and even then, it 
 barely earned that title. The veritable king of the Xbox 360 launch line-up ended up being Project 
 Gotham Racing 3, a racing game of all things.
  
  When you first begin Kameo youll wonder whats going on. For some inexplicable reason youll find 
 yourself in the midst of a battlefield, climbing up a wall as an icy monkey. Theres no tutorial 
 to teach you how to properly play and no explanation of why youre on the battlefield, youre just 
 tossed in, and it feels so disjointed and out of place. Fortunately, once you finish that area, 
 youll find yourself in your trippy hometown, and then youll get a tutorial after having spent 
 so much time putting your life on the line. Yeah, great design choice, Rare. After the belated 
 tutorial, youll be set loose to explore, and the first thing youll notice are the beautiful visuals. 
 Project Gotham Racing 3 and some of the more realistic games just couldnt pull off visuals like 
 these, sure, they dont hold a candle to later game releases like Gears of War, but for a launch 
 title, Kameo was gorgeous. The environments you explore in the game, from a forest, a water world, 
 and an icy stronghold, are breath-taking. Unfortunately, the character models dont appeal to me 
 as much, some nasty, Bratz-doll character designs curbed my enthusiasm a bit.
  
  Kameo also has some amazing sound work in it. The voice actors are actually pretty decent, they 
 dont make me want to plug up my ears, though youll obviously have encountered better acting in 
 other games. The sound effects are actually very well done as well, as you ride into a battlefield 
 on horseback, the sound of explosions from flying ships and Elf magic will rock your ears. The 
 music as well is stellar. The tracks themselves give off an extremely epic feel to whats going 
 on around you, theyre rather enjoyable to listen to, though Zeldas soundtracks far outclass Kameos 
 soundtrack.
  
  Unfortunately (get used to hearing that word throughout the course of this review) , theres a problem 
 here. Very rarely do I start a review by praising the graphics and the sound in a game, but in 
 the case of Kameo, theyre about the only thing going right for the game. Simply put, the gameplay 
 blows. But to elaborate, there are some good ideas in Kameo; unfortunately, theyre so poorly executed 
 that you wont care how good the original ideas were. For instance, having ten warriors to find 
 and use to help you progress through the game sounds like a way to give the gameplay some variety, 
 but the game is so brief that having ten of them feels like having too many warriors.
  
  Youll consistently notice that each new Elemental Warrior is extremely underused in the game. 
 By the time you feel like your current warriors are starting to make good use of the level design, 
 youll quickly find another one. Some of them are only used for extremely brief portions of the 
 game. You cant help but feel that if the game was at least twice as long and the warriors were 
 spread out a bit more, and used to their full potential throughout the whole of the game, that 
 Kameo could have been something special.
  
  Unfortunately, the game doesnt control well either. Yes, the warriors are under-utilized, but 
 even if they were put to better use, having all of your combat placed on the left and right trigger 
 is just a stupid idea. The face buttons do nothing more than change your character into a new warrior. 
 But even moving your character feels like a chore. Turning into one of your warriors, Major Ruin, 
 an armadillo-like character, is very reminiscent of Metroids Morphball, but it isnt as intuitive, 
 thrilling, or easy to control. It feels like a chore, and the act of rolling, boosting, and jumping 
 off of cliff edges to transform midjump into another warrior that can scale the walls becomes work 
 rather than a cool moment in the game.
  
  Kameo provides a handful of bosses, and yes, theyre good ideas in concept, but when a game cant 
 control well, and has an overabundance of characters to use, but most of these characters are useless 
 against specific bosses, they dont work as well as they were planned. The bosses lack the polish 
 of many bosses in other action/adventure titles. Kameo tries to imitate Zelda in so many ways, 
 and one of them is simply by using all of your new abilities on a new boss, but the precise controls 
 and polish of the Zelda series elevate those boss fights into the realm of greatness while the 
 lack of precision and overall polish throw Kameos bosses into the realm of mediocrity.
  
  Unfortunately, the game doesnt try to help ameliorate its many problems with the story either. 
 In fact, youll notice a distinct lack of a true plot throughout the story. Some tiny bits are 
 tossed your way here and there, but ultimately, the plot comes down to one cinematic at the end. 
 The game throws a big twist in your direction, and if youre not careful, that twist will knock 
 you out of your seat if youre under the age of twelve. Also, youll be introduced to some characters 
 throughout the story. Unfortunately (I told you to get used to this word.) , they dont add to the 
 game at all. Feel free to forget them; even I dont remember their names, just a vague image of 
 their ugly character designs is all that comes into my mind.
  
  All these flaws notwithstanding, there are definitely moments of greatness in Kameo, from some 
 of the level design, to the abilities of certain characters, but the game is so poorly executed 
 that the flaws just jump out at you, and you suddenly forget what seemed good, because a good idea 
 is great when a game is in development, but it isnt so hot when the game doesnt integrate that 
 idea as well as it could have.
  
  There are better fantasy titles on the Xbox 360 now, and its extremely easy to not recommend Kameo 
 to anyone. But if you do decide to play Kameo, dont be surprised if you find yourself wishing 
 you were playing one of the Zelda games, Oblivion, or even Fable, because no matter what anyone 
 says, this is a barely above-average game. When I beat any Zelda title, Im always ready to go 
 for a second play-through. When I completed the main quest and all the guild quests in Oblivion, 
 I knew I was ready to keep adventuring in the world of Cyrodiil. When I beat Fable, I knew I was 
 ready to play through the game again to see the evil ending. When I beat Kameo: Elements of Power, 
 I knew I was quite done with it, and thats just a darn shame, because this game could have been 
 so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Kameo starts off with a girl on an epic quest to save her family and eventually destroy the evil 
 troll to save her Kingdom. The game has the typical save the world and type feel but that doesn't 
 take away from the game at all. Kameo is an odd game to review because it does many things right 
 but just doesn't go the extra step to innovate and expand what a regular action adventure game 
 does. Kameo's gameplay is very understandable and very easily executed. Whether or not your a casual 
 or hardcore gamer, Kameo will be fairly challenging but nothing difficult enough to make you want 
 to put the game away.
  
  The two things that Kameo does perfect is it's sound and graphics. The graphics are breathtaking 
 and very shows what the Xbox 360 is capable of since it was a launch game. The sound is also what 
 makes Kameo an even more enjoyable experience. Rare orchestrates the music so brilliantly that 
 you feel like your in an epic storyline fighting for Kameo's Kingdom.
  
  Sadly, Kameo doesn't last as long as you would expect or want it to last. Kameo's temples feel 
 very short and are easily beaten in 10-20 minutes. The game lasts about 10-15 hours but you expect 
 there to be more to the game. Overall, Kameo costs around $30 dollars now and it's worth the money. 
 Rare does a fine job to present to gamers another reason why they are worth the money that Microsoft 
 spent on them. Casual and Hardcore gamers will all be pleased with this adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  I really did enjoy playing this game and was sad to see it end. I think this is one of xBox 360's 
 best release games. You play as Kameo, a fairy that is given a gift to transform into a range of 
 characters. She was betrayed by her sister who has brought the Ogre Thorn back to life who is keeping 
 Kameo's family prisoner, and now she has to find them all.
  
  Each of the 12 characters you can turn into is very well designed and each have their own abilities 
 that will help you get through all the stages. You need ALL of them to complete the game.
  
  The Graphics is fantastic. Rich and colorful.
  
  The Achievements are simple enough to 
 get. Well almost all of them. The A rank Achievements are a bit harder to get to. This is really 
 a superb game and I would suggest anyone with an xBox and an HD TV should have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is an excellent adventure in which the player can collect and morph into 
 different 'elemental warriors' who each have their part to play in helping Kameo defeat the evil 
 goblins. Gamers are able to play 2 player local or xbox live co-op missions aswell as the single 
 player adventure. Although a fantastic addition to my collection of xbox 360 games I had to trade 
 it in after completion (which took a few days in the holidays after launch) . Overall a tremendously 
 fun and exciting game but lacks depth and difficulty to become a classic. I suggest renting it 
 out from a store rather than paying full price as you will soon toss it aside after completion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on the fact that it had a good review and i needed a change from shooters and 
 sports. it has turned out to be a very good buy and ive played quite the way through it. The bright, vibrant 
 colours are very nice to look at after playing gears of war or other games.
  
  It can be challenging in some places but is easy through most of the game. the character design 
 is well done and have you have some great warriors to transform into. My personal favorites are 
 chilla and pummel weed. The graphics in the game ar very nice especially for a release game and 
 its now almost 2 years old.
  
  I would recommend the game as it is now quite cheap and is a nice play through also you will get 
 a fair few points by just playing the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscoDevistated
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is overly simple. I'll leave it at that.
  And its pacing is boring.
  
  The graphics are bright and colorful however thats about it. The game is just very weak for a rare 
 game.
  
  And I felt a bit girlish while playing it. The game may be rated [T] but it's really for 7-10 year 
 old kids.
  
  But don't get me wrong. Its not a bad game just not great.
  
  However the controls were great, and the sound was incredible. But the game is short and not one 
 you'd want to replay.
  
  So please stay away unless your going to rent it. Because its not all that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a surprisingly good game that's short and a good time filler so if your bored and feeling 
 anxious awaiting all those blockbusters but feel like filling some time this is the adventure game 
 for you. As it was a launch title you will most likely see it on special or in the bargain bin 
 so definitely grab it an give it a go as its rather under appreciated!
  
  Graphics:
  For a game that is almost 2 years old the graphics are still very nice and really draw you into 
 the world it tries to portray, definitely one of the high points for this game.
  
  Gameplay/Story:
  The way the game plays out is quite fun and the different elemental sprites 
 you collect keep the gameplay evolving and with with an original control scheme it seems to work 
 well and keep you thinking, as for story its your typical adventure story lacking depth but not 
 bad by any means but if the game were longer it might have caused an issue but its still ok to 
 follow.
  
  Sound:
  - The sound suits the game very well and doesn't seem out of place at any time, definitely a job 
 well done.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  As I got this game for $15 so the value is extremely high regadless of the little replay value 
 and for a short game even if you don't enjoy it much you will get a fair amount of achievement 
 points and satisfaction beating it, but overall as said just a time filler really =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  So the graphics are kind of childish but are still cool. Whoops, wait a minute: You see how my 
 review started with me describing the graphics? If you didn't research Kameo player reviews, you 
 would have no idea what I'm talking about, which is kind of how Kameo starts: On your first quest, 
 you get thrown into the game, pinned against a wall (literally) with no tutorial whatsoever.
  
  It's a good thing the game isn't that hard to learn. Basically, you play as Kameo, a girl who 
 has the power to transform into creatures not of this world. OF course, you lose this power after 
 the first mission, and then you start the real quest: You must find the spirits of the creatures 
 you could turn into to be able to turn into them again, and you must fight bosses and Kameo's sister 
 who is mad because Kameo's power was supposed to be hers.
  
  The game is fairly fun. You travel through lakes and frigid areas, airships and castles, all the 
 while turning into different creatures to access certain areas, and defeat certain enemies using 
 their different abilities. During your adventure, you find elemental fruit which you can use to 
 upgrade your creatures' powers, for faster destruction.
  
  The game is rather short however, as will be my review of it , but still very fun. And as for direction, 
 a book tells you what to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agatha_Chronos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall, it was an entertaining game and I enjoyed it, but in the beginning, it was a little too 
 hard to start off, and it wasn't very easy to learn how to move and attack with all the trolls 
 constantly knocking you down or throwing you at some spikes, or pushing you off a cliff in to a 
 gaping hole!, but once you left the castle things got much better, the graphics in the enchanted 
 kingdom were simply amazing, I stayed there for half an hour just to look around. The rest of the 
 game was just awesome and I could go on and on about it, but this is a synopsis, not a book. Ciao! 
 - Agatha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  I had rather high expectations from kameo considering that the team making it was rare, and at 
 the end I enjoyed it, but was hoping for a little more. The game takes you into the elven world. 
 A long time ago, old wars with elves and trolls, yadda yadda... it's sort of a story of LOTR for 
 kids. Despite the storyline, the core gameplay itself hits the spot in an interesting shapeshifting 
 frenzy. You'll get about 10 of these little (and big) buggers, with specific uses for each one. 
 Remember LoZ Majora's Mask? Yeah, I think rare was playing this a bit much and decided to give 
 it a try. And it works well, making it more interesting with having to use combinations of each.
 
  
  The presentation is stellar, and the graphics are pretty nice as well. The audio is what it definitely 
 needed to be. In the end it took about 8 hours to go through from start to finish, I just wished 
 the storyline was a little more engaging than kill everyone and solve puzzles to beat the evil 
 under-powered troll. Maybe it's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'm certainly not a fan of these games!
  
  This game is hardcore fantasy,,, the gameplay is rubbish i mean seriously its hard to decribe play 
 it and u'll see. The game get's boring sometimes, it's just soo repetitive. The game is very short 
 it can be completed in a short week end. The achievments are easy to get, u can get a very easy 
 600 gamerpoints. Co op is pretty much the same thing as offline. The elemental warriors are useless 
 and some of them will be only used once in the entire game. The story's dull and boring. The graphics 
 are cartoony, in some places the graphics are impressive but in overal they're mediore.
  
  I'm sorry to say but these games are only worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --SharkTooth --
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's first game to it's new console. Like we would guess, the game main purpose is to present 
 the new console abilities as well as to be an experience to childrens and to their parents both. 
 This second purpose is a tricky and complicated thing: the game is just to easy. This game is not 
 placing any challenge to the average gamer and much below. I made through the game almost without 
 to fail, I terminated all the boses in the first time (except the last one and the ancient water 
 monster) , and the riddles are pretty easy not to mention the babbler book that solve you after 
 two minutes anything in mind (although you don't have to open it) . And I'm not a heavy gamer. Even 
 below the average.
  
  Except this the game is pretty and innovative (I think there are no more action adventure games 
 meant to the family) . If I need to sum up I would say the game is definitely good, but it would 
 be better to start with this game rather to play it if you are more experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  The creators of the amazing games Banjo-Kazooie and Conker's Bad Fur Day bring us their first platformer 
 for the Xbox 360: Kameo: Elements of Power. However, even though the game is pretty good, it does 
 have some minor downfalls.
  
  The basic set-up of playing Kameo is this: you traverse lands, using powers called Elemental Warriors 
 in order to solve puzzles to get through areas or defeat enemies that can be defeated easier with 
 elemental-specific powers (similar to type vs. type in the Pokemon games) . For example, you may 
 need to light torches, so therefore you will have to turn into a fire-type Elemental Warrior (which 
 includes a huge dragon and a small termite with a volcanic structure attached to its back) .
  
  While the Elemental Warriors are the cool part of Kameo, their attacks are even cooler. By 
 collecting Elemental Fruit (big red eggplants that you can find throughout the land) you can upgrade 
 your Elemental Warrior's existing abilities (such as giving them more Spirit ---similar to MP) or 
 buying them new moves, which are usually very awesome.
  
  You can really tell that Rare wanted Banjo-Kazooie to be its Mario and you can also tell that Rare 
 wanted Kameo to be its Zelda. A couple things that Kameo shares with Zelda is the lands you visit 
 have inhabitants that very much resemble the creatures in the lands from the Zelda games. Kameo 
 itself plays much like Zelda, in that there are bosses at the end of every dungeon that give you 
 an important item you need to progress through the game, there are secret dungeons to discover, 
 various sidequests, and you can find the Elixers of Life in order to give Kameo more health. Also, 
 the puzzles are very reminiscent of Zelda in that Link uses various items to get through dungeons, 
 but Kameo uses Elemental Warriors in order to do so (but the puzzles are laid out in relatively 
 the same manner) .
  
  One thing I love is visiting the Badlands, which is the area that separates all the other lands, 
 and is infested with the game's enemy, trolls. Oh, boy, it's fun as hell running through the hundreds 
 of trolls laid out across the land, and I wish that the game had more moments like these.
  
  The graphics are nothing short of spectacular. The water physics are amazing, the Elemental 
 Warriors look great, and nearly everything in the game is perfectly polished. No one can say that 
 this game is ugly.
  
  Sadly, Kameo: Elements of Power is short, which really brings down its otherwise high score. There 
 are some things to unlock, but they only consist of skins, which can be unlocked a couple ways, 
 which just makes everything very confusing. There is a multi-player mode which consists of re-doing 
 dungeons found in the single-player campaign, but this feature is just boring and unimaginative.
 
  
  If Rare had taken more time to make the game longer, not as easy as it is (you can probably beat 
 it in less than 10 hours) , add some more stuff to unlock to give it replayability, and made the 
 multi-player mode more immersive, Kameo would be sitting in the clouds with Rare's past blockbusters 
 like the Banjo-Kazooie games and Conker's Bad Fur Day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twiztedmetal5
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  when u first look at this game u see these amazing graphics and this cool concept of a girl being 
 able to transform into elemental beasts.... sounds cool right? WRONG! dont get me wrong its a very 
 epic story and i think it will keep u engaged in the game. it also keeps the game moving it never 
 strays away from the important events present. also the graphics are awe inspiring. i couldnt the 
 particle effects in this game! every enviroment is beautiful, you'll often find yourself stopping 
 and just gazing at this beautiful world around you. now so far so good, graphics good, story good. 
 now here's the part that makes this game all flash and no substance: the gameplay. honestly this 
 is one of the most boring games ive ever played. the gameplay is not engaging and it almost seems 
 too easy. i wish that the gameplay had more depth, it was a little to straightforward and simple. 
 after a while its gets boring because the simple gameplay is not challenging enough. now some of 
 you might like simple and easy to pick up gameplay, but if you're a hardcore gamer like me, into 
 games like god of war and devil may cry?, you really wont like this game. but, if you wanna buy 
 to game this game because its something nice to look at, be my guest. But otherwise, dont waste 
 your money on this game. (it could have been a great game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I've actually had a copy of Kameo for more than a year now, and played a little when I first got 
 my 360. I was impressed initially, but was a little put off by the too pretty Kiddie style graphics 
 that I originally felt like detracted from the game. - At least that's what I thought a year ago.
 
  
  Recently a friend popped in the disc and started playing - and got a little stuck. I jumped in 
 and started playing - boy, my initial impression was off the mark!
  
  On focusing on the game without distractions, I found that the game to be exceptionally well made 
 in all dimensions, but especially in the graphic assets - each area is just visually stunning. 
 Controls are very spot on, and challenges are very appropriate all around. This is one of a very 
 few games that I would play over again.
  
  The game offers some continuing play value in the form of challenges and co-op capabilities that 
 you can unlock during the single player campaign.
  
  Kameo is a great, solid game that is very enjoyable with all elements (sound, voice, etc.) that 
 all contribute to a memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  When RARE released 2 games for the xbox 360 when the console first launched, it was a decider beteen 
 Perfect Dark Zero and Kameo: Elements of Power. While PDZ tried to please the majority of 360 fans 
 with a FPS, Kameo reached out to a new audience besides the hardcore. A platformer that shows all 
 the trademarks of RARE and how they handle platformers and for most of the time the game is fun 
 that entertains and challenges the players wanting a new experience.
  
  A war rages on between the Elves and the Trolls. While the Elves are well experienced with magic, 
 the Trolls are masters of machinery and thus have attacked the enchanted kingdom with battleships 
 and catapults aswell as dragon riders that rule the skies. Meanwhile Kameo and her royal family 
 have been betrayed by her sister Kalus who has awoken Thorn, king of the Trolls. The gameplay is 
 what makes this game standout from other platformers and it does challenge the player numorous 
 times. You have your elemental powers that you venture out into the world to find that grants you 
 different transformations. Each element has a natural characteristic such as ice, fire, earth and 
 water. The challenge in the game depends on how well you can use these elementals and in combination 
 with each other. Major Ruin for example can roll into a ball allowing you to go up ramps and if 
 you go up a ramp and fly towards an icy wall you can quickly change into Chilla who can grab onto 
 the ice. The land is huge and what seperates these temples that hide the elementals is the Badlands 
 which is this huge battleground. This place is a good example of how the xbox 360 is able to handle 
 hundreds of NPCs on the screen at once without the framerate taking a hit. The Badlands also has 
 quests where you'll have to protect these huge guardian statues that help to keep the shield over 
 the kingdom. These can be quite challenging at times which is something most of you will appreciate.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are visually stunning in most parts. Lighting is especially beautiful 
 for the daytime part aswell as night time. This game is very rich in colours that add to the beauty 
 of the game. The Trolls are very well designed to look tough and angry with their expressions and 
 as for the Elves, they look good but perhaps could have been a bit more varied in design rather 
 than the same looking Elves again and again. The elemental powers are most impressive in their 
 designs. Very creative looking and suit the fantasy genre well. I especially like the look of Ash 
 the dragon and Chilla the gorilla.
  
  The sound is probably what you would expect in a RARE game. Voice acting is corny but unlike PDZ 
 the voices in kameo suit the game. For example the inhabitants in Snowtop Village sound like they're 
 from some eastern european country which suits this snowy location. One thing I do have to complain 
 about is the Whatnot book and how he will continuously nag you if you don't know what you're doing. 
 And he doesn't give hints either, he practically tells you what to do.
  
  For anyone who enjoyed RARE's previous platformers will definately see and appreciate what Kameo 
 does for the genre. It's both fun and challenging and maybe perhaps a little of the childish side 
 in terms of the visuals but this isn't exactly powered by the unreal engine 3.0 and it went for 
 beauty rather than gritty. The game isn't as long as most would have liked but what you do get 
 is an enjoyable experience for practically the whole family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Still one of the best 360 games after 1 1/2 years.
  Best thing about Kameo is the gameplay. Changing to different forms to overcome various obstacles 
 is a great idea. Fights are challenging, but several of the puzzles would be quite hard without 
 the omnicon, a built in help system.
  Graphics are still pretty good in general, but the artistic work of the developers is what lets 
 Kameo compete with the best of 'em. The world of Kameo feels real thanks to various side-character 
 activities, if it is some kids throwing snowballs or a father trying to teach his son how to swim. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was really bored and nothing was in at my local Blockbuster so I decided to pick 
 this game up. The game-play is a little simple like Spiro the Dragon or Ratchet and Clank and not 
 usually my favorite game but I gave it a shot. Switching from the different forms to make it thru 
 the game was fun. So it did keep my attention long enough to finish the game. The puzzles are somewhat 
 difficult in certain part but all in all a fairly fun game worth a rental at least at your local 
 video store. It't might keep a good gamer busy for 10 or 12 hours at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The original Xbox, had some idenity issues. Despite its success, it got unfairly tagged as the 
 shooter box or Halo box and was seen as mostly a console for American adult males. As we all know, 
 Microsoft, in order to attract a broader audience, spent an obscene amount of money to buy Rare 
 from Nintendo which, as a Nintendo fan, I'm still pissed about. As we all know, Grabbed by the 
 Ghoulies, Conker, and Perfect Dark Zero made people question Rare's move.
  
  Luckily Kameo: Elements of Power is here. This game has been in production for a while. It started 
 work back on the N64, then was slated for the Gamecube, then Bill Gates bought Rare and it was 
 going to be on the original Xbox and now made its way as a launch title for the 360.
  
  The story is about an elf girl named Kameo, when her father dies in battle, she is given the ability 
 to turn into different elemental warriors, her older sister, Kalus becomes jealous and teams up 
 with their enemies, the trolls, kidnaps Kameo's family and exacts her revenge on the world.
  
  The first level throws you into the Troll King's castle with three warriors at your disposal, 
 a yeti named Chilla, Pummel Weed, a plant with boxing gloves and major ruin, an armadillo who controls 
 like Samus Aran in morph ball mode. The control scheme of Kameo is odd but works. Most action/adventure 
 games use the X, Y, A, B buttons for basic jump, attack, etc. moves but in this game the buttons are 
 your easy access to warrior forms with the triggers allowing you to jump, hover and attack of you 
 and each warrior. This takes some getting used to. The most frustrating being Kameo's flip attack 
 where you have to hit both triggers at once. This can be a pain when you have to fight a shadow 
 troll to gain a new elemental warrior.
  
  One other minor problem with the control scheme is the camera. You can control it with the 2nd 
 analog stick but there's no button to quickly adjust the camera behind you. (Note: What is the 
 point of the RB and LB buttons if they're not going to do anything?)
  
  The elemental warriors themselves are varied. Some a very useful for fighting, others control horribly. 
 Special note of Deep Blue. He's the only form that can go underwater but controlling him underwater 
 is AWFUL! You have to hold down the left trigger to make him move and steer with the left control 
 stick however the camera goes into a fit when you try to go underwater. Other elementals like Snare 
 and Flex seem almost useless except for certain parts. Chilla the yeti and Ash the dragon were 
 my favorites.
  
  The world of Kameo is alive with Rare's distinct style. It's colorful and detailed and full of 
 interesting creatures with voices that don't always seem to fit them. This is reminiscent of Starfox 
 Adventures's talking dinosaurs with their British accents. It's actually rather amusing. Between 
 levels, you'll be thrust into the badlands where the main battles between the elf and troll armies 
 rage and sometimes Kameo must help in the fight before continuing on. You can explore the ends 
 of the battlefield and occasionally find an abandoned hut where there are items and caves leading 
 to min-games but this area feels so bland and empty at times especially when you think of some 
 of Rare's other 3D worlds like Banjo-Kazooie and DK Country 64.
  
  The game is also very short. You could probably rent it and beat it in a weekend. With all the 
 time Rare spent on this project, it's dissapointing that the game is short. There's a few sidequests 
 and mini games to make the experience last slightly longer. Even more dissapointing is the multiplayer 
 co-op. I get the impression that Microsoft forced them to put this in so that it would take advantage 
 of Xbox Live. Games like this don't need multiplayer. Sometimes we only want a rewarding single 
 player experience.
  
  Still Kameo is a decent title and now that the price is down to roughly $20, it's a safe buy. It's 
 not the massive epic that some had hoped, but it's still a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbRipken
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a game I had followed for quite a while. But for some reason when I finally set out to 
 play it, I didn't have any real expectation of the game. So what do I think? I think that Kameo 
 is a game that shouldn't be missed. It has a lot of fun filled moments, interesting characters, 
 good visuals, and great music. This game has some really good dungeons. They're all pretty easy, 
 and relatively short, but they're still fun. So if you like adventure games, look no further.
 
  
  Gameplay: This a game that's a lot of fun, the characters that you turn into all have their advantages. 
 However, this game could have used some work. Graphics: A game that's very easy on the eyes. It 
 might not be the game that defines next gen , but it is very pretty. Rare always does good graphics.
 
  
  Sound: The highlight of this game. The voiceovers are kind of cheesie, but I have to point out 
 the fact that this game probably has the best orchestral score of any game that I've played. It 
 gets you very pumped for what you're doing, and I found myself stopping to listen to it. The rest 
 of the sound in the game is good as well.
  
  Value: This is about a 10 hour game, 15 if you do the side stuff. It would have been nice if this 
 game could have been another 5 hours longer. But I enjoyed the game from start to finish. So I 
 guess that's all that matters.
  
  Overall: Kameo is a great game that is what more adventure games should try to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mephistopheles9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a game made by rare, the company who made games like banjo tooie, and like the banjo kazooie 
 games, kameo has colorful and easy on the eyes graphics. The water effects are superb, the grass 
 looks lush and the trees look real enough to climb. You will be traveling through this beautiful 
 world as a girl named Kameo, who has the ability to shape-shift into a variety of different elemental 
 warriors, which are mapped to the y, x, and b buttons. The point of this game is to save your family 
 from the evil troll king, Thorn, and your traitorous sister, Kalus. This game impresses you with 
 its variety of creatures to turn into and its massive battles, but the game is very short, and 
 some of the elemental warriors will almost never be used, and I found that none of these creatures 
 stood out as my favorite. The plot in this game is unbelievably see through even at the beginning, 
 though i don't think that the story is the focus of this game. This games true strong point are 
 the previously mentioned large scale battles, fought against Thorns army of mindless trolls. There 
 are many ways to take out a large amount of enemies very quickly, such as by using one creatures 
 oil jet and spraying it all some trolls, then igniting it with a dragons fire. The result is a 
 very cool explosion. The music in this game compliments the beautiful graphics, and in some places 
 you can recognize rares signature style of music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power was one of the first games released on Xbox 360. It took gamers on a journey 
 into a world of elves and trolls, were aprincess, able to shape shift into various elemental warriors, 
 must save her kingdom from an evil troll king and her evil sister. straight away its obvious the 
 storyline is in-depth and compelling. also what is instantly see is the marvellous graphics evident 
 in the game, allowing for a visual treat. videos, such as the unlocking of elemental warriors are 
 really incredible. gameplay wise, the game is pretty straightforward. you move and attack, and 
 certain buttons can have elemental warrios assigned to them for quick access. as an elemental warrior, 
 you will have particuarlar attacks. personally i think more attacks could have been added, but 
 the ones you have do the job and well too. overall the game is fun, looks great, and is extremely 
 well made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Collideoscope
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  In a time when Gears of War and Halo is setting standards on what we should expect when playing 
 a video game, when it comes to all-out violence and mayhem, consider Kameo as the less-tense alternative.
 
  The graphics are surprisingly good for a game that never had the full potential of the 360 at 
 its disposal. IMO, the game is on par with any next-gen game being released so far this year.
 
  The gameplay is quite good, other than some minor issues with transforming from one Elemental 
 Warrior to another in order to complete an objective.
  The main quest is your average length for an adventure game, at over 10 hours, but trying to get 
 all your achievements will keep it in your disc tray a little while longer.
  My only gripe is that at some points the game is too easy, and at others it's hard to understand 
 what exactly you need to do to move on in the game. There is the Wotnot book to help you out, but 
 who wants to be told how to do something? I thought part of the fun of games was figuring it out 
 yourself.
  All in all, the game is great. If you want a nice and less intense alternative to all the blood 
 and carnage that most games have to offer, give Kameo a chance.
  Throughout the lifespan of the Xbox 360 (however long that may be) , expect Kameo to remain relevant. 
 I think in an age where games are pretty much dated by the time of its first birthday, Kameo will 
 still be fun to play and nice to look at for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is an amazingly stunin game. da grafiks r simply gorgeous wiv sexy envirinments an 100s of 
 characters on screen at 1nce. it reli is amzingly sexy! it vry fun 2 play 2 wiv lzd of abilitiees 
 4 kameo she transforms into ldz of creatures includin a big ice yeti an a masiv fiery dragon. ma 
 faves r da yeti an pummelweed a big pumpkin boxer!! IT NT VERY LONG THO RANGING AT BOUT 10 HRS 
 BT it vry fun all da way thru. its bacialy a vry fun game an u shud defintely try it out 4 ur ry 
 1st game 4 da XBOX 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 15, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Rare went to Microsoft things just haven't been the same. Their titles has slipped and 
 their ideas haven't been well executed. Kameo is no acception.
  
  You play a princess who is trying to get back her family from being enslaved. She has the ability 
 to change into several different creatures each of which have their own powers to beat the baddys. 
 The graphics are a stylized almost anime type system, although they aren't cell shaded. They feel 
 at place with the Disneyesque type game that Rare has developed. Some the lighting and shadowing 
 are really cool. The controls fall short. The camera is problematic, and the buttons aren't quite 
 as responsive as I would like. Plus the set up is akward and this makes combat difficult. The music 
 is par for the course and the sounds are as well. There really isn't anything new here. The idea 
 that you can shape change into different beasts is a sound one, but the beasts you turn into are 
 lame. Some are built for combat, and some are built for movement. Each have their own set of powers, 
 but one doesn't really stick out as my favorite. The level design is kind of lame and the AI isn't 
 really all that smart. You will spend most of your time hacking and slashing your way through hordes 
 of enemies rather then really going on and adventure. At times it feels like a plateformer and 
 at times it feels like an action/adventure game. All in all it doesn't do either justice. This 
 game isn't going to be up there with the Zelda's, Mario's, GOW's, and so on. The game really doesn't 
 have much to offer and what it does it's done poorly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellyjamsixpack
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game can be fun at times but it wasnt as good as i thought. There are lots of cool creatures 
 you can turn into and they each have there own powers. The learning curve of this game is pretty 
 short and its pretty fun. But the game is really short and at times you might be stuck and it can 
 get really boreing. The music and graphics are really good but they should of spent more time on 
 it. I would highly suggest that you rent this game first before you decide to buy it or not. But 
 i doubt you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dups79
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Kameo's gameplay is fluid and simple. The use of the left and right triggers is about 
 the only buttons you use through-out the game, other then the occasion a, b, x, y to switch characters. 
 This make the game available to gamers of all skill level. The maps are setup so that you have 
 to use different characters in different situations. This is however not all that tedious and flows 
 quite smoothly. The gameplay is unique and original, a nice breath of fresh air. Graphics: The 
 graphics for this game are outstanding considering this was released as a first gen next gen game 
 in 2005. It's very colourful and the attention to detail is fantastic. You are able to zoom in 
 so I suggest zooming in on a lot of objects and areas through-out the game. Take the time to enjoy 
 the beauty of this game.
  
  Sound: The sound for this game is on par with what you would expect in next gen games. It has ambient 
 music that meshes well with the area you are in the game.
  
  Value: I usually end up doing side quests in the games I play. This game has a few but I did not 
 seem compelled to do so for some odd reason. You have the ability to gather fruit in the game to 
 enhance your characters. I went through the entire game with maybe 3 or 4 enhancements made to 
 my characters. So in other words there is a lot of things in the game but you might end up using 
 half of it. However, the option to do so exists therefore this game has enough playback value.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This game has great visuals, gameplay and an interesting story. Although predictable 
 at times you do have a few plot twists that keep you guessing. The online aspect less a lot to 
 be desired but it's hard to incorperate online to a platformer type game. This game can often be 
 found for a low price as it has becomes a platinum hit and therefore is well worth the purchase. 
 Even at full price I would recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Kameo eleents of power is an action adventure game from the creators of many great games, Rare.
 
  
  Kameo starts off with a short video showing you what is going on, it seems that your sister has 
 left your family to help the evil troll king thorn, so you (Kameo) must destroy the evil troll 
 king before he uses your sisters powers to kill your family and take over the world.
  
  the way you play is to change through the many elements Kameo has to destroy your enemies, for 
 instance some enemies might only be killed by water.
  
  the game is well balanced in doing this however you will have to use some characters far more times 
 than others.
  
  the problems with kameo is that its too short and one of the most annoying aspects is that you 
 have to pay microsoft points just to play expert mode?!?!?!
  
  WHAT?
  
  yes its true and definetly not far.
  
  Still, the game comes with coop mode which is trully 
 great and fun.
  
  however you must have completed the game in single player before playing it in co, op
  
  over 
 all kameo is one of the best 360 launch titles and one of the best 360 action adventure games, 
 dont miss this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Kameo is an action-adventure game where you control a girl named Kameo who comes from a royal family 
 and has the power to morph into 10 elemental warriors . She loses these powers at the very beginning 
 and you have to go through the game to get them back .
  I was impressed by the amount of different colours in this game ( but i should have expected it 
 from Rare) . There are many puzzles but i think that you have to appreciate some of them being 
 easy as it is meant for all audiences .
  The graphics on the game are of a high standard as is the sound . I think the best part of the 
 game is the coop multiplayer where you and a friend take on Thorn or one of the Bosses in the game 
 . Overall this is a good all round game and if you bought it now for &pound;20 ( sorry dont know 
 translation into dollars) it would be a bargain and would give you hours of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kallate
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  kameo is a game that makes good use of the many buttons on the controller. this stratagetic game 
 has a fairly interesting storyline the gameplay is pretty good, i do like the online play and co-op. 
 this partly stratagetic game has kept me in the same spot for a while mainly because im not good 
 at strategy. now back to the gameplay i do like the fighting system it makes good use of the unlockable 
 charcters and makes you think more than run and kill like many other before it. the value is good 
 id say if you knew what you were doing about 45 hours of straight gameplay.
  overall its a good game although i would probobly rent it first not because of lack of gameplay 
 hours but because most people don't enjoy these types of games as they used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmath4life
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a legendary achivement with tons of surprises which will keep you guessing from begining 
 to end in about 10-12 hours of play making it pretty lengthy and awesomley addicting to any gamer 
 of any age... don't let the cover judge this game it is downright good no matter what anyone says 
 i would add this to my collection if i was you... i got it the moment it came out and am still 
 having fun... this game is underrated and should get a boost to at least 9.5 or something... this 
 is one of my favorite games out of the very few out there this one is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  what a creative and cool game this turned out to be, especially considering it was one of the launch 
 titles of the xbox 360. The game starts out and gave me the impression that i was only going to 
 be stuck with those 3 elemental power characters in the middle of a weak story line but as it turns 
 out, the game back-peddles a little bit and then throws you into a much better, more immersive 
 story with really cool quests and characters. the object of the game is to get back at your sister 
 who out of jealousy kidnapped your family and unleashed the trolls, and in order to get to her 
 you have to gain back all of the powers you lose at the beginning of the game, and it turns out 
 you get to have like TEN different elemental power characters. Pros: the story line is great and 
 even has a good little twist. the characters are pretty unique and fun to juggle and develop. the 
 graphics are GREAT and its impressive how many characters on screen the system can handle smoothly. 
 the sounds are super and the control are good, except for the underwater areas. i also love how 
 you die and come back to life real close to where you were.
  
  Cons: hmmm........... the underwater controls are really all i can think of! Bottom line: get this 
 game, especially used somewhere for a good price because it is very entertaining and well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamil999
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  perfect game ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonio358
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  With half-decent storyline and fun puzzles, yet easy opponents and a short game altogether there 
 are a ton of pros and cons about this great game. It has a few RPG elements which really don't 
 appeal to me in this certain game, but I enjoy the results that I get by buying skills and using 
 them for different environments enemies or puzzles. I think this game graphically did nothing new 
 but nothing bad. I enjoy playing Kameo and hope that there will be a sequel in the near future. 
 I did not want to give this game a 9/10 just because it didn't wow me like any 9.0 game has but 
 it did a lot a lot of 8.5 or less games have tried to accomplish and fell short, I find the game 
 to have a few Zelda moments, but usually when the Zelda moment is a puzzle I can figure it out 
 a lot quicker than a Zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhinsa17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  At first I was unwilling to play this game, simply beacuse of the fact that you are a girl in it. 
 Which was pretty stupid seeing as now this is one of my favourite games on 360. Graphics- Brilliant. 
 Simply brilliant. The way the light reflects off of everything is breathtaking, and everything 
 looks 3D. Even the smallest details look amazing.
  
  Sound- Almost as good as the graphics. There is a brilliant soundtrack and all of your weird creature 
 things have their own sounds too. Rubble, the pile of rocks that lives, laughs when you do his 
 special move, which involves kind of blowing himself up leaving only his head. And Pummel Weed, 
 the giant plant with boxing gloves, makes little high pitched grunting noises as he punches.
  
  Gameplay- Superb. A lot of it involves going around as Kameo, because she's the fastest walker, 
 then beating the crap out of trolls with your creatures. There's all sorts of puzzles and enemies 
 you find yourself going up against, best of all is that you have to use different creatures to 
 do different things. For example, you have to use Pummel Weed to creep under fences and vines. 
 Rubble to throw stones into statues mouths. Ash, the dragon, to blow fire into torches and much 
 more.
  
  Overall, this game is brilliant and should not be missed by 360 owners. If there's anyone out there 
 who doesn't like this game, then you are seriously retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerald101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be a bit dull and the same sort of thing as other platformers 
 "find all the keys and u can open the door". In this game u have to find something thats worth 
 finding. The elemental warriors. This motivates you to continue going on so u cant wait till the 
 next creature u get to be.
  
  The graphics are the best for a launch game (10/10) . It has a lot of replay value because of its 
 co-op features. Ive just got nothing bad to say about it.
  
  If u like a fanatsy adventure game. GET THIS. Thank you for reading this if u have i hope u agree 
 with this review. need more words ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok kook okkoko ko0ok kokokokokokokok kok 
 kok kok kok kok kok kok kok kok kokok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok oj ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok o. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samjcb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game has the sweetest graphics ever with alot of fighting too.
  At the start of the game it throws you straight in the action by having to save your family by 
 defeating the troll. Ovously the rescue attemp goes wrong and you get stripped of all of your morfing 
 powers. The game ends tho as soon as it starts with a very short story but if walking around and 
 taking in the scenery is your kinda thing than you can get hours of gameplay out of this gorgouse 
 looking game, i found it sweet how you had to turn into these creatures to get over the obstacles 
 the game frows at you role on sequal.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  The real depth to this game can easily be missed if you just keep your head down and play through 
 the single player mission avoiding enemy confrontation at any opportunity and never once allowing 
 yourself to be side-tracked.
  
  If you play Kameo this way, you may finish it feeling rather underwhelmed, as I did the first time 
 I played it.
  
  The depth in Kameo comes from learning the wealth of special moves and, more importantly, the combo 
 moves that allow you to rack up incredible scores within minutes. At that, point, it becomes a 
 different game, a game in which you relish the opportunity for another rumble against an unfeasible 
 number of enemies.
  
  There are plenty of online videos that can help show you how to perform these combos, and how to 
 get those elusive grade A rankings. Take the time to play this game properly and you'll enjoy it 
 a heck of a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Kameo For 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Too be honest, I was not expecting that much out of Kameo. Conker was just in essence a port, and 
 their GBA games for the most part blew. Though the story itself is nothing groundbreaking, it's 
 well presented. I'm a sucker for well presented games. The game is fully voice acted at all times, 
 most (keyword most) voice acting is well done, and the cutscenes are frequent enough without being 
 overdone. Good character cast overall, though they really aren't that deep. Mostly two dimensional 
 I will admit. Still, it's done really well and is thoroughly enjoyable.
  
  
  Gameplay : The game has several different game play approaches, its somewhat hard to judge this 
 section. That and every elemental warrior plays entirely differently. I will say this, both Flex 
 and Deep Blue are very boring to play with. Deep Blue is the only elemental warrior capable of 
 swimming, so they basically gave him no other abilities worth noting, and Flex can basically only 
 grapple onto polls, which is near useless against enemies (except for one kind of enemy that can 
 only be killed with this method) . Other then that though, the characters are all fun to control, 
 and have useful abilities in combat (and most having abilities useful not in combat) . I especially 
 like Chilla, he can throw enemies on his back, and then he can throw them off cliffs while they 
 hang from his back (which has spikes all over it) . Action stages can get a bit repetetive, as they 
 are somewhat long. I wish they were shorter, but there were more of them. Over World stages are 
 unique and fun, being the host of many different side quests, and heavily explorable. I especially 
 love the bad lands, where you battle against hundreds of trolls at a time. You can even ride horseback 
 in the bad lands. Think of this game as a mix between God of War and the Legend of Zelda. I do 
 have one major complaint however, the score system is deeply flawed. Instead of just scoring points 
 the normal way, you score very little points, and have to require on using score multipliers, which 
 you lose very, very quickly. It's annoying losing multipliers every time you get hit, as getting 
 hit is a common occurence in this game.
  
  They controls are good for the most part. It will take some getting used to at first, and a couple 
 of characters have some odd controls. Deep Blue's swimming for example is hard to control if you 
 use the camera much at all, and Flex's way of moving is very very awkward. Oh sure, these are just 
 a few characters, also the start menu is oddly made, and confusing at times. Not perfect, but you 
 will get the hang of it, and the few bad characters can be avoided throughout most of the game 
 anyway.
  
  Graphics : This is proof that Next Generation Games are not just a small increment. This is like 
 N64 was to Gamecube, Playstation to Playstation 2, Game Boy Color to Game Boy Advance. I will admit, 
 few games have gone all out in graphics for 360. This game however, has. And it was supposed to 
 come out on Xbox just recently, it wasn't even specifically programmed for Xbox. Character Models 
 have no jaggies, collision detection is perfect, and textures are life like. Not to mention all 
 the effects. The lighting effects actually look like lighting effects, not just giving characters 
 a shadow. The fires in this game actually look like fires, ice shards are the distorted sort of 
 transparency. And somewhat like the Conker: Live and Reloaded effect with the camera getting water/blood/whatever 
 on the lense. Rare always was on top when it came to graphics. I will say though, a lot of the 
 action stages look somewhat similar style wise, which is a bit of a bummer. All the other stages 
 however share no similarities with each other. Sometimes you'll wonder if you were even playing 
 the same game, the graphical (and gameplay) styles are entirely different.
  
  Sound : The sound is fairly good, the elemental warriors sound pretty good and so does all the 
 cuts and slices and what not. The voice acting is good at best, The sound would have been alot 
 better if the voice acting was a bit better.
  
  Rare is back on its feet it seems, and is out to make some more masterpieces. Although this game 
 could have been better in many ways, it's still phonomenal. And pretty soon an online patch for 
 online co-op is coming. Look forward too it. And although this game is not aimed directly toward 
 kids, it probably is the most kid friendly game on the Xbox 360 right now that isn't a sports game, 
 and that doesn't stink.
  
  If you do think you'll replay it, and go after all the extras, it will be worth a buy. To the casual 
 fan though, it's probably just a rental because there is no competetive online mode, and it's only 
 about 15 hours long without all the extras. Great game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The pace of Kameo seemed a bit much, at first. I wasn't entirely sure what was going on and found 
 the controls of the various characters hard to deal with as, for the first 10-15 minutes, every 
 character is chucked at you in succession, along with many of the different types of enemy in the 
 game. - all of which you need to work out how to defeat using the different skills of your characters.
 
  After you get past the 'intro' however, the game slows to a more normal pace and you start enjoying 
 the quirky and humourous world of Kameo.
  
  I'd recommend it for the fun gameplay - the boxing venus fly-trap is cool - great visuals and frenetic 
 action. For me, the biggest downer is that when you come across unfamiliar enemies, it can take 
 some time to find the best character and skill to use against them, which often results in several 
 frustrating beatings to death. This can get a bit tedious and caused me to switch off a few times!
 
  
  Overall, however, it's good fun and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steano
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Buying Xbox 360 was exiting, but with the games going anywhere from thirty to fifty pounds, you 
 need to be careful you dont make an expensive mistake.
  Kameo is worth the money you pay for it, as soon as you insert the disk, you'll be shocked by the 
 quality and presentation of the introduction, its colourful, cleverly layed out, and you can tell 
 that who-ever made this one really knew what they were doing.
  
  You start the game as a princess in a small, beautifully designed eden, which in the game is a 
 location set suspended above an immense plateau, from where you can quite literally see the entirety 
 of this Pixeless wonderland.
  
  Your role in this world is to take the form of a metamorphic princess, and use her power to save 
 the show from the Orc king thorn, and his immense, terrifying army. watch as this princesses world 
 comes tumbling down around her, and watch her take it upon herself to do something about it!
  
  I recommend finding some screenshots if your still not sure, and thankyou for taking the time 
 out to read my review. Vote Steano. not to be a loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  I usually don't put games into my 360 that I don't own. With Kameo, however, I decided to make 
 an exception.
  
  The gameplay feels like a really deep platformer. You'll do some hopping (or Sonic-esque zooming) 
 from ramp to ramp, plateau to outcropping. Though, you don't do much jumping to get to these various 
 places. Kameo has the ability to change into 1 of 10 forms at any given time. Of course, you have 
 to collect these different forms. The ways in which you acquire them is something for a whole new 
 paragraph.
  
  The battles in this game are spectacular, a real joy to fight. Whether it's you vs a few trolls, 
 or you vs a large boss, it's always (almost) great fun. My favorite battles were in the Shadow 
 Realm, when you were pitted up against a shadow troll. The battles were always intense, and the 
 rewards were always great. The regular boss battles were also quite entertaining, with the exception 
 of one, which I will cover later.
  
  Graphically Kameo is a real treat. They're bright and vibrant, yet not overdone. I could have stood 
 for them to be a wee more dynamic, but the sights were still wonderful. The sound wasn't anything 
 spectacular, but it fit the game quite well. I wish there was a separate slider for music. Whoever 
 scored the music for Kameo did a wonderful job. It's quite beautiful, and made the game seem quite 
 epic indeed. It's a good value now that the game price has been reduced. Why did I say rent it, 
 though? I've not rented a game in years. However, I managed to beat this in three days, and under 
 ten hours. For twentyfive or thirty dollars, the game is quite a good value. For sixty, I may have 
 been a little disappointed in the length. There is a coop, but I never got a try at that myself. 
 So unless you're going to play through it more than once with a friend, I'd suggest renting. It's 
 easy enough to beat in that short span of time.
  
  The one gripe I have about this game is anything involving your character being totally under water. 
 The underwater controls were actually a little bit frustrating, and the boss battle was somewhat 
 frustrating as well. Other than that one quest and boss, though, the game was quite fun.
  
  I say rent if you want to play it, but don't mind not having it in your collection. It makes for 
 a great 10- hours.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  A platform game would surely feel amiss if the elements ceased to exist. Perhaps the real world 
 that we keep ourselves away from to play great titles such as these would be in a spot of trouble, 
 but gaming just wouldnt feel right with these common traits. Without a snow level with ice we 
 slip all over, and a lava level that burns us to a crisp upon touch, platformers wouldnt feel 
 complete. Its safe to say that these attributes are something the player expects to see when a 
 title such as Kameo rears its head, even if the subject matter is something that has been done 
 many times before. It holds a special place in gamers hearts, perhaps not the place where we hold 
 our favorite games, but a place of common familiarity. Its not that platformers arent innovative, 
 but that they rely on these elements to create a well-known (however well-worn) gameplay design.
 
  
  With that out of the way, Kameo: Elements of Power comes across as the ultimate of clich&eacute; d 
 platform gaming. As the subtitle so subtly refers to, the games main theme is set around the elements 
 of water, fire, earth and air, with Kameos power of each ultimately telling a story that is as 
 well-worn as the gameplay.
  
  As Kameo has been in development for longer than Microsoft has been involved in console gaming, 
 the plot and characters should be second nature to anyone who has a passing interest in games by 
 now, but just in case youve just joined us, there is very little to cover - so Ill try to be 
 brief. That elfin fairy princess is Kameo, the main character that you play as throughout the games 
 short but fun experience. Those creatures you can change to at will with a button press are the 
 Elements, elemental creatures that you need to hunt down and capture so you can morph into them 
 and continue your quest. That jealous looking she-devil is your sister, and she has sided with 
 various nasties including that big bloke, the Troll King to wreak havoc on her former Kingdom. 
 Shes even kidnapped your family! So, as Kameo, you need to set out and capture those long lost 
 Elements and eliminate final evil before the Enchanted Kingdom is felled. Told you I would keep 
 it short, its really all there is to it.
  
  Being an Xbox 360 launch title, all the usual bells and whistles about next generation visuals 
 are in there, and in full force. Kameo has the honor of being the very first game for the Xbox 
 360, and by default, the very first next generation game. So naturally, its a stunner. But that 
 doesnt even go into its art direction. Its a fairytale twist on Playstation 1 platformer Medievil 
 and has the ethereal beauty of Tim Burtons Nightmare Before Christmas. The lush vistas and panoramic 
 views of enormous battle scenes are truly epic, this is something that truly could not have been 
 achieved previously and bodes well for the next generation of gaming. The absolutely marvellous 
 use of lighting, especially in the Throne Room, have to be seen to be believed. Screenshots do 
 this game no justice. Xbox 360 launch be damned - this is going to be one of the better looking 
 games throughout the lifetime of the console.
  
  To regain your lost elemental powers, a more involved gameplay experience is set up. Although its 
 initially simple, Kameo will travel all across the Enchanted Kingdom seeking trap doors to the 
 Shadow Realm, where she will battle the wispy stalk of a Element in order to gain its strength. 
 Although these battles end up roughly the same throughout the course of your adventure, developer 
 Rare have packed in the enemies to stop you at all costs before you reach these skirmishes. Using 
 the learned Elements to mop up enemies is a sound strategy, as Kameo, while not bad to look at, 
 isnt a very powerful character on her own. Combinations of the Elements and using, for instance, 
 Fire against Ice Creatures will work like any player could expect, but the creature design also 
 influences their behaviour, and they each have a specific way in which to break down their defences 
 before being taken down permanently.
  
  The main temple action where you are shuttled from area to area to defeat the various nasties before 
 continuing can grate, and some Elementals that prove more useful than others can make the game 
 feel unbalanced. Although the general action is enjoyable, there is a feeling of repetitive levels, 
 where a constant stream of enemies must be eliminated before moving on. The last level is especially 
 true to this, as it contains rooms that look identical on more than one occasion. Than there is 
 the more than occasional rolling up ramps to jump onto walls to climb action. The lack of variety 
 from beginning to end can really get tiresome.
  
  The games primary focus is on the creatures that Kameo can become once they are unlocked. Overall, 
 there are ten creatures to find, and each has a specific use and upgradeable power. While combat 
 is fairly easy and linear, enemies have specific weaknesses against some powers than others, though 
 the power designs are a treat too. For instance, upgrading Deep Blues water spitting power will 
 turn it into a oil spitting power, which can slick the ground as well as do direct damage. However, 
 switching over to your fire breathing dragon Ashe will quickly light up entire areas and anything 
 within them - pure genius. Many of the Elementals have powers that compliment one another, and 
 boss battles often have numerous defences that can only be beaten with specific Elementals. Finding 
 out these weaknesses is one of the joys of Kameo, and lifts the fairly lukewarm combat into something 
 far more enjoyable.
  
  However, as enjoyable as the gameplay mostly is, Kameo doesnt ship without its faults. Specifically, 
 some Elementals are under utilised and feel like last minute additions. For instance, 40 Below 
 has little use outside of the Snow Village, and Flex suffers from this same fate. Their powers 
 are fun, but sticking with just a few of the Elementals will be enough to get you through the game. 
 You only use some Elementals a few times, usually just after you get them, as if the levels were 
 designed to have the characters used once and then forgotten.
  
  This is not to go on about how some combinations are over used, such as the aforementioned run-spin-climb 
 technique that you need both Rubble and Chilla for, whom you have from the very beginning. For 
 all the greatness of how the game looks and feels, level design is samey and the experience really 
 begins to grate after opening the umpteenth room you need to clear. When the difficulty of the 
 title has been achieved by throwing more random enemies at you rather than by having the player 
 explore and learn new paths, things just begin to trudge.
  
  Some extras have been thrown in to help negate the fact that this is a rather short game, with 
 the standard beating your previous score and co-op play available. Quite unusually, the game is 
 available for Live Co-op play, but in our experience, hardly anyone thought this feature was something 
 worth playing. The few we did try it with gave us a smooth online experience, but this is ultimately 
 the same game. Beating different sections unlocks a wad of bonus extras, such as concept art and 
 new skins for your Elementals, but its not something that is going to keep you coming back.
  
  However, for all these little niggles, Kameo is still an excellent game. Its easily the best 
 game Rare has crafted since their acquisition by Microsoft, and while its not up there with Banjo 
 Kazooie as a memorable platformer, its a decent effort from a developer that many had since written 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at Kameo: Elements of Power I thought it looked like a bargain bin 360 game. 
 It came out right when the system did, and it seemed to me like it had a dumb title. Sorry judging 
 book by its cover. Nevertheless, I bought the game. After playing it all the way through I have 
 to say it was one of the most fun games I have ever played. It's definitely not full of crazy action, 
 but it is a great action/adventure game with a very focused and easy to follow story. I love games 
 that have a good story. To me, without a good story the game isn't worth it (which is why I don't 
 like any of the free roaming games like Grand Theft Auto, etc.) Kameo's story is immersive and 
 draws you in quickly. Most of the game deals with trying to solve various puzzles. Instead of always 
 being Kameo though, you have the ability to transform your body into various other beings that 
 have special adaptive abilities. Some are good for fighting, or climbing, or rolling, or throwing, 
 or you name it. So the real trick to the game is figuring out which character to use when. The 
 morphing/transforming thing sounds complicated, but is extremely easy to use, because all it takes 
 to do is hitting one button and the transformation takes place immediately. All in all this game 
 is worth picking up, especially since you can get it for about half the price of some other 360 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  This game is lasting for a time and after that period it ain't that fun anymore. I haven't completed 
 the game yet and i won't. The multi-player suck's for being honest. You cannot do anything but 
 play co-op. If you wan't to play the rune-battle you have to pay some microsoft points. You can 
 get some new skin's, complete the game and bam. The game is dead.
  
  After all this game is not that good as it seem's. I think it is overrated a little to much of 
 everyone. The game is lasting for 10 hours or so and after that it is dead as a stone. I will not 
 prefer this game.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 6
  Sound: 8
  Overall: 7.3
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_master04
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  i have to say this game was on hell of a game the only thing that i can say iz that this game is 
 the best advanture game ever i mean c'mon the graphics are awsome man you could turn to some magical 
 heroes that was kind of the best thiong in this game the gameplay was perfect man i cant stop playing 
 it man if you have the xbox360 then you should buyt this game take my word you wont regret this 
 i promise ill tell you the truth when i first played this game i didnt even like advanture games 
 till i started playing its awsome ill tell you that!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epormada
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you take a game like Mario, add some RPG elements like Zelda then throw in 
 some orcs for a pinch of Lord of the Rings flavor? Kameo! Simply put this is one of the best platform 
 games to come along in a long time. The graphics are beautiful, there is alway a ton of on screen 
 effects. The characters and their unique abilities and being able to change between them rapidly 
 to perform special moves is an innovative feature that adds to the strategy and challenge of the 
 game. Probably one of the best features of the game though are the epic boss battles! If you like 
 huge bosses that require figuring out different strategies to defeat them, then you simply must 
 play this game. Throw in the wonderful on-line co-op and you can do it all with your best friend. 
 All in all Kameo is a fantastic game and is truly a shame it was largely over looked by the more 
 mature 360 market. Hope this doesn't stop them from making the sequel, because I would definitely 
 buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixv2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  kameo is a tale of an elf who is chosen by the queen (her mother) to be ginen a special power which 
 allows her to taransform to a varie of monsters eg chilla-able to throw spikes , climb up walls 
 , use enemy troll as clubs and other things and pummel weed- a plant which can dig undergrond and 
 punch enemies with thorn bush hands that look like boxing gloves... you begin when your sister 
 gets jealous of you for recieving this power and summons up a king troll known as thorn a BIG troll. 
 the grafics are great and the gameplay is superb the only downside is you cant skip the main boring 
 speeches but it is still a very great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkravn
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  Great graphic my favorite is the water and many other which the graphic make it so lifelike it 
 actually touch inner even the certain role to play.
  It took me to learn how it play and play out it also interesting to do the changing Characters 
 has very neat way of playing.
  I watch my son play it in way he explains to me about the sounds since I am hearing impaired he 
 also show me in which level he is in the characters grew in their special movement and special 
 fighting techs as I am learning I still like to see more of graphic that make it so there feeling 
 I cannot describe it just make me feel great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdMayday911
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  If you don't mind spending $30.00 on the Platinum Edition (You can get it on ebay for $20.00 easily) 
 , buy it. If you want to save about $20.00, just go to the local video game rental store and get 
 it for a week. That is all it will take to pull out the majority of the achievement points for 
 this game. There are many achievements that give you 0 (zero) points so, WHY BOTHER...
  
  Overall the game is enjoyable and unique in some aspects. For a console launch title, I have to 
 admit that is it ver y nice. Compared to the latest games in terms of graphics, etc... Kameo is 
 a bottom feeding fish. Again, my advice is just to rent it first before you buy it. Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Rare's newest IP, Kameo: Elements of Power, makes a stunning debut on the 360. Originally intended 
 for release on the Gamecube, Kameo has obviously benefited from years of preparation and the extra 
 horsepower of Microsoft's new console. Any player who has had the privilege of playing Rare's other 
 adventure games (i. e. Starfox Adventures, Conker, Banjo-Kazooie) will recognize and appreciate 
 that special level of polish and intrigue peculiar to Rare games. And it all begins with the visuals. 
 To put it mildly, Kameo is a spectacle, treating players to extremely detailed characters, stunning 
 animations (complete with emotive facial expressions) , and fantastic atmospheric effects including 
 particles, mist, smoke, beautifully reflective water surfaces, dynamic shadows, and change of day. 
 One might go so far as to say that Kameo is the best looking launch game for the 360, and one of 
 the best looking to date.
  
  Kameo's music is all wonderfully orchestrated. The game has a very high-budget feel to it -- melodic 
 choral voices accentuate softer moments, while hard-pounding percussion and brass underscore more 
 tense scenes. Each track seems carefully crafted and works to pefectly compliement its visual counterpart. 
 Players will certainly find themselves huming a few of the game's memorable tunes. Perhaps the 
 biggest achievement (no pun intended) of Kameo is how well the game's graphics, sound,, story, 
 and addictive gameplay come together to form a such a spectacular presentation. The game is absolutely 
 saturated with little details that truly make the difference between Kameo and a run-of-the-mill 
 action adventure title. Each time Kameo collects a new element, the player can hear it bursting 
 with excitement, proclaiming joyful yahoo s and wohoo s. And, when each element merges with Kameo, 
 the screen is filled with luminous swirling magic energy accompanied by climactic music which really 
 punctuates the scene. The voice acting is also fantastic, bringing a fittingly bright, Saturday-morning 
 cartoon flavor to the game. Other details like the jibber-jabber and random speech of passersby 
 really adds a ton of atmosphere to the game.
  
  All of the aforementioned magic and wonder is, unfortunately, a tad abbreviated. Had the game added 
 a few more elements to collect and areas to explore, Kameo would have been even more impressive. 
 As it stands, the game is simply adequate in length, and a touch on the easy side.
  
  Based on most reviews of Kameo, the game seems horribly underappreciated. Consumers should be aware 
 of how wonderful Kameo is and show their appreciation for Rare's attention to detail -- not too many 
 publishers pay attention to the details, and Kameo is one of the few games which shows gamers that 
 creativity isn't completely dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I recently finished Kameo: Elements of Power on the normal difficulty mode. At this time I haven't 
 bothered to updgrade it since I don't feel I will get anything new from the experience that I haven't 
 gotten already. Sure there are the achievements that I could grab but I'm not really big on that 
 at this time. Perhaps later in my xbox live experience I might feel that way but not at the moment.
 
  
  As a game that was supposed to come out on the Xbox, Kameo plays pretty good. The controls are 
 responsive but I found it a bit irritating at times to perform functions with Kameo herself. The 
 different elemental powers were kind of neat to use, but again once you defeated a level, there 
 were few reasons to go back to it. Maybe if the game had more secret areas to get to once you unlocked 
 the different elemental powers in later levels it might have lead to more replay.
  
  The visuals were pretty and the voice acting good. The story line I thought was a bit simple and 
 could have been expanded more. They definitely left it open for a sequel given the ending. I just 
 hope that if they do they fix the story line and also add some more depths to the use of the elemental 
 powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  What strikes one most about Kameo, when you know it's history, is that it plays very much as a 
 last generation game, no doubt due to the fact it was originally slated for the Gamecube launch. 
 Too much time in the oven seems to have frayed it's gameplay, making Kameo an accomplished platformer, 
 but not exactly a groundbreaking one.
  
  Although it is enjoyable and easy to play through, Kameo suffers from a degree of formulism, with 
 repetitive levels and objectives. The elements add some nice appeal, but many seem under-used and 
 gimmicky (ie, 40 below) . The plot seems rather heavy, despite little exposition, and leaves on 
 a somewhat confusing impasse.
  
  The visuals however are stunning, and are quite an accomplishment showcasing the ability of Rare 
 and the 360. Animations, art style and textures all add to the immersive quality of Kameo, and 
 some spectacular large scale battles show the 360 isn't a one trick pony.
  
  The voice acting is largely good, as is the music (though some more extraverted tracks would have 
 been nicer) . Value is hampered by the fact Kameo can only really be played once, and Co-Op seems 
 only valuable if one has a consistent friend to participate with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cillerxtalent
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for Christmas, I thought it would be a typical, boring to the max platform 
 game that I would finish in about an hour, and then wonder what to do with it.
  
  Actually, I was proven wrong. I was very impressed by the quality of this game. It's obvious that 
 even the most minuscule details of the game were considered. And I just have to rant about the 
 graphics. The colors, shading, and just about every aspect of the graphics are perfect. The textures 
 of every creature and character look so real and vivid. Even the tiniest details in the graphics 
 are pretty much perfected. I love the colors and just how fluid and realistic-looking everything 
 is. And the gameplay is pretty sweet, if I do say so myself. Who doesn't like having an array of 
 characters to use to annihilate just about everything in your path? I liked how the characters 
 that can be obtained and used are very diverse in attacks and characteristics. I also liked how 
 every single creature obtained in the game is used for its purpose a lot in the game, and not just 
 one creature is focused on.
  
  I really have no complaints about this game at all, except at times it's a little too easy. But 
 other than that, I think this is one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grnipo
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the cover, I thought this might be an interesting game. The graphics looked good, as 
 did the characters. So I bought this game, thinking it might be fun
  
  I was wrong. Dear god I was wrong.
  
  First of all, I'll mention the good things. The graphics 
 are good. The colours add a cartoonish atmosphere to the game. The controls are easy to understand, 
 and the characters are interesting. That's the good things.
  
  Now for the bad.
  
  The game is cartoonish. I now I said that the cartoonish atmosphere was a good thing. What I meant 
 was, it's good for some players. IMO, the game lacks a certain realistic quality, which I prefer 
 the games I play to have. Another bad thing about the game is it's too easy. The enemies are repetitive, 
 and even the bosses have been done before in other games. Though the bad outmeasure the good, the 
 game is a decent game with some good elements. Worthy of a casual look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Rare is one of my favorite gaming companys I will be sad to see them go but this game is one of 
 the reasons that they are on of my favs. The story is about a fairy named kameo who loses all of 
 her elemental warriors and has to get them back and save her family. The elemental warriors are 
 very cool but some of them feel kinda useless but nether the less there are all still very cool. 
 The game play is down right fun yes you will see some of the same enemys from time to time but 
 with all of the different warriors to collect it wont bother you. The world is in this game is beautiful 
 and vibrant. The only problem with this game is, is that it is to short you will finish this game 
 in about 10-13 hours but if you are looking for a great adventure game for you xbox360 this is 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Kameo was originally headed for the Gamecube, but since Microsoft pruchased Rare, plans had to 
 change. Was it for the best? Read on...
  
  First off, where this game excels are in visuals. HUNDREDS of highly detailed characters can be 
 on the screen at once and the frame-rate wil remain flawless. Makes me wonder why SOME games (Looking 
 at you, Ninety Nine Nights!!) were so jaggedy producing the same amount at lower details.
  
  Gameplay is where it starts to drag; The game moves pretty damn fast, and it seems way too 
 easy. There are several forms you can take, each with their own special techniques. But thats where 
 it kind of starts to fall short of all the expectations. To boot, each form will have only two 
 powers to use, and will upgrade over time to like, what? Three or four! So you'll probably feel 
 like your using a one-trick pony an awful lot. But, when you all put it together it'll add up to 
 around six to eight. But you can only assign three forms at a time, and thats confusing alot of 
 the time. Usually you'll fumble with the controls, switching between forms when you don't intend 
 to.
  
  Sound is alright, too: It really defines the game and its theme, so I don't complain there.
  
 
  Personally, I was kinda iffy playing this game, one minute telling my mind it was good, to its 
 so-so. The game really is a demonstration of what the 360 is capable of, but its left in an empty 
 space.
  Fans of adventures like the Zelda games could enjoy it, but you'd probably consider renting it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barok1973
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  kameo is very rich in detail even if its a cartoony type game ..... the boss are great ! ... huge 
 and very creative , u have 10 summons and take note its not that ordinary summon , each summon 
 has its own characteristics , you can upgrade them and choose what skill you want to develop for 
 each summon you have,,,, for people who gets dizzy easily , this is the game for you because you 
 can choose from 4 different angles... it has a fix far sight ! .... for the game play ... its very 
 entertaining its an medium/easy game but you will never get bored because the effects and the story 
 and the movie clips are really quite amazing i should say ..... its a game for everyone ! ..... 
 done by RARE and microsoft ... what a game ,,, you should try it , its like an fantasy/adventure/rpg/action 
 all in one ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeden_Boy6
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is just down right stupid. The concept of the gae just wasnt up to par, especialy for 
 the xbox 360. Any one who finds this game good, should check out some good games, such as Gears 
 of War, or Call of Duty 3.
  
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
 
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  
  The graphics are decent but still not good as they could be on such a good system. The game plays 
 very well, but the gameplay just takes all that away from it. The Sound was not very good, and 
 i think that the overall value of the game was just awful.
  
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played
  Worst Game I Have Ever Played 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The gameplay is innovative to a fault; The 360 is an extremely powerful machine, as this 
 game's visuals are freaking beautiful; It's a Rare game, you're compelled to try it...
  
  The Bad: Repetition will drive you insane; combat isn't very deep; The voices and music are just 
 unacceptable; this game is NOT Rare quality.
  
  The Story: Cliched, with a few obvious twists here and there. Kameo has to rescue her family from 
 trolls, she faces the King of all Trolls, loses her elemental warrior powers, and is forced to 
 collect the Elemental Warrior powers in a banal journey through temples, fighting shadow trolls, 
 and conversing with a talking book. All I see everywhere is Trolls, and they look nearly identical 
 to the kremlings from DK64, and the Krazoa from Star Fox Adventures; which were already identical 
 in the first place. Why can't Rare be original? It's not awful, but it just doesn't match up to 
 past acheivements. Gameplay: Repitition all over the place. It repeats more than Star Fox Adventures. 
 The combat is lacking something desired, and the puzzles are redone hundreds of times. This sometimes 
 makes you glad that the game is so short. The only thing that saves the gameplay is a vast world 
 to explore, cool elemental warrior abilities, and some neat tasks. All the while you can only wonder 
 what the hell Rare was thinking. The effort was placed in the superficial matters, not the compelling 
 stuff the could have been. It's not a total loss though, and you will get some amount of enjoyment 
 from the game. Graphics: I've never seen a fantasy game that looks so good. I played without a 
 High Def TV and it's still worthy of a perfect score. Why did Rare only focus on the visuals though? 
 It feels like a tech demo sometimes...
  
  Sound: The voices are awful, and the music is short of what Rare is known for. Can someone tell 
 me why Rare is doing so badly since they're departure from Nintendo?
  
  Value: Too short, no replay, this is all about staring at the screen in hopes that it will soon 
 be legal to marry your compact disc. If, like me, you aren't like that... than please wait for 
 Banjo-Kazooie.
  
  Tilt: Rare had better clean up their act, and fast. This game is many eggs shy of a basket. I'm 
 going to play DK64 now, excuse me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  So, what does an investment of $375 million buy you these days? In the case of Microsoft it bought 
 Rare, a development studio with a lineage to match the very best in the videogame industry. Conker, 
 Banjo, Goldeneye, Perfect Dark, all games with a fearsome reputation and proven track record on 
 previous hardware. Looking back now, its hard to believe that someone somewhere at Microsoft isnt 
 going to be slightly disappointed by the return thus far. Alongside Perfect Dark Zero, Kameo was 
 supposed to be a system seller at the launch of the 360 in 2005. Whilst the American firm would 
 go on to sell out of consoles, I'm not sure anyone could attribute that level of success to this 
 title.
  
  You role in the game is that of the titular Kameo, an elf princess with an evil sister hell-bent 
 on unleashing all manner of nasty trolls on the enchanted kingdom which makes up your home. The 
 game sees you take on a search for various elemental allies to morph into, each with unique skills 
 and attributes which need to be combined to defeat the platform and combat challenges on the way 
 to defeat Thorn, the troll King in league with your sister Kalus.
  
  Gameplay in Kameo is largely simplistic. Each elemental sprite can be mapped to a face button on 
 the 360 controller, with the triggers performing the unique actions or attacks for that character. 
 The very basic nature of this system makes the game easy to play for people of all levels of gaming 
 ability, and there are rarely any moments when complex strings of button inputs are needed. Even 
 switching between characters in mid-air in order to pull off a different attack or cling on to 
 an icy ledge can be pulled off without any hassle.
  
  The main campaign breaks down into several quests that take Kameo into different themed areas for 
 each of the elemental warriors that you have to rescue. Gameplay varies according to which characters 
 you choose to utilise, but boils down to a fairly simple platform, puzzle and combat mechanic. 
 Each section has a clear signpost for which characters to be using at any given time, and how to 
 solve each puzzle. There is also a generous hint system in play, although its likely that you'll 
 never need to use it. These themed sections vary in length, and there are three or four core characters 
 that will come in useful in pretty much all of the situations you find yourself in. Unfortunately 
 this tends to devalue the other elemental warriors that you are attempting to rescue, most of which 
 are reduced to a gameplay cameo themselves. (pun intended)
  
  The ease of pace in Kameo is put into perspective by the art direction. Rare have produced a saccharin-sweet, 
 vibrant world clearly aimed at pulling in kids and adults with a sense of wonder. To the games 
 credit, you'll often find yourself wandering around the various environments and looking at things 
 in the background, or examining each game area for more visual treats before moving on. Whilst 
 it doesnt have as much attention to detail as some of the better games around, the graphical style 
 is nevertheless fairly consistently pleasing to the eye. The audio follows suit, with a generally 
 high standard of sound, a good orchestral score and some decent voice acting. Although again this 
 may be a little bit too grand and sickly-sweet for some people.
  
  Once the initial few hours have been completed, the problems with Kameo unfortunately become all 
 too apparent. Whilst the gameplay is responsive and simple enough to be fun, its fairly obvious 
 that there are a lot of elements in the game that have been cut or under-developed to make the 
 launch date. For a game that was in development for so many years, this is a huge disappointment. 
 The environments, characters and game world created for Kameo would lend themselves to an experience 
 that was at least 2-3 times as long. As it is, you can breeze through the game in around 6-7 hours 
 without breaking a sweat, and whilst the environment of the game seems to have been designed for 
 a more sandbox-oriented approach, there is little content on offer outside the campaign to encourage 
 exploration or replay.
  
  All of which is a shame, as when Kameo is on form its fantastic fun. When the game asks you to 
 combine the abilities of your various personas in order to defeat a puzzle section, it can all 
 come together, and the grander vision of what the game could have been can be briefly glimpsed. 
 However there are far too few of these to save what could so obviously have been a very good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagublesprok
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty good. But it was alittle to short. If your gonna make a game with unlockable monsters 
 make mor e of them and think of more creative ways to unlock them. Fitting the shadow things got 
 allittle old after awhile. And the tasks you had to do got alittle boring twords the end. But it 
 is a good game don't get me wrong but it needs to have more variety. Like the dragon should have 
 been able to fly that would have been cool. Just little thngs like that are what bring the game 
 down thats all. But there is solid game play here and it's pretty fun in the beginning. So if they 
 make a sequel add more monsters, more monster powers, and you should be able to choose which monster 
 you want to unlock like have more than one to go after at the same time would be good. So it's 
 good but it could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Kameo elements of power is a 3d adventure game where you are the daughter of a family of gods who 
 are kidnapped during a war between trolls and elves. (How Cliche is that?) . This bland plot already 
 puts a downer on the game. Its combat it ok with some pretty good sound effects but is somtimes 
 ruined by a dodgey camera. The game is always patronising you, and is a bit too easy for its own 
 good. The graphics are more like a high end XBOX game rather than a 360 game, and this game feels 
 out of place on the 360. It has been planned for two other units previously, and this is why it 
 feels out of place. There are some positives, it has charm, and a nice range of 'Elemental warriors' 
 and some decent sound effects, but it is ruined by a cliche unoriginal story, the fact that it 
 is patronising, and pretty average next gen graphics. It might be worth a play, as it is quite 
 fun in places, but there are better games out there
  
  The Good: Nice range of features, good sound effects
  The Bad: Horrible Story, Patronising, Bad 
 camera angles, Average Graphics
  
  Try harder next time rare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  time to beat less than 10 hours
  
  Story, the story is actually good. Especially the ending
  
  Gameplay - It varies a lot. Changing 
 between characters is different and pretty fun, although I wish the characters would change faster. 
 That way you could do a combo with three characters. The puzzles are different, and often require 
 you to think about the unique abilities of the creatures you can change into. I recomend not pushing 
 start and asking the book for a hint until you are truely stuck. Otherwise it takes the fun out 
 of it. He pretty much tells you what to do. But it is nice when you are sick of running around 
 and are not sure what to do. The combat could be a whole lot more fun if switching creatures was 
 instant.
  
  Sound - good stuff here. Graphics - almost a 10, almost. There are a few textures in the game that 
 are blurry. They are far and few between. Why did they do that? They almost had perfect graphics, 
 darn lazy devs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  ===========
  IMPRESSIVE: Gorgeous graphics // Great sound // Transformation magic is =========== fun // Story 
 and gameplay twists add to the thrill of the =========== adventure.
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Abrupt beginning may stir some confusion // Sometimes ============ the same puzzles 
 are repeated too many times.
  
  Rare have made many fantastic creations during it's life, Perfect Dark, which it held onto to produce 
 a stunning prequel, Goldeneye, but then sold the Bond license and EA have been butchering it ever 
 since. But when it lept onto the 360, Rare, straight away, produced not one, but TWO launch titles, 
 PDZ and Kameo, and having just released Viva Pinata, we can tell Rare is right at home on the 360.
 
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power, is an original adventure filled with many gameplay twists amusing challenges 
 that keep you hooked to the story (which measures in to be only about 8-10 hours long) . Some people 
 may be put of by the abrupt intro, which, at first, doesn't explain a great deal, but you learn 
 more as your progress, much like any other videogame.
  
  Kameo is an essential 360 title, and now you can pick up Kameo in 360 CLASSIC edition, at budget 
 price, it's even more worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a true masterpiece. It has everything. Story, graphics, sound, game play and the mood. 
 You can't go wrong with this title.
  
  As you play the game you will be presented with mini games, side missions and small adventures. 
 Together they make the game more then go to point B from point A.
  
  Upgrading your elemental warriors is addicting... You will be scouring the land to find more fruit 
 to level their skills with.
  
  This game requires you to make use of all your elements, not just your favorite. Which is a great 
 thing, because the game is ever changing. Nothing seems the same, but is some what familiar.
  
  Each of the new Zones is a blast to play and explore. You will find yourself revisiting them 
 after getting a new elemental to get pass a part once unbeatable without them.
  
  There is a lot to do in this game... To do it all will set you back 15-20 hours of your life. Even 
 when the game rolls it's credits you can still play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charmcaster1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bomb, and I mean it. This game make me want to play for hours, and hours. Kameo 
 is the hard-core girl ever. She is tough when she transform in to a cool beast. I like Kameo the 
 best. I love this game so much I would never trade this game ever in my life. It would be so cool 
 that their can be a Super Kameo. That would make the game more awesome. This game is so tight that 
 I want to share it with my friends. If this is could be in a top 100 video games, this game would 
 range from one to ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardiendo_1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  When I got my 360 on launch day the most difficult thing for me to decide was what game I got with 
 it. I am not a great fan of FPS games unless they are exceptional so I decided against games such 
 as Perfect Dark Zero and Call of Duty 2. I wanted something new, something that would make me feel 
 like I was in a new generation of gaming, I asked around and was assured Kameo was the best launch 
 title for the 360. I bought it. How I was wrong...
  
  The game is simply not fun. It does not feel open ended enough to be considered a great platformer 
 such as Jak and Daxter, the controls are awful (especially with the aquatic creatures) and the 
 characters are boring and annoying. Basically the only thing this game has going for it is great 
 graphics. But what use are they? I could watch a high definition movie if I wanted to see something 
 that looked great. To being with the controls. This is probably the weakest point of the game; 
 they are just not next generation. At some points I feel like I am playing a 3D sonic title and 
 it feels like I am doing what Rare wants me to do. There is no choice in how you go about things 
 but you are forced into using unentertaining creatures with difficult controls to get past obsticles. 
 IT JUST ISN'T FUN!
  
  If you are dead set on buying this game MAKE SURE you buy another game with it. It simly doesn't 
 offer enough by itself to keep you entertained. I found myself ploughing through it last december 
 hoping I could find something in it. But alas, it was a lost cause. Kameo is a dull game, the characters 
 are hard to get into and annoying. Rare spent too much time making this game look next gen, and 
 not enough making it feel next gen. Thankfully they have rectified this mistake by releasing Viva 
 Pinata which is finally a good game for the 360 that can be played by anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cascius17
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was kindof flashy at first but eventually it just ended up feeling like a cheap zelda 
 wannabe. I really mean that, the graphics and sound effects were the only nice thing about this 
 game. First off it was ridiculously easy. Secondly the story sucks hard. I could see plenty of 
 side quests for upgrades and special treasure, etc., but had no interest in doing them because 
 the game was already ridiculousy easy. Seriously this game is **** unless your like 8. Don't be 
 mislead. The producers my have made a next gen game but it was a ****ty next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good considering the kiddish look to it. This game actually has a lot of violence, 
 and there is some puzzlesolving situations in the game too. This games got pretty good graphics 
 considering it was one of the launch titles. From what ive played so far its pretty lengthy, and 
 its sound is pretty good too. And its not that hard of a game once you get used to it. But considering 
 ive only had my 360 for about 1 1/2 weeks I dont know much, but I got one of these as my first 
 360 games and I dont regret spending the WHOLE $20 on it which really isnt much for a 360 game. 
 So overall you should try this game if your on a budget and are looking for a good action adventure 
 game, or if you just think its cool, I recommend that this game be bought by whoever thinks it 
 is, because it definetly is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo2521
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is cute as a button. The characters that you can be are absolutely adorable. Pummell 
 Weed is my favorite... this plant kicks all sorts of butt. The story line and cutscenes are interesting 
 and funny, and the gameplay is strong. The main quest is a little short for my taste, but there 
 are lots of extras for people who want to get more involved. Solving the puzzles and controlling 
 your characters can be both hard and easy depending on who is playing. Younglings might be attracted 
 to this type of game, but it would probably be difficult for them to keep up with and enjoy. I'd 
 recommend this game to anybody who is intersted though, especially since it is selling at a very 
 affordable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Freak3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: elements of power was announced that it was going to be an N64 title, then gamecube, then 
 xbox, and RareWare finally released it on the Xbox 360, and it was an awesome game. The gameplay 
 was awesome, Transforming into other monsters and using their abilities to your success. Though, 
 the enemies, were a little easy to beat. The graphics were amazing. The cartoony look was a good 
 idea for this game. The characters and monsters, had amazing features. They were all different, 
 and had distinct personalities., which is great. The sound, superb. The speech was very good. The 
 sound the monsters made was awesome. just like their personalities, they roars were very different. 
 Light from deep, just amazing. The game itself is about 10 hours, the whole game is, so the campaign 
 is about 4-5 hours, so this game won't last you very long. I do hope that Rare makes a Kameo 2. 
 I would like see an instant action mode with leaderboards, that will probably be a nice touch. 
 Kameo is a great game but like I said it won't last you very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  At the beginning of the 360s life, there were few must-own games. Perhaps one of these elite few 
 was Kameo: Elements of Power. Building on Rares well known competence with bright, colourful adventure 
 titles, this was the first of its kind on the 360. Although, while Rares other games play a lot 
 like platformers, Donkey Kong 64 and Banjo-Kazooie are two fine examples, Kameo is a lot more combat 
 driven, and you take control of the Elements of Power to fight off your foes.
  
  Kameos storyline is fairly straightforward. There was once a great war between elves and trolls. 
 The elves prevailed overall and locked the leader of the trolls, Thorn, away for good. Or so they 
 thought. Helped by your sister, Kalus, Thorn is set free and begins to muster his forces again. 
 As Kameo, you must get all the different Elemental Warriors back together to fight off this threat 
 and save the kingdom again. As you can see, rather simple.
  
  Yet, if story was what you were looking for you would perhaps choose something such as Oblivion. 
 As it is, Kameo has more than enough going for it to make it a stand out title. At the start of 
 the game you are dropped into the middle of this frantic escape from Thorns castle with little 
 more than a You want to go this way point. The game takes it upon itself to make you go through 
 a pretty long battle sequence, and then it teaches you the basics in a tutorial. This is possibly 
 the wrong way round, but Kameo is simple enough that you can get through that stuff if you keep 
 your wits about you and your eyes on the prize.
  
  While using Kameo, you have just a single combat move and a hover technique which allows you to 
 move faster. This pretty much sets Kameo up as being your fast character that is going to be the 
 one dodging and weaving through crowds. Kameo does have the power to transform into Elemental Warriors, 
 meaning she has a wealth of abilities that she can gain from them. There are ten of these in total, 
 and they are all their own unique being.
  
  You start off with and spiny Armadillo creature, a cumbersome Yeti type and what is little more 
 than weed. It is a weed with boxing gloves I might add. You basically switch between these warriors 
 to suit your situation. Pummel Weed is your go-to-guy when it comes to hitting dudes, Chilla will 
 allow you to climb walls and has a useful ranged attack while Major Ruin can roll to speed off 
 ramps and up quarter pipe structures. This is basically the premise of the whole game, get the 
 Warriors you need to get through the current part, move on, change warriors to the one you need, 
 rinse, and repeat.
  
  Kameo does a good job of switching the style of the game up. You have these exploration stages 
 where there are few enemies and your main goal is to find some collectables and move through, the 
 more battle focused dungeon type affairs and an area called the bad lands, which is this great 
 plain literally holding hordes of warring characters. The difference is striking, and it leads 
 itself nicely into the art style. The more dangerous areas will have a kind of fire and brimstone 
 feel, youll basically know when your in one of those areas, while the exploration stages have 
 a very story book quality with strange locals on stylised visuals. Of course, the areas switch 
 between forests and tundras and deserts as you move on from one to the next.
  
  The basic goal is to collect all 10 Elements, and having done so go on to defeat Thorn and Kalus. 
 The problem is, the game seems to want you to do this quickly. The Warriors arent hard to reach 
 finds and will often be right in front of you as you enter a stage, so you wrap them up pretty 
 quickly, and while the levels arent really short, you can definitely see where they could of stuck 
 that extra left turn in that would have made the dungeon twice as long. With a story that lasts 
 little over 6 or 7 hours, you may find yourself wanting more.
  
  The rest of the game is made up of co-op, both splitscreen and online. Each of the levels has to 
 be unlocked in the single player though, and there is definitely a feel of just enough room for 
 one. Rare obviously didnt think to go Well you have twice as many guys, well now there are twice 
 as many enemies. A simple amendment such as this would have gone a long way and, as it is, the 
 co-op is there for kicks. Yet, the old adage applies, its better than nothing. Overall, Kameo 
 impresses. Its not the longest game on earth, it doesnt have great depth in game modes, its 
 not even the most complicated game to play through. Yet, its fun and enjoyable with just the right 
 stylistic touches that polish it off nicely. Its definitely a show case piece for the 360, even 
 if it may be outdone in realistic touches by the likes of Oblivion. Rare definitely have a potential 
 franchise on their hands here, perhaps after the next Banjo-Kazooie game we could very well see 
 Kameo 2. Heres hoping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Kameo was originally headed for the Gamecube, but since Microsoft pruchased Rare, plans had to 
 change. Was it for the best? Read on...
  
  First off, where this game excels are in visuals. HUNDREDS of highly detailed characters can be 
 on the screen at once and the frame-rate wil remain flawless. Makes me wonder why SOME games (Looking 
 at you, Ninety Nine Nights!!) were so jaggedy producing the same amount at lower details.
  
  Gameplay is where it starts to drag; The game moves pretty damn fast, and it seems way too 
 easy. There are several forms you can take, each with their own special techniques. But thats where 
 it kind of starts to fall short of all the expectations. To boot, each form will have only two 
 powers to use, and will upgrade over time to like, what? Three or four! So you'll probably feel 
 like your using a one-trick pony an awful lot. But, when you all put it together it'll add up to 
 around six to eight. But you can only assign three forms at a time, and thats confusing alot of 
 the time. Usually you'll fumble with the controls, switching between forms when you don't intend 
 to.
  
  Sound is alright, too: It really defines the game and its theme, so I don't complain there.
  
 
  Personally, I was kinda iffy playing this game, one minute telling my mind it was good, to its 
 so-so. The game really is a demonstration of what the 360 is capable of, but its left in an empty 
 space.
  Fans of adventures like the Zelda games could enjoy it, but you'd probably consider renting it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Rare has brought us many fun games including Banjo Franchise, Donkey Franchise, and Perfect Dark 
 (zero) . All of these games are enjoyable and this just adds to it. In Kameo character play as 10 
 different elemental creatures all with different abilities. The graphics may not be exactly next 
 gen , but its still a beautifully made game. Pretty detailed, and great music. the gameplay is 
 a very unigue not seen in many games. although you rarely play as Kameo for a long time its still 
 fun to roam around as one of 10 elemental warriors. Playing as kameo is not really that fun because 
 she can only do one move. The story line is very good not to wide open as you know exactly whats 
 going on, but you know just enough. The game is not extremely long, but its long enough to make 
 ya fat! Overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  To put it in simple terms, playing Kameo is like playing a Pixar movie. Driven by a fairly generic 
 story, Kameo is sent on a quest to stop her evil stepsister and her giant evil troll friend or 
 something like that. The interesting twist is Kameo, a fairy elven type girl thingy, has the ability 
 to morph into various creatures known as elemental warriors. This is the real meat of kameo. Each 
 elemental warrior possesses their own set of powers, which you can upgrade by spending elemental 
 fruit collected in various nooks and crannies throughout the game.
  The world in Kameo is rich and beautiful, full of vibrant colours and great designs and the animation 
 is on par with the visuals. Each creature packs his or her own uniqueness, aesthetically and practically. 
 The saddest thing (aside from the what not book) is that there are ten warriors and you dont feel 
 you get to really explore each character before moving on to the next one, seeing as though it 
 is the strength of the game, although this does give incentive to play though again and sometimes 
 the freedom to choose how you defeat your enemies.
  Featuring multiplayer, some nice puzzles and some great moments it definitely is the best adventure 
 game on the 360 at the moment (although there isnt much competition) and it will be enjoyed even 
 if it is only for a short while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game but doesnt use the real power of the next generation this game can pass as a excellent 
 game of the past consolle of the xbox Is true that in some times the graphics are much powerful 
 of the xbox but not too much diference of the xbox 360 and xbox,, the diference that all excpect 
 of the next generation like Gears of wars performance. But this game is high recommended to play 
 in 360 consolle include buy it and have in your collection like everithing the first games in next 
 generation always seem like the last generation and after a year begin to real next generation 
 games but in a while you have to play such games as Kameo is very enjing play this game and you 
 cant stop playing until you finished is true the game absorbing you tottaly and not every game 
 does that in a video player I highly recommend Kameo: the elements of power and all expect an expansion 
 of this game because all wish and kill for another kameo game, Im sure that the game team is thinking 
 on design the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-Gen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  When a game so long in development that has been delayed countless times, you can only expect it 
 to be nothing short of great. Kameo: Elements of Power developed by the one and only Rare delivers 
 a visually-gorgeous game with some great gameplay and sound although you may find yourself slightly 
 dissapointed in the aspect that this game is pretty short. The main game is a mere 7-9 hours long 
 and with not a very engaging storyline either and in this aspect it falls pretty flat overall. 
 However Kameo offers some incredibly fun gameplay and with a unique array of warriors at your disposal 
 it certainly builds this. Kameo is also visually-stunning with incredible water effects and picturesque 
 landscapes and locations that will certainly immerse you in this stunning world. For how long though 
 is one of its shortcomings and with some unvaried but rewarding little sidequests you will find 
 yourself done with Kameo in a span of maybe 20-23 hours. Thankfully though there are unlockables 
 for you to get if you replay some of its action stages and this can be fun and add on more game-time 
 but you may feel that this could have been so much longer. The warriors however all look and play 
 very uniquely and is certainly one of the game's strongest points.
  
  Overall Kameo is a very fun action-adventure with fantastic visuals, incredible orchestral score 
 and some unique gameplay aspects. however don't expect a Zelda-killer here if you do then you may 
 be more than disapointed but in its own right Kameo stands out on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martini78
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Kameo Elements of Power is a very impressive title. Most striking are the vividly colorful and 
 sharp HD 720p graphics. Be prepared to be swept away into a magical realm of elves and trolls, 
 magic and battle. Kameo EOP is a fun and exciting game full of strategic fighting and puzzle solving. 
 The controls are easy to learn and the gameplay is fairly simple. Though this game is probably 
 geared towards children in the 8 to 12 year old range, I enjoyed it just the same... plenty of 
 scantily dressed, large breasted elven women. The graphics are stunning on my HDTV, and made even 
 more impressive by the phenomenal color contrasts and beautiful environments. The story line is 
 classic and straightforward, and the constant hints and tips make the quest nearly automatic... 
 which would be my only complaint.
  
  To sum things up, this is a terrific game. As I stated earlier, be prepared to be swept away and 
 be awed by the video experience. The gameplay will bore older players who demand a challenge, but 
 younger gamers and simpletons like myself will still like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecap4sale
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  When you start the game you are immediately thrown into the action without really any sort of training, 
 this area that you start in is quite hard for a beginner of this game, with time players will be 
 able to finish this but at the point in the game this type of level really has no place.
  
  Coincidently all the training that you should have acquired at the beginning of the game is given 
 to you after you have completed the first area, by this point you have already learned all these 
 moves through trial and error while fighting enemies. The main part of this game is you are trying 
 to save your family which has been taken by the 'evil fairy' and as you go along your quest you 
 will obtain these creatures that you are able to transform into at pretty much anytime you wish 
 and each of these monsters have their own special abilities which will enable you to get through 
 obstacles or easily take down enemies as fighting enemies in the game is element related, for example, 
 if you are fighting grass enemies you would use a fire elemented monster and so on.
  
  As the story progressing in kameo's problems, the enchanted kingdom (which is the main area in 
 the game) is being attacked by enemy forces from the badlands which is an area below the kingdom, 
 after each part of the game a battle is taken place here where you will have an objective that 
 you will have to complete to continue through the game, these challenges are usually things like 
 destroy the cannons of the enemy forces and such.
  
  The game will progress in this fashion with nothing really changing, this is a flaw in the game 
 as there is the same old thing to do in each part, simply, kingdom&gt; badlands&gt; new area&gt; temple&gt; kingdom 
 and so on. The new monsters every so often and the side quests to obtain items that allow new abilities 
 are the only things that save this game from being really bad. At the start of the game to about 
 half way through the game is well structured and is a pleasure to play but as it progresses past 
 that point unless you really love the game you will find yourself less and less enjoying but actually 
 just hoping your near the end just so it is out of the way.
  
  Besides all that stuff, the graphics are very well done; they have gone to great lengths to put 
 small details in to make it look that much better.
  
  The controls also control quite well, for the most part it is easy to attack enemies and with abilities 
 it is labeled clearly how to do each move and is very simple to transform between each monster 
 as they are customly set to each of the X, Y and B buttons.
  
  Adter the game is finished, it doesn't have much replay value except for finishing the side quests 
 but you will most likely find you won't be bothered doing it. Overall it is a good game even with 
 its faults, it is a game that shouldnt be considered a must have game but its worth checking out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Kameo was a bit lacking in the graphics department, but it features loads of fun not seen since 
 the Zelda series, a series that Microsoft players need a replacement for.
  
  You play as Kameo, a fairy princess who must rescue her family members from her evil sister. To 
 rescue them, she will need a little help, so she begins a dual quest to gain power and to rescue 
 her family.
  
  To build her power, she battels shadow trolls to release elemental warriors that Kameo seems to 
 absorb. She then has the ability, through hotkeys that are always onscreen for reference, to morph 
 into each warrior with their own abilities. It's great that the game makes you puzzle out situations 
 to by making you decide which character is needed. Sometimes you have to use several to completee 
 a certain task. The game tries to make it a fluid transition, but sometimes you just get bogged 
 down for a bit. There's also a bit of live-action help by way of the Whatnot Book, a talking book 
 that seems to annoy more often than help. You can turn his help off though.
  
  The graphics are ok for next gen, but could use a little work, and the soundtrack fits quite well. 
 Overall this is a good, challenging game with a good ending - something that seems to have become 
 quite rare. This game has a look and ease to appeal to young players with just enough challenge 
 to keep adults entertained as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh3735
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I can't believe i haven't written a review for this game yet! I have had this for nearlly a year 
 and i have loved it since i preordered it in december and i have only just written a review!
  
  Anyway, lets start with the graphics. They are brilliant. You will be amazed by the amount 
 of enemies you can fit on a screen! The enviroments are allways stunning weather your in a beautiful 
 enchanted kingdom or a dirty forgotten forest. Gameplay= If your looking for fun then this is the 
 game to get! For hours and hours you will be destroying trolls in the many ways that you can and 
 battleing bosses that seem unbeatable because of their huge bodies and immense strength but somehow 
 kameo will find a way! Morph into many creatures big and small to destroy everything in your way! 
 Crust and demolish everything evil to restore peace!
  
  Story= The story is fun and imaginative! Kameo's evil sister unleashes a mighty troll king thorn 
 and he plans to destroy the elves. He has also kidnapped the royal family and it is up to kameo 
 to defeat the gaurds of the hostages and rescue her family with twists and turns along the way!
 
  
  Also there are many add-ons and replay values such as downloading new skins and costumes for kameo 
 and her sprites (via marketplace) and exploring the kameo world to unlock various things and reveal 
 hidden places such as the warrior trainers hideout!
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game and if you are just buying a 360 for the first time then buy this 
 and perfect dark zero (also made by RARE) . Or if you are just looking for a new game then BUY NOW!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Kameo, like Perfect Dark Zero, has had quite the development ride. It's well known that this game 
 was supposed to appear on two previous systems (Gamecube &amp; Xbox) , but that never happened. 
 And to be honest, I thought this game was going to be a disaster due to the development time and 
 the fact that Rare might be the most over-rated development company in console gaming. Not only 
 that, but there was a lot of hype around this game at one time. Some people were labeling it a 
 'Zelda-Killer'. Of course, those people were either Rare fanboys or smoking some killer crack. 
 Either way, they ended up being wrong. Although this game tries to play like the newer Zelda titles, 
 it just can't compete with those games. But if you are looking for decent adventure game in the 
 midst of all the first person shooters in the Xbox 360 lineup, this might be a game for you.
  
  Pros: Excellent visuals is definately the strong point of this game; the different gameworlds 
 all have distinct appearances (some are bright &amp; colorful, while others are dark &amp; dingy) ; 
 it's obvious that great care was taken with the presentation and graphics; the music is pretty 
 good; the game gives you lots of different gameplay options; best autosave system I have ever seen 
 in any game; lots of different elemental creatures to play around with; the game is loaded with 
 secrets if you wish to spend the time to find them; it was a nice idea to let you upgrade your 
 creatures; the ending is great and has a nice length for this day &amp; age; I was actually impressed 
 by the in-game camera, as it didn't have me yelling at my TV much; did I mention the graphics are 
 very nice?
  
  Cons: Tries so hard to be Zelda, but falls way short; speaking of short, the game isn't very long; 
 the online aspect of the game sucks; terrible idea of having you have to PURCHASE the right to 
 play some of the online game modes; while the game starts off really well, this is gameplay we 
 had five or six years ago; it's another Rare 'collect-fest adventure game' where the creatures 
 are what you are collecting; like the game itself, the story starts off pretty good, then takes 
 a back seat to the boring gameplay; while it's nice to have a big selection of creatures, the game 
 doesn't utilize some of them very well; upgrading your creatures was a great idea, but it could 
 have been much more; having to switch creatures not mapped to the face buttons on the fly is overly 
 difficult and annoying; the voice acting is terrible most of the time; after the first few hours, 
 you have seen much of what the game can offer &amp; it becomes more of an endurance test to finish 
 it; about 400 of the achievement points must either be earned in CO-OP mode (good luck finding 
 anyone to do that) or by replaying levels again.
  
  While I think this game is worth a purchase for adventure game seekers at the new $30 price tag, 
 this game isn't worth anything more than that. Like I mentioned, after the first few hours, the 
 thrill of the visuals wear off and you realize that you are playing a game that was being developed 
 back in 1997. Microsoft paid a lot of money to steal rare from Nintendo. I hate to use a sport 
 analagy, but Rare is looking like a 'bust'. I am not saying this game is terrible, by any means. 
 It's just that after a few hours, you really see what this game is about and boredom starts to 
 set in. Then you realize that you probably should've rented this game instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game kicks right into the action from the get go. The graphics are top notch, and the story 
 is actually pretty good even though you can pretty much tell whos plotting things against you. 
 Im actually writing this review after beating the game, which i dont like to do. I like to write 
 reviews while im still playing and enjoying the game, but the thing is that I just got this game 
 and I do still enjoy it lol. I took this game down in like two days, so its unfortunately not that 
 long. I myself would have liked to keep going but, it does have a couple reasons to go back and 
 play again. The achievements are pretty standard as far as find this dude unlock this achievement, 
 but there is a grade requirement for beating some stages and getting more points. I found this 
 game used at gamerush for $25 and it was worth every penny. If youre into Banjo &amp; Kazooie esc 
 adventures, this is truley a step up. I liked this game from start to finish and the cast only 
 helped the experience along. This is a must buy for anybody lookin for a good adventure game on 
 the 360 that doesnt take itself too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  A very fun and thrilling game that involves transforming into some odd, but beautiful creatures; 
 A storyline that takes you on an adventure to the end; amazing visuals ; and anorchestral score 
 that reminds me of a Danny Elfman soundtrack... I love anything he does..., and the sound effects 
 brings you into the environments. I just bought this game about a week ago, and I can not believe 
 i did not get it when I bought my 360 almost a year ago. I remember seeing it at E3 in 2005... 
 but was looking at all the other smash Hits ... this game to me was a sleeper and I am so glad 
 I bought it to add to the collections of
  Hits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cilas
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Got this game a couple of weeks ago and tried it but didn't got hocked. Then a couple of days ago 
 I loaded the disc into the console again and started playing and realized after 3 hours that I 
 really liked this game.
  
  It's not hard, but on the other hand not too easy. You will have to stop and think, look around 
 and so on to be able to solve the puzzles. Story pretty good, and if you go and listen to the Kameo 
 PodCast it will makes things so much clearer and you realize you recognise persons and historic 
 events in the game.
  
  Easy to gain gamerscore aswell .. 20 - 100 points / achivement. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  It took me awhile to really get into playing Kameo, but once I learned how to use the powers of 
 Kameo it became quite a romp. Searching for all of Kameo's family/friends in the kingdom's many 
 environments didn't seem like a chore at all. I looked forward to my next creature I would unlock 
 after the next level. With that being said, I admit the game is not perfect. Certain areas are 
 rather long and challenging to the point of being tedious. And the gameplay is sometimes just a 
 little flat. If you like free-roaming adventure games I think Kameo is worth a rental and perhaps 
 even a purchase. But if these types of games are not your fancy, I wouldn't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verminlord
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  i cant believe i ever got this game! it is so bad and boring. i gave it a chance for about and 
 hour and then took it straight back! sure, the graphics are great but that is the only thing holding 
 this game up. it is terrible that you play through the first level without any tutorial, and then 
 straight after you get a full tutorial ,even how to look around! there is nothing exciting about 
 this game, not even hordes of orcs can save it. i was waiting for this game to come out for about 
 two years. but when i got it i was so upset at how bad it is. so my advice is never get it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigshot_Drum
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about Kameo was that it looked like a true next-gen title and really 
 pushed my expectations for games that will come out in the later years of the 360 once the architechture 
 of programming is figured out and standarized with what really works. Kameo is a princess that 
 can basically transform into different elemental warriors once they are collected by playing through 
 the game. Overall the game is pretty simple and easy to understand and follow along with. The lighting 
 engine in the game looks very nice and it was VERY COOL to be able to battle several hundred enemies 
 at a time. The story could get a little childish from time to time and every once in awhile you 
 felt like you were playing a fariy-tale game. Good use of the 360 controller and some very creative 
 attacks and moves made for the battles to be very fun and interatctive and sometimes even humorus. 
 The ending of the game leaves off in such a way that there could be a sequal but if there wasn't 
 it would be just fine as well. Overall Kameo was a fun release title that you can do a lot with 
 if you're willing to put in the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Kameo is like a mix of platformer and partly rpg. 90% platform.
  
  Good
  - Crisp graphics
  - wasn't stuck anywhere long, and game gives you hints on what to do if you're 
 stuck
  - Tons of checkpoints so its not too bad to redo only last few minutes of play
  - There were tons of battles in the badlands when you were running or riding around involving a 
 ton of enemies (but they were all clone in appearance)
  - Very fast load times
  - The elementals you get are really powerful and fun to flatten people with and you could upgrade 
 your elemental powers if you wanted
  
  Bad
  - No replay to this game
  - Many of the elementals had fighting skills that were useless compared to the other powerful ones
 
  - Graphics could have been a lot better
  - Kameo couldn't fly very high
  - Game is short, when you get all your elementals, than the game is done; should have been more 
 to do in the end
  
  It was surprising that Rare made both Kameo and perfect dark zero. Kameo felt much higher quality, 
 and had lots of checkpoints to keep you moving along. I rarely got stuck in this game, but it is 
 a pretty short game, and I wish I had just rented it, since you can finish it in a couple days. 
 A lot of the levels felt like N64s dk country game with how you could unlock parts of them later 
 on with new characters. The horse you rode around on was well done; the sound and the graphics 
 of it looked great on it. There wasnt much exploring to be done with your horse, this game pushes 
 you through a fairly linear path to end the story in a short time.
  
  This games able to kill 10 hours and I had more fun with it than Perfect Dark Zero. Rare should 
 stick on these games instead of trying to revive their FPS days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Kameo; Elements of power.
  
  While this is a xbox360 launch game, I have never played it until last week.
  I feel sorry for 
 myself that I didn't buy this Rare/Nintendo-ish game sooner.
  
  Without the usual review crap, this game is very good. V&eacute; ry good. Why?
  Simply because 
 it has alot of gameplay elements; platform, puzzels, beat 'em up, some shooter stuff, you name 
 it.
  The way these gameplay parts are blend in together are great. You won't find yourself repetitivly 
 beating up trolls, no, the mix of gameplay elements is just perfect.
  
  The looks of the game say enough. Fantasie, creative, colourfull. Some action sequences are really 
 cool and not kiddish at all. Just fight a shadow troll, and you know whatI'm talking about. A great 
 atmosphere wich keeps you on your toes! For the graphics.... well, I've played Oblivion, Dead Rising, 
 PGR3, GRAW, and name a few more good looking games, but this one I think looks best. Not because 
 of effects used or something, but just because of the way the textures are made so well, splendid 
 use of a graphical engine.
  
  Having said that, the sound is great aswell. I really like the music, and I keep myself wandering 
 around in a world before entering a level, just to hop around a bit with my elementals on the fantastic 
 sound tracks.
  
  All in all I think this game has something for everyone, and in my case, I like every part. Wich 
 makes this a great game for me, finnally one that has got me off Oblivion (wich is a good and bad 
 thing) .
  
  Greetings, en give this game a chance if you haven't yet. It's really awesome.
  
  Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  When I bought a XBOX360 I knew this was the launch game that I wanted. I knew Rare would do a good 
 job, like they do with all the other games that they have made. I'm a big fan of the Rare games 
 that were made for the N64 like: Banjo-Kazooie, Banjo-Tooie, and Diddy Kong Racing. I kinda got 
 the same vibe from this game that I got when I played those other games. This game may seem childish, 
 but it really isn't. There is a lot of action and a decent story to keep the game exciting to the 
 very end.
  The gameplay is very basic. You basically have to travel through different temples and you have 
 to save Kameo's different family members. On the way through these temples you can aquire different 
 forms to Kameo. Kameo has the power to turn into different monsters. Each one has special abillities 
 to help Kameo on her journey.
  This game has amazing graphics. Every little area is detailed and it really looks like a next-gen 
 game. The sound is o. k. it also reminded me of the N64 Rare games. Now the only complaint I have 
 with this game is: it is way to short. Thats why I gave the value a 7. You could probably finish 
 this game within 10-15 hours. But it is definitely worth your buck. The price did drop its only 
 $30 i think. Plus besides the main game there is Co-Op mode and Xbox Live so it is must buy in 
 my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  when i got the 360 for my bithday, i bought 4 games: Prey, Oblivian, Perfect dark zero and Kameo. 
 i finished kameo yerstoday. in gameplay, the game is great, it's controls aren't like a regular 
 action adventure game. not all the creatures you get can jump and you the Right Trigger and Left 
 Trigger to attack. intand of the arrows to change character you use the A B X and Y buttons. the 
 game looks great but doen't really show that it's a next-gen consle game. it sounds great. the 
 creatures in the game are really fun to play with and like Kingdom hearts, the game at many points 
 is to just look at it. the game has half a bad ending to it and at someponit the camera has problems 
 too. a very good way to start with the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  When you see the cover of this game, you think kids game. I'm not quite sure thats what anyone 
 should think about this game, because i think a kid would be easily overwhelmed by this game. In 
 all honesty this game was a lot harder than i ever expected, and it had more to it than i expected 
 as well. While the story is very movie like, almost like disney movie, the concept of what your 
 doing is a fan favorite: destroy evil with your awesome powers. This premise is great in itself, 
 but ti takes a lot of clever design to make a game like that work. This one delivers on most levels. 
 The idea of turning into magical creatures, while farfetched, remains interesting. it is especially 
 important that the game requires you to understand that each characters has strengths and weaknesses, 
 and that you must learn to use each of them. Tie this together with a fairly free roam fighting 
 systme, and many upgrades for your creatures, and this game has got all the right ingredients for 
 a 10 hour game that is fairly fun. The graphics are pretty impressive, much due to the fact it 
 is a cartoon style design, so as long as there are no rough edges and lots of vivid color, the 
 game should succeed. Well it does, and goes beyond, because the graphics are gorgeous. No it is 
 real looking, but it is immersive in how good they can create a non existing place. 360 continues 
 to shine in its attention to small detail, which is what makes life so awesome: the little things. 
 The sound is good, but not great, because the game isn't meant to be some epic war, but it holds 
 its own. The fighting system, while it can be hard to orient yourself at times and very hard to 
 aim, is free, so you cant complain all that much. The fighting is very clean though, no bugs really, 
 and it is fun to play. Pummel weed is most likely the most fun to beat the crap out of things with, 
 while the stretch is hilarious to watch move around and groan when he reaches for stuff. It all 
 works. The actual game itself is too easy in the story mode, that is a given. However there is 
 alot to the game after you beat it, and that is when the game seems to want quite a lot out of 
 you. There are so many extra quests and challenges, all of which are seemingly very hard to do. 
 My one complaint is that it just feels like your just running around trying to do stuff after the 
 game is over, it doesnt really feel like you should be doing anything. That is where the game loses 
 a few points from me. On the whole, it is a very fun and creative game, that will be fun for some 
 time, except till you beat it perhaps. Not necessarily a must own, but more of a game you might 
 borrow or rent, because its fun and different from the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Flashy visuals, well done action, online co-op and downloadable content.
  
  The Bad: Puzzles can be irritating at times, may be too immature for some gamers.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power took a very long time to make it to home consoles. It actually began as 
 a Nintendo 64 game, before Nintendo wanted it to become a GameCube title. Then Microsoft baught 
 the game's developer, Rare and it bacame an Xbox game. In 2004, right when the game was suppose 
 to come out, it vanished from the face of the gaming world, until 2005, when it was unvailed for 
 it's final resting place: The Xbox 360. Luckily, the intreaging consept hasn't lost much of it's 
 flavor during the move from console to console. You play as Kameo, an elf who can transform into 
 several elemental warriors. These warriors each have their own special abilities that keep each 
 one useful in their own way. Much of the gameplay involves switching between different warriors 
 and using their abilities to solve puzzles and fight scores of enemies. This does keep the gameplay 
 from getting stale too quickly, but it can get irritating after a while. The slow motion carnage 
 mode is a nice touch that makes the gameplay even more interesting. Overall, Kameo is a fairly 
 short and somewhat childish game that is worth checking out for it's impressive visuals and solid 
 gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: Character morphing, slow motion mode and tons of carnage keep the gameplay of Kameo from 
 getting too stale.
  
  Graphics: Very flashy and show off the power of the Xbox 360.
  
  Sound: The sound effects really complement the gameplay style.
  
  Value: At around $30, this 
 is a worthwhile action game that should be played, especially if you want some easy achievements.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Kameo is a game that is much better than you'd think it would be. Give it a shot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements Of Power is the first 360 adventure game, they say its like legend of zelda, but 
 trust me, LOZ is 10X better!
  
  GOOD- great visuals, Intresting story, many monsters to transform into, awesome music
  
  BAD- 
 Charater models looks like scrap!, bad acting, not like LOZ
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You play as a fairy called Kameo who wants to free all her famaly and the elders to defeat the 
 Troll King, you can play as kameo as herself which controls realy good, you have other monsters 
 to play as but they dont look like scary stroung monsters, but what makes the gameplay good is 
 the tight controls, GRAPHICS:
  It has great visuals but terrable charater models, they dont even look next-gen!, but the background 
 is realy good, no frame rate drop, no glitches, no bugs, you'll be playing a game that runs smoothly! 
 Yay!.
  
  SOUND:
  the sound in the game is great, it has brilliant sound effect and awesome background music, it 
 suits the medievil style well with the music, thee only downer is the voice acting, which i find 
 rubbish
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  I'd recamend it, but dont be exspecting it too be like the LOZ games, its not that good comperd 
 to that, but you'll have a hell of a good time with the game!. plus the value goes up cos you can 
 now get it realy cheep 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevMachine
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  If you like action packed adventure games then i belive this game will, some what, crave your hunger. 
 you are kameo an elven princes graced with the powers of the 8 elements creactures, kinda like 
 gods, and are set out to rescue your family from the evil hands of...... your sister? enouth about 
 the story, lets talk about the game itself. the graphics are bright and shiney and done fairly 
 well. the controls are simple and easy to use, most of the time... the water guy, and the sound 
 is fair. battles are some what straitgh forward with limited attacks for each elemental beast. 
 the games map is what would appear to be a content surrounded by water with snowy mountains, deep 
 forests and firey volcanoes. The game was some what short for me, mabey 16 hours, put thanks to 
 a mystical mirror you can go back in time to fight difrent stages again. This is somewhat depressing 
 because when you go back in time your only allowed to use the elemental monsters that you would 
 of had, not the cool new ones you found.
  
  there is cheats you can get to but you must get a total number of points to activate them, a number 
 i think is way to high and would take hours to get to.
  
  Overall i would say im happy with the game but not over whelmed. As i said its a good action packed 
 game that will... some what feed your hunger..... thank you!
  
  by Kev Machine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUI360
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics and is a next-gen game, all you could want right? Not so much.
  
  I enjoyed the fun beat-em up sequences envolving the trolls but some times the gameplay was 
 just confusing. At times I didn't know where to go.
  
  The graphics truly are next-gen and so is the sound. Those two things are best if you play the 
 game on an HDTV and use Dolby Surround Sound. Even, if you don't, the graphics and the sound are 
 amazing.
  
  Overall, Kameo is a good game. The only problem I had with it was the frustrating level design 
 and some-what repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotr_2003
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is an adventure game that takes place in an imaginative fantasy world 
 where two tribes try to coexist: elves and trolls. A troll named Thorn is the biggest creature 
 to exist in these lands. By it's power, the trolls claim him king and he began searching for the 
 Elemental Warriors which are natural forces gifted to the Elves in the past. You play as Kameo, 
 the elf, and she has to stop him from getting his hands on the Elemental Warriors or else their 
 lands will be filled with darkness.
  
  The game play is similar to adventure fantasy games like Zelda where you explore worlds in the 
 quest to find items necessary to destroy bosses. The simplicity of this game will help you get 
 to point A to point B to be able to find the Elemental Warriors necessary to battle the bosses 
 by incorporating a map on screen with a flashing green dot telling you where to go. The single 
 player portion of this game is an open-ended campaign where you need to find necessary items to 
 battle bosses who've captured your family. The multiplayer portion of this game is a coop version 
 of the single player, however, a lot shorter since they give you the necessary warriors needed 
 for the level. Therefore, you need to beat the single player before playing coop through split 
 screen or through Xbox Live.
  
  The graphics in this game is colourful, vivid and very bright on the Xbox 360. Although this game 
 was suppose to come out on the Game cube, they've done a great job using the 360's graphical power 
 to make this game look next-gen.
  
  The sounds in this game are cutting edge when it comes to sound effects of the environment, the 
 warriors and the orchestral music playing in the background. Every world in this game has it's 
 own ambiance and the sound and music helps create this mood which makes you feel like you are in 
 the game.
  
  Overall, this is a great adventure game with an impressive single player, a cooperatively based 
 multiplayer and it's suitable for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_25
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  With beautiful graphics and an immersive story line this is a game that brings me back. I see myself 
 back on the Playstation 1 playing Spyro and Crash Bandicoot thinking that gaming can't get any 
 better. Well it has and this is the game to do it. Although short (wish it were longer) it will 
 bring in every bang for your buck that you spent. You are thrown straight into the story with amazing 
 transfiguration abilities. As you progress you shall gain new abilities and learn about why you 
 are here and a dark secret that was hidden from you. By the end you are pretty much one of the 
 most powerful beings in the universe. The ending cut scene was kind of good it not a little weird. 
 (Enter Brokeback Faerie joke here!) Yes i know they are sisters but still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryingHero
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Who knew that a game with cartoon style graphics and a simple yet intregueing storyline coupld 
 be som fun to play. You play as Kameo a fairy princess who's parents and family have been abducted 
 by her evil sister. Kameo inherits powers that allow her to turn into different creatures which 
 each have seperate abilites and a connection to a cretain element.
  
  TheGameplay runs very smoothly and you learn how to play within 10 miniutes of picking up the controlpad. 
 Your task is to find your missing creatures and save your family from your evil sister. The game 
 is quite vast in terms of size. There is your main center which is the royal lands and then the 
 evil lands are surrounding it. On the outsides are the various other sections one for each of the 
 elements. Graphics look very good on HDTV but I don't have the priviliage of owneing one.... yet. 
 Even on my regular TV the graphics are very crisp and clean even during movements. The sky and 
 mountains that aren't part of the are almost really realistic. Overall the game is great fun and 
 simple to play. Although the game dosn't feature much online features, no online play or muiltyplayer. 
 Besides this the game does include some downloadable content. The game is worth the money, BUT 
 if you don't like Role-Playing-Games then this game may not be much for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4dak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  With beautiful graphics and an immersive story line this is a game that brings me back. I see myself 
 back on the Playstation 1 playing Spyro and Crash Bandicoot thinking that gaming can't get any 
 better. Well it has and this is the game to do it. Although short (wish it were longer) it will 
 bring in every bang for your buck that you spent. You are thrown straight into the story with amazing 
 transfiguration abilities. As you progress you shall gain new abilities and learn about why you 
 are here and a dark secret that was hidden from you. By the end you are pretty much one of the 
 most powerful beings in the universe. The ending cut scene was kind of good it not a little weird. 
 (Enter Brokeback Faerie joke here!) Yes i know they are sisters but still.
  
  I hope by the ending cut scene that there will be a sequel to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought the the graphis were good and there were pretty good ideas flowed into the game to make 
 it good. I like the storyline for it and it made more and more sense as I played it. The sound 
 was perfect as I played it through my surround sound system. I think it was worth the money and 
 since they have the co-op online I have been playing that a little bit here and there whenever 
 no one is online in any other games. There weren't any bugs that I could think of in the game. 
 I thought it was challenging in some parts and I hope that they make a sequel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcberserker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  this game is a fun game for the 360, but does not feel next gen. the gameplay is like other adventure 
 games, the only thing next gen is the graphics and sound. the game is pretty short , the achievements 
 are easy too, but you will want to play it twice. the game is around 9 hrs. the unlockables are fun 
 but coop is a bit confusing at times. this was one of my first 360 games and i wasted money on this. the 
 story is okay, but nothing special. this is great rental, but not a game for buying .the transformations 
 are cool, but ther is only 10 so it gets boring quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Making it a priority to play through Kameo: Elements of Power on your shiny new Xbox 360 is a very 
 good idea. Originally in development for the Gamecube, the long and winding development cycle of 
 the game  combined with the buy-out by Microsoft  has finally brought the game to retail. So, 
 with so many delays and empty promises preceding it, is Kameo a game worth playing? The answer 
 is a resounding yes; on the surface, Kameo is an incredible-looking, awesome-sounding game that 
 truly takes an epic feel akin to The Lord of The Rings into the gaming world for the first time. 
 Deeper inspection, however, reveals a superb game that was obviously the focus of a lot of dedicated 
 and talented peoples attention, and the end result is a product that is technically stunning, 
 endlessly charming, and marvelously polished.
  
  Kameo puts you in the shoes of the titular elven warrior who can channel her magical energy and 
 turn into a number of strange creatures. Turns out her family has been kidnapped by Thorn, an evil 
 troll who, along with our heroines own sister, Kalus, is leading an invasion on her land. The 
 game actually begins at Thorns castle, where you are launching a one-woman assault against the 
 mighty tyrant. Surprisingly, youre pretty much on your own here, and as you move around through 
 the area, little prompts come up and tell you the controls as straightforward as possible. If youve 
 played adventure games before, this may not seem like such a big deal, but for people who have 
 been out of the loop for a while, Kameos opening sequence might be an exercise in frustration.
 
  
  But whatever. Its a relatively short sequence, and without too much surprise, Kameo fails in her 
 mission and returns to the Enchanted Meadow, a sort of safe-haven where the trolls cannot reach. 
 Its also here that the game seems to begin anew; youll be filled in on the games plot by The 
 Mystic, who can watch things through her crystal eye, and before you know it, the game is filling 
 you in on how to do things like move Kameo around an area, as if you hadnt discovered that yet. 
 Its a bit weird, as the game basically seems like its begun twice in the first hour, but, hey, 
 the quicker you get over it, the better.
  
  Unfortunately, the three creatures you could turn into at the games outset  Pummelweed, a scrapping 
 piece flora who can box enemies with abandon; Major Ruin, an armadillo who can spin at high speeds 
 and launch himself off ramps; and Chilla, a brutish creature who can use enemies as clubs  are 
 taken away from you in relatively short order, and youll need to gain them all back, as well as 
 seven more creature forms, before youre truly ready to once again show up on Thorns doorstep 
 and rescue your family.
  
  Kameo is an adventure game through-and-through, and it will go on to prove that theres no filler 
 here  virtually every gameplay sequence feels fresh and interesting as you progress. As Kameo, 
 you pull the 360s triggers to jump and hover, and you pull both at the same time to perform a 
 backflip strike. As you gain creatures, you assign them to the context-sensitive face buttons for 
 easy selection, and they control in a similar fashion, with the triggers working their varying 
 abilities. The real interest (and challenge) in Kameo is combining various creature personalities 
 together in order to solve puzzles and defeat enemies.
  
  Things start simple. For example, in an early boss fight, you must brawl a troll soldier whos 
 completely covered in impenetrable armor  except his chin. Using Pummelweeds uppercut maneuver, 
 you can send the troll into a daze, his head tilted up and revealing his neck for all to see. Its 
 then a matter of using Chillas ice-spear throw to finish him off. As you move along and pick up 
 more creatures, the puzzles diversify and layer themselves to present you a deeper gameplay experience. 
 By the time you reach end game, youll need to be able to switch through personas frequently and 
 sometimes without hesitation, lest you meet with an untimely death.
  
  Like it or not, the gameplay tends to be pretty easy overall, as the visual cues presented to you 
 are as stunning as they are blatant. Flame-covered imps got you down? No problem  switch to Deep 
 Blue, a squid-like creature, and douse them with water. Burrowing plant warriors giving you troubles? 
 Dont fret  Ash the dragons fiery breath will make short work of them.
  
  The games built-in hint system further speeds up your progress. Your elemental powers are stored 
 within an ancient tome called the Wotnot, which is governed by a wizard named Ortho. Ortho is always 
 ready and willing to give you hints as to what you should be doing next. On the upside, youll 
 never be aimlessly wandering around for a moment of your game; on the downside, however, the challenge 
 of having your bearings on the gameworld is lost, as you can often read what to do as soon as you 
 need to do it, if not before the challenge actually takes place.
  
  But no matter  the most important part of Kameo is the experience itself. From the first sequence 
 to the last, Kameo feels grand and wondrous. The world is designed with an amazing level of detail 
 that really makes each individual area stand out on its own. Theres an undeniable sense of personality 
 and whimsy as you uncover a new area or tidbit of the plot. Truly, Kameo takes adventure to the 
 next level.
  
  This is helped along by the absolutely phenomenal visuals on display. In short, Kameo is arguably 
 the best-looking Xbox 360 launch title. But the graphics certainly bear more mention than that. 
 When you look at a screenshot, you see an intricately detailed scene that is rife with character 
 and style. But you really need to see the game in motion to truly appreciate it. Apart from its 
 bump-mapped good looks, youll be treated to dazzling special effects, silky-smooth animation, 
 and lots of other neat technical tricks, the most impressive probably being the scenes which take 
 place in the Badlands, where Kameo must race through vast plains on horseback as hundreds upon 
 hundreds of elven and troll soldiers battle for supremacy. Basically, Kameo is nothing short of 
 a bona fide visual feast, with or without a high definition display.
  
  Pleasantly, the audio fares nearly as well. Kameos audio fidelity is consistently crisp and clear, 
 especially if you take advantage of its ProLogic support. Each area has its own distinct sound 
 effects and musical theme, and all of them are of excellent quality. The music, though ultimately 
 forgettable, consists of a variety of powerful orchestral and choral themes that set the mood very, 
 very nicely. The only downfall is some subpar voice acting for some of the characters, but luckily 
 the ones you hear the most often also happen to be the best.
  
  Unfortunately, Kameo is an experience that ends too soon  the single-player game will probably 
 last you about eight hours, and that number isnt too likely to vary. Beyond that, there are a 
 couple co-op levels that you unlock over the course of the solo experience, but these arent terribly 
 interesting, especially since they just rehash the story mode. But what Kameo lacks in quantity, 
 it certainly makes up for in sheer quality, as well as density, and is definitely one of the most 
 attractive launch titles available for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  when you first play this game you love everything about the game. like the sweet graphics, which 
 are really good for this title. everything is just beautiful. even for me because i dont have a 
 hdtv. all i have is a 27" tv. so it still looked really good. the difficuty of the game wasn't 
 bad at all it was pretty good all around. so things mabe took twice to understand but it was good. 
 all the character you get to play a great my favorite was pumbleweed because i upgraded all the 
 was. but all were really cool. but after you beat the game and beat it on co op (which is great) 
 and get all the xbl achevments it just sits in your gaming collection. but some might want to play 
 over and over so it just depends on you. but you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Kameo is a fun action adventure game. The game will not last you 10+ hours since the 
 game can be beaten in 8-10 hours. It has alot of souls that you can change into. Altho some of 
 them you will only use once or twice. The game douse the same things over and over and over. And 
 most things get real old real fast. Over all the gameplay has almost no flaws and works fine. 8
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are ok but they arent the best. They are a bit toony and some things looks 
 really good. The graphics actually remind me of Super Mario Sunshine. 6
  
  Sound: I hate the voice acting. The musical scores are pretty good. Not much else to say. 6
  
 
  Value: For its 50$ price tag you would think you would get at least 5+ days of replay but the game 
 is over before you know it!!! Its way too short. 3
  
  TilT: The first 360 action adventure platformer is pretty good but way to short and the achivements 
 arent realy worth the 50$ Definetly rent!! 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jobie111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I will start off this review by stating that this game is gorgeous. I thought that a game that 
 was in development for two current-gen systems before landing on the 360 would be hurt in this 
 department, but it is not. However, it is the only great thing about this game. 
  The basic gameplay of this one, transforming into various creatures, sounds really fun. The problem 
 is the puzzles and whatnot are almost always the same with the same "elemental warriors." I imagine 
 it must be pretty tough to create new puzzles and enemies to use each one differently, but still. 
 It gets pretty tedious. "Oh I gotta turn into him to go up the ramp..... again.... yay." 
  Once you are done, there is very little reason to come back to it. You probably won't really wanna 
 play through it again by yourself, because it isn't all that much fun. The online co-op isn't very 
 exciting either. After playing it two or three times I felt no reason to keep doing it. Most of 
 the achievement points involve replaying stages to get an A ranking on them or playing stages co-op 
 through xbox live. You likely won't want to do either. 
  This is a good game to pick up at a $19.99 price point or so, buy any more than that it isn't worth 
 it. There is almost no replay value, and the gameplay gets old, and you can complete the story 
 in under 8-10 hours. The best thing it has is graphics, which are very colorful and pretty. The 
 only other reason to pick it up is if you are an adventure fan, because there aren't many available 
 on the 360 yet, but you still might be better of sticking with current-gen hardware for adventure 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Don't let the game fool you, it is a lot like Mario games, with a ... Harry Potteresque feel, but 
 it is certainly not kiddie in any sense of the word. Some complex gameplay and some animated gore 
 and dark overtones. Excellent graphics and sound though are here as well. Let's get into it
  
  You play as Kameo, an elven princess (although she appears to have wings, I have a hard time 
 not calling her a fairy) , who can control the elemental warriors in hopes of defeating the evil 
 Troll King Thorn. Thorn is revived by her evil elder sister Kalus and the two imprison the royal 
 family and other characters. 
  
  Via help from various characters who are somewhat blandly named, such as the Mystic for example, 
 Kameo learns how to fight and use her powers that she has to recover.
  
  The game has 10 different elemental spirits, a few of which I will describe.
  
  Pummel Weed: 
 I'd call this one the standard fighter type. It is a huge plant with spiked hands and razor sharp 
 leaves. It does as the name suggests, pummels the enemies. It can also bury underground and do 
 a flying uppercut used to knock objects over or onto other things. 
  
  Ash : A huge red dragon that spits fireballs or just breaths jets of fire to toast enemies. 
 
  
  Chilla : A giant yeti/gorilla/thing that is the master of ice. It has spikes sticking out of its 
 back, which you can impale orcs with and use later to beat other enemies with or just throw over 
 a cliff. It can also climb walls and throw ice spears.
  
  These are just 3 of the 10 elemental forms you can gain control over. They each have basic abilities 
 which one must expand by using Elemental Fruit to expand the elemental spirits powers. These make 
 new abilities appear, or just increase the overall power of the spirits.
  
  Kameo herself can hover and jump and do a flip kick but other than that, she is rather defenseless. 
 Life is regained via killing enemies or smashing boxes/crates/other objects to gain hearts. Additionally, 
 elixirs can be consumed refilling life completely and increasing the maximum life of Kameo. Also, 
 magic refills over time. 
  
  However, sometimes Kameo has a problem in responsiveness, namely with Pummel Weed in particular. 
 By having to alternate between the L and R triggers to sucessfully punch, the game mistakes fast 
 input as the burying command, rather than attack. This makes it hard to unleash the combos. 
  
  Also, switching between elemental powers takes a bit of time, and sometimes the powers must 
 be used in conjunction, and it takes quite a while to get the hang of it, particularly in one level 
 where you must launch over a ramp and then change into Chilla in mid air. 
  
  While that adds variety and complexity to the gameplay, sometimes these sensitivities detract from 
 the gameplay.
  
  Kameo's world is brilliantly created with vibrant colors with flowers, flying butterflies, trees, 
 grass, sunshine, water with reflections intricate architecture and more. Kameo herself looks rather 
 sharp, although up close, we can still see some angularity and polygonal features. Also, she runs 
 very awkwardly, almost as if she was on the moon landing mission, a bit too bouncy, yet stiff. 
 Personally, hovering removes this problem for me, as she flies very gracefully with her wings humming 
 at a rapid rate.
  
  The enemies themselves are appropriatedly rendered as vicious trolls or giant bugs or skeleton 
 monsters with swirling vortices of dark energy engulfing them. Particularly in one miniboss fight, 
 where you take over the light soul's energy, the graphics become inverted, I. E. like a photo negative, 
 as if you are seeing the world from a different plane of existence. 
  
  Smashing boxes results in busted wood pieces flying in all directions, as well as smashing bugs 
 or pumpkins in particular. Juices will land on the camera, as if you had the spray landing in your 
 field of vision, and at times this can impede your vision, much like if your face was covered in 
 a goo, needing time to wipe off. I find this to be an interesting addition to the graphics and 
 gameplay. 
  
  Mind you I haven't completed the game yet, but the cutscenes are well animated along with the main 
 gameplay. Barring Kameo's awkward movement and some upclose polygonal features, this game has excellent 
 graphics.
  
  The sound effects and voice acting are top notch. The voice actor for Joanna Dark in Perfect Dark 
 Zero does the voice for Kameo, although with a bit more of an accent, but none of the youthful 
 exuberance is lost. The wise sage inhabiting the Wotnot book has a perfectly fitting faux-english 
 accent. All spoken text is also spoken with voice acting. The dialogue is witty, with my favorite 
 example "Stop being such a witch... you witch". We all know what the speaker REALLY meant.
  
  Besides the top notch voice acting, the sound effects, such as running water or crackling fire 
 are very noticeable... but one must listen, they are not deafening unless you are standing in the 
 stream or beside the fire. Kameo's wings beat and you can hear their humming. Just the little intricacies 
 are hard to pick out without listening closely. With surround sound this is more evident.
  
  The soundtrack is straight out of the music books of The Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter. 
 Imagine a whimsical and magical sound track, and you have it in a nutshell.
  
  My biggest gripe is even though I have not completed the game, it is supposedly extremely short, 
 most reported completions take 10 hours or less on the first go. However there are two bonuses 
 at this point and time.
  
  1.) Cooperative gameplay having completed certain missions/quests. You can play 2 player coop. 
 I haven't done this although I am told it is a nice addition, although not a complete game experience. 
 Still nice though.
  
  2.) The game is 29.99$ brand new now I believe, I however picked it up used for slightly over 20$ 
 with taxes. This game is certainly worth it at that price, but at the ful 50 or 60$ it might be 
 a bit expensive for the length of the game. This is why such a low value score, although coop + 
 low price allowed me to give it a 7 for value.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game with great graphics and sound and overall gameplay. The concept 
 of switching abilities and powers on the fly between a whole legion of elemental spirits is intriguing 
 and the game is very well made, and most of all fun. 
  
  Overall Fun : 9/10, not perfect can't ever set it down fun, but very fun and well worth your time.
 
  
  Pros
  + Excellent Graphics and Sounds
  + Intriguing Elemental Powers and changing abilities
  + As of 8-2-2006 the game is very inexpensive, 
 worth picking up
  
  Cons
  - Very short, replay is somewhat small
  - Quirky controls, namely with Pummel Weed
  - Some polygonal graphics upclose, a no-no for next 
 gen games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Kameo elements of power is a really worth while game. Its got a good storyline to it and its gameplay 
 is very fun because of all the characters you get to be. 
  
  But for most of the game in my opinion youll be playing more with the other characters than kameo. This 
 game has really nice graphics and the gameplay is really enjoyable. 
  
  this game should be almost m15+ because youll crushing orcs with this roly poly elephant guy or 
 a yetti the throws ice spears at enemys, and if your a fan of action games than reccommend that 
 youll enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinXan360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This Is One Of A Kind! You wont find a game like this on the Xbox 360! This game is preety fun 
 from the start to the end. It has the "Fable" type of music to it. The game really doesn't get 
 hard, only some puzzles might take a while to complete. Getting Gamer Points is also preety easy. 
 Now this game is 29.99, it is a huge steal for a game like this. The story is kind of confusing 
 at times, but thats okay. The gameplay is the best! This is not a childish game, don't think that. 
 I am 22 and I love playing this game. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil-Z
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game was when my brother was playing it on the day he got his 360. I 
 thought it looked pretty, that's all. It's really the same mechanics as every other adventure game 
 out there, changing into animals doesn't make much of difference, really. 
  
  The graphics are definitely great, with cool motion blur and stuff like that. Kameo's expression 
 makes her look like she really needs a shag, which is okay, but the cartoony graphics get pretty 
 tiresome after a while, even though at the beginning my first thoughts were just 'wow, pretty flowers' 
 and the like, and at first the War outside was just too cool. 
  
  Gameplay's a bit of a letdown. It's just jump and punch things. Not just once or three times, no 
 no, but many many many times and then you get slow-motion - wow, like that hasn't been used before. 
 Comparing this game to Zelda is just harsh, because Zelda (even with the cartoony look) felt so 
 easy and fun to play and even though the mechanics of zelda haven't changed much, they are Zelda's 
 mechanics, which just... work.
  
  Not much to say about sound. Pretty average. Some sweeping scores, but I don't really think the 
 way the music quickly changes from the kind of celtic scores to the battle music - it just doesn't 
 work.
  
  Also, the camera just ruins it, it really is annoying, especially when you're just flying along 
 and suddenly you fall down a giant hole... The multiplayer is not great either - same gameplay 
 as single player but with less space and so more camera problems. 
  
  Overall, it is an average game - all flash, no substance. A seemingly great reason to buy a 360 
 (but then again, there are good reasons, so get one of those) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I will do my best to give a fair review. Adventure games just lost interest to me when I turned 
 16, 9 years ago. With that being said I found myself playing it for a couple of hours each time 
 I tried to play it and it flew by. I can't explain. The graphics are solid but the character graphics 
 are pretty generic. Good solid gameplay. Very easy to pick up. The effects from the fire, water, 
 trees and everything else nature related is excellent. If there is one major complaint is that 
 the game takes very little time to complete so I would just rent it, not buy it. The game just 
 simply got boring. Another adventure gae in the tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Like it or not, for the past few years Fantasy Action Adventure games have been lacking originality. 
 Developers have not worked well on the gameplay and visual styles of past fantasy games. As the 
 first Xbox 360 game to be released, Kameo turns out to be an extraordinary game for this console. 
 This game is the most family-friendly one for the Xbox 360 up to date. This colorful and creative-action 
 game offers gameplay for any game lover. Kameo is packed with dazzling sound, entertaining action, 
 and some of the most razor-sharp graphics on the Xbox 360. Kameo is not a particularly long game, 
 but it offers a memorable and solid journey that will give you over 10 hours of gameplay.
  
  Kameo starts off by thrusting you into a challenging battle that is somewhat a tutorial. You 
 will play as a beautiful elf princess with fairy wings named Kameo, who has a unique ability to 
 morph into to creative and fantasy-like characters. Bravely enough, Kameo single-handedly attacks 
 a number of trolls and their traps. Kameos wicked sister, Kalus, is an ally with the trolls. Kalus 
 and the Trolls have kidnapped Kameos family, and now they also threaten her home, the Enchanted 
 Kingdom. Doing what any girl would do, Kameo fights these obstacles by morphing into: an ape-type 
 creature, a plant with boxing gloves, and an elephant-mole thing with spikes.
  
  The opening challenge of the game is a great level to show you the visual experience Kameo has 
 to offer. If you have played other fantasy action adventure games, Kameo will be a no-brainer to 
 figure out. The control scheme for this game is as easy as a game could get. You morph into other 
 creatures using the letter pad; you use left analog stick to walk, and the right to look around. 
 Every creature has a special ability and a special move, - to use each characters move, you simply 
 click the right or left trigger. To activate a devastating attack, you click both left and right 
 triggers at the same time. What makes the control scheme of this game even easier is that you get 
 to assign which letter button you want your character to be. For example: if someone is using Pummel 
 weed and they want to morph into him, they can assign him to the X button. All you have to do 
 then is click the X button and you will morph into him instantly. For people who are new to fantasy 
 games, Kameo has the button layout on the screen, and it will show you in the right corner of the 
 screen which button you assigned for each character.
  
  Kameo offers a very open-ended area to walk around. In the Enchanted Kingdom, you may walk around 
 looking at the amazing scenery of nature and talk to goofy characters. Many quests are also obtained 
 in the Enchanted Kingdom. Finding your way around is not difficult, considering there is a very 
 simple and straight forward map in the corner of the screen. Among other assets, you can morph 
 into other creatures in the Enchanted Kingdom if you just want to walk around. Another area of 
 this game is the Badlands. In the Badlands, you are equipped with a horse which you can gallop 
 and charge with around the area. There are literally thousands and thousands of Elf and Troll warriors 
 fighting in the Badlands. Playing as Kameo or other creatures, you are able to charge into battle 
 and slay thousands and thousands of trolls with the help of Elf Warriors. The troll army here is 
 mainly trying to break down the shield that protecting the Enchanted Kingdom. Your task throughout 
 the game is to protect the shield from getting destroyed. These massive scale battles are in real 
 time, which means each troll has a mind of its own and will do what it wants to kill you.
  
  The main goal in this game is to unlock all ten creatures, so you can morph into them and use 
 them. Each one of these creatures that you are able to morph into are held captive by a Shadow 
 Troll. All the Shadow Troll battles are almost identical. The only difference is that it will get 
 harder and harder as you progress to the next stage. These Shadow Troll battles never lose your 
 interest, because its quite exciting to know that you will get a new creature. The fact that every 
 creature is different and carries different powers makes Kameo less repetitive. Every Shadow Realm 
 is closed off to a normal person. To gain access these Realms, you will have to cross through puzzles 
 and obstacles. You must use each creature carefully, because each puzzle requires a different one.
 
  
  Kameo is not all thinking and puzzles, however. There are many levels that offer full-on action 
 similar to the first level. Youll have to fight massive armies of Trolls and other creatures to 
 get into the next area. The further you get in the game, the more creatures you will possess to 
 kill these Trolls. Every creature you morph into has different abilities, thus giving you many 
 different ways to kill Trolls. From blazing them on fire, to hitting them with rocks - you can 
 decide how to kill them. This brings life into the game, as not only will you get puzzles, but 
 you will get to fight big battles as well. The battles in Kameo are not boring because of all the 
 effects going on. You will have bombs being thrown at you, vines trying to kill you, and trolls 
 trying to attack you.
  
  There is a two player split-screen and Xbox live co-op in Kameo. Co-op on Live and split screen 
 does not really vary from the single player mode. You are just thrown into a battle scene, and 
 expected to kill the trolls and other various enemies. You both are Kameo (with the same outfit) 
 and can both morph. Kameo in Co-op does not introduce any new challenges to the game. To play the 
 co-op maps, you would have to unlock them from single player. Unfortunately co-op mode really feels 
 like it was just added at the last second. You can only play the major levels of the game in co-op 
 mode and your ally is the exact same character as you, so in the end there are just two Kameos 
 walking around. It wouldve been nice if they incorporated another character for co-op mode and 
 also edited some of the levels slightly so that they actually feel like a co-op game. 
  
  Kameo is like a substance which you cant stop using. It is a very addicting game and is a must 
 have for the Xbox 360. There are many things to do in Kameo, from fighting epic battles, morphing 
 into weird type of creature, and figuring out puzzles. You will surely find it entertaining. The 
 only drawback of Kameo is that it should have lasted longer but all in all, Kameo offers stunning 
 graphics, great game play, and a solid story line. Right out of the box, Kameo shows what all Xbox 
 360 games should be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I play this with my 4yrs old daughter on an almost daily basis. It's intuitive enough that she 
 quickly grasped the fundamentals - she has trouble with the pace of combat, but basic gameplay 
 is enjoyable for her.
  
  It looks great and I enjoy the simplicity and pace of the game. Some people have complained that 
 it's not Zelda or whatever, but to me that's an attractive quality. I wanted something easy to 
 play, but fun and bright enough to capture my child's attention. Kameo is a great family game.
 
  
  If it was just me however, I suspect this would be a rental. You can finish it in not too many 
 hours and if it wasn't for my daughter I wouldn't have been motivated to go back and do it again... 
 I've never found all the secrets in any game, just not obsessive that way.
  
  1 of the boss battles is pretty annoying but as with most console games of this type perseverance 
 and a little luck is the key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _tsukasa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Kameo what immediatly turned me off was the look of the game. It looked like one 
 of those insanely terrible platformers that people kept churning out for the current gen consoles. 
 I was hesitant about getting this game thanks to that. However, my friend bought it for me for 
 my birthday. So I played it. I was blown away.
  
  Now before I continue talking, I have to clear a few things up. Kameo is not as kiddy as it looks. 
 Sure the enemies look very unmenacing, but this game is definately something that appeals to gamers 
 of all ages. Kameo is also not a typical platformer. You will be asked to do many death defying 
 stunts, but a few elements in this game play more like Zelda than Mario. It's a really interesting 
 blend of platforming and action.
  
  Like I said before, I didn't like the art style for this game when I originally saw it in action 
 at last year's E3. IT just felt too childish to me. As I progressed through the game, I really 
 began to love the visual style and how everything looked so different from typical games. In a 
 way, it reminded me of Wind Waker's attempt to use a new visual style. Maybe not as extreme as 
 that, but Kameo's visuals are excellent, with vibrant colors, enemy count, and small effects you 
 won't really notice unless you're looking for them.
  
  Sound was a definate plus. This epic score is truly awe-inspiring at times, really getting you 
 into the feel of the game. You'll hear chanting, full orchestrated pieces, and explosions that 
 feel like they rock you. I absolutely adored the sound design in this game. Rare has always impressed 
 me with their dedication to small details like this.
  
  Gameplay was great too. The things you're asked to do never seem too tedious (with a few exceptions. 
 More on this later) . You'll be doing things from looking for a cave entrance to fighting in a large 
 battlefield with enemy tanks you have to take down. The game really makes an effort to make the 
 levels egaging and fun, something I think deserves applause.
  
  As good as this game is, it still has a few flaws that really irk me. Coop is one of them. Was 
 it really necessary to even include that? I mean, since it's in there, its decent, but I still 
 prefer to play this game alone. Don't ask why either, it just feels better. Also, some of the things 
 you do can get a little monotonous (The water temple for on) , which can really make this game hit 
 or miss with you. Some of the bosses are also triall and error, which adds some frustration if 
 you were expecting a hint or clue as to how to beat them. The game's length is also very short, 
 but it's fun to go back and replay the more memorable sections
  
  Overall, Kameo is a great experience that Xbox 360 players should check out, and with all the used 
 copies suddenly pouring into the game stores, Kameo will definately be worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a very unique game. Not only for it's story and gameplay, but because 
 it's been in development for three different consoles. The development studio Rare started this 
 project for the Nintendo Gamecube. Then in 2002, Microsoft acquired Rare and the transition to 
 the Xbox had begun. Finally, the decision was made to delay Kameo in order to be a launch title 
 for the Xbox 360. 
  
  The story of Kameo is simple, yet both interesting and unpredictable which should keep your attention 
 throughout the course of the game. Kameo's mother, Queen Theena, has to make a choice of which 
 of her two daughters she must pass her elemental powers down to, Kameo or her sister Kalus. Theena 
 chooses Kameo and in an uproar of jealousy, Kalus chooses to release the Dark Troll King Thorn 
 from his stone inprisonment and makes chaos reigns over the once peaceful kingdom and captures 
 Kameo's family and ancestors. So it is up to Kameo to release find her family and prevent Kalus 
 and Thorn from wreaking havoc upon the land. To do this Kameo gets help from 10 elemental warriors 
 she can transform into and thus begins Kameo: Elements of Power.
  
  Gameplay is superb, though disappointingly easy to predict. The easiest way to describe this game 
 is 'fetch quest', as that's about what you'll be doing in between battling trolls and running odd, 
 transformation-centered quests for extraordinarily inventive characters. While trolls, faeries, 
 and elves are not something out of the ordinary, the other NPC's are extremely interesting to look 
 at.
  
  First and foremost, the best thing about Kameo is the ability to utilize different forms to further 
 expand the fighting engine and the way obstacles are passed in this game. Changing forms is not 
 only useful, but also required for attacks and puzzle solving. With the ability to change into 
 different forms, it allowed Rare to be creative and come up with some brilliantly and wittily designed 
 puzzles and obstacles.
  
  To make things even better, the transformations allow for some crazy combos and some surprising 
 depth. Since Kameo is only armed with a flip kick, the fighting is reliant on the elements. Each 
 element will start off with a few moves, but as your journey deepens more techniques can be earned. 
 Like the platforming elements in this game, the player can also interchange between elements in 
 the heat of battle and perform different combos. Not to mention, certain enemies are more prone 
 to certain elements, so the game feels balanced rather than overpowering a certain element. With 
 plenty of elements and moves, Kameo's fighting engine is packing with depth. 
  
  The overall atmosphere in Kameo is amazing. You are in her world. There is never a time that you 
 are not aware that it is a next generaton game. The graphics are stunning. Bright colors and environments 
 that are absolutely breathtaking. This game really shows off the 360's power. From bright sandy 
 deserts to snow covered mountains to lush greenery, this game will not disappoint graphics wise. 
 
  
  This is also true for the soundtrack. Kameo is filled with remarkable pieces of music, some of 
 which you may think are from the Lord of the Rings films. The voice acting in the game is also 
 well acted. Though Ortho from the Wotnot book can get annoying in his one liners at times.
  
  Now onto Kameos one and only weakness. The length of the game. It's too short. About 8 hours 
 through, though there are extras to keep you busy such as collecting all the items, getting A ranks 
 (No easy task) and other unlockable extras like movies, artwork and cheats. Not to mention the 
 co-op mode.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a fun game, hands-down. It manages to blend a mix of good platforming 
 and beat-em-up elements, along with a few creative puzzles, to bring out a product that feels and 
 plays next-gen. It has a compelling story and great variety. The only downside to it all is how 
 unbelievable short it is. The game overall is not hard and you will find yourself breezing through 
 the game unlock achievements constantly. Kameo is a unique game that is at least worth a good rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oJuStiFyo0
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  wow, im disapointed
  i played this game in january, and thought it was fun, but after playing earlier it really is bad. I 
 thought it would a been good considering these guys also made conker, but this is just a stupid 
 game. Co-op is it's one advantage, but other than that i wouldn't take this series any further. 
 i hope viva pinata' doesn't turn out this bad... this is the worst game i have ever played... or 
 close to it.... i would only get this game for the points and then return it but even then it isnt 
 worth spending the money
  
  i know i spelt dispointed wrong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear Kameo we waited so long for you. First you were coming on the gamecube, then moved to the 
 Xbox and now you finally arrive on the Xbox 360. This is also quite the bad thing here tough, after 
 so many years of development Kameo is not quite impressive has it should be. In Kameo you play 
 has a fairy that has the ability to turn into different creatures. Which there is certainly a lot 
 of them to turn into but the first ones you get will be an ice monster that can climb walls and 
 shoot ice. There is also plant fighter that punches around the enemies and there is also a spiky 
 monster that let's you roll through holes just like Samus in Metroid Prime. While Kameo does a 
 nice job to keep the gameplay varied with different creatures to become, sadly none of this creature 
 are quite exactly a lot of fun then others. Plus for example the plant fighter doesn't really fight 
 with style or anything is just basic fighting. So the thing is that each creature has a different 
 power but in his basic form.
  
  Kameo looks awesome and shows just how awesome games can look on the Xbox 360. From the enviroments 
 to the characters is pretty much perfect. Audio is pretty decent with a solid soundtrack around. 
 Overall Kameo is one of the better launch titles of the Xbox 360 and owners of the console should 
 try it out since they tell me there is a low price now. But I still recommend more to rent first 
 and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power, a Rare game that was at first a Gamecube game, then (after bought by 
 Microsoft) a Xbox game, is now a Xbox 360 game, and was shipped in November 2005 (one of the Xbox 
 360's first) . You play as Kameo, a fairy-elf-human creature thing that had just been crowned the 
 ruler of her land. However, her whats-her-face sister becomes jealous. And angry. So angry, that 
 she decided to totally screw things up for Kameo and betray her whole kingdom by letting out the 
 Troll King, which also lets out all the other evil creatures and Trolls and such. and these creatures 
 steal her family members. It's up to Kameo, with the help of her talkative Wot not Book (that holds 
 the now scattered Elemental Warriors she can shift into) to save her family, recover all the Elemental 
 Warriors, and save the day from the dreaded Troll King. Well... here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: Say what you want to say about the game's plot and look; Kameo: Elements of Power uses 
 that whole Legend of Zelda "think more than play" motto, and does it pretty well. Sure, the game 
 has its platforming and maybe some action-RPG-esque moments, but the game shines in puzzle-solving 
 that made me feel quite intelligent (or just a simple "smart") after completing each puzzle. The 
 bosses, as well, will take more than just attacking; you'll have to use your powers that you picked 
 up throughout your journey to take down the boss, and then use another to attack. Of course, its 
 obvious that the game revolves around the shifting of these "Elemental Warriors", for each of them 
 have special, mainly unique powers (such as a firey dragon named Ash that, you guessed it, breathes 
 fire, a tentacle-like, watery, jelly-fish like creature thing that can stretch his arms toward 
 toungue-like plants named Flex, an armadillo that rolls over ramps and enemies named Major Ruin, 
 etc.) . These puzzles and boss fights could have been alot of more fun, if a certain book hadn't 
 have spoiled it (I'm looking at you, Wot Not Book) . Seriously, this spoiled the fun just enough. 
 He just has to tell you and tell you enough to look in the book for advice, and sometimes, the 
 advice can end up spoiling some otherwise interesting puzzles and boss battles. Another complaint 
 would otherwise be that I wish there was just a little more to the game. There's not much else 
 to say. Really, though, those complaints are just minor to an otherwise awesome and somewhat fun 
 game. 
  
  Graphics: It took me a while to get used to the whole cartoon-thing, but when I did, I started 
 liking the look more and more (I thought the looks always fitted the game, for the record) . I became 
 very much intrigued at the visuals as I came closer and closer to the end of the game (as in the 
 environments. Characters look good, but the forms Kameo turns into look somewhat better. However, 
 I thought the game could just look a little better. But other than that, the visuals look great, 
 especially for a Xbox 360.
  
  Sound: The story made me think of the Zelda games and the Lord of the Rings series, but in a little 
 bit of a humiliating way. But really, voice-acting is good, but could be just a little better. 
 Music is what once again reminds me of the LoZ games and the LotR series. The sound is good, but 
 could've been a little bit better overall.
  
  Value: It took me eleven hours and thirty minutes on the mark to finish this game (it might take 
 you less than that, too) . There are side missions and co-op stages in the game, however, you don't 
 really have to do the side missions to complete this game, and in order to unlock levels in co-op, 
 you have to beat the levels (or "action stages") in single-player first before you are able to 
 play the exact same ones in co-op, so it may get just a little boring for you. It is also Xbox 
 Live-capable, but it isn't anything to get excited about. Overall, the game is a fun-enough experience 
 to play once (maybe twice) .
  
  Tilt: Overall, I think this game might be enjoyed by everyone (or most people) that have an Xbox 
 360, however, should be more of a rent first before you buy, for it could be too short, you might 
 not like the online/multiplayer experiences, or you just might not like it as much as others. But 
 still, I think this game is fun enough for almost everyone to at least try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viscus_nry
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm impartial to the game. It has it's plusses and minus', but generally Im happy because its 
 an RPG for xbox. I always wanted more Zelda or Mario-esque games for the box, and this seems to 
 be the nearest I can get.
  
  The problem with it for me, is that it seems to rely too heavily on cheap fights to keep the game 
 moving forward. Every step of the way a different kind of troll being the enemy, but always easy 
 to kill. "oh no! these trolls have shields..." 
  
  The game lacks the immersion in the story and exploring / adventure that I personally found in 
 other RPG's like Ocarina of Time. Barely any of the game time in OOT was spent fighting, and when 
 you were fighting, it didn't seem like a cheap way to keep the story moving.
  
  It almost seems as though this game is a little scared to just push the fighting back a little, 
 and let the story and adventure take front seat.
  
  Having said this, I am enjoying the game. But it could have been better. Just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  
 
  ***Good Things***
  1.) Awesome beautifful graphics
  2.) CO-OP
  3.) Long story
  4.) Good ending
  5.) Good vocie acting
  6.) Good camera
  7.) No lagy co-op play
  8.) Easy achivements
 
  ***Bad Things***
  1.) Contolls in changeing monsters is anoying at times.
  2.) Repetitive
  3.) Once you beat the game you dont know what to do.
  4.) Although the voice acting is good they 
 sometimes repaete things that they have said before.
  5.) Only CO-OP
  
  It ended up 
 being a really good game. With many unqiue chareters... I just wish i had more to play. I dont really 
 think im makeing myself clear but its hard to describe how well the game is.
  
  
 
   
 n hxn  ehge ywgedygsydgsudhsdu 
 uhdWHDwbduwdw 8gfwyfg sa 8dhW D 8d8udwdddwddwd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Good but a little to kidish for me. The game is origanal and just plain fun. The game has alot 
 of good elements. It's a great game if you just wanna have fun in a fun but not to hard game. The 
 game is meant for little kids but it has some parts in the game small kids shouldn't see. it's too 
 hard to discribe soo im gonna talk like a donkey. hjfhbfug hduifnbfu fbfjdf fju dfjf bvhf v ndk 
 v invdsj visjbnubnfn vnb inb j nvjfjjnfjuugr ihnfjungin nrinowlv vbijbodc nv vdoiv veivinvoed voivijn 
 vovoib 0ornfif fijgje cifhg rifhf gof vjrjufnr fidjxcke djd ciojdn didnkdjd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omy808
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Because of its excellent graphics and rather melodic sounds, Kameo is a must-buy for the Xbox 360, 
 even though it has its weaknesses.
  
  Kameo : Elements of Power is about an outgoing fairy called Kameo who was orphaned at a young age 
 and housed by the Queen of the Enchanted Realm. Kameo doesn't know the origins of her birth until 
 recently and discovers that she has the ability to change her shape into three of the Elemental 
 Warriors. Her power caused her foster sister, Talis, to grow angry and jealous about her power 
 until one day, she destroys her father and unleashes the King of Trolls who starts wreacking havoc 
 around the Realm. Kameo has her save her family throughout the game and recapture the Elemental 
 Warriors stolen from the Wotnot Book.
  
  The graphics in the game are GORGEOUS, meaning that if you're one of the people who have an HDTV 
 and can bump up your quality to 720 p, then sit back and enjoy the show. Every blade of grass is 
 considered a single object, and the water effects are even more cool than the ones in Super Mario 
 Sunshine. The light effects are just as good as in every other game in the 360 (Condemned, Tomb 
 Raider, Moto GP,...) and every character and landscape is detailed in a very delicate manner.
 
  
  I advise you, if you want to have the fullest potential of this game, go buy yourself four Dolby 
 Surround Pro Logic 3 compatible speakers and let yourself be enhanced in the sound of music. Wanna 
 hear birds chirping, the cries of falling soldiers, and the smooth sound of water splashing against 
 rocks? No need to get off the couch to do so!
  
  The only faults I find with this game is the gameplay and storyline. From the very start, the game 
 feels extremely rushed and before you know it, you have to save yourself from a horde of angry 
 trolls, all charging at you atop flaming dragons, in the same time having to learn the clunky controls 
 by yourself. The gameplay's combos are not really effective and it requires too much mindless button 
 mashing to finish a level. The story still feels undercooked and could be greatly enhanced.
  
  Even though the game has quite a few negatives, I assure you, this game will leave a smile 
 on your face.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duythvn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic, its not the HALO 3 or Gears of war that you should be waiting for, the best title for 
 XBOX 360 is right here - Kameo.
  
  I spent hours playing the game, and its PLAYING im talking here - you play with Joyful .
  Along 
 the game journey, you will get friends to talk to, get into great enemy to deal with, have to solve 
 easy-average puzzles, and most of all tons of things to explore.
  
  The sound and graphic may not be so good (maybe beacause of the game engine itself, or maybe because 
 the world this game is set in)
  but luxury cute scene, smart level design, unique game play... thats way enough for me to write 
 this review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meerorkat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Oh man, what to say? Kameo is the first game I played on my 360, and even though I beat it (7 hours 
 lol) I still play it. Basically Kameo is an elven teen with the power to transform into ten different 
 elemental creatures. There's Pummel Weed, a venus- flytrap like plant who apparently likes boxing, 
 Flex, a squid creature who can walk on water, and a bunch of other guys. The plot, though consisting 
 mainly of freeing the elemental warriors, stays funny and original throughout the game. One of 
 the best parts are the incredible graphics. The sound is also amazing, realistic yet fascinating. 
 All in all, I recommend Kameo heartily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I remember sitting down to play my N64 back in my teenage years, and can easily remember that most 
 of my favourite games were made by RARE. Titles such as "Goldeneye", "Perfect Dark", "Banjo Kazooie", 
 and "Diddy Kong Racing" blew me away. Casting my mind back further I can remember being blown away 
 by titles such as "Donkey Kong Country" on the SNES also a RARE game. So it was with an air of 
 expectance that I put my first ever X-Box 360 game into the console and sat back to enjoy Kameo.
 
  
  Story - Kameo's sister Kallus has aligned herself with the troll king and freed him from imprisonment. 
 Now the troll kings armies bear down on the peaceful kingdom of the elves! Not only that but the 
 powerful elemental warriors and Kameo's family themselves have been captured by him! Of course 
 Kameo is on the case to rescue these her family and the elemental warriors. It's all in a days 
 work for our shapeshifting elf girl.
  
  Gameplay - Kameo is an elf, a shapeshifting elf. It's the main goal of the game to save the elemental 
 warriors, and Kameo's family from the various bosses and creatures in the world. As Kameo rescues 
 elemental warriors she also gains the ability to transform into them and use their powers to solve 
 puzzles and defeat enemies. The core of the gameplay of Kameo involves quickly switching between 
 the various warriors and using their abilities to progress through each world. Each warrior Kameo 
 can transform into has a list of moves:- some of which need to be powered up with magical fruit 
 (100 pieces of fruit are hidden in the world to be found) and a combination of different creatures 
 and moves helps you progress. The gameplay can be fast and furious at times as you swap from warrior 
 to warrior particularly in boss fights when you need to use a mix of various warrior abilities 
 to defeat them. It can be a little overwhelming to get used to changing your form so much to begin 
 with, but after a while it becomes second nature. 
  
  Graphics - I was very impressed by the graphics in Kameo. Even on standard definition TV the world 
 looks rich and beautiful, everything from the lush forest world of the elves to the grim war torn 
 pass into the trolls castle is beautiful, to the point of being jaw dropping. Some of the games 
 most amazing visuals occour in the central "Badlands" area when you can have hundreds and hundreds 
 of trolls and elves battling around you with no slow down. This is how a gaming world should be.
 
  
  Sound - A beautiful soundtrack with each worlds music suiting it perfectly. I'm not really one 
 to notice music in games or sound effects but here it really stood out.
  
  Value - The main problem with the game is the length.. it took me about 12 hours to complete the 
 single player game with every item and while I enjoyed it a lot it could have done with being a 
 little longer. Still, the quality of the game makes up for that by a considerable amount and for 
 the hardcore gamers amongst us you can always replay the action levels of the game to get A-ranks 
 and unlock stuff. There is also a co-operative 2 player mode you can play through if you like your 
 multiplayer which is more than enough to add to the games lifespan.
  
  Kameo for me is a return to the classic RARE platformer (all be it with a new and unusual twist) , 
 I found myself thinking of the aforementioned "Banjo Kazooie" and a few other RARE platform titles 
 as I played through the game. Fortunately this title proves to be as outstanding as the N64's RARE 
 offerings and while it may be a little short lived Kameo's world is one that will suck you in and 
 won't let you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  games like ratchet and clank, jak and daxter, oddworld, all those platformers had long stories, 
 much depth in gameplay and were really fun.
  
  Kameo seems really quick in everything.
  
  the games feels rushed like most of the 360's launch games.
  
  gameplay- Kameos gameplay 
 is really fun, you get a lot of monsters to choose from, and you can kick a lot of troll butt. 
 Except most of your monsters have limited moves, and you are faced with more puzzles making you 
 use a certain monster, than fights in which you can use your favorite. Kameo doesnt feel free.
 
  
  graphics- Kameo looks like a polished xbox1 game. Kameos cutscenes are extremely ugly, you can 
 see the jags and plain coloring in the characters. The environments in kameo are really colorful 
 and big. Everything in kameo looks good, but in nextgen standards it doesnt look really nice.
 
  
  sound- Voice acting is really tacked on. There are a lot of explosions and battle cries in the 
 battlefield levels. The game has a decent musical score.
  
  Kameo has a really crappy story to say the best. The story just revolves around you trying to free 
 your family from your sister who imprisoned them and let loose the troll king. Thats it for the 
 story, not much twists or special things about it. 
  
  You get a lot of monsters to chose from yet most of them seem unecessary. The monsters (elemental 
 warriors) that you acquire at the end of the game such as thermite, are used for just little things, 
 like rolling in lava which you only do about once. Snare is a pretty useless monster also as all 
 you use him for is to beat a boss. 40 below is used for sliding on ice roads which you only do 
 in one level. The monsters are made very unecessary in kameo.
  
  the online multiplayer is really restricted. You can only play certain levels with a friend, 6 
 levels i think. It would have been more fun if you could play the whole story with a friend.
  
  Kameo has great potential, but is really short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Im a big guy. Playing games since the early 80s. 
  So i bought my 360, expecting great graphics, and better games.
  I founded it: Condemned, excellent. 
 PGR3 awesome online. Table Tennis, a new sensation in sports games.
  But i founded some meh games: Oblivion, overrated (framerate issues and fight controls issues, 
 and etc..) . PDZ, the worst. CoD2, good single player, so so online. Ridge Racer, awful game play. 
 BT2: MC, excellent online, but belongs to another gen. 
  Then i found Kameo. I friend told me bad things about this game. So i began to play it without 
 expectations. And i fall in love. 
  With this game i recovered the fun factor of gaming. On 360, just Condemned gave me this sensation: 
 fun. Playing this underrated game, i remembered Jack and Dakter series on PS2, Ratchet and Clank 
 series= just plain fun.
  Graphics are excellent, with a nice frame rate, and art direction. The quest is simple but great. 
 The gameplay is really welldone, with a lot of controls to learn about each character. Items to 
 find, upgrades to do, nice bosses to fight, good maps to explore, riddles to solve. A classic, 
 as the old times. 
  People are thinking onPrey, Cromehounds, but this game rules. 
  Can be for teenagers, but whats the problem. My daughter (7 years old) loved Kameo. And i did 
 it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  Rare finally comes back from its grave after about a few years, and I must say I enjoy this return 
 to the gaming world, even though its bumpy around the edges. lets start:
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Amazingly well done. The graphics are very beautiful and gorgeous. I never 
 really saw a downside to the graphics. even the bumpmapping is well done.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  iffy controls. The controls are the weakest element of the game. While switching 
 between the warriors is easy and on the fly, the attacks are kind of sloppy and misplaced. One 
 of the weakest control problems is diving underwater.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Good. The music is pretty good for what it is. The game actually goes with the music, but the music 
 really doesn't seem to have a large variety. The Sound FX are pretty good. everything sounds good 
 and doesn't really miss a beat.
  
  Value/Tilt: 7/10
  
  Worth a rental, no more, no less. The game is only 10 hours and the achivements are really the 
 only reason to play this game longer then a rental period. Also, I personally enjoyed the game 
 since it reminded me of Banjo Kazooie and many other awesome Rare titles.
  
  Overall: 7.7/10.0
  Worth the price of admission if your a fan of achivements. otherwise, rent 
 it and finish in 3-4 sittings.
  
  Pros:
  - Rare is back and still knows its stuff!
  - Graphics are awesome
  - Elemental warriors are a unique twist to the platformer world
  - 
 the characters switching fast and easy
  
  Cons:
  - .... but otherwise the controls are meh.
  - game is very short
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfan-atic
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Kameo has an epic oriented story, the Xbox 360 horse power, the development of one of the greatest 
 deveopers ever (Rare) , and some neat graphics. So, Shouldn't this game be great? I mean comparable 
 to Fable? But it is not....
  
  Graphics: The first levels graphics are good, actually when you see this graphics you actually 
 think: God, this game is going to be good. But some hours after and you'll see that the detail 
 the first level carries are no longer present. Bad drawn textures, mediocre character desing, etc. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Again, you play for the first hour and you go: nice gameplay innovations, it's really 
 cool to morph. But after the first hours it starts to get really cheap, all you do is just morph, 
 morph, and morph. And the game is really not that intelligent. For instance, you see something 
 and you really think you can actually pass this part with this monster, but th game doesnt accept 
 that, it always has just one path, not like Morrowind, Oblivion, Fable, KOTOR, etc...
  
  Sound: This game has some good tunes, this is probably the best of the games features. But not 
 quiete enought to make this game remarcable.
  
  Value: The storyline is so boring you will probally stop playing this game. But, the gamer points 
 will make you try to replay the scenarios until you get the "A" score...
  
  This game is just good, not actually awsome, as some say, so rent it, you will probably be happy 
 with the eassy 600 points it gives just for playing 7 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheebaHawk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  I didn't begin playing Kameo until 6 months after the release of the 360, but I'm glad I got around 
 to it. The game is a lot of fun with very impressive graphics. I'm like almost every gaming genre 
 more than platformers, but this one had enough to keep me interested. The only valid complaint 
 is that the camera isn't perfect, but it's still better than %90 of platformer cameras. It's surprising 
 that a game like this could be out at launch and no one seems impressed. Kameo is a rare (no pun 
 intended) combination of a family title and a gamer title. It's a well-made game that only the 
 most jaded gamer can find an excuse to dog. If someone tells you it sucks, ask them how much their 
 PS3 cost and why they hate fun. Play it now or when it's a $20 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Well, between the frustrating camera, and the sometimes pointless transformations I dont 
 reall yknow where to start. This game is basically a hack-n-slash in disguise. While certain parts 
 of the game are enjoyable, those parts certainly dont last long. The game has a creative idea and 
 basis, but it fails to make it successful. In the game you have several transformations to turn 
 into..... but only select few actually serve a purpose. While transformations like 40 below are 
 quite fun to just run around with, others really dont seem to serve a purpose for more than 10 
 minutes. You will also notice that you will pretty much NEVER actually need to use Kameo in her 
 current form... which is almost disappointing. Even though the co-op option in this game sounds 
 attractive at first, it really is useless, due to the fact that you have to beat each level by 
 yourself before being able to play co-op. Lastly, while there is plenty to explore and some of 
 the character designs are unique, it just feels disappointing. There are indeed fun moments in 
 the game, but they arent enough to justify the simply atrocious game mechanics.
  
  Graphics: This is actually one of the pros to the game. The colorful pallette included in the game, 
 and clear well animated character models make this one of the best looking action adventure (mainly 
 because right now its the only action adventure) games to date on the 360.
  
  Sound: This game does feature some nice voice acting and occassionally interesting songs and sounds. 
 Most characters will always speak when spoken to rather than scrolling text, but certain voices 
 franquely are just sorta annoying. All in all, the music in this game is one of its better qualities.
 
  
  Value- This game is probably the worst purchase if you want replay value. Once you beat the story 
 mode (which didnt even make any sense whatsoever) , your pretty much done. So unless you have a 
 friend to play co-op with, I would recommend a more longlasting type of game. Overall, Kameo is 
 surely a very mediocre game, and shows that it has been mixed up in development since this game 
 started on the N64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  As being the very first Xbox 360 game to ever be released. Kameo: Elements of Power shows its worthyness 
 of that title. Combining amazing graphics and sound, with an equally amazing since of creativity. 
 Kameo is a sign of what great things can be expected from the next-generation of games.
  
  The story, while your basic fantasy style setting, is tookin in very good care by developer Rare 
 . As you are put in the shoes of a young girl named Kameo who is pit against her ( know turned 
 ) evil sister Kalis . And the minacing trolll king Thorn , who has risen to power with his army 
 of orcs. Who are in a waring rage against the elves. Kameo must take down Thorn and recue her family. 
 Who have been taken prisoner by her evil sister, who is aiding Thorn in taking down the elves.
 
  
  Kameo herselves, has the power to transform into many different elemental beings. Each of which 
 have there own different creative style. One of which, is called Pummel Weed . Which is a plant 
 with boxing gloves. Another is a yeti like snow beast called Chilla . Which has the power to empaill 
 enemies on his back, and throw snow spikes. Each of these different forms that Kameo can transofrm 
 into, have there own differnet voice, as they kind of mumple weird and funny sounds to themselves. 
 As well as there own look and personallity. You can even hunt down and fight items that can upgrade 
 your different forms and give them different ablilities. As Kameo herself, she cant do a teribly 
 large amount. But the different form make the game fresh and interenting. As well as a terribly 
 large amount of fun. The gameplay also has these badland sequences that are much huge in scale, 
 and are reminicent of moments in films like Lord of the Rings . While in badland moments you litterally 
 are trotting there thousands of battling orcs and elves. Being able to fight in these moments are 
 amazing in every way and make you really feel like you are fighting in a large war. Expectially 
 when you are prompt to fight in sequences and do certain objectives. They really make you feel 
 like you are fighting in moments in the Lord of the Ring movies. Overall, the gameplay in Kameo 
 is amazing in every way. Its not perfect, but its not far from it.
  
  The presentation of Kameo is truely next-gen in every way. the world of Kameo is as lush and amazing 
 as can be. The different areas of the world and characters look amazing in every way. The different 
 characters, as well as the NPC's all have there on look and breath life in the world of the game. 
 The effects look amazing, and you definitely get teh idea that Kameo wouldnt look nearly this good 
 on any other console other then the 360. It looks amazing in standard definition, and looks like 
 a dreastic step up from what we have come to see from game in the current generation of games. 
 And it looks asolutely phenominal in HD. Kameo looks absolutely stunning. There are some graphical 
 blemishes. But its really only nitpicking. Kameo is a truely next-gen game in every way.
  
  The sound on the other hand, in perfect. The different characters have there own voice and lend 
 greatly to the fantasy feel of the game. However, the music is star of the show. It feels as epic 
 as ever. Making the game feel like a Lord of the Rings movie at times. Since the orcestral score 
 starts right at the right time. Giving the game an amazing feel at times, thats unlike any other 
 game before it. As audio is concerned, Kameo is as close to perfect a game has come in a while.
 
  
  The only real problem with Kameo is that its short. It last under 10 hours. And after that there 
 isnt really anything else to do. You can go back and find all the extra secrets. But the main quest 
 in the real meat of the game. There is also a CO-OP mode. Where you can play select levels from 
 the main quest with another player. The CO-OP is ok on its own. However, the levels are really 
 built around a single player. And its not neccessarily good when you throw two players these levels. 
 However, its better to have the feature then not. There is also no way to go back and play different 
 momenst in the game. Since Kameo saved ever new area you enter. It would have been better to be 
 able to manually save anywhere in the game. However, the save mechanic in Kameo does a great job 
 of keeping you in the action. And not taking you out of the feel of the game, with forcing you 
 to replay large amount of the game when you die.
  
  Overall, Kameo is a truely remarkable game in every way. And is a game that is great for anyone, 
 no matter your age or prefference of gameplay. It feels truely next-gen in every way. And is a 
 great title to add to your Xbox 360 collection. It may not be the best in ways of replayability. 
 However, its a great experience that will truely set you up for the next-generation of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addicting and very fun. It lacks difficulty and challenge but excells in combos 
 and puzzels. The only problem is the wotnot book as it tells you how to get past each puzzel in 
 the game. The music is very good as it goes with the type of inviroment in the game and there are 
 birds churping in the background as well. The graphics are really cool as well because there are 
 many enemies on the screen at once without slowdown so I would have to say 10. There is a little 
 replay value as you want to come back to beat your score all the time or be #1 on the leaderboard. 
 And you also have all the secret stuff you have to beat the lvs to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is an ok game and just that. When playing through its 10-11 hour single player mode I saw 
 a lot of things that were really cool and unique to the game but unfortunately I saw one to many 
 things that spoiled an overall good single player experience. My main complaint with the game was 
 that the controls and camera system would just become to unresponsive when trying to fight off 
 a large group of enemies or the controls would not be precise enough to complete some of the more 
 difficult platform moves. However despite control issues the puzzle solving and action portions 
 of the game are extremely well designed. I really enjoyed trying to figure out which elemental 
 sprite was needed to get the job done. Throw in an interesting co-op mode and some intriguing boss 
 fights and youve got yourself a decent action adventure game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Rare was one of the greatest, if not best, developers for the Nintendo 64. Rare made such games 
 as: Conker's Bad Fur Day, Banjo Kazooie, Banjo Tooie, and Donkey kong 64. Most of Rare's N64 games 
 were incredible that people made Kameo have too live up too that hype. 
  
  The Gameplay in Kameo is very deep, the face buttons are used to change between your elemental 
 warriors. The Trigger buttons are used to attack, mostly in the game you alternately hit these 
 2 buttons. There is overall a lot of different styles of fighting, from Pummleweed's boxing, to 
 Chilla's frost attacks. There is overall 10 different styles of fighting/gameplay that can be applied 
 into the game. 
  
  The sound is ok, its got its moments with the band is all I'll say. Most of the music you will 
 find in this game is from very old times, like orchestra and stuff. Most of the songs will remind 
 you of mythology or something of that nature. The attacks all sound like punch attacks accept for 
 a few, which is a little dull to the sound effects. 
  
  Graphics are highly underrated and underappreciated. I will say Kameo has some of the best graphics 
 the XBOX 360 has seen so far ( 6/15/06 ) , and some points of the game there is literally over 9,000 
 characters on the screen, all controlled individually by A. I. . Along with the 9,000 trolls and 
 elves there is birds in the sky and a lot of lighting effects everywhere. The wall textures in 
 this game are very detailed. Also this game offers some of the best lighting effects thus far on 
 the XBOX 360. 
  
  The replay value is ok, the game itself is rather short. There is quite a few achievements too 
 this game ( 20 ) , some of which are easy too get, and some of which are hard too get. When you 
 complete the game you can do extra too the game, such as collect spiritual fruit, Get perfect rankings 
 on the levels, or just have fun and play it again. Also there is stuff to unlock besides gamerpoints 
 in Kameo, such as concept art, designer videos, costumes, and other cool stuff. 
  
  Kameo Elements of Power was delayed quite sometime, its original debut was supposed to be around 
 the end of the 64, for the N64. It got delayed and was set for the Gamecube launch, than it was 
 moved to the XBOX, than finally the XBOX 360. Kameo is a great platformer/adventure for the XBOX 
 360, and had to live up to a lot of hype. Kameo is underrated because it had too live up too all 
 of RARE's phenemonal N64 platformers, IMO it came close but a little off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  For a little elf, Kameo has some big problems. It seems that when her ancestors granted her the 
 ability to shapeshift into a variety of powerful elemental warriors, her older sister Kalus was 
 so overcome with jealousy that she awakened a powerful troll lord named Thorn to help her destroy 
 her own people. Now, even as legions of their warriors march against the floating elven kingdom, 
 Kalus has kidnapped Kameos ancestors and delights in zapping them all day long with a black lightning 
 that appears to cause them some minor distress. Only young Kameo and her newly acquired shapeshifting 
 abilities can hope to rescue her family from a fate worse than cold tea. Unfortunately, if you 
 havent been able to guess by now, her game entitled Kameo: Elements of Power also has some big, 
 big problems.
  
  Kameos game play opens with something of a trial by fire, throwing you into a full-bore assault 
 on a dark castle beneath a sky choked with black soot and thousands of flying dragons. The dragons 
 arent the biggest concern though, as you must learn to harness her three initial shapeshifting 
 forms to navigate a treacherous path of brimstone and steel while fighting your way past a variety 
 of enemy trolls who will require different tactics to defeat. Its a fantastic introduction to 
 a game, motivating players by throwing them into the thick of the battle and introducing so many 
 different facets of the game play so quickly and so well that it would be easy to believe this 
 could be another great action adventure game in the vein of The Legend of Zelda. Replace Links 
 arsenal of weapons and gadgets with a colorful bestiary of unique transformations, and this could 
 be a phenomenal new franchise!
  
  It isnt. Though Kameo has many of the surface features common to such adventure games, such as 
 an overworld map to traverse between levels and optional side quests to attempt, the path forward 
 is so clearly marked and relentlessly linear that there is never any sense of exploration or discovery. 
 One of the hallmarks of games like Zelda, Castlevania, and Metroid which makes them so popular 
 is the way they organically grant access to additional areas through the use of new abilities while 
 encouraging the return to old areas to uncover previously unattainable secrets. Its true that 
 Kameos newest elemental form is typically required to pass the latest obstacle, but since youre 
 lead through the game by a pulsing green dot that tells you exactly where you need to go next and 
 theres almost never an incentive to revisit a past area, gamers would have to deliberately go 
 out of their way to encounter challenges theyre not already equipped to pass. Always getting a 
 new ability just before youre going to learn that you need it makes the progression in this game 
 feel very contrived.
  
  The end result plays like a third-person combat game with only the most simplistic of combo attacks 
 at your disposal, crossed with unimaginative platforming elements as you make your way from battle 
 to battle. Each of the different elemental warriors at Kameos disposal only has two or three attacks 
 each, but the assortment of different enemy types helps to keep the fighting feel fresh by requiring 
 you to frequently switch up her current form to deal with a new sort of threat. Pummel Weed, for 
 example, can easily beat unarmored foes into submission, but lacks 40 Belows strength to knock 
 around defensive enemies and will light up like kindling if hes hit by a fiery attack that Ash 
 could just shrug off. Fighting is where this game is at its best, especially during some of the 
 chaotic battlefield sequences which involve literally thousands of warring on-screen enemies for 
 you to charge through as you try to derail the troll armys latest offensive. If this had been 
 the main focus of the game, or if the developers had crafted a more engaging and less linear environment 
 to explore, the final product would have turned out much better.
  
  Its a real shame too, since the special capabilities of each the ten elemental warriors Kameo 
 can shapeshift into seem like theyd be a lot of fun to use in a more freeform world. Pummel Weed 
 can burrow beneath low obstacles; Deep Blue can swim underwater; Flex can shoot its arms out and 
 pull itself towards distant grapple points; Rubble can collect rocks to build stone bridges  every 
 one of these forms have unique powers which could be used to increase the players mobility in 
 some way, yet outside of the levels devoted specifically to these powers, theyll rarely ever come 
 into play. Its like the level designers spent all their time placing ramps and ice walls for Major 
 Ruin and Chilla and forgot all about the eight other characters in the cast. Well, nine if you 
 count Kameos natural ability to use hummingbird-like wings to float around indefinitely without 
 touching the earth, but who will inexplicably tumble out of the air if the surface beneath her 
 is anything other than solid ground.
  
  This is the sort of bizarre inconsistency that plagues the games presentation from start to finish. 
 The first time you see Kameos homeland of sleepy farmers living in gorgeous elven architecture 
 amid lush green fields of flowering grasses, youll never suspect theres a massive war raging 
 just outside thats trying to bring this floating island paradise smashing down into cracked wasteland 
 below. Its unclear whether the residents of this enchanted kingdom are somehow unaware of the 
 fact that their lives are all in imminent danger or whether theyre all being aggressively sedated 
 while youre out saving their furry little skins, but it takes some of the triumph out of successfully 
 beating back a troll offensive when you stop back at home and find the citizens yawning away the 
 day. One of the characters there is also so transparently sinister in her attempted manipulations 
 of your quest that youll start to wonder if Kameos family isnt a little doped up themselves 
 as they continue to trust her. The intended audience for this game is tough to make out: the hectic 
 combat and precarious platforming elements seem a little too challenging for younger children, 
 yet the storyline where a petty jealousy between two sisters causes one to aggressively betray 
 her entire race seems much too immature for older players.
  
  Kameos sound design is also an uneven mix where great music and sound effects contrast with voice 
 acting that ranges from acceptable to poor. Even outside of the idyllic elven kingdom of bored 
 citizens whose world is literally about to be shattered around them, characters in other towns 
 will inform you about their missing children with about the same passion youd hear from someone 
 citing a phone book entry. One of the oddest choices was to have Kameo voiced by an actress whose 
 accent is appreciably different from any of the family members that the character allegedly grew 
 up with. Its hardly a show-stopper, but it does make you wonder where Kameo would have learned 
 to pronounce trolls as trawls when shes the only person in the game who does so. Fortunately 
 most of the in-game sounds are spot-on perfect as infernos roil through the subwoofer, dragons 
 swoop low overhead with an ominous whoosh through the surround speakers, and youll swear you can 
 actually hear the water vapor freezing out the air near the ice trolls. Theres a lot of personality 
 expressed by each of the elemental warriors, too, as Thermite chitters away nervously to himself, 
 Pummel Weed cackles gleefully as he batters his enemies senseless, Rubble scrapes and rumbles along 
 like exactly the sort of rock pile that he is, and Flex warbles and burbles in a manner suspiciously 
 similar to the waterside murlocs found in World of WarCraft. Setting aside the bland voice acting, 
 this is a sharp sounding game.
  
  Even sharper, however, are the games graphics; Kameo is a sight to behold. Anyone looking for 
 a game to fully illustrate the advancements Microsofts new console have made over the original 
 X-Box would be hard pressed to find a launch title that could do a better job. In one battle scene 
 early in the game, the camera pulls back over an expansive war zone to reveal literally thousands 
 of mottled green trolls fighting it out with a somewhat smaller, but no less impressive army of 
 blue elven warriors. Terrain texturing in such complicated scenes remains sharp and attractive 
 while characters retain the same high polygon counts and simple, attractive textures that stylizes 
 all the characters. The elemental warriors Kameo morphs into look particularly good and use different 
 techniques to help each one stand apart from the others. Deep Blue and Flex, for example, both 
 have a glossy sheen to their bodies, but while Flex appears to have the smooth, clear skin of a 
 jellyfish, Deep Blues ridges and scales rise up to distort the light reflecting from his body 
 and gives him the more uneven appearance of an octopus. Environmental effects also abound, including 
 fields of grass that sway beneath the fluttering of Kameos wings, smoldering braziers which shimmer 
 with heat, and coarse metallic ramps which only show a dull polish in the areas which havent been 
 rusted over. From start to finish, this is a fantastic looking game.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a textbook example of a game that tries to compensate for its dearth 
 of good game play by pouring all its resources into the graphics engine. Sure, everything looks 
 phenomenal, but without any interesting places to explore, clever puzzles to solve, or characters 
 to talk to, theres very little value to convince players spend any time in this world. Perhaps 
 the developers at Rare were aware of these shortcomings when they decided to tack on Time Attack 
 modes which challenge the player with completing levels from the game as quickly as possible, or 
 the multiplayer cooperative mode which mistakenly assumes that the enemies are interesting or difficult 
 enough to make people want to retry certain Action Stages with their friends. The bottom line 
 is that neither of these features will hold your interest long enough to keep the game handy beyond 
 its mediocre single-player story, making Kameo only recommendable as a rental for people looking 
 to show off the graphical power of their brand new X-Box 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Every single system needs a platformer. Its a basic rule of the universe; You NEED at least ONE 
 good platforming game or your system will fail. Nintendo had the Mario titles, Sega had the Sonic 
 games (although those have been dropping in quality in recent years) and Sony has the Jax and Daxter 
 and Ratchet and Clank series to fill the void. 
  
  Kameo tries to change all that but it doesnt necessarily succeed. Mind you, its leagues ahead 
 of Blinx but then again, most platformers are. Gameplay in Kameo is alike other traditional platformers. 
 You gain power, you beat a boss, you gain more power to beat the next bossuntil you reach the 
 end. All platformers are like that and Kameo is no exception. The powers Kameo can will though 
 comes in the form of transformation. As she makes her way though the game, Kameo will find Elements 
 of Power. These elements are in the shape of cutesy animals. Problem is, since theyre so cute 
 and helpless Shadow Demons have captured most of them and arent letting them go anytime soon. 
 As you can probably guess, its up to you to free these animals (and in turn absorbing their powers) 
 in the course of the game.
  
  Each of the elements has a distinctive look to them. While in their natural, pre-absorb form theyre 
 pretty cute, once Kameo absorbs them they change into kickass morphs. One thing I personally love 
 is the short sequence showing the animals changing into its badass self every time you absorb a 
 new element. The scenes are short but most of them are pretty funnyNot only do the elements look 
 different, all of them have totally different skills. Some may be able to light torches or hover 
 or roll around and other useful abilities. You even have the option to upgrade the animals skills 
 and unlock more powerful abilities.
  
  So where does Kameo go wrong? One major area, its predictability. I dont know if Rare themselves 
 realize it but ALL their platformers have one major weakness  the dependency on item collection. 
 Banjo Kazooie made you collect tons of crap, so did Donkey Kong 64even Conker to a certain extend. 
 You need a 100 of these, 20 of that, 50 of those, and 1 million of all these so you can get something 
 that unlocks something else. Face it, Rare always follows that formula to a T.
  
  It may have worked in the past but theres nothing innovative at all about that now. Instead of 
 giving the game more depth and replay, the treasure hunt to find every single collectible in the 
 game artificially extends the games lifespan. Sadly, you will need to collect a godly amount of 
 the stuff they want you to, like it or not. Some of the more powerful Element powers need the items 
 to unlock them. I wouldnt mind doing some optional side quests or puzzles or whatever but item 
 collection is a pain in the ass.
  
  That taken care of, Id like to say that Kameo is a blast to play. The unique elements and their 
 skills make you think of how you want to approach any given situation. Its fun to experiment to 
 see what works and what doesnt. As with any Rare game, control is never an issue. Kameo controls 
 superbly well and the only problem I found was that the camera tended to need a lot of adjusting 
 in some areas. Apart from that though, Kameo is like a dream, in more ways that one.
  
  Like a one two punch, Kameo will wow your socks off the first time you lay your eyes on it. Environments, 
 while not really that interactive, looks particularly nice. Character models are nicely detailed, 
 though strangely the FMV models are blocky. I have a feeling that the FMV models were the OLD Kameo 
 models, before Rare decided to redo the whole game over on the 360. The 360s added horsepower 
 gave Kameo a whole new look though. There can be literally HUNDREDS of enemies on your screen at 
 once, with no pop up, slowdown or short draw distance. Im not joking, the game runs without a 
 hitch even when tons of stuff is happening at once.
  
  If youre a fan of platformers who want a great looking game, Kameo is the game for you. While 
 it doesnt stray from the formula at all, what is inside is fun to play with, although you may 
 get feelings of dj vu. Still, if its fun, why not? At the very least you can get some Gamerpoints 
 for your Gamercard and Kameo has a TON of easy to grab points
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  well it was really good gameplay but its too long in some parts like further into the game but 
 multiplayer is alright but i think this game was ment for younger kids because us teenagers and 
 adults, No offence or anything but we like well we just like role playing games like fable, oblivion, 
 halo, um lets see well you know games that we can play over anover without geting bored so much 
 and in this game you can get lost on where to go and alot of other stuff too but great game great 
 game, so but evry thing else was good soo ive played alot of your other games too though and they 
 were great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminii
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  well i enjoyed beating this game casue usually i play games to beat them and then i play them again 
 to get everything. this one i couldnt do it but the fact that it was just such a great remake made 
 me rethink my opinion about this game. i couldnt satnd some of the parts where you had to cahnge 
 into many different forms in order to get anywhere and some of the parts of the game left me clueless 
 on what to do. but overall it was a good game. i didnt spend to much of my time trying to play 
 this game because in my opinion it wasnt a very long game. it took me almost no time to actually 
 beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I suppose after playing Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion for over 100 hours, any game I play seems "too 
 short". But Kameo is a bit too easy to beat. I've already beat the game twice. The first time took 
 me about 10 hours, the second took about 3. I haven't unlocked everything yet, and that's the only 
 thing that has kept me playing... I want to see what the extra's and bonus' are. The storyline of 
 the game moves too fast. The Elemental warriors are collected too quickly, and once you have them 
 all, all you do is kill Thorn and the game is over. Then it's an open-ended quest to unlock every 
 bonus in the game. Ideally, there would be more Elemental warriors, and certain of them would be 
 able to do more things. The dragon, for instance, should be able to fly. The game gets a bit boring 
 after defeating Thorn. It's not very entertaining to run around for hours looking for every last 
 fruit or elixir or whatever. Also, the scores needed to unlock the bonus' are ridiculous. Some 
 of them seem nearly impossible to achieve; like 2.5 million to unlock the cheat codes for the first 
 level, in which you only have three Elemental warriors available. Scoring should be easier with 
 certain characters. Some are very easy to get into warrior focus mode, like Pummelweed and 40 Below, 
 but the rest take a lot of time to rack up points with. If they wanted everything extra to be unlockable 
 in the game, they should have made the storyline last longer, and more levels to defeat, and longer 
 levels, so that the high points needed to unlock anything, could be acquired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  If there has ever been a game with the Don't Judge The Book By Its Cover , this would be it. When 
 the game was released last year for the new Xbox360, it received some mixed feedback. I had actually 
 played a demo at a kiosk at a local game retailer, and when I first saw it, I thought it was just 
 a flashy, shallow platformer for children. But my original misconceptions have been shattered after 
 sitting down and spending some hands-on time. Developer Rareware has already released a few games 
 for Microsoft, including Grabbed By The Ghoulies and a remake of Conker's Bad Fur Day , which was 
 originally on the Nintendo 64. Those games were okay but they didn't seem to stand out too much. 
 This time, Kameo is a fresh, brand new adventure. And like I said, this could easily be passed 
 off as a shallow platformer, but there is a little more depth than you would think. Once you get 
 right into the game, you'll realize this isn't just for kids, but in fact it seems to be aimed 
 at a much wider audience, and is appropriate for everybody. There aren't that many exclusive adventure 
 games for the 360, so this one comes as a welcome addition to anybody's library of games.
  The game's main premise is the addition of several different playable characters. You WILL play 
 as Kameo, a girl elf-fairy thing. But don't back away from this because you play a girl. As the 
 game progresses, you will unlock several new characters which you can morph into on the fly. Finding 
 the right character for each situation is where strategy comes into play. If you can't get up a 
 large ramp, you can turn into this rolly-armadillo thing who can tuck into a ball and roll around, 
 crushing baddies. Or, you may need to light a torch... So you would turn into a dragon and use his 
 fiery breath. There are also some just plain fun, big rough and tough characters that can pick 
 up bad guys and smash them into stuff. Each character starts out with limited skills, but you'll 
 find items throughout the game that let you buy new skills and upgrade some old ones. Clever and 
 astute players will also uncover several other secrets, like increased health, stronger attacks, 
 and so on. I know what you're thinking.... This has all been done before, and is derivative of nearly 
 every adventure game under the sun... You'd be half-right. While we've all played this sort of game 
 before, Kameo is one of the few games that does all this so well. Not since the days of Banjo Kazooie 
 have I seen something this seamless. Aside from finding new powerups and characters, you'll also 
 find other things to do. The world of Kameo is pretty huge, to be sure. There are several towns 
 and villages you can visit, with plenty of interesting characters and denizens. While you can blow 
 through the main game without bothering with them too much, you may also get the occasional side-mission 
 from these people. These can include simple tasks, like exterminating somebody's home of several 
 bugs, or you may go on a rescue mission to save someone's kids. And since the world is so huge, 
 it can be fun to just wander off and explore. In the middle of the land is a HUGE open, sprawling 
 area, called The Badlands. Here, there is almost always a huge war raging between the elves (good 
 guys) and the trolls (bad guys) . You can wander right into the middle of the chaos and fight for 
 as long as you want, and it's actually kinda fun and good practice. And when I say chaos , I mean 
 that there are literally hundreds of NPCs fighting, running, and generally causing more chaos. 
 The ammount of characters on screen is actually pretty impressive, and the game's framerate never 
 slows down and remains fast and fluid.
  The environments are HUGE as well, and the load times are actually pretty fast considering this. 
 Due to the sheer size of the area, you are even given access to a horse to make travel a bit faster. 
 And this is alot of fun too, since you can mow down bad guys at will. The rest of the gameplay 
 is typical adventure-material, and is structured somewhat like a Zelda game. You go to several 
 levels (like dungeons) which have you fight lots of enemies, and solve the occasional puzzle, and 
 at the end, you'll face off with a boss too. In between areas, you may get called back to the Badlands, 
 where you may have to do something like repel waves of enemies while the good guys regroup. Again, 
 it's all pretty familliar, and the game never really does anything new to move the genre forward, 
 but everything is done extremely well. Aside from the main story mode, you can also play some of 
 the levels with a friend in a sort of Time Attack mode. This does away with the story and focuses 
 on action, and it does a pretty good job of it.
  The rest of the game is mostly put together quite well too. The graphics, while cartoony, are pretty 
 breathtaking, and really show off some of the nice effects that the 360 is capable of. The foliage, 
 such as the grass, is extremely lush and realistic looking, and the lighting is also very pretty. 
 The game is very heavy on the bloom effects, and while this may bother some people, it really smoothes 
 everything out. The developers did a wonderful job creating the environments as well, and pull 
 out all the stops at setting the mood and feel. Bright, colourful locales like the beachy areas 
 have a warm and inviting feeling about them, while dark, dirty areas create a cold, unsettling 
 atmosphere. Characters all look pretty good as well. Fuzzy characters have every strand of hair 
 completely animated and realistic (think Sully from Monsters Inc) . Other characters, like the evil 
 trolls, look grotesque and scaly (the good kind of ugly) . And, weird as it sounds, the developers 
 weren't too shy about making Kameo a little... er.. almost TOO sexy for a T-rated game. Yes I know, 
 weird, but most guys should pick up on this right off the bat.
  The audio in the game is somewhat hit-or-miss. Some characters have some pretty good voiceovers, 
 while others sound dull and unenthusiastic. The most annoying thing that I found is that some characters 
 have full voice acting, while others only have text. This can be really irritating if you need 
 to stop and read a big long page of dialogue. It wouldn't bother me if the whole game was in text 
 OR audio, but it seems a bit lazy to have the game switch back and forth. Other than that, the 
 music is mostly pretty good, with some cool, fully orchestral scores of music.
  The game's actualy storyline is a little less than stellar. Basically, you play as Kameo, who is 
 out to rescue members of her family who have been kidnapped, and you have to stop your evil sister, 
 who is using her evil powers to work with the trolls, who seek to destroy the elves. Also, early 
 on in the game, you lose all of your elementals. These are what enable you to turn into the different 
 characters. With all of them gone, you are nearly powerless and need to recover all of them so 
 you can kick some ass. The plot isn't entirely bad, but it isn't overly exciting and might have 
 trouble holding your attention. The main appeal of the game is just about having some good, clean 
 fun. The full adventure isn't terribly long but there are enough side-quests and secrets to keep 
 you entertained for a while. And while the game may not blow you away, it's been out for over a 
 year and is fairly cheap, which means there isn't much reason to skip this one. It's also one of 
 the best launch titles for the 360 and is definetly worth playing. And like I said before, there 
 aren't too many exclusive, full-blown adventure games for the Xbox360, so that's even more reason 
 to try it out. Don't let the cutesy graphics fool you. There is still a surprising ammount of substance 
 here, if you give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Kameo was the first adventure game released for the Xbox 360, and it has set some new standards 
 for what is possible in a video game. It has a few flaws, and is a little short, but overall this 
 is a great game for players of any age.
  
  The story centers on Kameo, an elf princess that has the ability to transform into elemental beasts 
 with different abilities. Her evil sister kidnaps her family, and unleashes an army of trolls to 
 attack the kingdom. Thus setting up the background of the game. Not the most original story, but 
 it serves its purpose, and the supporting characters are great.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is slick, and original. The ability to change into different forms, adds a lot of 
 variety to the game. Some enemies can only be defeated by using various skills your other forms 
 have. Its also a great way to make puzzles much more interesting. It takes a little getting used 
 to the different forms, and how they work. But Rare did a great job making all of the forms useful 
 and entertaining. My only real complaint is that theres no introduction, and youre immediately 
 tossed into a troll castle with no explanation of the controls. The story also starts off slow, 
 but picks up later on.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Kameo has amazing visuals by the bucket. There are lots of high rez textures, and shiny objects. 
 But what will really catch your eye, especially on the first level, is the attention to detail 
 in the background. You can see everything from dragons to huge clouds of smoke in the background, 
 and all of it looks great. Although shes not marketed as a sex symbol, Kameo herself is easy on 
 the eyes and is very well animated.
  
  SOUND
  Kameo features a great orchestral score, and makes you feel like youre part of the game. Nice 
 sound effects, and voice acting, all add to the immersive soundtrack. If you have a 5.1 surround 
 sound system, you can really take advantage of this. But even on normal TV speakers, youll get 
 a great sounding game.
  
  VALUE
  Kameo is a little short for the genre, and most players can beat it in less than 10 hours. However, 
 there are many unlockables and achievements for those willing to play through again. There is a 
 co-op mode that can be played via Xbox Live, but it feels half-baked, and doesnt offer anything 
 new over the single player game.
  
  If you can get past the frustration of being dropped into the first level, youll find a lot to 
 like about this game. It needs a little more in terms of replay, and game length, but overall Kameo 
 has some very funny moments, original characters, and great level design. The production values 
 are very high, and all of this adds up to make a game that is a worthy addition to any adventure 
 fans library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  At first it was a bit slow but i guess most games are cus we have to learn the movements and story 
 line and so forth before the game can pick up. The story was good and the graphics were great..... if 
 u like that whole animated effect. The only thing wrong with this game is that it is way too short. 
 It took me a total of about 8 hours to complete it. If your looking for a good time waster and 
 fantasy game then i would suggest this game. I hope you Enjoy it if u decide to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: augrunt
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  It's a Great Game. The Elemental Warriors are so diverse you can use a different strategy all the 
 time. Just think about the fun you will have using a combination of the Water Elemental with the 
 Fire Elemental. The OIL plus Fire Combo is totally devastating. 
  
  It's extremely easy to pick up, wont take you even 30 minutes to fully grasp the game's controls. 
 You'll have a lot of fun. I can guarantee it. The sound and the graphics are great and theres 
 no decrease in frame rate even during the giant battles you will encounter in the bad lands. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGuy_5
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 21, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a beautifully creative game crafted by Rare, bringers of quality games 
 such as Donkey Kong Country and Perfect Dark (Not Perfect Dark Zero) . While the controls of the 
 game take a bit time getting used to (try 5 min.) the gameplay does not. It is quite simple, although 
 it does boast collectibles, power-ups, and 10 selectable sprite forms. For the most part, it is 
 just somewhat of a button masher as you pound your way through the hordes of trolls in the game. 
 It only really presents a challenge when you attempt to get the "A" rankings, mainly because you 
 must avoid being damaged and try to collect more, and better, bonus multipliers. There are three 
 types of bonus multipliers: carnage, which is your basic kill, brutal, which is a kill that involves 
 deaths along the lines of impalement or death by fire, and frenzy, the best multiplier which you 
 can obtain by either quickly killing foes or just by obtaining warriors focus (while in warriors 
 focus all kills are frenzies) . Now for the graphics, which are IMO quite astounding. Although they 
 are cartoon-ish, these graphics are extremely well done. Furry people are furry, and etc.. The 
 sound is good, but odd because for some reason they all have British accents. So overall I give 
 Kameo: Elements of Power a C-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  its been a long time coming but will it be a long time staying? kameo elements of power has been 
 on the radar for years, but never close enough to ask that kind of question of it. so whats the 
 answer? for some, kameo will be an extensive and impressive adventure. but only for some. an obvious 
 amount of effort has gone into kameo's looks; from the stunning greenery and life that ripples 
 around the game's 2 mall parking lot, to the vast battlefield where thousands of troops scrap it 
 out, to the towering bosses and some of the better, character designs on offer. the graphics are 
 some of the finest i've seen, but in a style that won't be to everyone's taste. it has a decent 
 sense of exploration, some good puzzles but nothing outstanding. its the ideal lenght for an adventure 
 game, with high score replay modes. having memorable orchestral soundtrack with equally outstanding 
 voice acting, its technically impressive and an engaging adventure which doesn't qualify as a 360 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrrr69
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Rare is a tough company to call. During the N64 era they made some truly great games, which received 
 mixed reviews. Their time with Nintendo was absolute joy- they made great games with great multiplayer. 
 Back in the day they were king. 
  Fast forward to 2005, and now they are the laughing stock of the gaming industry. Many games are 
 crappy because they are meant to be crappy, you know, to make a quick buck. But rare was actually 
 trying when they made the awful xbox game Grabbed by the Ghoulies. Not to mention the BIG disappointment 
 that is Perfect Dark Zero (man I wanted more out of that) . That leaves kameo- a game that was meant 
 for the game cube, but then took a darker side once planned for the xbox (it even wound up with 
 a teen rating!) . To my surprise, kameo is, well, awesome. Though not as awesome as banjo- kazoo 
 or conkers bad fur day (legendary rare plat formers of the N64 era) its still a gorgeous and well 
 made game that I honestly didnt expect. 
  Lets start off simple- this game is beautiful. Gorgeous landscapes and lighting, great environments 
 and terrific character models, kameo is one of the greatest looking games to date (and quite possibly 
 the greatest looking plat former ever) . The textures are so detailed you can count the bricks on 
 the wall. I really cant say much more about the graphics. They are just too amazing and breathtaking 
 to describe in words or show in pictures. See this game in motion on a plasma screen T. V. I beg 
 you. I also beg you too add some surround sound to that plasma screen.
  Not only does this game look like heaven, it has a heavenly soundtrack that immerses you in its 
 world. The beautiful soundtracks fit the mood perfectly, as did sudeki (an xbox 1 title) . It calms 
 you when you wander, pumps you up when you fight, and combines these two beats when your doing 
 both (like walking in a cave full of enemies) . Unfortunately, the sound effects are different. 
 They contain cartoon like punches, retarded sounding screams and grunts and some stupid voiceovers. 
 The main voice over is ortho, a wizard who guides you in your journey, and narrarates during important 
 parts of the game. Really, not much is too be said about the sound, except the amazing soundtrack, 
 but thats already been covered. 
  Remember how I said the graphics and sound immerse you? Well, somehow, the control does so as well. 
 The controls are pretty innovative for a plat former. It uses the face buttons (A, X, Y, B) as 
 choices as who to morph as (B, X and Y can be customated to who you would like to morph into, and 
 A morphs you back in to kameo) , and the trigger buttons to attack. Its a bit awkward at first, 
 but eventually it feels like second nature. You can upgrade attacks by collecting fruit power ups. 
 Some of the forms you take on are that of a dragon, a flower and a yeti, to name a few. There are 
 about 10 different forms to take on, and each unique in its own way. The puzzles are simple, but 
 occasionally they can be challenging. You can also ride a horse, and I must say it is the best 
 horse riding controls since Zelda (much better than that awful horse in shadow of the colossus) . 
 The boss battles are neat, though not epics in any way, they have fresh twists that keep them interesting. 
 Fighting enemies is nice, especially since so many come on the screen at once! You havent lived 
 until youve fought 2,000 trolls at a time on horseback. Its one of the most joyful and hectic 
 experiences Ive ever had in gaming. 
  The story, on the other hand, is pretty dull. As Kameo, your set out to stop Kalus, your jealous 
 sister, from taking over the land. Something odd about it is that Kalus kidnaps her own parents 
 (?) who are the king and queen. Its a bit difficult to understand, but once you do understand 
 it, it isnt really anything we havent heard before. An evil troll is awakened and is set to wreak 
 havoc on the mystic land of whatever, blah blah blah, evil troll uprising, blah blah blah, kameo 
 must find the elemental spirits and save her parents, blah blah blah. Nothing that interested me 
 (though it may interest you, depending on your preferences) . 
  This game has some co- op that works well, and plenty of side missions that should keep you entertained 
 and happy with your 50 dollar purchase (or less, depending on if its used or not) . I would recommend 
 this game to all plat forming fans, fans of rare games should pick this up, and action adventure 
 fans should rent it. Though certainly not perfect, kameo is much better than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ufostomper
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  this game was very good after you get into it, when i first started playing it i wasnt sure if 
 i liked it but then i got into, i recommend renting, i beat it in about 13 hours, but it does have 
 online so that might interest you in buying it but not me!!! the story line was just remarkable 
 and the ending was amazing!!! the graphics were pretty good, but not great for it being a 360 game, 
 but all in all this was a very fun game! i havent gotten into the co-op missions yet but i still 
 have it for about 4 more days so i will probably knock them out, the difficulty isnt that hard 
 but if you do get stuck check out a strategy guide on here!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playforpride372
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! It's good, but it could be longer. thats the only reason why this game is not 
 a 10 out of 10. next time Rare, make the game a little longer because they have a really good idea 
 here. they should make a sequel that is longer so that people like me can have fun with this game 
 for at least 25 hours worth of playing. for xbox 360 i recommend Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. i love 
 that game buy it you are missing out a hell of excitement and fun for at least 200 hours. the rest 
 of this review is just junk because i need at least one hundred words on this thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevster34
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Like many games being released today, Kameo pretty much jumps right into the action. Learning by 
 doing has always been a favorite policy of mine. So when the first thing you have to do is storm 
 a castle in a rescue attempt, I was all for it.
  
  Then it slows down, you learn that your sister has sided with trolls and kidnapped members of your 
 family. You are sent to recover "Elemental Warriors" that will help you save your family and lay 
 the smack down on some trolls.
  
  The game then plays out pretty much systematically. You move through the various lands defeating 
 spirits and collecting your Warriors. There are side quests and chances to buy new attacks and 
 (somewhat) level up your Warriors which adds a semi-RPG quality to the game.
  
  What I really like about that game, and what makes is unique, are the Elemental Warriors. Each 
 character represents a skill that you can use to further your ability to complete each mission. 
 Every new Warrior you collect also opens new ways to fight and show those damn trolls what's what. 
 And, let's face it, if I could change into a hulkin', ice-spear chuckin', castle wall climbin' 
 monster I totally would. Its like Pokemon with practicality.
  
  The flip side of the game is that I'm still getting used to the control system. The A, B, X, and 
 Y buttons are reserved for switching quickly between your fairy self and three assigned Warriors, 
 which can be easily and quickly reassigned. This means that the different attacks are made using 
 different combinations of the left and right triggers. This proved to be a difficult adjustment 
 for my and I'm still learning. Sometimes the attack I want doesn't get executed because I hit the 
 wrong combo. But then again, I'm man enough to admit that I have trouble executing multi-button 
 combos, so it might be easier for you than me.
  
  All in all, its a good entry level game for the 360. The graphics really help show off the new 
 system, and the game play is quick to pick up for most casual gamers. Yet, there are still attractive 
 elements for the more hardcore gamers. If your waiting for the bottom line, here it is. Kameo is 
 (if not a must have) a good start to any XBox 360 collection.
  
  Now shut up and go kick some troll! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 25, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of power had a lot of great moments and the switching between characters was a 
 lot of fun. Using such a diverse arsenal of elemental warriors really allowed a much more open 
 gameplay experience as well as a lot more fun. The graphics alone were stunningly beautiful and 
 the rich color detail really brought out the fantasy world that existed in the game with flying 
 colors. The sound however could get repetitive and annoying especially when you die and Kameo calls 
 out "No." Its very annoying. The game was relatively short but the online Co-Op gives the game 
 a good replay value. The creativety of the characters in the game was great and the mission objectives 
 realatively simple. The game can get boring however with the repetitive gameplay which occurs from 
 beathing the same enemies hundreds of times over as well as going to defeat a boss and moving on 
 to beat another simple dungeon. Overall Kameo: Elements of Power is a good platformer to start 
 out with on the 360. However this game is not for some 360 owners especially looking for a good 
 RPG experience and may be dissapointingly short to some gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This was a really good 1st gen game. It had a lot of cool ideas in it that I really enjoyed. I 
 can't think of many games in which you could change your main character into so many others. 
 
  
  The graphics were great, but I found that it was too "hazy" all the time. It was the style, but 
 I didn't really like it. Overall though it was cartoon-like and I think that it hit the mark. Photo-realistic 
 was definitely not the way to go.
  
  Sound was good, but pretty unremarkable.
  
  Gameplay was fun. It was a good adventure game, however when better games came out, I quickly left 
 this one behind. It was a gap-filler.
  
  This game is worth a look, but perhaps from the rental place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Another fun game by Rare. In Kameo Elements of Power you play as a female elf named Kameo. Kameo's 
 older sister has grown jealous of her because her parents gave her powers. So Kameo's sister betrayed 
 them and awakened the Troll king named Thor. The king's army of trolls kidnapped members of Kameo's 
 family and now you must rescue them.
  
  Smash and bash enemies by morphing into 10 different monsters. Play co-op with your friends or 
 go on Xbox Live.
  
  This game has stunning graphics and gigantic levels that are designed beautifully. This game has 
 fun written all over it, you truly just won't stop playing! I recommend this to all fantasy-action 
 lovers. So go get it and start the action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomer2uall
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Another great masterpiece by Rare. This is a really fun game where you play as Kameo, who is a 
 female elf that can morph herself into monsters to help you along your journey to rescue your family. 
 The game is loads of fun and you wont turn it off until you beat it! The story really grows on 
 you. 
  
  Rares creativity on designing the game, levels, people and the environment is stunning. Its puts 
 out really great fun as you smash and bash enemies in your way.
  
  I recommend this game to all fantasy/action lovers who have been waiting for just the right type 
 of game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  In the end Kameo probably isn't one of the best 360 games to date, but it's certainly worth a look.
 
  So Kameo is the first 360 game to be released by Rare along with Perfect Dark Zero. What this 
 game does is take alot of what Rare is good at, things that we all would be familiar with from 
 games like Banjo-Kazooie and tries to add new things into the mix. This sounds good but may well 
 be its undoing.
  
  It's not a bad game at all. The graphics are really impressive, especially during the day in the 
 Enchanted Kingdom. The voice acting. Its just its such a short game and there isnt much to come 
 back to. I beat it under 6 hours and felt cheated. Im glad i just rented it
  
  there where alot of characters to change into but I didnt really like any of them other than chilla 
 and the dragon..... and many like rubble you use for about 10 mins and you dont need him the rest 
 of the game cause you get a character 1000x more powerful annd more useful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8er4life24724
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  its a good game dont get me wrong but that dumb dude if the glasses told u what to do sowhenever 
 u get stuck u get tied into asking 4 help which spoils the fun of finding out 4 urself other than 
 that great graphics and sound. its definately not worth the money i mean this game should b worth 
 about half the amount because the 1 only real thing unique i tthink about this game is its graphics 
 and sound...... and the morphing into monsters sounds like a kiddy game haha but if ur really looking 
 4 a good 1st 360 game i would choose obvilion or call of duty to or G. R. A. W. but hey im not u! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  this game is soooo fun! it's best looking game so far on the xbox 360. the graphics r really good 
 (i mean really good) and it's really colorful 2.
  
  gameplay: well at the beginning they kinda just started it without any backup info. yeah they showed 
 the little movie thing but that didn't really explain what u were doing. u were just hanging off 
 a wall and they expected u 2 figure stuff out. it wuz also really crowded and i couldn't really 
 c anything. but eventually the gameplay gets better. 
  
  graphics: the graphics are really really really good and the landscapes look beautiful! i liked 
 how kameo can chnage into all these different creatures. it's kinda weird that kameo changes into 
 2 all these weird looking things. u would think she would be sumthing pretty, but thats y shes 
 cool. 
  
  sound: the sound is good. like every rare game. thats all i gotta say about that......... lol!
 
  
  overall, the game is a really good adventure game. i dont think everyone would enjoy it tho. its 
 kinda cartoony and colorful so if ur like 20 or sumthing i dont think u would find it interesting. 
 but its good for the younger ppl. (and 4 achievements) so first rent, but if u like it buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomorell
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  So Kameo is the first 360 game to be released by Rare along with Perfect Dark Zero. What this game 
 does is take alot of what Rare is good at, things that we all would be familiar with from games 
 like Banjo-Kazooie and tries to add new things into the mix. This sounds good but may well be its 
 undoing.
  
  It's not a bad game at all. The graphics are really impressive, especially during the day in the 
 Enchanted Kingdom. The voice acting by everyone besides Kameo is decent enough though nothing compared 
 to dialogue from say Tomb Raider Legend. What's immediately striking in this game is the control 
 scheme. It's not something anyone would be used to as the face buttons are used to transform rather 
 than attack or jump. It's just a little awkward is all. You soon get used to it, but I thought 
 it was probably worth a mention.
  
  Alot of the time you have to switch between 'warriors' to take advantage of their powers to take 
 out certain objects or enemies in the way, meaning you often really have to think to progress. 
 Failing that you can always talk to that very annoying old man in the Watnot book. Now this is 
 where the game probably fails... it's bloody frustrating at times. Often it'll throw you into an 
 arena with about 10 standard trolls, 5 plant trolls, 2 fire trolls and a whole load of mini trolls 
 and expect you to take them all out. It's kind of reminiscent of God of War in the way you're often 
 totally overwhelmed. In God of War however, that was cool. In this it detracts from the gameplay 
 and will probably make it harder for kids to play.
  
  All in all kameo is a pretty good game. It isnt that short and it isnt that long. It's certainly 
 a good lookin game but should probably be rented first on the gameplay front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbob614
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I thought that Kameo the elements of power was overall a great game the graphics and atmosphere 
 in the game was awesome although it was a short and easy game there were several extras to get 
 after clocking the game. 
  
  Kameo is about a fairy type girl whos sister has betrayed her, captured herfamily and released 
 an ancient troll king named thorn Kameo must harnas the power of 10 elemental warriors to defeat 
 thorn and save her family
  
  I was disappointed in the games multiplayer it didn't make good use of the split screen but thats 
 just for co-op mode (not something i play much)
  
  But overall for a fun entertaining pretty awsome game kameos the way to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Kameo is an interesting game with a little twist on the action platformer subject.
  
  With elements of super monkey ball, Indiana jones game (kinda) and even the legend of zelda series. 
 I thinik this was a fun project for microsoft, when they made it im sure they werent trying to 
 make anything entirely new, just make a game that is outstanding in an already growing genre.
 
  
  The graphics in kameo reli show what the 360 can do in terms of land detail and backgrounds. Charcters 
 and monsters look fantastic as well as really mazing ice and even water effects. Leaving a different 
 kind of footprint depending on what kind of moster you are is a quirky touch that adds sould to 
 the game.
  
  I think this game is allot of fun to play and allthough the story line is a bit on the bland side 
 you still want to play the game just for the sake of it. Each of the monsters own abilities are 
 genius and are cool to try out for youself. the large segment known as the badland is never short 
 of eneimes and is fun to just plough threw the wasters on the back of horse.
  
  This game has aloot of heart, a look of extra tweaks and is allot fo fun. period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great one for the family. This game is totally oringinal in ever aspect. You start 
 of as a girl who can morph into a bunch of other creatures so you can save your family and other 
 stuff.
  
  The Camera however in this game is kinda outta control and sometimes will drive you up a wall.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful in this games there are lots of colors and many characters (up to over 
 200) can be on 1 screen at a time.
  
  Sounds, in this game are pretty bland, but when you do your magic spells and stuff the awesome 
 noice you make is pretty propelling in this game. No doubt if you see this game to pick it up. Most 
 stores you can pick this game up for about 49.99 or even used for about 45.89.
  
  Strenghts:
  -Microsoft takes a good attempt at a game
  -Animations are incredible
  -The ability 
 to have 200+ people on screen
  -Morphing into other characthers
  
  Weaknesses:
  -Very easy missions
  -Villians are boring
  -We only get 5 people to morph into!!
  
  Questions:
 
  "Will the online-co op save this game and make it worth the wholesome cash" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is one of two titles from Rare available at the launch of the Xbox 360. 
 This title is aimed at being the first platform action/adventure games available on the new console. 
 Despite its first appearance as being light and comical, which it is, its also packed with some 
 fun action and puzzles as well. 
  
  The first thing I would like to mention about this game is the score. Should you have the ability 
 to play this game on a nice 5.1 system with an optical cable, youre going to be in for a treat. 
 The developers definitely spent some money on the music in this game as theyve hired a decent 
 composer to write the music AND the London symphony to play it. Despite what some industry insiders 
 might say, you can always tell if the orchestra is fake and it just sounds BETTER played on real 
 instruments. 
  
  The art style is another showpiece for this game as the world of Kameo looks as good as it sounds. 
 The world is very grand with towering castles surrounded by active volcanoes, icy mountain ranges 
 with near transparent pathways of ice chutes, thick forested swamps and more. The grand design 
 of the levels meshes well with great lighting and particle effects and nice high detail textures 
 on the land and the models. Combine all of this with great animation and convincing motion blur 
 and Rare has the presentation for this game solidly locked down.
  
  The main purpose for Kameo in this game is to save her family and the kingdom from her traitorous 
 sister and the newly re-awakened troll king Thorn. On her quest she will awaken her powers to morph 
 into ten different elemental forms. Each of these forms is held captive in a special realm by Shadow 
 Trolls that you will track across the world. Once youve freed the spirit from the shadow troll 
 you will be able to use that characters abilities whenever you like. The game uses two modes for 
 character selection you can preset three forms for quick change or use a radial wheel menu to 
 select from the larger pool. Either mode works very well, though it is useful to keep some of the 
 more useful forms on hand for quick recall. 
  
  The game world itself is hub based. Throughout each of the major acts in the story you will be 
 put down onto the large world map that connects to each of the major levels in the game. At key 
 points there are also large battles here for you to take part in as well in order to bolster the 
 defense of the Enchanted Kingdom from a troll invasion. In this area you will also find a lot of 
 the games secrets in houses or coves tucked away from the heavily traveled routes. A lot of these 
 secrets come in the form of magic fruit or money, but others are also hidden games that you can 
 play as well. (In order to earn more fruit and money) 
  
  The magic fruit scattered across the land can be used to upgrade the elemental forms that you possess. 
 There are usually several advanced skills and attacks available for upgrade as well as health and 
 magic upgrades as well. These upgrades are usually very useful, and in some cases necessary, 
 so the player would do well to try and find as many of these hidden pieces of fruit as possible. 
 While on the lookout for more fruit, you should also look for special crystal eyes carefully hidden 
 in the world as well. These eyes bestow a bonus for equipping them, but the extra power also comes 
 at a price
  The action elements and the platforming elements all balance themselves fairly well in this game. 
 There isnt a point where it feels like the game is more of an action game or vice versa. The developers 
 do a good job of setting up some good brawls throughout the levels to help break up the instances 
 of puzzle solving or jumping. The jumping puzzles, thankfully, arent too frustrating in this game 
 either.
  
  In each of the unique areas in the world there is also a corresponding boss character to go along 
 with it. These boss fights are usually quite fun, and very few are frustrating. The bosses are 
 all over-the-top and animated really well. If anything, the game leaves you wanting a few more 
 of them which is one of the problems with this game.
  
  Kameo is a fairly short game to play through. It doesnt take very long to play through all of 
 the main quest locations, and the extra secrets strewn about the world arent difficult to round 
 up afterwards. In general, this game will provide you with a solid 10 hours or so of game play 
 initially. The main challenge in this game will come afterwards in the attempts to achieve a high 
 rating on the action levels in the game. 
  
  Surprisingly the game does also offer a multiplayer co-op option to go with it. At any time you 
 can connect to xbox live and play through the single player campaign with help. This mode isnt 
 altogether compelling, but it is somewhat fun to play with another person. Some of the elemental 
 powers from different characters interact with each other in fun and destructive ways 
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is another fun and well presented title in Rares library. The game is 
 a little short, but its packed full of high quality game play. Should you find yourself wanting 
 to play a really fun and innovative action/platform game than you should feel comfortable picking 
 up Kameo to fill that desire.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dp909
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Kameo seems like a juiced up version of the original super mario brothers taken to the 21st century 
 of gaming. You jump around onto platforms, perform some cool looking attacks and destroy a bunch 
 of mushroom looking creatures.
  
  Not to much excitment goes on during the game and it just can't seem to hold your attention for 
 to long. The gameplay style has much to blame for this. 
  
  The one thing kameo has going for it is the graphics, but even they could be a little better for 
 the 360. If your a die-hard fantasy fan its worth checking out but anyway else could definatly 
 take a pass at this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewierules91
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  IT is easy, has a terrible multiplayer, and is NOT COOP. that is Bull. IT is a cheap stupid imitation. 
 IT took me two days to beat the game, and I was bored literally the whole time. It is ok, but it 
 is in no way shape or form a buy game. DONT BUY THIS FREAKIN GAME. IT would be more of a waste 
 than giving a homeless guy 60$ when you know he is going to spend it on booze. I would rather you 
 give $100 to a bum than buy this game. It was boring, stupid, and was excruciating and tiring. 
 I want to kill someone. For god sakes I gave full auto a 10 and I hate racing games. I give decent 
 reviews to pretty much any game, but this one made me want to hang myself. moreso, it made me want 
 to hang the guy who made this terrible game. It is ease as hell, multiplayer sucks, the game is 
 over in three minutes, and THE BEST THING ABOUT IT IS THAT IT DOUBLES AS A COSTER TO SET MY DRINK 
 ON. ANYONE SEAKING A GAME AND NOT AN EXPENSIVE COSTER SHOULD AVOID THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleO7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  It's really a pretty good game. The graphics are beautiful, the sound is nice, the story isn't 
 bad. But it just feels like there's nothing new in it. Everything you do is repeated over and over 
 and over. It seems like once you get a character you use him for the same exact puzzles every time. 
 It's enough to keep you happy for awhile but once you beat it there's really no point in playing 
 it again. And it is way too short. The multiplayer adds some more gameplay into the mix but with 
 GRAW out ther offering really great multiplayer it just dosen't quite cut it. It 's a pretty solid 
 game for the 360, but it's not the blockbuster Microsoft wanted it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Kameo was dissapointing for me. While I appreciate what Rare was trying to do I just never got 
 into it. To the defense of Kameo, I have not liked platformers in a long time. I have grown tired 
 of "jumping, finding they lever for the door only to jump and climb some more just so I can GET 
 TO THE DANG BAD GUYS!!!!". 
  
  The graphics and music are very good. I even thought the controles were well done. I like the idea 
 of changing into different critters with a variety of powers. Why though, for the love of all that 
 is holy do we have to keep playing as a girl. Is there no sanctity in being a tough guy any more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  this game sweet and good i liked this game this game was the first game i had try and played in 
 the xbox 360 becuse its good but short that what i didnt liked in the game but it worth playing 
 but if u didnt buy it yet go and rent this game becuse its short i will not take yor time you will 
 fish this game at least in 12 to 11 hours but its realy worth your try go now and rent it think 
 u 4 reading my review
  
  : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) : ) ;) ::
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalas05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  the good: fairly interesting storyline, great graphics, the gameplay never really gets old because 
 there is such a variety of different creatures at your service
  
  the bad: very short (from 10 to 12 hours, depending on whether you want to find all the fruit and 
 elixirs or not) , pretty easy game, you probably wont find too many parts you get stuck at.... and 
 if you do get stuck the wotnot just tells you exactly what to do within 5 minutes. it can also 
 seem a little childish at times..... but not too much
  
  conclusion: whether you're throwing trolls hundreds of feet with chilla, knocking them out of the 
 way with 40 below's wrecking ball, eating them with snare, rolling right through them with major 
 ruin, or simply exploding everything in sight with thermite, this game will stay entertaining to 
 the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is the adventure game that I have been waiting for quite some time. The 
 game itself is pretty easy and most people shouldn't have that much of a problem with it. Game 
 takes a little getting used to, but after that it's pretty much straight forward. 
  
  Gameplay: Very fun to play, I don't think I've enjoyed an adventure game for quite some time.
 
  
  Graphics: Very solid, although some areas could have used some work. Overall good.
  
  Sound: Great sound and dialogue. Won't dissapoint.
  
  Value: Pretty short game, but the online 
 co-op makes up for it. This title should be bought by gamers that love Adventure games, though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is Rare's first chance on the Xbox 360 to persuade fans that they've still got it in them 
 to make some of the best adventure games around and to prove they can role out games as addictive 
 and fun as they used too...
  
  I can tell you this; its a good start. Kameo starts off straight into a training level, it can 
 be a bit off putting at first although if you work out what to do you'll get stuck right in! 
 
  
  The basic structure of the game is about you (kameo) collecting elemental warriors and morphing 
 into them to solve puzzles and complete quests. Its not exactly a Zelda killer but its an addictive 
 game. It can be a little too easy at times with the 'wot not' there to help you at all times. - 
 And believe me it can get annoying when it keeps reminding you its there when your not stuck at 
 all! Apart from the book annoying you every now and then the sound is pretty good, the orchestras 
 tunes add nicely to the game and make tense moments even worse for you!
  
  The visuals of the game are simply mind blowing, they stand far in front of any of the last generation 
 graphics and succeed most PC game graphics, especially if your playing on a HDTV.
  
  The controls work well on the 360 although the elemental warriors selecting process can be a bit 
 annoying when you have to keep changing them around from the three buttons your given the option 
 of.
  
  Overall Its not the hardest of games and not very long - its good enough though for a fun and sometimes 
 tense experience, at least you've got the co-op mode to play after you have completed the game- 
 worth a good look! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Kameo is the sleeper hit for the 360. The graphics and the gameplay are absolutely delightful. 
 Like a lot of gamers, I was planning to skip this game and the lack luster commercials for it were 
 part of the reason. The graphics in the TV ads look washed out. They in no way capture the stunning 
 impression even the opening menu leaves you with, let alone the colossal ending bosses! Understand 
 something right now; if you enjoyed Star Fox adventures you are going to love Kameo. It casts you 
 into the role of fairy-like shape-shifter exploring a Lord of the Ring-ish landscape that is gripped 
 in an epic war. The monsters have various skills that can be trained by collecting a certain rare 
 fruit. The control scheme is clever and situational like Star Fox adventures. Rare got to make 
 this game as a pet project of Microsoft, and it shows. There is a ton of eye candy and a lot of 
 dream-like game features that are very well refined and play tested. The whole experience is just 
 silky. Being able to travel and interact with environment in so many diverse ways maybe an all 
 time first. Its like having ten main characters rolled into one. One of them is an instant classic 
 at least. Who doesnt want to play the hero -as a pile of living rocks?
  
  My gripes are the same as most reviewers. Its a bit too short. But I think its closer to 15-20 
 hours to beat if you really goof around with all your monstrous powers. Its really so colorful 
 and exciting you would be left wanting more even it took 40 hours to beat.
  
  Bottom line: Disney World eat your heart out atmosphere, meets Nintendo smooth gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Since this was supposed to be the big adventure game for the 360 launch, if you are an adventure 
 fan, Kameo was your only option. And while I really wanted to like this game, I just couldn't. 
 Graphically, the game is pretty. I think it could have been better, but still good looking. The 
 problem I have with Kameo is it 's gameplay and story simply isn't much fun. Changing into different 
 creatures should be cool, but it really isn't. The story is childish and ordinary, and never grabbed 
 my attention. Also, some of the creatures are difficult to control. On the bright side, the graphics 
 are as I said good, the horseback riding rocks, and the music is fairly good. But again, the main 
 problem is it just isn't that much fun to play. It could have helped if Kameo herself had some 
 powers, but she is a weakling. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Well the first actual original console game (Conker Live and Reloaded was just a fancy port) to 
 come out of Rare since it was sold to Nintendo. Kameo has been finally released after 3 system 
 delays and about 4 years in the making. However you would expect more from a game that has been 
 in creation since the times of the gamecubes release date. The graphics really show what people 
 can expect from a 360 and the gameplay, like all Rare games, is solid and does a good job being 
 entertaining. However the game is very easy and short and could have been made longer in the years 
 of delaying. Another thing i was hoping to see more of was the games horse back parts, and scenes 
 where you could just go around and totally own all the enemys with your monsters, sadly there are 
 very few of those parts. While Kameo is a good game it needs some help in it's length and difficulty, 
 some better puzzles would be nice too and is worth renting at least. Kameo can improve on these 
 errors if say, a sequel were to come along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I've recently beat this game and it is quite a bit of fun and for $50 it's good. ZIf you like platformers 
 and adventure games then this is great... Also if you love Rareware like I do then you'll probably 
 want this too. It takes about 10 hours to beat the story so it's not very lengthy. It can be a 
 very easy game at times and sometimes just plain drive you crazy. There aren't any glitches in 
 it or anything I've seen so it's made pretty well. There is also co-op so you can enjoy some of 
 the levels with a friend if you want. The graphics are very clean and the world of Kameo is very 
 colorfull and just awesome to go through. I would call this game a must play for any adventure 
 lovers. Even though it looks kinda kiddy it's not like that. I give it a 9.3 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  For a long time I hadnt enjoyed many action/adventure titles. Ive played quite 
 a bit on all 3 previous generation platforms, and only a few gave me the experience and feel of 
 epic. Along comes Rare, a company from London whos potential exploded worldwide 
 in Super Nintendos prime years. They have finally returned, after many years of hibernation 
 and release 2 very good launch titles for Xbox 360. Kameo does not hold on the action, as right 
 from the start it throws you into battle. With the simple navigation system, you never feel lost, 
 but never forced to move to the next destination right away. The world is massive and there is 
 a lot to explore, many secrets and treasures hide in the overworld. You, as Kameo, rescue and absorb 
 10 individual characters, each with their own special abilities. The special attributes are necessary 
 to move forward in the games story, so there isnt an option of rescuing each character. 
 For example, you will free Chilia, a snow-gorillia like creatures that can climb frozen walls and 
 throw icicles, or Major Ruin who rolls up into a potato bug like form and can jump off ramps to 
 reach difficult heights. These creatures can upgrade their abilities by finding pear-like fruits. 
 The boss battles are excellent as they involve that you use a specific ability from the absorbed 
 creatures. The battles are smart and involve puzzle solving, but not too difficult for the casual 
 gamer to figure out. The game has tons of puzzles throughout the world, the mechanics can somewhat 
 be compared to the Zelda series. I was a little disappointed by the size of some areas, as they 
 were too small in comparison to others. Also, the game can be beaten in less than 10 hours and 
 there is hardly any incentive to go through more than once unless you want to find all the treasures. 
 However, without a % complete figure its hard to truly know if you completed 
 the game. Its extremely fun the whole way through, but youre left wanting more 
 when its done. 8.5/10
  
  Graphics:
  Absolutely stunning, one of the best looking Xbox 360 launch titles. The graphics are practically 
 on par with films like Toy Story or Monster Inc, color and details roam throughout the magical 
 landscapes. There are some textures that are lower resolution, such as the grass. However, 
 overall the game is a joy to watch or play. The water, waterfall, glacier and even un-inviting 
 levels look incredibleIts so rich with bright colors and detail, as you will truly 
 feel youre living in a fairytale. 9.5/10
  
  
  Controls: 
  The controls overall are very tight. The button mapping works well, as the combos and special 
 move are easy to perform. Also, its easy to access or map the creatures to the face buttons, 
 by simply holding down and scrolling through a wheel cycle. At times the camera can be awkward, 
 but it hardly ruins in the experience as the right analog can adjust the camera freely. The trigger 
 buttons are used for melee attacks and special abilities, and the left analog is used for movement. 
 9/10
  
  Audio:
  The original soundtrack is great. It makes the game feel truly epic, as it grabs and pulls you 
 into this fantasy world. Mainly orchestra/symphony audio tracks build up the massive battles and 
 keep the action intense. The sound effects are very good, as the different surfaces and creatures 
 have their own individual sounds. 9/10
  
  Replay:
  Not much here. Once the game is completed, you can freely walk among the world and finish upgrading 
 the creatures or finding treasures hidden. There is a split screen (sorry, no Xbox Live) co-op 
 mode which could add some more gameplay, but when compared to PDZs co-op mode its 
 hardly anything special. And because the game is very short, its difficult to recommend 
 this as a purchase. 5/10
  
  
  Overall:
  The game is an incredible experience; it offers a lot of different gameplay mechanics and a variety 
 of puzzles to solve. I enjoyed the game throughout, the action is non-stop and the landscapes are 
 beautiful. However, it left me wanting much more at the endheres a hope to a longer 
 sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game bad, I really wanted, believe me.
  One thing spoiled everything, right at the begining: this is not a RPG, like many sites said, not 
 even an "Fantasy Action Adventure", it's a platform game, much like "Pitfall: The Lost Expedition" 
 for the XB, not that I don't like platformers, but I was mislead.
  The good points: art - very good, big bright sprites, cool & fluid movements, enough charecter 
 diversification, the Rare's "elements thing" is very well achieved - for instance, the water movement 
 and looks is briliant.
  its sound - a good balance between epic and calm soundtrack, that actually works - for instance, 
 the "Shadow Troll" soundtrack part really gets one into the game, very imersive.
  The bad points: gameplay - plain, not free-roaming, nor strictly scripted (wich can aslo be a good 
 thing, I don't go into that "let's do just this thing now!") , but this is neither, and flops.
 
  value - little sense of reward/achievement (a bit saved by the 600 points one will get when going 
 through the game) . It has some hi-scores achievements but it's somewhat a lunacy to do 30000000 
 os so in the water temple... (!) , so many, or most, will skip this and just do the 600 (why DEV's 
 don't take a look at the marvelous achivement concept made by Infinity Ward/Activision in CoD2? 
 those 1000 tasted real good, it gave me a real sense of "beating the game") .
  So a little bit above average game, mainly for its technical standards, but lacks a sense of empathy 
 with the gamer. I'm concerned with Rare, PDZ is worse than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsluss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of fun to be had in Kameo. One thing can be said for sure about the line up of 360 
 launch titles, and tha tis for the first run of games for a new console, they have all been very 
 good. Kameo is one of those titles and I recommend it for anyone who has a 360. 
  
  The gameplay mechanics are fun and original and add a distinctive new playstyle for gamers to explore. 
 There are lots of fun options and ways to play the game as well. This game also offers some readily 
 available GameScore points for those looking for a nice boost in their points. 
  
  If you're looking for something that's just fun to play, pick this game up and give it a shot. 
 It is a bit on the short side however for those interested in just the single player game, you 
 can take care of it all in 10-15 hours for the most part. The rest of the game is multiplayer and 
 challenges, and the challenges are insanely hard (at least I felt that they were) . In order to 
 beat the challenge staged with the best score for unlocking the items from it, you pretty much 
 have to play it 100% perfectly (at least it feels that way) , so this tends to a feeling of aggrevation 
 more than challenge at times.
  
  Rare has promised some new content for this game as well, so be on the lookout for that soon.
 
  
  I would recommend renting this game first to see how well you like it, then make a purchasing decision 
 from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun for about 2 hours. Then you start realizing that its not made for an older crowd.......... because 
 you aren't into that sort of thing anymore. Thats not a bad thing with respect to the game, it 
 just means I am getting older and so is my taste. Also, games like these, while visually stunning 
 and beautiful to look at, can get stale quick. Don't get me wrong, RARE really did a number on 
 this game and came out with something wildly beautiful and fun but its clearly aimed at a younger 
 demographic with a taste for Disney. Its a smart move because it attracts children and parents 
 into a moving and interactive CHILDRENS BOOK. Thats exactly how it plays and looks. Its a beautiful 
 masterpiece of a Platform game for people who like this genre. RARE got it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  While this game may have an irritating opening level (it doesn't tell you what to do) , this game 
 has some serious potential. It features some serious action in the later levels that literaly pack 
 thousands of enemies on screen without out so much a a minor chug. While there isn't any online 
 play as of yet... Rare says there will soon be online co-op!!! The graphics are definetly worth 
 looking at and should be well admired. The gameplay itself is awsome and fluent. Action goes by 
 with ease and you are always fluently fighting opponents without to much delay of dying and going 
 through long load times (the load times are pretty short) . But! however, there is one boss-which 
 i wont ruin-that is a definent challenge in a certain point in the game... so expect alot of challenge 
 at one point in the game... but after words you get back to the cool make-your-own-combos type 
 of system because you can litterally string together combos by switching wariors at the right times!!! 
 in short, if you just bought a 360 and your looking for some quality gaming that you wont beat 
 in a few hours-*cough* PDZ *cough*-this is the game to get. Plus, when you beat the game, you can 
 go to the Magic Mirror and replay levels for points and unlock a truck-load of unlockables, including 
 new outfits and cheat codes which i've yet to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riotpirate90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a master piece if you love graphics and these dont stop impressing you. The lush landscape 
 allows you to wander around with out getting bored. The game play on the otherhand os so repetative 
 that you will be walking through the later sections wishing for more platforming abilitys so you 
 didnt have to use the same powers all the time. The creatures through out the game are wonderfuly 
 displayed and all your tranformations are beutiful to look at but mostly a drag to use. The worst 
 of all being Deep Blue has a whole temple devoted to him. He almost controls better on the ground 
 then underwater and he even has more exciting abilities on the ground. This however is the worst 
 the others are usefull most of the game (exept Rubble) and you will pull them out to kill a enemy 
 uniquly since each creature has its own powers that effect how you play. Ash with Fire, Chilla 
 with spears and the ability to trow trolls as well, Flex who is by far the most inovative, and 
 Tumble Weed the Boxer. these all are fun to use and are needed through out the game. Your normal 
 body can fly but not over any hole bigger then like 15 feet with out dieing. Lastly the bosses 
 are repetivive and to win all you have to do is find their weakness and repeat those attacks. Often 
 causeing some enemys to be tougher then the bosses. Its a good game but dont expect much more then 
 over a day or two of gaming unless you want to get everything which is a wast of time and effort. 
 Still a good buy since you never get tired of killing trolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very interesting. It grabs you from several angles and keeps on adding more every 
 minute. The major Con to this game is the shortness of the game, but it overshadowed by the gameplay 
 and the game in itself. I personally think that this game was one of the best games to own for 
 all the systems today and of the past. I would advise anybody who buys a XBOX 360 (The Best sytem) 
 to buy this game. I think everyone should own this software. Playing as the Dragon gives you a 
 feel of morping all the time. I think its a mixture of Zelda meets Harry Potter (or whatever allows 
 you to morph) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power for the 360 once again shows off Rare's creative abilities. This game 
 will both impress and disappoint at the same time.
  
  You play as Kameo. Her family has blessed her with the ability to transform into various elemental 
 warriors, but of course, there's a bit of sibling rivalry. Her sister grows jealous of Kameo, and 
 releases the Troll King, Thorn, to help overthrow her family so she can be all powerful herself. 
 Kameo attempts to stop her, but fails and loses all of her elemental warriors. Her family in peril, 
 Kameo sets out to find her missing elemental warriors and save her family.
  
  As soon as you turn on the game, you'll notice that the graphics are absolutely stunning. Never 
 before has one of Rare's cartoon worlds come to life in such vibrant colors as Kameo. The characters 
 are slick and look as if they are out of a Pixar film. Each one has a significant amount of detail, 
 in which the game will leave you in aw. The envirnments look so good, that it's hard to pay attention 
 to the objective. Every last detail in the scenery is gorgous and makes sense for where it is. 
 At times, you'll just stop what your doing in the game to look at how well the envirnments are. 
 Reflections, water, explosions, wind, and all other effects are truely taken over the top in Kameo, 
 and look nothing short of amazing.
  
  Although the graphics in Kameo in fantastic, I cannot say the same for the gameplay. The control 
 scheme is incredibly aquard. Controls seem more meant for a FPS game rather than a platformer. 
 Once you manage to get them down, you'll run through the worlds finding your missing elemental 
 warriors. When you find one, you'll have to use it from then on out for different objectives. You'll 
 use each one of your warriors to get through every stage, some more than others. This mostly consists 
 of activating statues, turning switches, and killing bad guys. This wouldn't be much of a problem 
 if the levels had a better design. A lot of areas require a decent amount of precision, which can 
 cause frustration. There are even those areas in which getting from one side of the cliff from 
 another with a certain beast, can be barely done. The boss battles are large scale, and are a challenge. 
 However, defeating some of these guys sometimes gets ridiculous. Objectives for killing them can 
 be slow, or don't seem to make sense at all. Overall, to play this game, you need a lot of patience.
 
  
  Sound is incredible, and almost makes you feel as if you're there. The voice acting is clear, and 
 very well done. Various personalities will present themselves perfectly, and bring the story to 
 life. Effects such as water, fire, and others have never sounded so clear before in a game. Different 
 surfaces will create different sound as well. All of which occur on time, and where they should 
 be.
  
  There is a multiplayer mode in Kameo, however the game isn't designed very well for two players. 
 You'll constantly be crowding eachother off to the side, or trying to get up the same wall at the 
 same time. A seperate player does help to make boss battles more interesting, but the multiplayer 
 doesn't work very well for Kameo.
  
  If you don't mind the aquard controls and level design, you'll come back to Kameo. The beauty of 
 the game and story will keep you coming back well after the game is complete.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power brings you into a cartoon world unlike any other game available. It brings 
 together story telling, graphics, and sound together in a perfect mix, however, the experience 
 would have been better without the aquard controls and level design. If you can get passed the 
 minor faults in Kameo, you'll definately find something to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abid9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun, it is not appreciated much which is shame! It is a bit short and easy but 
 is so fun! This game is about How Kameo must save her Kingdom, and destroy Thorn. 
  
  Gameplay-Transforming into 10 warriors, which are all unique and all fun to play! Also nice humor, 
 good all Rare!
  Sound- Very beautiful, all fit each area, nice voice actors too!
  Graphics- Amazing one of the best on the 360!
  Value- This game is definitley worth playing a 
 little short but, you can get all A ranks, and co-op!
  Tilt- If you like an adventure game and have a 360 this game is for you! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  It's one of it's kind on xbox 360 right now. There's no other game like it. It looks good, it plays 
 good (for the most part) and the story is not too bad (until you get to the end) .
  
  The characters are all pretty fun to control, with the exception of one character, which pretty 
 much sucks: Deep Blue. Clearly Rare made a mistake with those controls.
  Graphics are nice, especially seeing huge battles between trolls and humans.
  Gameplay is for 
 the most part pretty decent.
  Sound is good. 
  Some level design can be frustrating, but for the most part it's well done.
  So is it worth buying? 
 Well, i don't think so. First, the game is quite short, less than 10 hrs. Second, there's not much 
 reason to play through it again, unless you're addicted to achievement points (and who isn't) . 
 Finally, the game just doesn't seem all that immersive. The story is a bit weak too, nothing terrible 
 or anything, just not all that interesting. The method of progressing the plot is also not all 
 that enjoyable.
  It is, however, worth renting, without a doubt. I've been quite critical here, but I really enjoyed 
 this game. It's a perfect rental. It just doesn't have the conetent or replayability to warrant 
 buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrf12345
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most creative game that I have seen come out for the 360. The demo though didn't 
 give this game the justice that it deserved. Probably not one of the hardest games that I own, 
 but one of the most interesting and fun games I mean come on who doesn't love grabbing a troll 
 by the head and bashing other trolls with him... honestly. Multipllayer was lacking though it was 
 originally supposed to be an online multiplayer, but was dropped for just a split scree. There 
 are rumors though of a patch for online multiplayer, but with all the other projects from Rare 
 (like Halo 3 hopefully) I am not sure they have time. Great game, lacking in difficultiy and multiplayer 
 though. A must have for RPG fans. Oh one last thing the graphics were a little odd with a little 
 too much cartoony for a console with so much power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is one of the greatest platformers ever built... that no one seems to be buying. I'll be honest 
 I was turned off by the seemingly adolescent presentation of this game prior to it's release and 
 the only reason I played it was because it came for free with my free Mountain Dew Xbox 360. Give 
 Kameo a chance. This game is truly a pleasure to play. To give you a good idea of the way this 
 game plays, I would consider it a hybrid of a platformer (Mario Brothers 64, Vexx, Ratchet and 
 Clank) and an RPG similar to that of Zelda. Kameo is puzzle intensive though some of these puzzles 
 can be quite easy if you leave the default hint system on. Turn this hint system off, and you have 
 an incredible game that surprises you, charms you, gives you the urge to explore, unlock items, 
 collect items, explore beautiful environments, and defeat some of the most innovative and colorful 
 bosses to ever grace a console platformer. Critics say this game is short at 14-16 hours however, 
 if you turn the default hint system off, this will easily translate to 20-25 hours of the greatest 
 gameplay you can experience in a platformer. Kameo can turn into different and wonderfully animated 
 creatures, each of which has it's own individual powers which can be used to solve puzzles or defeat 
 bosses. This is the key element of gameplay and it never gets tiring. This title should be selling 
 quite more than it has.
  
  Pros: Absolutely, without a doubt, breathtaking graphics. From beautifully rendered kingdoms, to 
 breathtaking waterfall and particle effects, subtle touches and particle effects, this game is 
 probably the most beautiful game to ever grace the screen in front of any gamer on any platform 
 in the history of gaming. Furthermore, the ambient sound brings the extremely beautiful and breathtaking 
 scenery to the next level of immersion, into a fantasy world in which you will immediately become 
 involved. The gameplay is quite entertaining and solving each areas puzzles along with figuring 
 out how to best dispense of an enemy or boss will leave you highly entertained and begging for 
 more. 
  
  Cons: The game is a little short and leaves you wanting much, much more, mostly due to the hint 
 system being turned on as default. Why Rare? Why? 
  
  Conclusion: Give this game a try. If you are weary of plopping down the $50 dollars, rent it for 
 a week... and get ready for a quite wholesome and memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_DurdenQI
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Youve just brought your brand new Xbox 360, and after a few levels of Hexic it starts to rub. You 
 peruse the various titles on the shelves and see a curious little box looking up at you with its 
 little oh I cant be bothered....
  
  All in all for those of you with a hunger for tales of old, with goblins, castles, dragons and 
 a transforming fairy, you cant go wrong with Kameo. The basic idea is after a barrage of family 
 troubles (namely an evil underacheiving sister, tut tut) and a helpful tutorial level, you lose 
 you elemental powers which are the basis for Kameos unique gameplay, and youll have to get all 
 nine back before you can tackle your sis'.
  
  The first thing which will strike you is the graphics, this game is truly deserving of the title 
 'next gen'. The amount of enemies on screen at any one given moment is sheer amazing yet at times 
 can be somewhat overpowering, however when faced with 50 of your soldiers against 50 Trolls, you 
 get a real sense of insignificance. You feel like you make no real impact on the battle (well, 
 until you unlock some of the games more brutish warriors) , now this may not sound like a good idea, 
 no war has ever been won by one man. Thanks to the 360s new bump mapping technique, flat surfaces 
 will look raised and textured, and each character you encounter will have personality and definition. 
 All these wonderful effects merely immerse you deeper into the games entirely free roaming world. 
 
  
  Whilst the map is not massive, because of the brilliant AI of the different village inhabitants 
 dotted around the it, the sense of community will eleminate the need for a boundless landscape. 
 However there are enough secret videos and alternate costumes to justify a little exploring through 
 one of the games abandoned huts you will find on your travels, or one of those caves you passed 
 a while back and its touches like this which keeps the feeling of freedom alive. While there are 
 no side missions as such, there are various tasks such as saving villagers which will demand different 
 skills yet harbour their own bountiful rewards. Another point to note is how so obstacles will 
 be impossible to overcome at the beginning of the game, but as you unlock new warriors, you will 
 find one of them after a bit of crafty thinking will provide the solution.
  
  Where Kameo falls short however, and where many games do fall short lately, is length. While there 
 are a few tasks which will require a little more advernturing after the end credits roll, there 
 is nothing to really get your teeth into, no epic quest which will echo throughout the ages, but 
 rather a fun Sunday afternoon. Although you may feel the need for that second or third playthrough, 
 you could slash your way through the main plot line in 5 hours or so, pitifully short.
  
  However... Kameo has that certain something, a certain finesse which is unexplainable, yet instantly 
 noticable from the moment you first start the game. It draws back to what makes games fun, distancing 
 itself from modern adventures where your companions are some macho commandos and a fully loaded 
 AK47, but identifies with the more immersive titles making it more aliken to the tales of Link 
 and Banjo, a rare occurance to see in the games of today. Its has so many ambitous and unique ideas, 
 and pulls them all off superbly. Kameo is a gem in an otherwise disappointing lineup of launch 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is possibly the most interesting 360 game available for the console's launch, and it certainly 
 stands out from the crowd. However, is it a truly essential purchase or just something to play 
 through once you've completed PDZ and Call of Duty?
  
  To be honest, it's neither. To call Kameo an 'essential' purchase would be unrealistic; 50 for 
 little more than 10 hours of gameplay doesn't represent the best value for money. Nevertheless, 
 thanks to several stand-out moments, this is just about worth the asking price.
  
  In development for bloody ages, the game sees you morphing into 10 different 'elemental warriors' 
 in order to rescue your kidnapped family and defeat an evil troll king. Let's be honest; the plot 
 is utter garbage, although it doesn't really detract from the overall experience.
  
  Each elemental warrior has its own special abilities and combat moves. Some are more useful than 
 others, but you'll have to use all of them at different points throughout the game. Thankfully, 
 rather than simply acting as a gimmick, the elemental warriors are Kameo's best feature.
  
  Kameo is also the best looking launch game on 360 by a very long way. Environments are stunningly 
 detailed, and the epic battles have to be seen to be believed. Forget dull-looking titles like 
 Gun or Amped 3; if you want a game to show off your new next-gen console then Kameo is it.
  
  However, while initially it may seem to be the future of adventure games, it isn't the next-gen 
 epic I was hoping for. My first complaint is that it's far too short. Ten hours is not nearly long 
 enough for a free-roaming adventure game, and some more side quests would have been welcome. Secondly, 
 the gameplay rarely rises above mildly entertaining (apart from the huge battle scenes) and there 
 are too many random boss battles and blindingly obvious puzzles.
  
  Despite these faults, Kameo is still an enjoyable action-adventure that provides 10 hours of mostly 
 good fun, although it's only essential for fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Trav1s_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Kameo has taken on many forms over the years, from its humblest beginnings as a Gamecube title 
 (2001) , to its present incarnation as a 360-launch title. Rare software broke new ground when it 
 first launched this title in 2001, by combining innovative artistic style and unique Gameplay. 
 
  
  When Microsoft announced it was developing a new gaming platform, it also announced Kameo was to 
 be one of its launch titles. That's a lot of pressure on a game, because as with any hardware launch, 
 with the roll of the dice, the game can either sink or swim with the hardware. 
  
  Kameo doesn't disappoint my friends; it is awesome in pretty much all aspects. The graphics are 
 stunning, the sound is exquisite, and the gameplay is a treat. 
  
  Storyline: 
  
  You star as the heroine "Kameo." Kameo's family and friends have been captured by her evil sister, 
 who has awakened the evil troll king. Your objective is to rescue the folks, defeat the sister, 
 and save the world from the troll king. 
  
  There is no soft start to this game right away you are thrown into a battle, striving to reach 
 your friends and family who are trapped in the castle. Naturally, you don't rescue them, and after 
 being left for dead, you awaken in the Enchanted Kingdom which is full of strange and colorful 
 creatures. This is the starting point for many great adventures, and like all good home bases, 
 this is where you learn to develop your skills and meet your mentors. 
  
  Every hero needs special powers and Kameo is no different. She has the ability to morph into creatures 
 with their own special powers; from a flame throwing dragon, to a plant with a mean uppercut. Each 
 one of these creatures is needed during the game, and sometimes it takes a combination of them 
 to defeat an enemy. So be prepared for some quick morphing. 
  
  Like all good adventure games, exploring your surroundings is a must and is encouraged. You'll 
 find many extras and add-ons that will aid you in your quest. Curiosity doesn't always kill the 
 cat and sometimes is needed to survive. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  The graphics are stunning and the best of any console game, period, no ifs and or buts. To be fair, 
 you really can't compare the 360 graphics to the PS2 or Gamecube; but hey, I'm writing this article 
 so I can do what I want. This was the first game I loaded into my 360 and my first impression was 
 "WOW!" My wife stayed and watched me play for a couple of hours just because of the graphics. The 
 colours, textures, ambience and environments are extremely rich and detailed. The physics and workmanship 
 behind the graphics are second to none. 
  
  Sound 
  
  True story: I was playing the game, I heard some crashing sounds and I immediately got up and went 
 out side as I thought our two English Mastiffs (Laverne & Shirley both 150 lbs +) had knocked a 
 pile of wood over (see pictures) . I went outside, the woodpile was intact and the dogs were upstairs 
 enjoying their favorite past time, sleeping! Seems I was fooled by the game; while I was fighting 
 a few nasties I hadn't noticed that one troll had rolled and hit a pile of rocks. 
  
  Naturally the 360 supports 5.1-surround sound, but what shocked me most was the "quality" of the 
 sound. Many games are 5.1-surround sound capable, but sound quality just isn't there and lacks 
 crispness and definition. 
  
  Many games also try and overpower you with massive explosions and screaming effects. This is relatively 
 easy to do and amounts to over killing your auditory senses. To me, ambience and subtlety are what 
 makes a truly great gaming experience. The soft rustle of leaves in the background, the wind blowing 
 through the treesall of these make a game truly great. 
  
  Too date Kameo has the best in-game sound I've heard. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The game is rather 
 short, taking about 10 hours to play; but a lot is packed into that 10 hours. Like many adventure 
 games you have your primary mission and several side quests. Kameo's bosses and other nefarious 
 characters are difficult to beat, but not too difficult. In other words, it doesn't take a weekend 
 to kill a boss. 
  
  Kameo seems to have the right mix of creativity, difficulty and fun. There are many adventure games 
 that seem to lose sight of their objective, turning into fun rollicking romps where one can forget 
 the troubles of the day. Or they can end up being Mensa workouts. 
  
  Tilt: 
  
  Kameo is exceptional and will entertain the whole family. The experience is awe-inspiring and is 
 going to be a tough act for other adventure games to follow. Until I see differently, Kameo is 
 the complete package, albeit it's a little short. 
  
  by master T :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I guess I will start with the negatives. First of all, the game is pretty short, but it seems like 
 most games are these days. The co-op is the multiplayer here, but falls way short of anything entertaining. 
 And last there were a few times that I was slightly confused, but nothing too big. Ok, now the 
 good stuff. First off, this game has brilliantly well done visuals. The surfaces are shiny, but 
 not too light bloomed. Beautiful pretty much. I also loved how original tis game was. Most all 
 the other games were ports except a few (Condemned, PDZ, PGR3) but this game was really fun. Overall 
 the originality and graphics give this game a big boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brsfan22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Kameo is one of those games that is fun for about five hours and then it loses its touch. Don't 
 get me wrong, this game has its moments, but after a while the style of play is just boring. First 
 off, let me tell you about the game in general.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power starts of having you battle your way up to the top of Thorn's Castle. 
 After you find out that your sister has betrayed you and that she has awoken the giant troll named 
 Thorn, you are knocked unconcious and become separated with your elemental powers. Thus your journey 
 begins. Slowly but surely, you regain your powers and are again faced off with Thorn.
  
  Now let me tell you what I didn't like about this game. The first couple of times that you transform 
 are kind of cool, but after that, it just becomes a nuisance. You find yourself transforming constantly 
 to defeat the simplest of enemies. The next problem I had with Kameo was that it was too short. 
 I read all of the reviews on the forums and I was well aware that it was a short game, but come 
 on. When I spend sixty dollars on a game, I intend to play it for more than a day. I knew that 
 this game was short but I didn't think that it would take me only eight hours to beat it. Okay, 
 enough already, this is my last complaint. I think that the bosses were too easy. The developers 
 tried to add in some elements like throwing an Ice Spear at the monster's eye and then spinning 
 and trying to hit those eyes off the platform to enable you to finally damage the beast, but this 
 was not enough. They could of kept the same tactical elements and have made the bosses more difficult 
 but with less health. In one particular boss battle, I spent half an hour trying to kill this squid 
 type-thing just because each hit, which happened with long time gaps in between, only took away 
 minimal damage. The battles where you free the Elementals from the Ghost Spirit guys were definitely 
 way too easy too.
  
  But enough of my ranting. All in all, Kameo: Elements of Power is a pretty good game. I think that 
 is definitely worth a rent, but if you have the money then you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterC2009
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I got the demo from live, and it was surprisingly good. It had good graphics, but what game doesn't 
 on the 360? The sound was nice, and the story line was not bad at all. The game is easy, but Thorn 
 is surprisingly hard. The game has the quality to be a good game, if it was longer. I cannot believe 
 it was that short! It takes way less than 3 hours to beat. However, the game may be considered 
 kiddy by some older people. ONce you play the game though, you will think differently. The elementals 
 are fun and they kick major butt. I am happy that they made a game like this, because this game 
 had quality. The game also has some pretty good humor too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21022000155437637645440592266843-TYU4444
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9) : Well, there is a girl called Kameo (the star of the game) and she can turn into weird 
 things such as a dragon and a plant.
  
  Graphics (10) : The graphics are supposed to be high definition, and so that's why I gave them a 
 10. Although, every piece of graphic in the game looks great.
  
  Sound (8) : I like music that rocks, but I like the sounds and music. The music doesn't rock all 
 that much, but it is nice and calm.
  
  Value: (8) : I will play it until I beat it, but I might play it again until I become perfect at 
 it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9) : The first game of the series is very original and very realistic.
  
  Overall 
 Score: 8.9 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrtyscott3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Making it a priority to play through Kameo: Elements of Power on your shiny new Xbox 360 is a very 
 good idea. Originally in development for the Gamecube, the long and winding development cycle of 
 the game  combined with the buy-out by Microsoft  has finally brought the game to retail. So, 
 with so many delays and empty promises preceding it, is Kameo a game worth playing? The answer 
 is a resounding yes; on the surface, Kameo is an incredible-looking, awesome-sounding game that 
 truly takes an epic feel akin to The Lord of The Rings into the gaming world for the first time. 
 Deeper inspection, however, reveals a superb game that was obviously the focus of a lot of dedicated 
 and talented peoples attention, and the end result is a product that is technically stunning, 
 endlessly charming, and marvelously polished.
  
  Kameo puts you in the shoes of the titular elven warrior who can channel her magical energy and 
 turn into a number of strange creatures. Turns out her family has been kidnapped by Thorn, an evil 
 troll who, along with our heroines own sister, Kalus, is leading an invasion on her land. The 
 game actually begins at Thorns castle, where you are launching a one-woman assault against the 
 mighty tyrant. Surprisingly, youre pretty much on your own here, and as you move around through 
 the area, little prompts come up and tell you the controls as straightforward as possible. If youve 
 played adventure games before, this may not seem like such a big deal, but for people who have 
 been out of the loop for a while, Kameos opening sequence might be an exercise in frustration.
 
  
  But whatever. Its a relatively short sequence, and without too much surprise, Kameo fails in her 
 mission and returns to the Enchanted Meadow, a sort of safe-haven where the trolls cannot reach. 
 Its also here that the game seems to begin anew; youll be filled in on the games plot by The 
 Mystic, who can watch things through her crystal eye, and before you know it, the game is filling 
 you in on how to do things like move Kameo around an area, as if you hadnt discovered that yet. 
 Its a bit weird, as the game basically seems like its begun twice in the first hour, but, hey, 
 the quicker you get over it, the better.
  
  Unfortunately, the three creatures you could turn into at the games outset  Pummelweed, a scrapping 
 piece flora who can box enemies with abandon; Major Ruin, an armadillo who can spin at high speeds 
 and launch himself off ramps; and Chilla, a brutish creature who can use enemies as clubs  are 
 taken away from you in relatively short order, and youll need to gain them all back, as well as 
 seven more creature forms, before youre truly ready to once again show up on Thorns doorstep 
 and rescue your family.
  
  Kameo is an adventure game through-and-through, and it will go on to prove that theres no filler 
 here  virtually every gameplay sequence feels fresh and interesting as you progress. As Kameo, 
 you pull the 360s triggers to jump and hover, and you pull both at the same time to perform a 
 backflip strike. As you gain creatures, you assign them to the context-sensitive face buttons for 
 easy selection, and they control in a similar fashion, with the triggers working their varying 
 abilities. The real interest (and challenge) in Kameo is combining various creature personalities 
 together in order to solve puzzles and defeat enemies.
  
  Things start simple. For example, in an early boss fight, you must brawl a troll soldier whos 
 completely covered in impenetrable armor  except his chin. Using Pummelweeds uppercut maneuver, 
 you can send the troll into a daze, his head tilted up and revealing his neck for all to see. Its 
 then a matter of using Chillas ice-spear throw to finish him off. As you move along and pick up 
 more creatures, the puzzles diversify and layer themselves to present you a deeper gameplay experience. 
 By the time you reach end game, youll need to be able to switch through personas frequently and 
 sometimes without hesitation, lest you meet with an untimely death.
  
  Like it or not, the gameplay tends to be pretty easy overall, as the visual cues presented to you 
 are as stunning as they are blatant. Flame-covered imps got you down? No problem  switch to Deep 
 Blue, a squid-like creature, and douse them with water. Burrowing plant warriors giving you troubles? 
 Dont fret  Ash the dragons fiery breath will make short work of them.
  
  The games built-in hint system further speeds up your progress. Your elemental powers are stored 
 within an ancient tome called the Wotnot, which is governed by a wizard named Ortho. Ortho is always 
 ready and willing to give you hints as to what you should be doing next. Unfortunately, this turns 
 out to be something of a double-edged sword. On the upside, youll never be aimlessly wandering 
 around for a moment of your game; on the downside, however, the challenge of having your bearings 
 on the gameworld is lost, as you can often read what to do as soon as you need to do it, if not 
 before the challenge actually takes place. Its not a deal-breaker by any means, but it does diminish 
 much of the games challenge.
  
  But no matter  the most important part of Kameo is the experience itself. From the first sequence 
 to the last, Kameo feels grand and wondrous. The world is designed with an amazing level of detail 
 that really makes each individual area stand out on its own. Each area has new enemies and a unique 
 angle on the turmoil surrounding it. Theres an undeniable sense of personality and whimsy as you 
 uncover a new area or tidbit of the plot. Truly, Kameo takes adventure to the next level.
  
  This is helped along by the absolutely phenomenal visuals on display. In short, Kameo is arguably 
 the best-looking Xbox 360 launch title. But the graphics certainly bear more mention than that. 
 When you look at a screenshot, you see an intricately detailed scene that is rife with character 
 and style. But you really need to see the game in motion to truly appreciate it. Apart from its 
 bump-mapped good looks, youll be treated to dazzling special effects, silky-smooth animation, 
 and lots of other neat technical tricks, the most impressive probably being the scenes which take 
 place in the Badlands, where Kameo must race through vast plains on horseback as hundreds upon 
 hundreds of elven and troll soldiers battle for supremacy. Basically, Kameo is nothing short of 
 a bona fide visual feast, with or without a high definition display.
  
  Pleasantly, the audio fares nearly as well. Kameos audio fidelity is consistently crisp and clear, 
 especially if you take advantage of its ProLogic support. Each area has its own distinct sound 
 effects and musical theme, and all of them are of excellent quality. The music, though ultimately 
 forgettable, consists of a variety of powerful orchestral and choral themes that set the mood very, 
 very nicely. The default mix is perfect, requiring no tweaks and always giving you an optimal aural 
 experience. The only downfall is some subpar voice acting for some of the characters, but luckily 
 the ones you hear the most often also happen to be the best.
  
  Unfortunately, Kameo is an experience that ends too soon  the single-player game will probably 
 last you about eight hours, and that number isnt too likely to vary, thanks to the games (a little 
 too) helpful hint system. Beyond that, there are a couple co-op levels that you unlock over the 
 course of the solo experience, but these arent terribly interesting, especially when contrasted 
 against the unforgettable story mode. But what Kameo lacks in quantity, it certainly makes up for 
 in sheer quality, as well as density, and is definitely one of the most attractive launch titles 
 available for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was better than i expected. The graphics were very super. Only a few flaws in the grphics. 
 also a good fun game for the whole family. even thought it can get frusterating at times this is 
 a great game. A decent story line but isnt that long. 2 play coop is just ok because it is not 
 xbox live compatible. but wait no longer a patch to play with other users online is coming very 
 soon. I think playing with others online will make the game alot more interesting after you have 
 completed the normal story line. i would try and get one for 30 some dollers on ebay isnted of 
 40 or 50 at the store. but if you are looking for just a fun game for eveyone you should look into 
 buying kameo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiseGAMEreaper
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  kameo a brilliant adventure game in which you enrole as a girl elf on an epic quests to defeat 
 thorn and save the ure family, as you fight through the lands you will gain elemental warrior's 
 whch have different powers, and effects. the elemental warriors can be upgraded with speacial fruits 
 found in the world or gained by different quests. it's all around fun and action good graphics and 
 gameplay. the only problem i found well its not much of a problem but i completed it within a few 
 hours. if you enjoy geting a good profile on xbox live by getting gamer points then this is the 
 game to get the points rollin in within the first hour of the game you will have over 50 gamerpoints. watch 
 out for when you are in the homeland those birds have high pitch tweet's. 
  hope you have enjoyed reading my review =D 
  
  ~wiseGAMEreaper~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlsavenger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, but I hope that the second one is longer, and they should have put in the cloud 
 and bird monsters. they also could have had more bosses. I liked the character snare, and how they 
 used the little shop of horrors as the inspiration, it was one of the better characters. another 
 good one was thermite. he could do a lot of dammage. I think that they should have stuck with ortho's 
 old look with the wizzards hat like gandalf. they could have also had more alternite costumes, 
 and the monsters could have benn a little more chalinging to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry-boy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The game play is fun, the story was good as well.. u learn how to play the game in the first hour. 
 and u probably finish this game in about 10 hours. Its not that hard, but it takes sometime to 
 finger out some stuff in game, like how to kill a boss and so on.
  The graphics are amazing I mean I haven't seen anything like this ever. U can see the grass and 
 water clearly. Both the music and in game effects sounds good as well.
  The story telling ingame movies, were nice to watch at and the game have a good value i think. 
 The only problem with this game is probably too short, otherwise great great game.. love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I've never been one to really get into "Platform" style games, but KAMEO has turned me around. 
 I really wasn't expecting to enjoy this game as much as I did. I thought it would be shorter. I 
 thought it would be very linear. Thankfully, I was surprised.
  
  KAMEO's Visuals are jaw dropping gorgeous, and I'm not even playing this on a HDTV. Everything 
 looks stunning, including the explosions and every little detail of the landscape. And the Characters 
 are all so very unique, and in fact reminded me of the characters from the JIM HENSON film "The 
 Dark Crystal"
  (Obscure old movie reference) 
  
  KAMEO is also one of those games where you don't need to be a brain surgeon to figure out how to 
 handle some "Boss Battles." If you fail a few times, the "Whatnot Book" will offer advice on how 
 to get through an area. 
  
  One of the elements that I really liked, is the re-playability factor. As you acquire NEW ELEMENTS 
 of POWER, you'll remember areas in previous levels that could have used one of those POWERS to 
 reach a previously un-obtainable prize or accomplishment. In fact, as you add ELEMENTS, you'll 
 realize that you could have finished a PREVIOUS LEVEL much quicker, and thus earned you a higher 
 ranking (i. e. Achievements) 
  
  In all, KAMEO isn't as "Kiddie" as I thought it would be, and was actually quite fun for a Father 
 of 3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Intro - Kameo is a great adventure game that borders on a RPG type of game (has similarities to 
 games like Zelda and Fable) , the game itself is short (problably 10hrs or so) but there is tons 
 of stuff to do on the side and a fun coop mode to keep you coming back\
  
  Gameplay - not much to complain about here, except for the level ranking... they expect you to 
 get an A ranking in the levels for achievements and for special extra content... but that is way 
 to difficult, not cus the levels are hard (because they just arnt) but because you have to get insane 
 combos just to get about an F rank. totally frustrating! but the extra content and hidden bonuses 
 are a ton of fun to search for and find, my advice... do it yourself, not with the internet its 
 way more fun that way!
  
  Graphics - there amazing! just jumping in the water and watching it splash on an HDTV is a site 
 to behold!
  
  Sound - nothing really bad nothing really great... typical for this type of game
  
  Value - 
 this is one of the few adventure games of its type to have a good coop mode, its a lot of fun to 
 play thru... and collecting the items and finding the secretes adds a lot of replay value!!!
  
  Tilt - I really liked the game a lot, and still havent found every secrete yet... but the only 
 thing holding it back from me giving it a tilt of 10 is the insane difficulty in getting the 'A' 
 rankings, they made it way to difficult!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  When i started the game , the gameplay was very slow . But once you get the feel for it , it becomes 
 quite fluint. You unlock new characters/abilities as you go on. Some creatures you use alot more 
 than others but it's all fun. There are about 3-4 bosses in the game and each bring's their unique 
 style to the game. This game mainly sticks to what all rare adventure games do. You gota unlock 
 the 11 or 12 elementals and then you go the boss stage. But it offers tons of freedom. You go to 
 each level by traveling through a huge level where there is a war going on between the faries and 
 trolls. You can fight in the huge battles or just go along on your quest. Sometimes you will need 
 to help fight the battles before you go to your next elemental. In the end you eventually storm 
 the castle and a huge battle breaks out. The game never get's repetitive , just in some small parts 
 where you gota do some hard puzzles. The sound is the best of any game to date. An ochestra backs 
 kameo up with an astonishing motion-picture quality sound-track. The graphics are also amazing, 
 you just have to seem them in action to belive them. I play on a standard tv and it looks amazing 
 , without an HD. It was a short game though , you will beat it in 8 hours so just rent it and your 
 done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are again up to 360s standards even on 13 inch stvs but i suggest using the biggest 
 stv available if you want a big screen that aint expensive 
  
  the gameplay is revolutionary to the action adventure genre i own every rare made game sense nes 
 and i have to say this is great conker for xbox was good eh not as good as this 
  
  sound theres basically only sound effects in the game and poor voice overs 
  
  the value heck 
 i havent played much but it must be long enough to keep you happy and theyre updating this and 
 pd0 making it better at vAlue 
  
  tilt if you loved gbtg or conker or even banjokazooie this is right up your alley 
  
  if not 
 rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power presents a unique situation. Theres no doubt its a good game with several 
 intriguing gameplay elements. Theres also no question that the game looks fantastic, both in improved 
 textures and the power of the graphics engine. However, with a game so long in development, with 
 so many man hours of programming thrown into it, with a game released a full week before the console 
 itself, youve got to wonder why many segments of the game fall flat and certain elements seem 
 gimmicky at best.
  
  Its not that Kameo is a bad game. In fact, its gameplay is one of its strongest points. As Kameo, 
 you can harness the power of different elements like water, fire, earth, rubber, etc Each of these 
 elements is represented as a different creature, an elemental warrior, like the menacing 40 below 
 who rolls around on a gigantic snowball to progress down special ice paths or the evil-looking 
 Pummel Weed that looks like Audrey IIof Little Shop of Horrors fameand fights like Rocky Balboa. 
 These personalities are unlocked over the course of the game and morph from innocent-looking, childish 
 caricatures into devilish demons looking to cause trouble.
  
  The different warriors of Kameo function as an interactive context-sensitive button. Each has basic 
 attacks, but their real strengths lie in how they can complete puzzles and move around different 
 levels. Chilla can throw giant spikes of ice into the wall and climb them; Pummel Weed can dive 
 into the dirt to get under gates; Ash can melt down ice barriers that may be blocking a path. Sometimes 
 youll end up using two or more characters in a sequence to successfully gain access to more advanced 
 areas.
  
  The good thing about all this is that you get to use all the characters over the course of the 
 game, but it seems obvious that levels were built around the different characters. Youll use one 
 characters special abilities in a level and then never use it again, partly because of weaker 
 attack powers but mostly because these special abilities can only be used in a single level. The 
 game is paced so that youll unlock two elemental warriors before heading out to a new battle level. 
 These warriors will primarily be used to solve the most-recent puzzles and obstacles. In most cases 
 you wont ever switch back to them, but a few have powerful attacks that warrant the occasional 
 appearance.
  
  And thats just it. A lot of the warriors are useless after youre done with their specific level. 
 Flex and Rubble come to mind as elementals that seem included for the sole purpose of completing 
 one chapter. The cast of elemental warriors could have been reduced significantly, and the fact 
 that it wasnt is one of the games greatest weaknesses. Forcing players to use specific warriors 
 at specific moments feels gimmicky since most abilities arent used that often. Theres an attempt 
 later in the game to use newer abilities to explore earlier levels but its used only once. It 
 would have been nice to go back to all the levels once better abilities were unlocked. It would 
 have lent the levels some sense of continuity instead of seeming like brief stops to the main objective.
 
  
  In contrast, the combat is fun and engaging. Each warrior has strengths and weaknesses and it will 
 be up to you to choose which one will work the best in a given situation. The developer did get 
 fairly creative with some of the attacks. Deep Blue can coat enemies in a thin sheet of oil and 
 a quick puff of fire from Ash can ignite it, causing massive damage to everyone around. This is 
 made easy by Kameos quick-select buttonsX, Y, and Bwhere you can assign any three of the elemental 
 warriors you want. This makes changing seamless and why many of the puzzles, where you have to 
 switch between forms, work well. There is a little crossover between warriors in terms of attacks, 
 with some featuring obviously similar styles, but in the end they all deliver trolls to an early 
 grave.
  
  As far as the story goes, its your standard fare savior of the kingdom. Kameo is the princess 
 of the Enchanted Kingdom, the floating home city of the elves who rule over all they survey. Its 
 not all fun and games though when her sister betrays her and kidnaps the entire royal familysave 
 Kameousing the brutish Troll King and his legions of soldiers and mechanized war machines. With 
 the help of a talking book, which happens to give annoying hints on every single puzzle in the 
 game, she has to harness the power of the elements and use their power to save her family and stop 
 the trolls from taking over the world. Theres an attempt to throw in a curveball into the story, 
 but its fairly obvious from the beginning whats going on and who the real villain is.
  
  Throughout the ten hour campaign youll slowly build your elemental warriors, and Kameo herself, 
 through different upgrades. These take the form of health potions and magical fruit. The latter 
 is gained by taking on side-quests and helping the local citizenrybe it blasting a rock in front 
 of a house or finding a parents missing children. The fruit also grows naturally and can be shaken 
 off a stem should you find them. The fruits are used to upgrade your warriors by giving them new 
 attacks and supplementing ones they already have. Kameo, too, advances as she discovers health 
 potions sprinkled around the different worlds. A drink from these potions will not only have her 
 screaming like an adult film star, but also increase her overall health.
  
  Graphically, Kameo joins its launch brethren and sports impressive-looking visuals. In the free-roaming 
 badlands section of the game, youll have hundreds of friendly troops and enemy trolls engaged 
 in battle with each other. The sheer number of enemies on the screen at a given time makes up for 
 the plastic look of some of the environments, particularly the interactive ice walls. A movable 
 camera ensures that you get the best possible angle and all actions are fluid and animated smoothly. 
 Those of you without an HDTV wont be missing too much. The greater resolution appears to make 
 the picture a bit brighter and clearermeaning less jaggiesbut it isnt an incredible leap. Those 
 of you with standard televisions will still get a visual treat.
  
  Perhaps the best part of Kameo is the soundtrack. The tunes, particularly during the climactic 
 end-battle are a nice, awe-inspiring mix of woodwind and string magic. Suffice to say, Kameo features 
 one of the best original game soundtracks in a long time. Sound effects are well-conceived and 
 sound great from the crackling of Ashs fire breath to the bass-heavy booms of Thermites exploding 
 bombs.
  
  Players keeping track of their Gamerscore will be pleased to note that Kameo has some easily-obtainable 
 points. Just for completing the single-player campaign youre looking at least 500. For those of 
 you wanting to max-out you can go back and get perfect scores on all the dungeons and beat the 
 various bosses using the games limited co-op mode.
  
  Kameo is a good launch title that anyone who managed to get a 360 should own. It takes some risks, 
 and as a result ends up feeling gimmicky and repetitive in a few rough spots. However, the game 
 does succeed in making a great action game by including a colorful cast of characters and adding 
 a few RPG elements for good measure. If youre a fan of games in general, Kameo: Elements of Power 
 is worth taking a look at.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot2323
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was prpr swkd 'onest it iz brill me b-day is in 3 days nd am gettin a x360 
 nd hopefully kameo bcoz its brill but 1 ting y cant u be a boy uno like choose bcoz sum of me mates 
 think it mite be rubbish since yur a girl all thought that is sexist i do believe the option of 
 a boy wud b icin on da cake but the way you can be different creatures iz brill a mean omg even 
 tho i only had a go in game i luved it from the start so i reely reely cannot wait plus the next 
 gen graphics are superbly shown in this game this showed me the way to x360. ps ppl cum on r8 it 
 high i did 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Kameo, A very good rpg, i found it suprisingly good and very imersive. You go throught the game 
 trying to rescue members of your family from your evil **** sister, lol, and rescue these things 
 called sprites which allows you to turn into certain "creatures" with different abilities. The 
 game alos has a collection scheme to it, you can collect fruit to enhance your creatures abilities, 
 elixers of life to improve your health bar, and eyes which make the game easier, there are four 
 in all and they are hidden. There are about 6 different worlds also but are seperated via free 
 roam with load screens. The game takes abour 20- 25 hours to complete and in my opinion its worth 
 it. The on-line capabilties only go as far as leaderboards for single play and co-op. The achievments 
 are awarded as you progress through the game and make sense. Good Game, 8.5/10.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  No, graphics are not everything but in Kameo they are definably something special. The use of bump 
 mapping and high resolution textures is evident everywhere in this game. Also lighting and particle 
 effects abundant and gorgeous. But not in a way that over-does it like in Dino Crisis 3 where every 
 wall was environment mapped. The backgrounds and set pieces are also very cinematic. Sure these 
 themes in games are over-used (snow, lava, water, etc) but they still look great and offer variety 
 in both gameplay combat with the ten playable characters.
  
  The frame rate is nearly perfect throughout the game. I can't even think of when it really hitched 
 up, even during battles with tons of enemies on screen. It surprised me how well the graphics hold 
 up in these situations. The animation of all the characters both walking and fighting are excellent. 
 There are also some very nice attention to detail throughout the game. As an example, many characters 
 leave there own distinct foot prints.
  
  The gameplay is about 1/3 platforming, 1/3 adventure, and 1/3 fighting and its a good mix. The 
 enemy variety is pretty high with each area adding one or two enemy types to deal with. Each of 
 the four major areas leads to a challenging boss fight. The boss fights are not too hard, especially 
 if you have spend time upgrading your characters. To upgrade your characters you simply have to 
 locate a number of fruits. Its a collection quest and most of them are fairly easy to find but 
 a some of them will be acquired by completing mini-quests. These mini-quests are very short but 
 there are enough of them to help with the pacing of the game and to offer a reward for exploration. 
 I was often surprised to find a hidden treasure or side quest even after playing through an area 
 for hours.
  
  The story presentation is decent with some simple cut scenes. It won't win any academy awards but 
 they are presented with very high quality, colorful animation. The whole game comes off as a very 
 polished. If anything I would say that lack of originality could be sited as its major flaw but 
 it never bothered me. I still left impressed with the characters, environments, and story. 
  
  People who ignore games without blood and gore should give it a chance. Sure its got a kid 
 friendly style but it can certainly be enjoyed by all. It took me around 18 hours first time through 
 (I take my time) and I played it through a second time at around 10 hours so for me, the game was 
 certainly worth a purchase. Others can rent it and get through it much more quickly but I prefer 
 the slow pace where you get to absorb the world and appreciate the scenery. Either way you will 
 be playing one of the best looking and most fun games on the 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  You play as Kameo, a fairy, whose evil sister has kidnapped her family and is trying to take over 
 their world using the help of Thorn, the troll king, and all of his military. You can take the 
 form of these ancient creatures which aid Kameo on her journey. There are many characters to control 
 and they are easy to swich between. The game uses the two triggers to do certain attacks for each 
 of the characters. I was a bit skeptical about this setup when I began playing the game, however, 
 after you get used to it, it become very successful. The really only downfall in the gameplay is 
 because the game is incredibly short. You can blow through the game very quickly, and thus is a 
 little dissapointing.
  
  Graphics:
  The game is graphically stunning. The characters, and especially the environment is one of the 
 most graphically detailed I have ever seen. The framerate is beautiful. Many of the great battles 
 are just amazing looking.
  
  Sound:
  The music in the game is very triumphant and classical. It really adds to the game overall experience. 
 The voice acting is very good aswell.
  
  Value:
  The game does not have a good value. The story is incredibly short and there is not much reason 
 to go back and play the story over again, unless you missed some achievements. 
  
  Basically, the game could have been great, but it is just too short. I would definitely rent the 
 game, but it just isn't long enought to spend money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemjit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I love this game! great original gameplay and very fun immense battles although their a bit simple. 
 I liked all the characters their all very different from each other but all fun to play with. what 
 I also liked is that in combat you really need to use all the warriors and have to switch between 
 them a lot. what I disliked a bit was the names of the places; I mean stuff like the forgotten 
 forest and the badlands, come on Rare be a bit more original. I certainly enjoyed playing this 
 game and I would recommend it to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  did not think this game would be for me. No way. A female fairy using her fairy powers? No thanks. 
 Boy was I wrong! This has got to be the best launch title I've ever played, and I've been around 
 to play a lot of them. I made the mistake of assuming this game would just be for the kiddies. 
 The game may be relatively short, but wow! The graphics are great, but sometimes don't look so 
 "next gen". The sound is awesome, as is the gameplay. There are a lot of good games for the 360 
 system launch, but this one is at the top of the "excellent must-buy" list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconEye_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  First off, as a launch title for a Next-Gen system, this game deserves much higher rankings than 
 its been given.
  
  Hundreds of enemies (and allies) on the screen at one time, simply incredible. Some of the battles 
 between the warmachines where you play a small (but important) part, amazing.
  
  There's just a special kind of feeling you get from plowing your horse through dozens of Trolls 
 and realizing that if you stop now, you're totally surrounded... zombie-style. It's exciting.
 
  
  I for one, have always loved Rare's unique character design. It just apeals to the kid in me (the 
 violent one ;) .
  
  I have heard that the game is relatively short and that multiplayer is a weak. Given my short attention 
 span, casual gaming tendencies and little to no interest in playing an adventure game with people 
 I don't know, those items have yet to be issues for me.
  
  I love being able to switch from warrior to warrior, stringing attacks as you go. The warriors 
 themselves looking comical to devistating; all upgradable. And just the right level of item colleting 
 included with fun achievements to boot.
  
  This game is better than most launch offerings hands down and Nintendo should truely regret losing 
 Rare's talent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool. I like this kind of games even though they are for little kids. I just 
 don't care to play them. This game has a lot of characters to play with, and they all fun to play 
 with. Especially the girl (sorry i forgot her name) . She is verry cool and shes the first character 
 you first play with. The gameplay of this game is really fabulous, You get to use every character 
 when you are beating the game, because you need all of them for some part of the game. Also the 
 maps that this game are, are cool. They are design very nice. The grphics are really sweet. So 
 actually this is really a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  i have been traking this game since it was first announced for the GC back in the day. and when 
 microsoft bought out rare i was really afraid that rare would go down hill and fall off my top 
 ten developer list. when voodoo vince first came out for the xbox i thought my fears were reconfirmed 
 and then conkers bad fur day came out i was not really into playing a game i already played.
  when i found out kameo was coing out for the 360 i basically did not care. i had given up on a 
 great immersive rare title. it showed up in my mail box before my 360 did and i sat it to the side. 
 my 360 showed up and i sat it to the side up until a few weeks ago when i decided to finnally hook 
 it up. i popped in this game and i have to say it was pretty much worth the wait... almost. the 
 game is great. a wonderful adventure game, with a pretty strong story and stunning visuals. it 
 is just a bit short for my tastes... especially when i waited so long for it. 
  but if you want a great fantasy action adventure game then grab it if you already have not.
  
 it may be kind of short but it is wonderful while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikgus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  After seeing this game in the stores, I had to have a 360. The graphics are great, the action was 
 fun, the possibilities of combat using all the different creatures are endless, and the extras 
 make for a long game without taking months and months. The game begins with Kameo trying unsuccessfully 
 to rescue her family, and essentially being left for dead. She spends the rest of the game recovering 
 all of the elemental warriors she needs to complete all the tasks and defeat all the enemies in 
 order to rescue her family one by one until she again confronts the Ogre King and her evil sister.
 
  
  The visuals are very good, with no drop off during action. The action is great, from puzzle solving, 
 to massive combat, to horseback riding, the game offers enough variety that you don't get bored 
 by the end. The soundtrack is good, but not great. The value is great, especially considering you 
 can probably get a used copy now. There is also co-op mode, for replayability with another person. 
 Also, the achievements require you to replay some levels to improve your score, noting that you 
 can compare scores on the leaderboards. Also the co-op replay is required for achievements too, 
 so the game has some replayability. There is no on-line co-op, which is a let-down.
  
  The only other drawback I can think of is that it would be almost impossible to get the "game complete" 
 achievement without a FAQ, and since I didn't use one until towards the end, I have no idea which 
 items I missed, so I probably won't go back to get the last 13 fruit I missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY 8 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Morphing is a great idea
 
  - Good number of Morph Characters
  - Fast saving/loading times compared to other games
  
  The Bad  
  - Character Controls can be a pain sometimes
  - Deep Blue Controls are very 
 annoying
  - Camera angles are sometimes odd
  - Centering the camera button missing
  - No 'Save Anywhere'
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS 
 9 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Characters look amazing
  - Looks great overall
  - The Full day cycle; Day/Night is very well 
 done
  
  The Bad  
  - The background is blurry and missing details; could be better
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND 8 / 10 
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good  
  - What you expect
  
  The Bad  
  - None
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  VALUE 7 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good  
  - Varied 360 Achievements
  
  The Bad  
  - Limited Replay value
  - No Multiplayer
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  REVIEWER'S TILT 
 8 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Original
  - Fun to play
  
  The Bad  
  - Story ok, not great
  - No track of Pending Quests; Main and 
 Secondary
  - It has limited environments
  - 'A' Rank Achievements focus on combat solely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYL3R_95
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  since Kameo: elements of power is the only action adventure game out for the xbox 360 so far. but 
 it is still a very good game, thankfully.
  
  in kameo you play as, you guessed it, Kameo, a fairy who's evil sisiter kidnapped your family and 
 you have to get them back by deffeating these bosses which the person you are trying to free is 
 inside. there is also a war going on between humans and trolls, and you have to defeat a lot of 
 trolls and even the troll king, Thorn. through the game you unlock or capture 10 elemental warriors 
 that are stored inside of you and which you have freedom to change to one when ever you want and 
 use them for there powers to help you get past areas in the game
  
  the elemental warriors consist of:
  
  Pummel weed: the first elemental warrior you get which 
 is some sort of weed that can buiry itself into the ground and pop up with an uppercut.. oh yeah 
 he is also a boxer and has very powerful punches. (element: plant)
  
  Rubble: this elemental warrior is prettty useless for the most part. Rubble is a pile of rocks 
 and his power is it shoots rocks and also can blow up shooting its rocks everywere but usually 
 missing everything. you dont use this warrior much. (element: rock)
  
  Ash: you use this elemental warrior quite often. Ash is a dragon who like most dragons, breathes 
 fire. he may be slow moving and cant fly but you do use him alot to light tourches and fuses. (element: 
 fire)
  
  Deep Blue: this elemental warrior is my least favorite, his power is he can swim under water, but 
 he is very hard to use. the only time you use him is when you first get him there is alot of swimming 
 and when ever there is any sort of fire to be put out. out of water he isent so bad but in water 
 he is a pain to control (element: water)
  
  Major Ruin: this elemental warrior is used quite often, he helps you get to places faster and can 
 shoot up ramps because he rolls up into a ball. you can also charge trolls with him which does 
 a pretty big amount of damage (element: rock)
  
  40 Below: this guy rocks. he is one of my favorites, he rolls around on a snowball and also has 
 an attack where he makes a snowball with spikes and spins around holding on to it and does a good 
 amount of damage but the best part is when you are doing this attack you can not get hurt (element: 
 snow)
  
  Snare: another one of my favorites, this elemental warrior is another plant but he is much more 
 powerful the pummel weed. he has mighty jaws that clamp onto an enemey and throws them. which does 
 alot of damage. (element: plant)
  
  Chilla: by far the most usefull elemental warrior. he has these ice spikes on his back which he 
 can throw enemies onto then aim and throw the unlucky foe where ever, usually never to be seen 
 again, he can also throw ice spikes and clime up ice walls using his ice spikes to hold onto. (element: 
 snow)
  
  Flex: this elemental warrior isent used much but you gatta love him, he is just goofy. his power 
 is he stretches acrost and can latch onto these plant thing's tounges, it may sound weird, but 
 say there is a long gap and there is a plant thing on the other end, you latch on and go over the 
 gap. and he can also go in the water, unlike other warriors (element: water)
  
  Thermite: this is the last elemental warrior you get. he is this little bug with a large lava cannon 
 on his back that shots balls of magma and can also roll like Major Ruin but he cant roll as long 
 as Major Ruin or have as much controll when rolling as major ruin (element: fire)
  
  this game should and most likley will be checked out by any action adventure game fan with a xbox 
 360. even if you arent into action adventure games you will still probably have some fun with Kameo 
 : elements of power. it does not get repetitive because you are always changing through elemental 
 warriors which each do there own thing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyruleHero1013
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  As Kameo, you were given the ability to transform into creatures called Elemental Warriors. But 
 as your sister, Kalus gets jealous that the power was given to you instead of her, she unleashes 
 Thorn, the king troll from his prison of stone and kidnaps Kameo's family. So Kameo tries to save 
 them but as Kameo seems like she may be able to save her family, Thorn knocks her out and she loses 
 the spirits of the elemental warriors she had and must now start from scratch to regain the elemental 
 warriors and save her family. 
  
  She now travels across the area searching for shadow trolls that have trapped the elemental warriors 
 inside them. Beat a shadow troll and you can just map them onto one of the face buttons to quickly 
 switch between them. My favorite warrior would have to be Thermite, because he owns all the others. 
 My least fave is Deep Blue, you'll see why later in the review. 
  
  From the moment you put the game into your system you will be blown away by the next gen paint 
 oozing out of every corner of your tv screen. Richly detailed enviroments with something happening 
 everywhere you turn with amazing lighting and reflections. Whether your stampeding through the 
 highly populated battlefields on horseback or if your just fighting a couple of trolls, the 360's 
 power is shown in every part of the game. 
  
  Kameo's soundtrack is by far my favorite video game soundtrack, EVER. The amazing soundtrack varies 
 from amazing melodies to incredible Lord of the Rings like music that give the game an amazing 
 feel of epicness. 
  
  The gameplay revolves around you switching between the 10 diffferent elemental warriors. Each of 
 the innovative warriors are all very unique and not one plays like another. They can all be combined 
 in many different ways giving the player freedom to fight on their own and think up combos that 
 alot of people may have never even seen. The warriors don't have a huge amount of moves but that 
 makes the game easy to learn. While Kameo herself is playable, she can't really do that much but 
 her wings are useful for getting around quickly. Rare made an interesting choice for you to use 
 the characters' abilities with the triggers. This does take abit of getting used to but once you 
 have gotten used to it the game is very easy to play and very fun as well. 
  
  But the small problem with the triggers is that sometimes the controls are broken and it gets really 
 frusterating and all you can do when its over is thank god. For example, in one case you must hit 
 an enemy as Major Ruin and then dive under water as Deep Blue and shoot torpedoes at the enemy 
 after it has fallen underwater. Sure, that doesn't sound hard, but when you're actually playing 
 it the controls really get in the way of the fun. 
  
  The game can sadly be easily completed in less than a dozen hours, but there are some things that 
 help with the replay value. The game has craploads of side quests, and a Co-Op mode. The game also 
 has fruits that you can use to upgrade the warriors with new abilities which adds alot of replay 
 value considering how many there are. 
  
  Kameo is my favorite 360 launch title and if you disagree I don't care.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  Its hard to think that a game like Kameo would entertain the older crowd of gamers. The thing 
 is that Kameo: Elements of Power is a great game that you simply have to play if you own an XBOX 
 360. This game is easily one of the best games in the XBOX 360s launch line up.
  Kameo: Elements Of Power is a game set in a story book world. Youll play as Kameo, a princess 
 of a royal family of gods, and wonder through a highly detailed world. Dont judge Kameo because 
 of its T rating, youd only be missing out on a great game.
  
  The game has large, beautiful environments for you to explore. Everything is richly detailed, and 
 the colors are just so bright and vivid. The game world even revolves around day and knight. This 
 fantasy world has to be one of the most gorgeous worlds ever created in a video game.
  
  The game plays at a consistent frame rate. Dont expect pop-ups or frame skips here. The games 
 action is fast paced and no slow downs when many things on screen are happening.
  
  The games sound will remind you of Harry Potter. The music is just immersive and really sets well 
 with this games setting. The pace of the music changes when your actions do, and the sound effects 
 of crunching and crushing are really sweet. The voice acting isnt so good, but its not bad either. 
 Youll recognize the voice work from the Perfect Dark Zero team here. 
  
  Kameos game play elements are great. Youll play as a variety of creatures, stretching from a 
 fire breathing dragon, all the way to a squid like thing that can walk on dry land better than 
 it can swim. Playing as Kameo herself can be pretty cool as well, since she has the ability to 
 glide, and she just looks kind of hot.
  
  The problem with the game play however, is that it can get repetitive. It isnt really a bad thing, 
 since you can change up your monsters anytime you want. Youll come across puzzles, which in this 
 game isnt about munching numbers and collecting crap, its about using your creatures the right 
 way. 
  
  The game comes packed with a co-op mode, which doesnt work really well. Youll be thrown into 
 split screen, and you wont even see a second character on screen. Youll just get a carbon copy 
 of Kameo.
  
  This is easily one of the best launch titles for the XBOX 360. The game looks great, it sounds 
 great, and it plays great. By not playing this game, youre only missing out on a great experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylence
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I had hope for this game. I really did. Though as much as I played it, I could never actually get 
 into it. I mean, it's too easy to beat. Three or four days, a week tops. I guess there are annoying 
 parts to the game where you're annoyed because you're a little frustrated. Then there are the irritating 
 little elemental fruit quest. They're repetitive and too easy. I never could feel a power behind 
 the characters. It pissed me off with all the switching around amongst elemental creatures who 
 seemed to be limited on what they could do. In a nutshell, if you were looking for another "Banjo-Kazooie" 
 or "Donkey Kong 64" in the new-gen form. Kameo probably won't cut it for you. Rent it if you're 
 that curious, otherwise... it's not stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmario78
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  It's a rip-off!
  Very bad game Graphics are very EXTREMELY BAD!
  
  Graphics 1-10: Poor
  Game Play 1-10: It's a shame a game can be this bad, oh, wait, I forgot it's for XBOX.
  Morph 
 modes 1-10: 2
  Music 1-10: 1
  
  I really think I'm not a hypocrite, Everybody has there own opinion. I think XBOX and the 360 are 
 way way to over-rated. they have bad graphics for a Computer. They might have had good graphics 
 when they came out but now almost every game out there has better graphics then the XBOX.
  In fact, there is a program for the Computer that was made to run all XBOX gams and all the XBOX 
 is, is a Computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  the game dosent look like if it has xbox360 grafics but well.... just to make it simple this game 
 should have just came out for the xbox because there is nothing next generation about and well 
 i play it it fells like im playing my original xbox but the stroy goes really good...... but the 
 gameplay lost control and the camera makes to much turns..... when i was a farie in the i was flying 
 in a tunnel and i couldnt play becase every lit turn i made the camera made a huge turn that i 
 couldnt hardly wash me self play..... but the most part i dont recommend to xbox60 owner unless 
 u really like this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Kameo being the first 360 game, is a beautiful one and fun. Even though it isn't a long game its 
 still a very fun and addictive one.
  When you first fire it up the graphics are pretty amazing and get even better. The music is very 
 good too for the game. The game has about a 8 hour campaign, but in those 8 hours its fun and gorgeous. 
 Even if you aren't sure about buying it, then it is still defiantly worth a rent. The difficulty 
 in the game isn't hard but its just right for it. All in all kameo is a fun game created by rare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimzeus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  We're 15 hours into the game and still have 2 of 10 elementals left to get. We do some of the side 
 quests, but not all. I'm not sure how Gamespot can say there is less than 10 hours here - sure 
 if you rush through it as fast as you can and forget to enjoy it.
  
  The graphics and gameplay are awesome. The game is surprisingly deep with lots of options and upgrades 
 for the various characters you get.
  
  I HATED this game when I first played it at EB games. The first hour is pure confusion. You really 
 don't get a handle on what the game is about until then, where it drops you into a ~late~ tutorial 
 into a place called the Enchanted Kingdom.... which.... completely obsoletes every video game before 
 it in terms of graphical prowess. 
  
  Parts of the game are absolutely breath-taking, while others are very bland and lifeless.... but 
 90% of the game is absolutely stunning. Gameplay is fresh and offers a new type of experience in 
 many ways. The game brings a lot to the table in terms of varietty. I'll be there first in line 
 for part 2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_andreas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites! Its almost an incredible except for the fact that it is much 
 to short. I think that if they put more time into it, they could have created the next legend of 
 zelda series.
  
  This game has all the ingredients except for one, length. The sound is vurtually flawless and the 
 gameplay is simple so anybody can pick it up and play, but there is a lot more depth to the gameplay 
 than most people think. Using the two trigger buttons for a main game bases was a risky idea, but 
 it pulled through with flying colors. The graphics are jaw dropping, and the overall product makes 
 me cream my pants, except for the fact that it wont last very long. This game will probably take 
 you 6-8 hours, and 10-12 at most, if you do every side quest. But if you work at unlocking the 
 achievments, it can last a little longer. But be warned, trying to get a AA on each level is brutal. 
 Anyway, The game is to short and the difficulty could have been raised a notch, but all it all 
 this game is ground breaking for action RPG fans. Go out and rent it, and if you really like it 
 buy it, but i advise against it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire3333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power, for a game that took time and consoles to be released it was well worth 
 the wait. Easily the best game I bought for the XBOX 360 with amazing graphics, solid gameplay, 
 easy controls, and puzzle solving antics, where could it go wrong? A unique game that can be played 
 through time and time again with its compelling storyline, a wopping 11 playable characters as 
 well as unlockable bonuses and costumes for each. Kameo hit at just the right time to make a it 
 a star! But what about any "problems"? No game is perfect right? All that comes to mind for Kameo 
 is the short time you get to spend with each "Elemental Warrior". it seems like right after you 
 rescue one you are sent to rescue another, rendering the other useless other then for retrieving 
 the new one. Other then this small "problem" the diverse gameplay, rich (and colourful) worlds, 
 and solid graphics make Kameo something only an idiot would miss. You're not an idiot... are you? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I know that's a big statement considering almost every single Zelda game in the series, except 
 for a couple, has been absolutely fantastic. Once you start playing Kameo, you really don't want 
 to put it down. The graphics and presentation for this game go above and beyond. A lot of times 
 I caught myself stopping and looking into the great background or just messing around with the 
 different characters that you can transform into. Each one has a variety of different moves and 
 techniques that won't disappoint you. The game seems like it borrowed a lot from the N64 Zeldas 
 and the platforms that Rare created for the N64 like Banjo-Kazooie and Conker's Bad Fur Day. The 
 bosses have weaknesses that you have to figure out. There's an open land in between the dungeons 
 that you can ride you horse around and there's tons of little side quests to unlock goodies like 
 alternate skins and upgrades. The game has depth but is fairly short, around 10-13 hours and after 
 that you really don't have anything else to do but to beat your high scores for each level to unlock 
 cheats and movies. Also, the game play feels a bit old at times. The game was supposed to come 
 a long time ago but it doesn't really hurt the game. I'm not saying go and run out and buy it but, 
 if you're looking for a good rental that is decent and enjoyable, Kameo won't let you down. It's 
 fun and the achievements are really easy to get. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drjdh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Played the demo and thought the gameplay was smooth and well integrated with excellent graphics 
 and attention to detail (although it appeared to be a "G" rated kids game) ... so I picked it up 
 for $30 on Ebay... what a surprise this game has been! Totally Addicted after about an hour.... the 
 open ended game-play is great (which all games should implore in my opinion - nothing worse than 
 getting STUCK in a game having to repeat the same situation over, over, and over) . Here, get stuck... just 
 backtrack and take another route or obtain a different charater and go back to try a different 
 approach. I utilized the walkthrough and it still took me 30+ hours to get through once... without 
 its advice, the game may take weeks to complete! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  kameo is... confusing. At some points such as riding through hordes of trolls you think "this is 
 the best game i have ever played" but at other points such as the first time at thorns castle you 
 think "why do people say this game is any good?" This pattern continues throught the game. The 
 good however outweigh the bad by quite a bit. 
  
  The graphics are quite spectacular. Apparently every single blade of grass is individually animated. 
 
  
  10,000 trolls marching on 10,000 blades of grass... well thats impressive. But surrounded by astounding 
 enviroments and a war well thats damn near impossible. 
  
  But kameo pulls it off with no loss of framerate or quality. 
  
  The variety in the gameplay 
 is.. i know im throwing this word around a lot..... astounding. Each of the 10 different characters 
 has their own unique play style to master and play about with with fluid animations to go along 
 with it. 
  
  This game is confusing beacase some bits are better than anything else but others are... worn out. 
 Definetley one of the must have titles even if you dont realise it straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because there were no Call of Duty 2 games left at the shop. When i played it, 
 i was blown away. It's just an amazing game.
  The first thing to hit me was its stunning visuals. The Enchanted Kingdom came to life on my HDTV. 
 Everything just looked how it should, like the vibrant colours and the fairytale style buildings. 
 Even little touches like how the elemental fruit shrunk in your hand and was magically placed in 
 you small bag. It just looked...... amazing.
  The gameplay is also amazingly fun. The fact that you can transform into different elemental warriors 
 is what makes the game so fun. It adds strategic thinking to the game, as different warriors are 
 needed to get past different obstacles. And the controls for the warriors allows you to easily 
 utilize all their powers. The parts of the game where you are in the badlands and are on horseback 
 is also very fun, and the amount of trolls on the screen at the same time is impressive.
  The sound to the game is excellent. The voice acting is well done, each persons voice well suited 
 to their character. The music with the game is also good, giving the game an overall cinematic 
 feel.
  While the story to the game is nothing new, its real fun to play through. The cut scenes where 
 the element warrior becomes a part of you are pretty neat. This gives the game an overall polished 
 feel, and makes it a pleasure to play through. 
  The game supports co-operative play, which is pretty neat. While its clear the game was built for 
 single play, its still nice to have, especially if you have a friend over. 
  I think overall this game is one of the strongest launch titles for the Xbox 360. Its a great platformer, 
 and shows that Rare still has it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac_daddy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is very hard. Let me explain. You will die a few, or more than a few, times over the 
 course of one level. That is a guarentee. You will be frustrated. You will (hopefully not) chuck 
 your brand-new wireless controller across the room. But you will realize that you need to work 
 harder to acheive your goal of beating the level. 
  
  The innovation is cool in this game. There are lots of characters to unlock and for you to use 
 during the game. They are all useful in one or another.
  
  The ultimate thing you need to realize about Kameo is that you need to work harder than you might 
 need to for a game like Spongebob, for example.
  It's not easy. But it's not impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FitnessNFitness
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a spectacular game, from the creators of Donkey Kong, Grabbed by the Ghoulies, etc...
 
  
  This is a cartoony game, which you can tell just by looking at the cover, or the pictures of the 
 game. In the game you can turn into several different creatures that can help you through the game.
 
  
  I've only actually played about twenty minutes of this game, (a demo) , but it was pure fun! I wanted 
 to pick up and X-box 360 and get this game right away! The game is clean, fun, and family friendly, 
 despite the T-rating...
  
  Overall, to me, this was a great, fun, cartoon soaked game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shleco
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  When talking about Kameo it appears a reviewer must mention the following: how much Microsoft paid 
 for Rare ($375 million) , how often their games are delayed (this was first revealed on the GameCube 
 in May 2001 before being switched to the Xbox and then the 360) and how pretty their games are 
  there can be no doubt that the talented British developers can create some outstanding visual 
 effects. What these all add up to is a lot of expectation and pressure for a company whose recent 
 products have been solid at best. Unfortunately Kameo keeps up this consistency by being incredible 
 to look at but not as much fun to actually play as a result of archaic and unoriginal design.
 
  
  Kameo is the ideal title to show off to your friends just how powerful the Xbox 360 is and you 
 dont need a High Definition Television set to appreciate the graphics. Often in the past people 
 have said games have looked like cartoons but the character design of Kameo, her transformations 
 and her foes all appear to have leapt out of Don Bluths sketchbook. Theres just so much going 
 on to look at  glance into the sky and see dozens of dragons flying overhead or ride on a horse 
 and see hundreds of trolls on the battlefield. This isnt hyperbole either; there really are several 
 minions on screen at once and it helps to give the game an epic vibe, which is compounded even 
 further by the sheer scale of the environments. The locations are incredibly detailed, with lush 
 foliage, imaginative creatures and beings and the best water effects in a game yet. Dust and light 
 particles fill the air and everything seems alive. Its brilliant to walk around and just take 
 in the storybook scenery  adults, let alone children, will be entranced and enchanted by it.
 
  
  What also strikes you is the rousing sound, which is so stunning that it wouldnt be out of place 
 on a silver screen. An orchestral musical score, complete with choir vocals for the more dramatic 
 moments, really emphasises the sense of adventure and the enormity of your tasks. While the voice 
 acting of the main characters also wouldnt be amiss in Hollywood, Rare couldnt quite resist the 
 temptation to have comical accents applied to some of the bizarre creatures and villagers, though 
 the delivery never reaches a Jar-Jar Binks level of irritation.
  
  There are other elements to the presentation that are also slick and would be welcome in other 
 games in the future. That the game saves frequently is appreciated. That it offers hints from the 
 Wotnot Book on the pause menu means you wont be stumped on what you have to do and need to resort 
 to consulting a guide (though it does seem to always want to give you advice, even when youre 
 doing some little side quest  shut up already!) . It offers a reminder of what objective you need 
 to do next, so you dont have to worry about picking the game up a week later and being unable 
 to finish it. These are simple things Kameo achieves but that these are finally being integrated 
 into games means we can concentrate more time on playing the game and less time wondering aimlessly 
 looking for a save point.
  
  The whole of the game revolves around the Elements of Power, which allow Kameo to transform into 
 one of ten kooky creatures. Your nefarious sister, Kalus, has teamed up with the malevolent troll 
 king Thorn out of spite for not sharing your abilities and this is the cue for the rather disjointed 
 start of the game. You start in Thorns Castle with three abilities  Pummel Weed, who excels at 
 fighting, Major Ruin, who rolls around like Samus in Metroid Prime and Chilla, who can scale walls 
 of ice and throw shards at his enemies. Its quite dramatic but you dont really know why youre 
 doing it. After spending forty minutes doing this stage you then have lose these abilities and 
 are then confronted with, bizarrely, a tutorial stage telling you how to move and use the camera 
 in the Enchanted Kingdom main hub. But you already did that stuff a few minutes ago! Its really 
 rather odd but the game does settle down into splicing exploration, puzzle solving and having a 
 good scrap. New Elements are introduced at a regular basis, usually in batches of three, and its 
 pretty obvious youll need to use them for certain puzzles to get through the next dungeon. Most 
 of these elemental warriors are pretty distinctive but a few are so bland that youll not use them 
 in the rest of the game if possible. And while most are easy to control Deep Blue, the only character 
 who can swim, will have you baffled with the completely different way of controlling him. Youll 
 look up when you want to go forward, youll struggle to fight villains as you face the wrong direction 
 its just as well the game looks as pretty as it does or you may end up playing a new game: just 
 how far can a wireless controller be thrown? That so much focus is given to these elements also 
 means that Kameo as a character is rather underdeveloped and as she can do little by herself she 
 only ends up getting used sparingly. Consequently it makes it far harder to care about her plight.
 
  
  While the fighting can be entertaining as Pummel Weed, most of the time combat feels like youre 
 going through the motions and when the game bombards you with numerous enemies later in the game 
 it can just be more frustrating than anything else. Perhaps this is down to the simplified control 
 scheme  your warriors actions are all consigned to the shoulder buttons, which makes the number 
 of combos and options available pretty limiting, even if you add extra abilities by finding elemental 
 fruit. The face buttons are a quick way to access three of your warriors, though accessing your 
 other elements quickly is a pain, as you either have to fiddle around in the pause menu or try 
 and do it on the fly in-game, whilst youre being battered by trolls. Itd have been far more convenient 
 if the action stopped while youre making necessary changes.
  
  Similarly the puzzles all seem pretty obvious. Even though the game doesnt resort to dull fetch 
 quests, which have blighted previous Rare titles, you can pretty much guess what you have to do 
 if youve played similar games in the genre. Take the first level, where you see a jewel above 
 a gate. You shoot it with a shard of ice from Chilla, the gate half opens and you go under it by 
 using Pummel Weeds ability to bury himself in the ground. You then do it another two times. This 
 trend of doing things in patterns of three means youre rarely bamboozled or at a loss at what 
 to do. Once again youre going through the motions because its so repetitive. Theres never a 
 moment where you complete a puzzle, look back and think it was genuinely clever, as youre basically 
 doing the obvious stuff using the abilities youve just unlocked. Actually, thats the problem 
 of the game as a whole  you play it and then realise there were few memorable, distinctive moments.
 
  
  At ten to twelve hours long the game is rather short but in its current form it probably didnt 
 need to be any longer and there really isnt much to offer in the way of replayability. You could 
 go around collecting more elemental fruit or trying to find some secrets but theres no compelling 
 reason to do so. You could always invite a friend around to tackle the co-op but the mode is clearly 
 tacked on, recycling the same levels as the single player, having you both as the same character 
 and offering no new puzzles which would you require you to work together. That the game has been 
 in development for over five years and to still be this sloppy is slightly distressing.
  
  While Kameo is doing new stuff with the aesthetics its the same old style of gameplay underneath 
 and you have to wonder how enjoyable it would really be if it wasnt for the stunning presentation. 
 If this is your first venture into the genre this over-familiarity wont be a problem for you. 
 Likewise, a child will really enjoy the fantastical world. For those whove been playing games 
 for years the title is nothing more than lazy Sunday afternoon gaming  pleasant and undemanding, 
 something to preoccupy yourself with rather than just sitting on the sofa and scratching your arse. 
 However, we should give credit to Rare where it is due. This is the ideal game to ride the crest 
 of the wave of goodwill that comes from owners of expensive new hardware, who will be forgiving 
 of a games flaws as long as it is flashy enough. On the original Xbox it would be hard to imagine 
 that many people would have been interested in such a plain little title, and its hard to imagine 
 that in two years time people will even remember Kameo, let alone revere the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  A game has never looked this good until the 360 arrived. It isn't all that good though and their 
 are a few minor let downs. Any way you will find out what they are as you read through my review.
 
  
  The gameplay is great and packs a full load of creatures which act differently in a variety of 
 ways. There are 10 creatures each with their unique ability to help you progress throughout the 
 game i. e Pummel weed is the main fighting monster as major ruin can get you places which are more 
 difficult to reach. The game isn't particularly big in fact it may be too small and could of improved 
 if it was a lot longer, but their is a ton of side-quests and extras to find. The bosses may take 
 you a while to solve what you have to do but they are fairly addictive. There are two types of 
 bosses: The Shadow Trolls and the Main Level bosses which are longer and more difficult. Firstly 
 the Shadow Trolls pop up at you very frequently and you have to use these light monster things 
 to attack him. Once they are dead you can recieve a new monster. As the main bosses are much longer 
 and much harder to beat.
  
  The graphics are excellant and a shouldn't miss visual. There is a tight competition between PDZ 
 and kameo with the visual surroundings. The character sprites and the others are amazing and the 
 fur sticks out in all sorts of places plus the reflection on the eye seems to be reflecting from 
 where the light is shining on it. It is probably the most bright and most colourful game ever created.
 
  
  The music isn't much to be proud of because it is just fairy tale and all that type of girly music. 
 The voice acting and the sfx are amazing if you put surround sound around your room (Or even sub 
 if you can afford it) , put them on full blast and it will be like playing a game at the cinema 
 without a cinema screen.
  
  Overall it is an excellent adventure which must be played and never to be missed. Even if you rent 
 it will be an amazing experience. It maybe short but it can pack a few unlockables (a few, I mean 
 a ton) . A visually excellent game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  KAMEO WAS ONE OF THE FIRST GAMES MADE 4 THE 360 BUT IT IS STILL AN AWESOME GAME! KAMEO IS DEFINETLY 
 AN AMAZING, FUN, EYE CATCHING, ELEGANT, WONDERFUL, MUST HAVE GAME. MORPH INTO 10 DIFFERENT ELEMENTAL 
 WARRIORS WITH ALL DIFFERENT AMAZING ABILITIES. KAMEO IS ABLE TO MORPH INTO..... PUMMEL WEED, CHILLA, 
 ASH, RUBBLE, THERMITE, 40 BELOW, SANRE, DEEP BLUE. FLEX, AND MAJOR RUIN. OUT OF ALL OF THEM MY 
 FAVOURITE MUST BE....... PUMMEL WEED! KAMEO CONTAINS ENCHANTING AND EXOTIC LANDS THAT CATCH YOUR 
 EYE. WHILE ON YOUR JOURNEY TO DEAFEAT "THORN" KING OF THE TROLLS YOU WIIL COME ACROSS FRIENDS AND 
 FOES THAT WILL EITHER TRY HELP YOU OR DECIVE YOU! SO GO THROUGH JUGLES, JOURNEY THROUGH FORESTS, 
 DIVE DEEP UNDERWATER, CLIMB MOUNTAINS AND MORE! KAMEO IS A MUST HAVE FOR ANY RABID VIDEO GAME FAN. 
 BURN, IMPALE, DESTROY, THRASH, FREEZE, SHOCK, DROWN, OR EVEN EAT YOUR ENIMIES!
  
  SHE'S AN ICE SPEAR HURLING, PUNCH THROWING, BOULDER HEAVING, FIRE SPEWING WARRIOR!
  
  MESS 
 WITH HER... YOU MESS WITH ALL OF HER!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Kameo a young elf and weilder of the Wotnot must test all the powers of the Mighty Warriors against 
 Thorn and Kalis who have kidnapped her 'family".
  The game starts out with you having 3 Warriors and charging Thorn's Castle only to find out what 
 Kalis has done and losing all your powers.
  
  Not just will you have to get your "family" back but you will also get all the Warriors with the 
 help of the Wotnot and defeat Thorn.
  
  This game is full of action plus with a bit of puzzle but don't worry because the Wotnot is there 
 to help you. After getting your first Warrior your put on a quest to find your brother (or cousin 
 i forgot) . Your put into a huge battle of orcs (i mean huge if you think dynasty warrios think 
 again even bigger) .
  
  Other than having a lot of things on screen at one with its amazing graphics just be ready for 
 great boss battles all of them are pretty easy once you know what to do but Corallis is proably 
 the worst to fight (not really hard just not fun really) . You will even fight Thorn at the end 
 but thats not the end of the game no there Co-op (boss battles) and Time Attack for the achievments. 
 Time attack for me is pretty hard ive only beaten one of them after like 4 tries.
  
  You might not think it but behind all that Kameo is there is acually even more to find. Bonusses 
 from Time Attacks (like big head mode) and all of the amazing Warriors and their skills. This game 
 isnt just an action title is has a tid of puzzle and rpg elements.
  
  Overal amazing game and fun bosses along with amazing massive battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbtrap1212
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Having played through the game, maxed out all of the elemental creatures, and spent some time replaying 
 some levels, I have found Kameo to be a complete, great-looking game that happens to be one of 
 the only launch games to include a different type of gameplay. 
  
  Pros
  
  Excellent graphics with full lighting, shadows, high-res textures, high poly count, and literally 
 thousands of enemies on-screen at once; Innovative and original gameplay that gives you the ability 
 to morph into different sprites which are all unique and play differently, an open world with much 
 to explore, and let's not forget the sequences in the Badlands area that has you fighting against 
 thousands of trolls at once.
  
  Cons
  
  The game is short, the scoring system is sort of bogus and makes replaying the levels for points 
 rather difficult, and the Badlands sequences (the ones that face you against thousands of trolls) 
 aren't replayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssmyco
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes KAMEO. Looks great, sounds great, and looks worthwhile. But is it? Just today I bought a copy. 
 I played a demo of the game. Which is the first level, so I was used to the controls. Anyways as 
 I finished the first level I encountered a nice cutscene. Then I thought to myself, wow Rare really 
 outdone themselves this time. I mean the graphics, voiceovers, and the gameplay. And since it is 
 for the 360, you get to play it in High-Def. There are a little "god damn it" or f****ing son of 
 a b***h. But overall a must have for all 360 owners. If this game sells good, Rare might make a 
 sequel I hope. So to all those people who want a fun game and is bored of the games they have, 
 you should definitley pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a shorter game, it only took me 9 hours to complete it without getting all the fruit and 
 elixirs. If you go through and find everything then it'll take around 11-12 hours. The graphics 
 are great, better than anything I've seen on Xbox or Playstation 2. I ran around looking at objects 
 and noticed that there was a great amount of detail. The price of this game is also $49.99 which 
 is cheaper than a lot of the other titles out right now. It's a litle repetitive, go to a few different 
 locations and kill shadow trolls. The locations that you go to Enchanted Kingdom, Forgotten Forest, 
 Snowtop Village, Mountain Falls, Thorns Castle, and Thorn's Airship are all very immersive and 
 you'll find the first time you enter the badlands to be exhilarating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited kameo comes to xbox360 and really ain't that great. The good is that it has great 
 graphics and awesome gameplay. the story is great ,but it is just to short. You will blow through 
 the campaign about less than a week. the co-op mode really isn't that exciting either, it is just 
 the main objective, but no exploration that suck's stick with the campaign mode. The best thing is 
 the warrior's there so much you can pick from, I'm still trying to find out my favorite. Overall 
 this game is very exciting and just plain fun but ,as I said it's really short so rent the game, you'll 
 have sometime to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDemon91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I think Kameo for the X-Box 360 is one of the the best games X-box 360 has to offer. it's cheap 
 and has tons of game play. Its not only for kids but its great for adults. I think anyone that 
 has the X-box 360 should go and buy Kameo right now while you have the chance. It has tons of characters 
 and tons of bosses. You can choose from different characters such as chilla, ash, pummel weed, 
 40 below, thermite and many more. Each character has different abilities that will help you on 
 your quest to save your ancestors from the evil Thorn king of trolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This has to have been one of the last titles I would have found myself playing at the 360's launch. 
 So due to the lack of titles, I decided to Gamefly this game. I got it and it turns out to be one 
 of the most enjoyable titles out for the 360. When I started playing this game, the graphics really 
 stood out. This game looks beautiful. Aside from looking beautiful, it plays great. The first thing 
 that came to me as I started playing this game was Zelda. It plays a lot like Zelda in many ways. 
 For one, there is a huge battlefield that you venture to. This is place you wander around and from 
 here you can go to local villages filled with creative races and varied environments. With that 
 being said, you can only gain entry to these areas by obtain an elemental form. Take for example 
 the ice village. Its entrance sits on top of an ice ledge and you must get an elemental that allows 
 you to climb it before you can visit the town. Another thing worthy of mention is the games sound. 
 While the game's sound effects may be fairly standard, the music is beautiful and varied. Each 
 of the elementals you obtain are unique in their own ways and you will have to use all of them 
 to progress through the game. There is also a co-op mode. Its kind of pointless because you can 
 only play stages that you've beaten in single player, but there are some achievments that go along 
 with it so thats there. The only downfall to this game is its length. The game consist of about 
 a 10 hour single player and thats about it. Anyway, I would highly recommend this game to anybody. 
 Don't get scared away by its childish looks because you will miss out on a great game, especially 
 with the lack of 360 titles out at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdWarCrisis
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Dreadful. Never in my life have i come across anything more tacky and childish. i don't know why 
 on earth Microsoft would let this game be published for their new box. it is simply flat. just 
 because the graphics enabled Rare to create snazzy little effects when whatever her name is changes 
 into a flower etc, doesn't mean that it is acceptable to make such a wretched game, if it is worthy 
 of the title 'game'. it is so awful that my 3 year old little sister would throw it away in disgust! 
 Don't buy it for the sake of your future gameplaying life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I am not super excited about the game. I like the concept but there are some things that are kinda 
 blah. It is pretty cool the grafix are pretty nice. The plants are really cool the cut type scenes 
 are really nice and the colors are great so that aspect of the game is tight. The controls are 
 a little slack. It is the fact that you use the joysticks to move, and then the triggers do the 
 action. You dont jump or run which helps slow up the game a little. To do those thing like jump 
 and run you have to switch dudes to do this and most times you cant switch unless you are still. 
 So that bugs me. The diffrent elements ( your dudes) are diffrent which is nice but sometimes they 
 are hard to work with compared to the next one. Like in the water the water element guy (dont pay 
 to close attention to their names) you pull a trigger to move foward when you usually use the joystick. 
 The dragon dude wont move while blowing fire, that sucks. so the controls suck alittle. The characters 
 in the game are cool and it is a neat game but it need to be revamped some, the funfactor is good 
 not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davahsa
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Cameo's word up has it all but Kameo is a third person game that does not allow you to center the 
 camera behind your character! For next gen this is just WRONG. But if you like kiddy games this 
 is pretty cool. My neice and nephew think it rules so they would give this 9-10. The game deserves 
 your rental dollar and is fun to google at. But if your not 4yrs or 8yrs old go and rent it. Play 
 gave it like a 9.5 so this might do it for you but EGM gave it like a 6 and you might hate it. 
 And then like 99.9% of the time, gamespot gives a more deserving score of 8.7. Higher than me but 
 they do know there crap. Be thankfull this was not on gamecube because you would of had to do a 
 lot of pointless reading. I want RARE to do something great but it has yet to come.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuckey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is fun from the minute you start the game. The very beginning of the game 
 has you fighting enemies and starting with some of the many "morphs" that you're acquire in the 
 game. There's nothing more boring, in my opinion, than starting a new game only to be greeted with 
 a long, drawn out cut-scene and then some mindless "walk around and find this person" or "run 1,000 
 miles and fight mindlessly along the way to get your cool special skill/power". Kameo gives you 
 some super cool powers right off the bat and starts you in the middle of a heated battle to teach 
 you how to use them. From the beginning of the game, after a short movie explaining the situation, 
 you'll be learning all of the "starter" moves through a very intuitive "Tips" system that is presented 
 through scrolls placed throughout the levels. Standing on top of these scrolls and hitting the 
 "A" button will bring up a tip that will tell you something useful about how to defeat the enemies 
 you're currently facing or how to get past the obstacle you're currently facing. This is an Action-RPG/Platformer, 
 no doubt about it and the platforming elements are fresh and can be challenging at first, but once 
 you get the hang of it they seem like second nature.
  
  Kameos "Elements" or warriors are fun to use and there are definitely some that are better suited, 
 or necessary, to defeat certain enemies or get past obstacles.
  
  The first boss fight in this game is somewhat challenging and combines powers from Kameo's starting 
 "Elements" to achieve victory.
  
  All in all Kameo is very fun and defintely worth playing if you're a fan of the Action-RPG/Platforming 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a delightful game that probably didn't NEED to come out for the Xbox 360, but I'm sure 
 glad it did. The game itself is nothing special, you've probably seen it before (especially if 
 you owned a Nintendo 64) , but that doesn't make it any less enjoyable.
  
  The core gameplay is solid and surprisingly easy, yet intuitive. The two triggers act as the main 
 attacks while the face buttons change which Elemental Warrior you decide to change into. It may 
 take some getting used to, and in some heated battles you may accidently switch to a character 
 because you want to use the face buttons to attack, but overall it's simple enough to be enjoyable 
 and deep enough to not get boring.
  
  The game's story is kinda weak; girl saves her family and along the way gets some powers and then 
 has to stop the evil troll king, Thorn. Yeah, ho-hum... But that really isn't the point... It's the 
 journey. The game starts you off climbing Thorn's castle, with 3 warriors at your command. You 
 then LOSE those warriors and have to start from scratch... Yeah, doesn't make much sense. The entire 
 intro level couild have simply been a nice CGI cutscene, but instead it's a level that requires 
 you to be pretty good at the game to start. What makes even less sense, is that the rest of the 
 game acts as a tutorial. So you're basically relearning simple techniques through the entire game. 
 Not a huge deal, but it did kinda irk me.
  
  Graphics may not be Kameo's strongest point, but they sure don't disappoint. The warrior models 
 are all really sharp looking and the level designs are pretty thoughtful. The game itself isn't 
 terribly long (around 10 hours or so) but it was a very enjoyable ride. My only complaint is that 
 Thermite, who is the best warrior BY FAR, is the last one you get. If Thermite got his own game, 
 I'd buy it.
  
  Music is top-notch, sound effects as well. Great score that really sets the mood. There was no 
 need for me to ever pop in my own soundtrack. And surprisingly, I never grew tired of it... A rarity 
 for me.
  
  Enemies aren't all that diverse, you have trolls in several shapes and sizes... and then some bosses. 
 The bosses are typical Rare fodder. Some took me 2 tries to beat, but that's really only because 
 you need some time to figure out their weakness. The final boss was really satisfying, and put 
 up a good fight. It really made a nice closing to a game that was a pretty wild ride.
  
  It isn't a masterpiece, and it probably isn't worth the purchase until a price drop... But it's 
 definitely worth a rental. I really don't think you'll be upset you had a chance to play a great 
 platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffenschmeid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, for those who feel that this might be a kids game you are both right and wrong. Yeah the 
 characters are a little kiddish but that adds to the overall fantasy world feel of the game. But 
 it can get quite intense in some of the battles as well and stuff gets splattered on the screen. 
 Not to mention how well the game is laid out as far as scenery. I wasn't sure of getting it at 
 first, so I read reviews and checked out the trailer. I decided that his was a game that I had 
 to get. I haven't looked back since. The difficulty is just right. Things seem a little easy at 
 first but begin to get harder as you progress. There is alot in the game to find like the elemental 
 fruit to upgrade your warriors and the elixirs to boost your life as well. I don't want to give 
 too much away here, for those who haven't played yet. But those who have understand how important 
 it is to find them all. There is a lot to unlock in the game, some are obtained by looking around 
 the various levels. Still ,others are only unlocked by obtaining a certain score which lends to 
 the replay factor. I mentioned the scenery earlier. That can be a little frustrating when it comes 
 to your camera angles. but it's a small price to pay. All in all I'd say that this is a game worth 
 getting. It is addictive and just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G0ne-P0stal
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying I'm pretty much a PC gamer, the 360 is my first console since the Atari 
 2600. So needless to say even getting used to a 360 controller was a little task in itself. (I 
 broke myself in playing PGR3) , and went back to Kameo once I was a bit used to it. (and trying 
 Kameo on the first nights with my 360 was frustrating) . 
  
  I'll admit the content is probably for a bit younger crowd, no death and destruction ala GTA style. 
 But it still has a bit cartoony violent nature, for those of us that enjoy killing stuff. I've 
 been playing Kameo in my free time, and in between a few other 360 titles, but find the game very 
 enjoyable. It looks awesome on my 34" Sony XBR HDTV (CRT's still rule) . The artwork in game is 
 great, it's a platformer, RPG, Action FPS sorta all rolled into one. I also like it because my 
 GF enjoys playing it. 
  
  For someone who didn't expect to enjoy this one much, it was bundled in with my 360, I was surprised 
 that once I got used to the controller, and into the game a bit I found it calling me back.
  
  If you're like me looking for a decent 360 title in these early days, I don't think this will 
 disappoint.
  
  PS Old gamer fart is anyone 40+ I just turned 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo786
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a classical rare title one of the best platform games to date. Using the power of elemental 
 warriors and morphing into different creatures is verry good and orignal. The controls were the 
 only thing that worried me before this game was release but when it finally came out and i got 
 to play it i found out that the controls cannot be laid out better than this. In the very 1st mission 
 you can look up and see the dragons flying above and think wow this is a true next gen experience. 
 This game is a must buy its unique orignal and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Some might think that platformers are a dying breed. The year 2005 however presented some entries 
 in the genre that might lead you to believe that best is yet to come. One of those platformers 
 is Kameo (the other is of course Psychonauts) . Kameo puts you in the titular role as a elf who 
 posses the ability to morph into several different creatures. Each creature has unique combat and 
 enviromental capabilites. Each one plays differently enough to ensure they are all unique in nearly 
 every way. As you go through the game you earn new creatures (called "elemental warriors") and 
 will immediatly put that creatures abilities at use. These ensures that the gameplay never drags 
 or becomes the least bit repetative.
  
  The game involves a large number of puzzles including combat puzzles. These puzzles forces you 
 to combine the abilites of the various creatures to defeat enemies and get over obstacles. The 
 enemies you encounter throughout the game will be vernerable to certain types of attacks. So for 
 instance some fire trolls will be vernable to water attacks while plant trolls are vernerable to 
 fire attacks. Bosses require the use of two or more warriors. One boss early on in the game will 
 force you to use a uppercut to stun him and then you must morph into another warrior and throw 
 spikes at him.
  
  The game features a open world where you can roam between differente regions and help out the inhabitants. 
 When you complete these side quest you are rewarded with fruit which you can use to upgrade your 
 warriors abilities.
  
  The game's graphcis are truely next gen. The enviroments are vibrant and alive. At the troll castle 
 you can see hundreds of dragons in the air. Later in the game you will encounter massive battles 
 that feature literally thousands of orcs and elfs battling.
  
  Overall Kameo is a great game that gamers of all ages can have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Everyone needs to play this game. This game really does grow on you. Kameo has a great story and 
 gets a little challenging too on some parts. The gameplay is really great along with the graphics. 
 I haven't seen any problems with it at all. There are 10 different varieties of elemental spirits 
 that you can use to just bash and kill all those evil trolls with. My favorite is spraying oil 
 over all of your enemies and then just toasting them up with the dragon. There are so many other 
 things to do inside the game and by searching around and opening up areas you can find alternate 
 skins for you elemental spirits. This is a great game all around and it is one of the cheaper ones 
 for the 360. Pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: night-wolf145
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Well Now Kameo is alright... for kids i think.., its very easy.., i had no trouble in it, and i 
 don't even own it.., well now controls are alright, graphics. good, without HDTV, i havent seen 
 with HDTV, the story is alright kinda weird, really cartoony tho, one thing i like about this game 
 tho, is how they make you think, they don't tell you what to do (while fighting bosses for instance) 
 and they make you figure out what to do, using most of your Elemental Warriors, to beat a boss.. 
 Anyways i recommend renting this game not buying inless your a little kid like 10 or 12.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Take a break from the shooting, sledge hammering and giant ape searching madness that is the 360 
 launch line-up with this action adventure title from rare following a female elf on a journey to 
 stop her evil sister from exacting her wicked plan. 
  As Kameo your job is to go from world to world freeing your ancestors and unlocking new Elemental 
 warriors, each with their own abilities i. e. Ash is a fire breathing dragon, pummel weed is a fist 
 fighting plant etc. Each world is different from the last from snowy mountains to underwater temples.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  There are two types of levels in Kameo epic horse-back, troll beating badland sequences and the 
 more frequent platforming levels. In the latter you must navigate through environmental puzzles 
 or fight enemies using your different warriors. Switching from warrior to warrior is as easy as 
 hitting a face button. There is a co-op but its literally just two characters instead of one.
 
  
  Graphics:
  HD or SD that is the question. Kameo is best seen in the former of course, with all its particle 
 effects, high-res textures and details but in SD the storybook/fairytale look of the game still 
 shines through. Framerate never dips and the draw distance/amount of characters on screen at the 
 one time is very impressive.
  
  Sound:
  Tons of great voice action from both the main characters and the locales. The score is epic and 
 really adds a sense of drama and scale to the action.
  
  Value: An 8-10 hour single player campaign with not much reason to go back for more, not etra challenges, 
 multiplayer or even a few mini-games but you can go back and try and score an A ranking in each 
 level or find all the fruit and elixirs in the levels to unlock bonuses.
  
  Overall Kameo offers a fun, fresh take on the platformer and adds a splash of originality to the 
 360 launch. There's a lot to love here but just not enough of it. Definitely worth your time and 
 at the very least a rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power, one of the two Rare games available at launch, is one of the most fun 
 platformers I've ever played.
  
  There is a wide scope of playability in the game, because of the 11 different characters you can 
 play as, which include Kameo herself, and ten other Elemental Warriors which are stored in The 
 Wotnot book.
  
  The story in the game is, you play as a fairy called Kameo, who has the power of transforming into 
 several of the Elemental Warriors. Your family has been kidnapped by your evil sister and the troll 
 king, Thorn. As the game progresses to strive to collect the 10 Elemental Warriors and rescue your 
 family.
  
  The main story is fairly short, but this is backed up by a Co-Op mode and a Score Attack mode. 
 The main story should take you 10+ hours but the extra modes should add another 10+. I would suggest 
 this game to any fan of Rare's former platformer's and also to any platformer fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power, one of the two Rare games available at launch, is one of the most fun 
 platformers I've ever played.
  
  There is a wide scope of playability in the game, because of the 11 different characters you can 
 play as, which include Kameo herself, and ten other Elemental Warriors which are stored in The 
 Wotnot book.
  
  The story in the game is, you play as a fairy called Kameo, who has the power of transforming into 
 several of the Elemental Warriors. Your family has been kidnapped by your evil sister and the troll 
 king, Thorn. As the game progresses to strive to collect the 10 Elemental Warriors and rescue your 
 family.
  
  The main story is fairly short, but this is backed up by a Co-Op mode and a Score Attack mode. 
 The main story should take you 10+ hours but the extra modes should add another 10+. I would suggest 
 this game to any fan of Rare's former platformer's and also to any platformer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  When the game starts, you are immediately thrust into the action and given control of three of 
 the Elemental Warriors. The music and setting of this opening scene gives you an immediate sense 
 of the grand scale of the adventure on which you are about to embark. Quick pauses with on-screen 
 text act as sort of an impromptu tutorial that not only explains how each warrior controls, but 
 also gives you some insight into how their abilities can be used to get past specific obstacles. 
 I found this trial by fire method of explaining the games mechanics much more enjoyable than 
 your run of the mill training mission.
  
  Kameo is tasked with freeing her ancestors who are being held captive by her jealous sister Kalus. 
 Kalus rage stems from her mothers decision to have Kameo succeed her as queen of the Enchanted 
 Forest, and shes decided to exact revenge against her family. But shes not going it alone; shes 
 recruited Thorn, the evil king of the trolls. In order to succeed in her mission, Kameo will need 
 to use her powers of transformation magic, which allow her to morph into one of the aforementioned 
 Elemental Warriors. Only one problem the warriors are scattered all across the kingdom and a vital 
 part of her quest will be to retrieve them. 
  
  Graphically, Kameo: Elements of Power is one of the strongest Xbox 360 launch titles. While some 
 might not find their tastes suited by its cartoonish art style, there is no denying that Kameo 
 does some impressive things in the visuals department. What screams next-gen more than anything 
 else in the game is the sheer quantity of characters on the screen at once, with little to no slowdown. 
 The huge draw distance makes you appreciate it that much more. The character models are supremely 
 detailed. The Elemental Warriors in particular, look absolutely phenomenalbut the quality visuals 
 do not end there. In recent history, non-player characters (NPCs) have had the habit of looking 
 somewhat blocky and out of place even in the most visually appealing games, not in Kameo. The inhabitants 
 of the Enchanted Kingdom and surrounding locales have been given almost as much attention to detail 
 as the games protagonist and her 10 alter egos. This helps to make the game world that much more 
 believable. Well, at least as believable as a world with fairies, trolls, talking trees, and walking 
 plants wearing boxing gloves can be! While the graphics are easily the best Ive ever seen in a 
 game of this genre, Id be lying if I said I wouldnt be 
  disappointed if this is the best we ever see out of the Xbox 360 (which Im sure its not) . That 
 said, it more than exceeds my expectations for a launch title
  
  There has been a lot of skepticism surrounding this game. Being in development for four years and 
 intended for three different consoles will do that to a game. However, the end result is unique, 
 fun, and surprisingly polished. It is not a game for everyone, but almost everyone. Even the most 
 hardcore first person shooter fans should find some enjoyment in this one (if they can just get 
 past the idea that they are a fairy) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iisryan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power was easily the best release game for the Xbox 360 although its sales and 
 reviews have been, more or less, underwhelming. Its the fairies and magic that doesn't appeal to 
 the Call of Duty / Halo crowd, the main target market of the Xbox 360. Do not be fooled, though. 
 Kameo is not a kid's game. The game will be entertaining to gamers of all ages.
  
  Kameo was originally going to be released for Nintendo's N64 and then, after a delay, soon after 
 launch for the Nintendo GameCube which is why it sort of has the Banjo-Kazooie vs. Pokemon feel. 
 Playing through the game, it certainly is drenched in its Nintendo influences. The game underwent 
 its largest change when Rare was traded to Microsoft and Kameo was planned to be an Xbox release. 
 Again, though, it was delayed one more system and planned for a final release as a launch title 
 on the Xbox 360. This came with graphical upgrades, musical changes, and changes to character and 
 story design. The main feel of the game, though, was left intact and undisturbed.
  
  Like Rareware is known for doing, Kameo boasts the best graphics on the Xbox 360 to date, excellent 
 original music, and such quality that you can tell it wasn't just scraped off of someone's shoe 
 one day and marketed. Kameo does many things that other console games have never done before such 
 as Badlands battles, where there are thousands of seperate enemies on the battlefield at one time, 
 each can be fought individually, without even slowing the 360 down at all. Kameo also focuses in 
 on the Pokemon-esque Elemental Warriors, smoothly incorporating them into the adventure. Each monster 
 has specific abilities that allows Kameo to progress through the game and defeat different enemies 
 which, at first, seems a bit too trivial but really grows on the players to where you enjoy trying 
 to figure out which warrior to use in which situation.
  
  The graphics of the game are probably the best graphics we have ever seen on any released video 
 game in the history of gaming. Think, the best graphics on the first next generation system. The 
 level of detail in the game is amazing. The grass, the trees, the leaves, the rocks, the ice, the 
 fire, everything looks amazing. The graphics are not quite as "realistic" as some of the other 
 release games such as Perfect Dark Zero but they portray a fantasy world and tend to be overly-colorful 
 (which I do not mean to sound like a bad thing -- it really sets the mood for the game and look 
 beautiful) . The distinction between night and day (and all times in between) is executed perfectly 
 and you'll find that revisiting previous areas in a different time of the day will be a completely 
 different experience than the first visit. The landscape really does look like a beautiful, fantastical 
 world. The character models, too, are top knotch. Rare again upgrades its revolutionary fur that 
 is used in Star Fox Adventures and Conker: Live & Reloaded which looks almost real in Kameo. Another 
 high point of the graphics is the way light interacts with objects. The way it reflects off of 
 surfaces, the way it is distored in ice, glass and water, the way it flows through gaps in objects, 
 it really does look amazing.
  
  The music, too, is one of the highlights of the game. The soundtrack is composed of many songs 
 that play throughout the game and, unlike most video games, are not well-rendered MIDIs or music 
 stolen from somewhere else, these are fully orchestrated recordings. For any fan of the game, definately 
 pick up the 27 track soundtrack. It displays some of the amazing music that went into Kameo.
  
  Overall, the beautiful graphics, the great music and the entertaining gameplay make Kameo: 
 Elements of Power a superpackage displaying the full potential of what has proven to be one of 
 the most promicing video game designers in gaming history, Rareware. Kameo is a must have for any 
 Rare fan or any Xbox 360 gamer, in general, no matter the age. You will enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_Hit_Killer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I really had low expectations for this game when I saw the videos and played the demo for it at 
 one of those 360 booths, but man was I wrong.
  
  First of all the graphics on this game are insane sometimes, just wait until you get to the Badlands 
 and see THOUSANDS of enemies onscreen each with their own individual AI! Your jaw will seriously 
 drop down to the floor in these scenes, my only complaint is that there's just so little of these 
 parts it leaves you wanting a lot more.
  
  The story not very revolutionary but good enough to get you on your way to explore every different 
 area of the game. The thign that makes this game great are the variety of Elemental Warriors you 
 will be getting as you play through the game, each warrior has their own personality and specific 
 use which can make for some great combinations and just plain out fun to play as each different 
 one. You'll find yourself in a wide variety of areas from underwater, to caves, castles etc. They 
 all have their look and feel acompanied by their own race of NPCs running around doing stuff.
 
  
  The only thing that makes me give this game a "low scoreis the fact that the game is pretty 
 short and you're left wondering where did all this time go. Once you finish the game you're really 
 hoping that something else happens so you can continue, but you can't. Sure, you can go back to 
 every area you went to and replay many of the stages but I was justa bit dissapointed when it was 
 all over and done.
  
  This is a definite buy for anyone looking for a fun adventure and is tired of all the racing, sports 
 and shooting games out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vic_Vega1994
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a great fun game. Its on the short side and repeatative but the gameplay 
 and beautiful graphics makes you want to earn every Achievement that the game has. The sound in 
 this game is awesome. The game looks even better if you have a HDTV. The different elemental creatures 
 that you can turn into have a different thing you need to use to get by in the game. I have beat 
 the game already and now im going to get the A rating in the levels. THe game still looks great 
 on a regular TV, but whatever you have is good enough. This game made a great reason for me to 
 buy a 360. So, if you like action/adventure games with little hot Elves then this is a great game 
 for you. And don't be jealous to announce that you like to play as a girl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DANIELALST
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Kameo's story line is simple yet highly addictive. The monsters which you can transform into are 
 very original, it is a classic back drop. Elves Vs. Trolls in a constant war. It seems that once 
 you unlock a creature you don't want to do anything but get to the next one. Due to this however 
 you can forget to explore the surroundings. But you always have chances to return to these missed 
 places in the future. 
  
  The amount of detail that Kameo (due to the XBOX360) can produce is outstanding. There are constant 
 battles taking place which have hundreds of Trolls and Elves hitting each other over the head. 
 The backgrounds have an unbelieveable amount of detail even in the furthest part of the screen.
 
  
  If you enjoyed playing such games such as Zelda: The Ocarina Of Time and Fable as I did then you 
 will become quickly obsessed with this game. Forget eating or sleeping for the next few weeks after 
 purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukette
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  kameo features some amazing grahics to go along with great gameplay and a wonderful story line. 
 i like everything about this game. all of the elemental warriors are needed throughout the game 
 and it gets a bit challenging at time to know what or who to use to complete a certain task (until 
 the watnot tells you what to do) . this is just one of the best 360 games there is it is great. 
 the only thing i wish that it had that it doesn't is some sort of online play, it does have scoreboards 
 but they could have made some kind of multiplayer or something like that. but this is still a great 
 game that is definitly worth a try or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskers08
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how this game got such hi ratings. This game just isn't that fun. You transform into 
 different things which all have different powers. There are a bunch of side quests and five or 
 six real levels. During the game you find elixars and elemental fruits. The elixars make your health 
 bar longer (there are twelve of them) and the elemental fruits are used to upgrade the things you 
 transform into's powers (there one hundred of them) . You only need eighty of them to get all of 
 the uprade for the things you transform into but if you want to beat the game you have to get all 
 hundred, all twelve elixars, and beat all of the levels (I found ninety-five of the fruits and 
 can't find the other five so i can't beat it) . To get more online points you have to get a rank 
 A on all of the levels (it is pretty much impossible) to get a rank A you have to go through the 
 level without getting hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrice2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  While the concept of gaining new abilities and growing more powerful over the course of a game 
 is certainly nothing new, Kameo: Elements of Power puts a new spin on this concept. You are Kameo, 
 an Elfin princess who is destined to inherit the ability to morph into the elemental warriors, 
 unique beings derived from the elements that make up the world. On the day that you receive your 
 first three warriors however, your jealous older sister betrays your family and unleashes the fury 
 of a troll king and his army upon the land. With your family imprisoned and you stripped of your 
 elemental warriors and their powers, you must journey the world and collect the various elemental 
 warriors in order to save your family and bring peace to the land.
  
  All that said, you begin the game not quite so stripped of power. In what is probably the worst 
 gameplay snafu in game, Rare decided to have new players start in prologue level of sorts in the 
 troll king's castle. You have three elemental warriors at your disposal; problem is, you are given 
 minimal tutorial help in figuring out how to best use each warrior and their respective powers. 
 It can be difficult and frustrating trying to get through this castle level, and it isn't exactly 
 rewarding to complete it only to see your princess get the taste (and the elemental warriors) slapped 
 right out of her mouth.
  
  After the prologue, you begin in the Elfin kingdom, where you undergo a step by step tutorial of 
 sorts. Why this is inserted here after you have already had to stumble through the prologue I don't 
 know, but the tutorial does a good job of explaining any aspects of gameplay that may still elude 
 you. From here on, the game does a good job of pointing you in the direction of your next objective 
 and giving you clues on how to accomplish it, without blatantly just telling you.
  
  The elemental warriors themselves make up the meat of the gameplay. While learning new abilities 
 as you progress is nothing new to gaming, in Kameo, abilities are unique to each elemental warrior, 
 and each warrior begins with a set of abilities that can be expanded by purchasing new abilities 
 with elemental fruit collected around the levels. There are also the standard items scattered around 
 that will increase your life bar upon finding and drinking them. As you move around each level, 
 your will have to almost constantly shift into different warriors in order to solve the environmental 
 puzzles and defeat the enemies scattered around. While there may be some trial and error, the key 
 to each situation is usually able to be discerned just by analyzing clues in the environment and 
 using the appropriate warrior's abilities.
  
  The graphics in the game are spectacular (especially on an HDTV) and are a great showcase as a 
 launch title for the 360, as well as a very positive sign of what is to come from the system. Animations 
 are incredibly smooth, environments are very interactive, and those parts that are not interactive 
 still look great (watching the wind move individual blades of grass looked very impressive.)
  
  The sound in the game is very well done. The voice acting is quite good, if not the greatest 
 thing since sliced bread. The games score is very well done, with several different pieces for 
 each environment. Sound effects are also very realistic sounding and appropriate for the actions 
 that they accompany.
  
  One of my biggest complaints about Kameo is its length; the game is simply over too quickly. Even 
 completing the few sidequests, finding every single elemental fruit, elixir of life, and alternate 
 warrior costumes does little to add to the playtime, and the whole experience can be easily finished 
 in 12-14 hours. With as many years as Rare spent developing this game, one would think that they 
 could have expanded the content a bit; nonetheless, what is there is polished to a glowing sheen, 
 and the game stands as one of the shining examples of the fact that not all console launch titles 
 need to have glaring flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickarate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and should be played by everyone who has an xbox 360. I really enjoyed it, 
 but unfortunately beat it in one night/next morning. Overall, I say that Rare should come out with 
 a sequel so that we can get more of this great game.
  The best transformaton had to be thermite, and you really got a chance to test him out in the level 
 following as you run through several hundred enemies fighting with your guys. My second favorite 
 had to be Ash followed by 40-below. Do not use either of the water guys if u get a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I just want to start out saying that this is a great release game. This game has kept me on the 
 couch for many hours.
  
  First the good. The look visuals on this game are great. The colors and details of this game are 
 just fantastic. The story is just ok but fun to keep up with. The elemental changing is a great 
 touch to this game. It was easy to use and to be able to use the different powers in combination 
 was also great. I liked the fighting style of the game. It reminded me of jade empire. It was a 
 smooth game with no chopy movements or bad frame rates. this game was challenging which was a surprize. 
 The puzzles were not very deep thought puzzles but still were fun to figure out. I liked the enemies 
 as well.
  
  Now for the bad. I was not 100% happy with the movements of the game. with the camera angles it 
 made it hard to aim and move in some areas. I didnt think that the story really was up to par with 
 other like games. I just wanted a little bit more depth to the story. Also, I wish this was a little 
 bit longer in its game length. I also didnt like the controls when you had to swim under water. 
 
  
  Besides the bad this is a game that I think that people should pick up. Heck my wife loves to play 
 this game and she has trouble with mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnoodle
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say that all the complaints of it being a short game are pretty lame. Sure if you 
 blow through the quest it can be that short, but to really enjoy the game you need to take your 
 time and find/solve all the puzzles and side quests that are involved. Add in the challenge of 
 trying to score an 'A' rating on the levels and co-op mode and you'll easily blow 25+ hours on 
 the game (conservatively) .
  
  This game takes me back to old school games with cool boss fights and all. My wife (who usually 
 doesn't care for video games) actually watches as I play just to help with the puzzles, check out 
 the world and characters and see what happens next! That's what I call an accomplishment... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is worth a buy... Overall it's a good game... I never really found it 'kiddy' 
 just cartoony... My favorite parts are the huge ass battle scenes... I love riding more horsey 
 killing litterally thousands of trolls... Or blowing them away with my dragon, or using the cannonball 
 guy.... They should make more games just like that... Also some pretty interesting & tough bosses, 
 It's gameplay is great & isent too hard, but the story overall is mediocre.... Bu honestly, it's 
 a pretty good game for it's genre & it's not to hard to figure out... But why did it take so long 
 to make this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruceisright
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  What seems to be common place with Rare these days they have taken ages making a games that was 
 originally due for release on the Gamecube, so about five years after that it has finally made 
 it's way onto the Xbox360, I think Rare are somehow getting slower, but if it wasn't for Microsoft 
 giving them a kick in the ass I guess neither of the two games would have made it out for Xbox360's 
 launch.
  
  This is typical Rare in it's high quality Graphics and Sound, something few developers can match 
 them at at least, it plays a dream to being quite simple to control as you would expect from Rare.
 
  
  But once again like many of Rare's games over the past 10 years it doesn't last long, only about 
 ten or so hours, for a game that has been developed for atleast five years you would expect it 
 to last a lot longer than that, if only they worked on the game length as much as they do on the 
 Graphics and Sound then they would be the best developer on the planet, but I doubt they would 
 ever finish a game, so it's a bit of a Catch 22 situation with Rare at the moment.
  
  Anyway this is a perfect way to show off what the Xbox360 can do, now if only Rare started making 
 games quicker then they would start to show it was worth buying them.
  
  You know I am right because I am Bruce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeyhotel
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of things i found interesting about this game. The graphics are awesome. I love 
 the characters "Thermite" and "40 Below" being two of my favorites. Kameo herself was fun to run 
 around as, but there were lots of things I didn't like about this game. Fist I thought the story 
 could have been a little more involved with the game play. When I rescued all the elders I really 
 was that excited about it. The gameplay I could never get used to especially aiming with "Chilla" 
 and swimming with "Deep Blue". I have always felt that the controls in a game should never be an 
 issue and with this game I felt like they always got in the way. Overall a must play, but I would 
 rent it not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gapboi954
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Sadly no it is not. But it is a good start. Fist of all the game is just stunning. And no you dont 
 need an HDTV to appreciate the visuals. I do have to complain about how the game began. It just 
 throws you into a battle with no idea of what to do. After you complete that stage it tealls how 
 to perform certain moves. The gameplay is very fluid and even with thousands of caracters on the 
 screen at once the framerate stays solid. At first I thought this game would be really childish. 
 I was pleasantlyt surprised that it truly wasnt. The game only takes about 10-12 hours to complete 
 but it is still wirth the $50 to pic it up. I truly recommend this game to anyone who is looking 
 for a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacarlson99
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I have tried about ten times to get in to this game, and each time wound up turning off my XBox 
 360 or putting in another game. I find the opening castle scene to be excruciating! It seems to 
 me that this is a game that can't figure out it's identity: is it a fighter, an RPG, or an action 
 game? 
  
  The ability to transform in to other creatures seems like a cool idea, until you realize that it 
 isn't pulled off very well here. I know there is supposed to be a specific creature best suited 
 for each enemy or situation, but I just wind up getting frustrated. The little trolls are almost 
 impossible to defeat, why can't I just have one creature with a front punch or kick? The abilities 
 seem like after-thoughts, and for me at least it would be much easier just to have Kameo possess 
 these abilities without morphing. 
  
  Maybe if I could get through the initial scene I would enjoy this game more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  My favourite aspect in Kameo is the delicious graphics, they are truly revolutionary, especially 
 pn the water. Other consoles could never quite achieve the water effects but Kameo nails it!
  It might not offer a very thrilling storyline or challenging gameplay but it is truly amazing to 
 play the battle scenes with thousands of enemys each with their own individual AI, and then when 
 you fight the battle with 'Thermite' it is thoughroughly enjoyable.
  I havn't seen a game like this in a long time, probably since 'Zelda' on N64, I don't know why 
 but Kameo seems to resemble zelda. And you're never left twiddling your thumbs as it's very easy 
 with all the constant hints which is a downfall. You'll also never get bored as you constanly have 
 new Elemental warriors to play with, plus you can upgarde each warrior which makes each one unique.
 
  This game offers great gameplay, awesome eye candy and interesting kooky characters. And if your 
 one of those who've taken to the idea that this is a kids game, It most certainly is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbroady
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with Kameo, and I also managed to have a heck of a lot of fun playing it. 
 The graphics are stunning and fully immersive. The challenges are varied are rarely repetitive. 
 The game is challenging but not too hard, which is one of the reasons I loved it so much. I never 
 felt stuck. If you do pick up this game, force yourself to get through the opening sequence, because 
 it's actually the hardest part of the entire game... so don't get discouraged!
  
  The best thing about Kameo is that it's just a great adventure. There is a ton to explore, but 
 it's always clear what to do next. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a very fun game. You play as the elf Kameo who must recover elemental warriors to fight 
 the troll king Thorn.
  The core gameplayis very fun. Beating up on trolls and other enemies is varied by the unique abilities 
 of your 10 warriors. The biggest problem with the elemental warriors is that switching between 
 them swaps the controls. The warrior Deep Blue requires you to hold the left trigger while in water 
 to move foward, crazy. The number of puzzles in levels can be a pain too.
  The graphics are amazing, even though people have complained of it being "kiddie". It does indeed 
 have a slightly cartoonish look, but it does look brilliant.
  The multiplayer isn't very good. It throws in another copy of Kameo for another player to control 
 for level designs which weren't really meant for more than 1 player.
  All in all, Kameo is a great game you should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleSally14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for my 360 when I got it a few days after Christmas. This game 
 is a classic and instantly reminded me of the awesome games for the N64 that Rare made. The graphics 
 and art design of Kameo are top notch, just what I expected from a next-gen title. The controls 
 are spot on and switching between the elements is hassle-free. The music score is also superb. 
 It feels a lot like the fabulous stuff from Lord of the Rings. I must say that anyone with a 360 
 owes it to themselves to buy this game. Anyone, no matter what age will have an awesome time with 
 this. I actually got my 50 year old dad to play some co-op and he was blown away when he saw me 
 playing the single player when you're in the Enchanted Kingdom. Everything about the game screams 
 the Rare name, which we've come to know over the years as one of the most colorful, innovative, 
 and polished game designers to exist. Trust me, Kameo rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, for starters, this game has some of the best graphics around. While you're playing ,everything 
 looks like a CGI movie with human control over it. I have a Dell 50" Plasma TV, so you can just 
 imagine how great it looks. I also have complete 7.1 surround sound for my games and just freakin' 
 everything in this game rocks!
  
  I got this game because it was $10. I didn't really want it. I actually was going to sell it because 
 I'd much rather save up for "Ghost Recon AR" or "Fight Night 3". I started playing and after about 
 an hour, i just couldn't put it down. The achievements you unlock are perfectly placed. It's easy 
 to get the first 10 within a few hours. I kept telling myself "Ok, one more level then time for 
 bed.". It's addicting. And I don't usually like plat formers unless it's a Nintendo plat former. 
 As a matter of fact, this is the only plat former I've liked besides Mario or something to that 
 effect. It took me a bit to apprechiate the game though. For a while, I was just bored until I 
 got past the first level. Then, I lost everything and you're on a quest to get everything back. 
 By things, I mean you're soul friends, whom you can transform into. You have choices between a 
 spiked-rock rolly-polly thing, a dragon, a weird Tim Burton water thing, and more. You basically 
 have to pick which character is best for the puzzle you encounter. Ok, so say you just suck at 
 these games (a la me) , you can just open this magic book and get help from the magic old man who 
 basically tells you "Hit the A buttom, retard.". It's fun-tastic! And let me add, that riding a 
 horse through a crowd of angry trolls is fun! Probably one of the best features is the horse play.
 
  
  For those of you wondering if you should get it, trust me, it's a great game. The trailer did NOTHING 
 for this game, but maybe a demo will do something for you.
  
  
  Pros:
  Graphics are top-notch; 
 sounds are compelling and inspiring to the game's atmospheres; game play if very fun and easy to 
 use; Horse riding through a crowd of trolls is too fun; Co-Op play
  
  Cons:
  Sometimes, your dragon may loose direction and get confused on where to shoot his fire; No downloadable 
 content : (
  
  Overall:
  A very great game that will sadly be looked over because of the bad spawning of crappy platformers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  well the start of kemeo makes you go huh, jump here and how can i get over to the next spot, then 
 the trolls at frist so easy. its like hit one two three and move on. lot of eye candy sure if you 
 like that the game well sell off the shelfs, but how about fun and some great fighting game play 
 , more to a game then just hey it looks great, go rent a fantsy movie for 4 bucks and save some 
 cash if you want looks, the bosses are ok. playing diffrent monsters you have is fun diffrent, 
 but a flower monster , but i am sure there is a base for this kind of game, for me just so so, 
 but it looks great, get some popcorn let your kid play and kick back and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  
  Kameo
  
  Kameo is an action adventure game and is the first ever game released for the Xbox 360. At first 
 the game may not strike you as being all that great as it throws you in at the deep end without 
 teaching you all of the game mechanics and such but you will soon figure it out. The plot of the 
 game is that you are Kameo and are on a Quest to rescue your family from this typical fairytale 
 bad guy beast thing that lives in a Dungeon. On your way you will meet lots of interesting characters 
 and places which add to the game universe and create a superb environment for you to explore. The 
 game has actually been in production since near the release of the original Xbox and was originally 
 intended to be released for the Xbox but it kept getting delayed over time.
  
  The games graphics are really great quality and look amazing at times. With lots of great colour 
 usage and interesting characters and wired and wacky places to visit and things to see it definitely 
 has its own individual look which really sets it apart from other Action Adventure games. The game 
 also features a few Cut Scenes which are not in game but still look amazing and add depth to the 
 story and overall look and feel of the game. The sound is also one of the games strong points and 
 features some really strange wired and funny sounds whenever you do a certain action in the game 
 and each individual enemy has its own sounds. It also features great music and ambience in the 
 background with run all the time.
  
  The game has a few unique gameplay elements such as character morphing where you transform into 
 weird and wonderful fairytale creatures that look like they came out of a dream or something which 
 is really great. The game features many of these creatures to transform into and throws you them 
 at you very rapidly and gives something exiting to look forward to whilst playing the game. But 
 it does feel like the game does unfortunately throw these creatures at you all to suddenly and 
 quickly and maybe you could have gone longer without receiving yet another creature. The creatures 
 however are not just different versions of Kameo which are relatively the same but look different 
 as this is not the case. Each creature moves differently than the other and has trademarks that 
 really set it apart from each other such as some spit fire others hurl balls with spikes at their 
 opponents or some are big gorilla like creatures. You can also mount a Horse and ride it which 
 is really only used in the epic badlands scenes throughout the game which features some of the 
 best battles I have seen in a long time where you travel past them out of harms way down the road 
 to safety. The game does however only feature a few of these events but they really help break 
 the action apart a little and give the gameplay some variation which is what I think the developer 
 (Rare) intended them to work.
  
  The game does however not feature an Xbox live feature and sticks to single player. However it 
 does feature a co-op mode which can be a blast and offer some mild thrills you can see right from 
 the start it was not intended for co-op and the level design was intended for one person only. 
 Although the game may strike you as a kids game that is not the case , its for all ages and everyone 
 can have fun with it regardless of how old they are. Over all the game is short, only around 10 
 hours of so but that 10 hours is still really impressive and groundbreaking and it really stands 
 out from the crowd. Worth playing even if only for a little while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 12, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing Kameo, you're stuck in a castle and it's confusing. But don't let 
 the first impression have anything on you. Once you're out of that castle, it's pretty fun. The 
 graphics are pretty. I stopped for a while just to look around and enjoy the view. The action is 
 great, too, and the old man in the book helps you out really well. br / 
  
  b b b b b b b b b b b bbb b b b b bb b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b bb b b b b b b b 
 b b b b b b b bbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  "Kameo" is a great game. Those of you who played the demo, Thorn's Castle, which is the weak training 
 mission in the game, STOP right there. The demo, as well as the first level in the actual game, 
 are total crap compared to the interesting, involving gameplay of the rest of the game. Even with 
 the lack of online play (or at least online co-op) , the single-player and single-xbox co-op will 
 have all gamers enthralled. It's a short game, too, but it's well worth the $50 price tag. The 
 graphics... wow, only PGR3 exceeds the sheer beauty of "Kameo." The music is your standard RPG-style 
 sometimes-boring, sometimes-epic orchestral stuff. The voice acting is well done. Actually, the 
 worst voice over is Kameo herself. She's a dull, lifeless character. I guess that's why the creatures 
 she can transform into are so interesting, even... cool. If you want a shooter, get PDZ (or COD2) . 
 But if you want third-person action only possible on Microsoft's new console, "Kameo" is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is an interesting game. For a 360 launch title, it's decent, but it lacks that punch that 
 truly makes a platformer revolutionary. You basically play as this elf thing named Kameo who is 
 on a journey to regain all of her elemental powers and destroy this evil troll named Thorn. It's 
 a pretty bland story that you probably wont give two licks about, but most of the gameplay makes 
 up for it.. most... 
  
  Gameplay: The majority of the game is spent transforming between Kameos different elementals. This 
 is fun until you gain so many that switching between all of them becomes nothing short of a chore. 
 You rarely actually need to be in Kameos true form, so you never really care about her, which isn't 
 a good thing to say when shes the main character. The games best moments occur when there is just 
 a ton of combat and frenzy going onscreen at once, and sadly, these great moments occur mainly 
 at the beginning and end of the game, with a few small moments inbetween. The rest of the times 
 are actually really boring to say the least, throwing useless dialogues, cliched gameplay, and 
 very easy puzzles at you. It can be fun, but it's not as fun as it should have been.
  
  Graphics: Kameo looks really good, especially during moments when there are literally hundreds 
 of NPC's battling on screen in a gorgeous environment with tons of effects splashing everywhere. 
 But just like the gameplay, the most noticable and eye popping graphics occur during the major 
 action sequences.
  
  Sound: The sound is decent. All of the elementals have varying sound effects, but it's nothing 
 too exciting. Just like the previous two sections, sound is most noticeable during the hectic battle 
 sequences.
  
  Value: There is a lot extras in Kameo, and a lot to unlock, but unless your thrilled but the main 
 game in itself, chances are you wont care about trying to unlock anything.
  
  Tilt: It's worth a rent, maybe a buy if you need it in your collection of launch titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Kameo, 1 of 2 360 launch titles from Rare, with its Highly Addictive Gameplay, Great Sound and 
 Good Graphics looked like a good start for the 360, but is Kameo all its out to be.
  
  In my honest opinion, sort of, the game oddly forces you to go through and complete a short level 
 before it teaches you the basic controls, an odd way to go about it, i know. From thereon your 
 told the story of how Kalus became jealous of Kameo and in her jealousy became evil and unlocked 
 the troll king, Thorn. 
  
  Here on in is where the real meat lies, your sent out to rescue your ancestors and collect the 
 10 elemental sprites. Heres where Kameo's biggest fault lies, while there are 10 elemental sprites 
 you seem to find and collect them rather too quick and you soon find that the game flies by. Kameo's 
 other major fault is the difficulty level of this game, its far too easy to finish. The boss fights 
 aren't as hard as they should be and most of the time require no thought at all, the Wotnot book 
 makes life even easier, the hint system barely gives you chance to think about the situation at 
 hand. As for the Co-Op in Kameo, its not all its made out to be, it consists of action levels rather 
 than allowing you to do the entire game as a pair, which to me completely destroys Kameo's replayability.
 
  
  Overall Kameo's gameplay, graphics and sound make it a sure hit for anyone who's keen on action/adventure 
 games. The achievement system in this game is very rewarding, a little too rewarding some might 
 say. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Before I played Kameo I had heard a lot about it and wasn't very interested because I thought it 
 was a kid's game. After getting into Kameo (there was nothing else to rent from my local blockbuster) 
 I was so impressed with the visuals and all of the surroundings. I became sucked into the story 
 and couldn't stop playing the game.
  
  The game allows for you to find different elemental spirits and use their abilities throughout 
 the impressively large world... the storyline keeps you just interested enough...
  
  Some parts can be slightly frustrating because it can take a while to figure out some what you 
 have to do or exactly where to go but you have a book called the "wotnot" to help you along the 
 way...
  
  Solid game... just rent it cuz you can beat it and unlock everything in under 10 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I remember the days when Kameo was all set to be an N64 game... then with the purchase of Rare by 
 microsoft it became an xbox game before finally emerging to us as an Xbox 360 launch title... and 
 the only one of it's genre too so naturallyit made it onto my list of games to purchase with my 
 new toy.
  
  Anyway in Kameo you play as a young lady called.... Kameo, gifted with the power to transform into 
 elemental warriors... however Kameo's sister insane with jealousy decided to awaken the evil troll 
 king thorn who was previously defeated and turned to stone... as if that wasnt bad enough she then 
 teams up with the massive brute ad imprisons the rest of Kameo's family... the opening gambit of 
 the game sees you defeated and suffering the obligatory loss of all your fanastic powers.. thus 
 all seems hopeless so as a last hope to save the day you must travel the world regaining your morphing 
 abilities, saving your family and protecting the realm thus giving you the strength to defeat big 
 bad thorn once and for all and restore peace to the land.
  
  What you'll find here is a platform adventure title with lots of polish and high definition style 
 you'll also find some high production values most likely testament to the games long development 
 time. 
  
  The presentation you'll find here is pretty superb the grapics are sharp... the textures splendid... effects 
 like lighting and water well implimented and the bright bold pallette used really gives this title 
 a vibrant lively feel.
  There are also several moments where ther will be literally hundreds of nasty trolls on screen 
 at once hight impressive as you ride through great crowds of them on a horse watching them scatter.
 
  
  Gameplay wise it's as you'd expect from other similar games... a little combat... some platforming 
 and a few wel placed puzzles here and there much like in other top adventures such as legend of 
 zelda titles there is your main quest in hand... but also many optional side quests on hand to earn 
 you bonus items and power ups, one monor improvement i felt could have been implimented here would 
 have been some sort of record or to do list of these side quests as you meet the people in need... as 
 you often do not have the means to help the unfortunate NPC's until you return later in the game 
 with new powers... but this is just a minor issue.
  
  The creatures you gain the ability to morph to do not only grant you combat prowess but also serve 
 as living keys as such when you aquire a new creature you can use it's skills to reach previously 
 unnaccessable areas of the game and thus progress with the story... these characters you gain are 
 all nicely designed and balanced with varying abilities asd thus are useful in differing situations, 
 of course innevitably you'll develop favourites and some will be used most than others. 
  
  After the initial adventure is complete theres even more to be done... as the game features a co-op 
 mode a score attcak (which by the way i feel A rank must be impossible to attain) and another elusive 
 xbox live achievement for getting all the games hidden collectables and upgrades... thus giving 
 the game further lifespan which is good since the adventure can be over fairly swiftly if you set 
 your mind to it.
  
  However I am informed that additional content is being play tested in the new year with a view 
 to revitalising the title with additional levels etc when the party's over... so keep your eyes 
 on live and hopefully we'll see more adventure from Kameo soon.
  
  All in all an enjoyable adventure for gamers of any age well made and a nice change from the more 
 serious nature of most of the 360's launch titles
  
  obviously as the first of its genre on the console it sets the standard for those that follow it... lets 
 keep the standards high guys.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario2653
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I just started playing Kameo yesterday and i would say that I am around an hour into the game. 
 You get to chose between four different characters at any time in the game. They are all evenly 
 important. Throughout the game you are faced with enemies and obstacles where finding the right 
 charactor is very important. The plant is my favorite with its little one two punches. This game 
 has great graphics and beautiful colors that really sport the xbox 360's capability. This game 
 is easy to pick up thanks to the simple controls scheme. This game is good for any age crowd. I 
 am very happy that i picked this game up and am looking forward to play through the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  UPDATED on 07/04/2006 (or 04/07/2006 for the American calendar) due to the newly released Xbox 
 Live addition by Rare and Microsoft Game Studios. 
  
  Kameo is a great game from end to end, and a game that the whole family will be able to enjoy. 
 And using some innovative next generation graphics, one of the best in-game soundtracks and extremely 
 fun gameplay all help make the game a clear winner.
  
  Who can fault the game in its goal to impress and awe? Certainly not I, and nor, I think, will 
 you be able to. Kameo is a spectacle, it really is. But as with some of the Xbox 360's launch games, 
 not every single thing on show is perfect. In fact, as Kameo's visuals go they are perhaps best 
 described as "varied". Most areas of the game truly look organic and "next gen", and others look 
 less so.
  
  It is true that the bulk of the graphics are stunning, but just the occasional area will look out 
 of place. No matter though, as everything else in the game is a wonder to behold, including that 
 previously mentioned soundtrack. So too is the gameplay, which could probably qualify as being 
 hailed as being "rock solid".
  
  Kameo's concept is also something to get excited about. Though the story is just your usual fantasy 
 game affair, the Elemental Warriors add so much variation and fun to the game that it has to be 
 experienced to be believed. Basically, you have to unlock ten different characters through the 
 game, and with each come unique methods of exploring the universe of Kameo.
  
  In short, Kameo is a wonderfully fun and addictive game the family will love. This isnt just a 
 game for the kids either, this is a game both kids and adults will enjoy and appreciate in spades. 
 The only thing I deeply regret is not being able to award the game a ten-out-of-ten for its graphics. 
 Literally everything on show screams a ten, but if the game were more consistent and thorough, 
 it surely would have been bumped up a notch.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.6/10
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  
  Kameo's Xbox Live features, in review:
 
  
  Today, Rare and Microsoft Game Studios (or better known as MGS) unleashed their long-touted Xbox 
 Live features for Kameo - the now huge blockbuster action/adventure videogame that pits a courageous 
 shape-shifter-like being that can transform into wondrous creatures, against an army of brutal 
 trolls. 
  
  When you boot up the game, you'll be asked to download an update from the Xbox Live service - do 
 so, and when the game reboots you will find a few new and exciting menus to browse through (providing 
 you have also downloaded the much needed Xbox Live add-on pack from the Marketplace of course) . 
 
  
  First of all, you can only take advantage of this online co-op mode if you have successfully completed 
 the main quest in the game. If you havent, then I suggest you start right now, if you have completed 
 it, read on. 
  
  You can choose to play on any of the game's main quests, Thorn's Castle, The Forbidden Forest, 
 The Water Temple and so on and so forth. At the end of each segment is of course the boss for that 
 level, so you'll need to make sure you and your online buddy has sufficient enough skills to take 
 down the baddies. 
  
  So it is a simple online affair, but I can assure you it is a very good and enjoyable one. You 
 can only team up with just one other person, but that way it works better if all you want to do 
 is complete the quest, earn points and even Achievements. 
  
  It would have been nice if Rare and MGS had included some more options, perhaps even allowing for 
 up to eight players to roam these vast, spectacular levels, but alas, it was not to be. What we 
 have here instead is an all-around solid online co-op mode that extends the life of the game, and 
 is sure to please all who partakes. Enjoy.
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  
  Revised Score: 
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 619Style
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  I got Kameo 7 days ago and i'm hooked on it just like when i got Halo 2. If anything the graphics 
 need a little work if graphics were a little better it would outrank and other Xbox 360 game. This 
 game is highly addictive and is tons of fun it's more of a kids game but it's actually really fun. 
 This game is for sure one of the best in the Xbox 360 released line up. Anyone who likes games 
 with adventure and Challenge get it, it is better than Final Fantasy and all the big adventure 
 games. Buy this Keep it and die playing it.
  Anyone who has played this game knows that Kameo is one of the greatest games released so far for 
 the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epaur123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok dont let the Fable thing scare you off because I'm sure alot of people that hate Fable with 
 an iron fist will still enjoy the pleasant storybook fairytale that is, Kameo: Elements of Power. 
 I am one of those people who cant get enough of the Medievil fantasy games like Fable and Champions 
 of Norrath and WoW and TES III: Morrowind and... well, the list goes on. One of the best things about 
 Kameo is that is doesnt lack originality, for instance, how many games feature a young elf that 
 can morph into ten beasts that have specific powers and weaknesess, ummmm I cant think of that 
 many! Now, on to the graphics, playing this game is like watching a Pixar movie! I mean it is beautiful! 
 Everything from the water effects to the way the caves shine and glisten. Kameo doesnt lack diversity 
 either, there are several different villiges with different themes, like a paradice beach and an 
 ice village. The one drawback of the whole game is that the main quest will take you about 13 hours 
 to complete, but if you are really a hardcore gamer and want to find everything in the game, then 
 it will last you about 15 to 16 hours. Kameo: Elements of Power is one of the few kid-friendly 
 games for the 360 and I definatly recomment it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etc00_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is one of the first party launch titles for the Xbox 360. Developed by 
 Rare and having been in development since the N64 days, you would think that Rare could deliver 
 a highly polished gaming experience. Instead what is delivered is a fun but somewhat flawed title, 
 that remains a fun launch title for the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay:
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a game that can be classified best as a puzzle-platformer. Kameo, the 
 lead character, has the ability to transform into a grand total of ten elemental warriors that 
 run through the typical range of elements, fire, ice, rock, water, etc... The fun and challenge 
 in Kameo: Elements of Power is combining the abilities of the various elemental warriors in order 
 to advance through the game world and defeat various bosses. One example of Kameo's ability comes 
 within the training stage of the game where first Kameo transforms into Major Ruin, who looks sort 
 of like an armadillo that can roll into a ball, to jump towards an ice wall where she then transforms 
 into Chilla the ice warrior who can climb the wall. As is typical in games developed by Rare there 
 are various objects to collect, but if you do not want to collect them you really do not encounter 
 much in the way of difficulty. The majority of the game's challenge comes from figuring out the 
 combination of elemental warriors needed for each challenge.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  Playing this game in high definition really shows off the graphics. They are of a high quality 
 for a game of this type, but compared to the other Xbox 360 games available at launch, this game 
 is really only slightly better than a traditional Xbox game. The sound in this game is alright 
 but does not take full advantage of the benefits of surround sound.
  
  Conclusion:
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a good launch title for the Xbox 360 and if you have been able to get 
 an Xbox 360 it is a good buy for your collection. Kameo: Elements of Power is not a game though 
 I would recommend purchasing an Xbox 360 for though. It is a fun game, but lacks the polish and 
 wow factor that you would expect from a next-generation game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Kameo was another launch title that had been hyped up for a long time. Rare offers us two excellent 
 samples from their arsenal, and I am here today to talk about the second one, Kameo.
  
  You play a young princess, betrayed by her sister to the forces of darkness. She has joined up 
 with these nasty trolls, and imprisoned the rest of the family. Your job is to bust them out, and 
 get your vengeance. The opening of this game really reminded me of the second movie in a series 
 by the same guy who is doing a movie about a big monkey. You have the ability to take over the 
 power of the elements and transform into different characters. You start with three different personas. 
 A crazy looking fighting plant, a big ice monkey, and this wild rolling armadillo are your choices 
 to do battle with. Personally I found the plant to be the most handy at the start, but the speed 
 of the armadillo thing helps you get over barriers and stun enemies. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The elements are the focus of your powers and abilities. Fire, Water, Rock, Ice, and Plant elements 
 all have 2 differents fighters each that you can unlock, giving you ten total fighters to choose 
 from. If you keep your eyes peeled you can unlock them all before you have to fight your sister 
 and the troll king.
  
  This elemental transformation ability was a neat spin for this game, but it was overshadowed by 
 issues within the game. First off I thought that this title did very little at the beginning to 
 help you find your way. There is so much attention to detail. That is is easy to get lost and miss 
 things. I found my self retracing my steps a lot trying to find the way to the next section. 
 
  The controls were also very sluggish I felt. Controlling the characters was very non-intuitive, 
 and clumsy a lot of the time. I really do not understand why developers are butting so much work 
 into these stunning, amazing visuals, but seems like how to navigate around them was just cursory 
 at best. 
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  I really do not even know where to start with this. This is the most beautiful game I have ever 
 seen. The colors seem to just leap off the screen and the lighting effects are out of this world. 
 This is the launch title to really show off the graphics power of the 360. There is a level towars 
 the beginning that you are navigating through this volcano type thing, and I found myself falling 
 into the lava just to see what it looked like. It really took off once I plugged it into a HD monitor. 
 It was like being through the looking glass, truly it was an expierence. 
  
  Audio
  
  I couldnt find any music out of my own library that worked with this title, so I was left with 
 the in game music. It wasnt bad, but got a little campy during times. Other times, it really helped 
 to add to the mood of the game. While it is a lot of fighting trolls and whatnot, it still has 
 some very lighthearted moments. 
  
  Depth and Fun Factor
  
  This game is a great game for everyone to play. I think some moments might be a little scary for 
 the younger ones, but overall it is a good time. If you make it through this game and you dont 
 unlock all your elements, that would be the only reason to go back through the game I think. Once 
 you have played it through, there isnt much reason to come back to this title. Yes there are some 
 side quests you can take on, but they are few and far between. You dont have a lot of roaming 
 around ability which would have been nice on some levels. All in all, once you are done it is done.
 
  
  Overall Comment
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a stunning release for the 360. It is beautifuly rendered and visually 
 breathtaking. Although there is not much to bring you back into it once you have finished the game. 
 Rare could have a great online expierece if they decicde to develop this game into a series. I 
 honestly could see this being a great MMORPG if they developed it right. For the single player 
 though the game gets very confusing at times and the controls are clunky at best. Find your true 
 element, Kameo: Elements of Power is available now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is the best adventure game for a number of obvious reasons: 1) the graphics, 
 a game that was supposed to be originally for the N64, then Gamecube, then Xbox, isn't supposed 
 to be eye candy, but thats exactly how it turns out being 2) the obvious nintendo  
 mask?) 3) it's just plain fun, its just got this way about it that that will make you remember 
 it as a great game, sort of like ocarina of time, it also borrows several gameplay elements from 
 zelda, which can NEVER be a bad thing. My complaints are the length of the game (less than 10 hours) 
 and the obvious story cliches ( i won't ruin them for you) but it's a great game and in no way 
 kiddie like some say it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delusionalnye
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Kameo was an excellent launch game for the 360. A highly immersive world with amazing graphics 
 that creates a benchmark for future action RPG's. Rare once again demonstrates their ability to 
 create a highly addictive game. The one dissapointment in Kameo is the length. At about ten hours, 
 it wasn't long enough. There are still many things to do and explore and the final battle, but 
 it leaves a desire for more. Still, it was a very enjoyable game with a very unique and creative 
 world to immerse the player into. I highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys the action 
 RPG genre. I hope to see a sequel someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfgang66
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Its very short. The graphics are the best for the launch lineup, but my big problem was the absolute-no-reply-value 
 factor. Once you beat the game, all the trolls are gone so you cant run around the badlands stirring 
 up trouble T_T. The gameplay was okay, a hellofalot of repetition. The sound is pure kickassness.
 
  
  The beginning was absolutely terrible, in fact most of it is untill you get good elemental warriors. 
 You start off with three decent elemental warriors, then you lose them. After that you only get 
 to use two of the worst warriors for a long period (about 2 hours, the game only lasts about 10 
 hours) of the game. After you get some good warriors, the game starts to get interesting.
  
  Long story short, its a decent rental.
  
  btw this is probably too hard for your kid, so 
 dont think about it dad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  it couldave been beter becouse it is the xbox 360 but they made it like if it was an xbox game. the 
 walls are not as i thought they would be but the game was cool i thought the coolest part of the 
 game is when you change ito other people. there are like 4 people there all differt so the game 
 changes the monsters are very detaild but the map isnt its just like any normal game out there 
 for any console so yea its just a normal game for xbox 360 with grafix for like a xbox .and then 
 its not even for live i think well what ever its not as good as it coudve been and thats what i 
 think. if you think different make your own reviewwell thats what i think of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEFUSMA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a great Xbox 360 game in almost every aspect. Kameo has great Graphics 
 (For a First Day Release) And the game is very fun. The soundtrack is very good in some areas and 
 the Changing in the Game is simple and easy to do. There are Situations in the game which require 
 Certain Elementals and its gives the game a better and more complex way of progressing through 
 the game. The only Con about Kameo, is that the Boss battles were way too easy. Just by knowing 
 how to kill the boss automatically guarentees your going to kill the boss with no problem. Otherwise 
 Kameo: Elements of Power is a fun and easy game to pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I kinda liked this game. It was sort of hard to get started. Learning the buttons was long and 
 I am an impatient kinda guy. This game by far took way too long to learn each character. Although 
 the game is short and it looks great on HD, I don't think this was that great of a game. Well this 
 game sure does need some more work on it, but it was fun. I think they needed check the fighting 
 controls needed some work. The only thing that was really next-gen was the graphics. The graphics 
 were what made this game sell its few copies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing i think is the best Game to date in this console. This game in graphic detail 
 you can tell that you are playing in a next gen console. Not like other games like look awful. 
 I've been really impressed whit this game, I can't believe that this console can move so many trolls 
 on the screen. Hundreds of them. I really Recomend this game as one of the best till date. NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY................ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kud-Dukan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Kameo was the first Xbox 360 game I purchased. I went out to my local EBGames a week before the 
 360 was released and I picked it up. Simply put, Kameo is a wonderful, fun game that will appeal 
 to a wide audience and can be a very refreshing game to those who typically stick to a single genre.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay stays fresh throughout most of the game. The 10 elemental warriors you recieve throughout 
 the game all play differently, and offer a different gameplay experience. The game's framerate 
 stays perfectly solid, even when there are literally thousands of characters on screen at once. 
 The story is interesting, although the ending leaves a few unanswered questions that I'd like to 
 see answered. Hopefulyl a sequel of Kameo will come out eventually to clear it up.
  
  Graphics - 9
  The game may look very "cartoonish", but the game's graphics are very lush and 
 pleasing to the eye. All of the textures are very nice, expect for the rare few that look less 
 the stellar, which is too be expected since this game was originally in development for the Gamecube, 
 and then the Xbox. People who are looking for a game to show off the power of the Xbox 360, should 
 definetly consider this game.
  
  Sound - 10
  The game has an epic, almost Lord of the Rings like soundtrack which sounds amazing. The sound 
 effects of the game are very well done. Anyone with 5.1 Surround Sound will love the epic battle 
 scenes, and the chaos that you can hear around you.
  
  Value - 8
  The game can be beaten in under 10 hours, so it could be longer. There are many hidden fruits and 
 elixirs that you can go back and find, so there is some replay value to be had here.
  
  Overall - 8.9
  The game is just alot of fun to play. For someone like me who doesn't play these 
 types of games anymore, it was very refreshing. This is Rare at their finest. After their less 
 than stellar performance on the Xbox, it is finally looking like purchasing Rare was a very excellent 
 decision for Microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I played it and got through it 8hours. Love the graphics, it really shows the power of the Xbox 
 360 however, it will look alot better if you really have High def because the graphics will be 
 more enhance and more mettalic looking surfaces will be visible.
  
  I really recommend this game to anyone who loves action adventure genre. You can pretty much pick 
 up the game and enjoy the visual aspect of the game. The gameplay is like no other games. You can 
 change to different characters and this will give you a chance to be anyone you want. The characters 
 have a different attributes and moves however you only use the Left and right triggers but it adds 
 uniqueness to the games play. Its really fun too when you play split screen with someone. Both 
 of you can play through the whole game, but it really takes away the difficulty. Although it makes 
 it less challenging you can get through it less than 10hours. 
  Its still fun and looks great. 
  
  Until then i will be waiting for the next Kameo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narazhai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got my xbox 360 and like the only one who cud afford it in my town i was pretty happy and 
 knowing that I would probably go home and knock the heck out of all the enemies in call of duty 
 2 cuz i thought walmart wud have it but no they didnt. the games i saw were nk6 or something like 
 that and dead or alive 
  and Kameo .obviously i got Kameo not knowing of what the game was about i inserted the disk and 
 played solo and when i saw the yeti climbing i thought an xbox360 about 50-60 dollar game is a 
 yeti climbin walls so then once i completed that task i figured out that u cud transform into many 
 different chars. amazed of something i have never experienced before . Usually im playing first 
 person shooter games and some adventure but this was different . so like im playing the game and 
 its about 4 in the morning so i decide to sleep [turning off the xbox 360 of course ] when i wake 
 up i go straight to the game and start playing feeling addicted but not really amazed of this game 
 a new feeling . Thats what the xbox does to u :D 
  
  [ didnt feel like ending the story ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaggedon646
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is just as good as video games can get. Humor is included in an RPG that 
 could rival (but still isn't quite as good as) Zelda: Ocarina of Time. It's really fun, has a great 
 storyline, a HUGE world with AMAZING perspective an detail in the graphics, GREAT backgrounds, 
 good enemies, characters, plots... there's really no downside to the game. You can go almost anywhere 
 in the world, which is huge and, as I said, detailed incredibly. For the first time I've seen in 
 any video game, the gameplay has equal quality graphics as the cutscenes, which shows the tremendous 
 detail that Microsoft obviously put into it. I really do think that the graphics are the best possible, 
 and they're pretty much all I can talk about. =) Basically, forget the new Madden. Forget Halo 
 3. THIS is the game I'm gonna remember the 360 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5410344
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  As a launch title this game is the best example of the power of the next generation systems. The 
 graphics are wonderful and the lighting effects are unbelievable. The music is great and it is 
 very similar to fable for the original xbox. The game also allows you to customize your character 
 by upgrading attacks. The elemental warriors you get as you play the game is another story. The 
 worriers you get at the very beginning at the game you use a lot throughout the game but as you 
 go through the game the elemental warriors you collect are used only on that specific level. Sometimes 
 it is good that its used only on that specific level because throughout the game you will come 
 across a elemental worrier that is so frustrating to control you will know which one I am talking 
 about instantly. The boss battles are very easy and the whole game is quite easy and very short. 
 You can finish this game very fast if you keep coming back to it. Overall this game is fun but 
 short and the game suffers from that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilLeaper
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I'm really surprised that more people aren't taking Kameo to task over it's sloppy control scheme. 
 Do you know why more games haven't used the triggers as jump buttons? Because it's stupid. The 
 wheel works. Don't reinvent it. Major Ruin careens around like a drunken Samus, and Deep Blue controls 
 about as well under water as you would expect the chess playing supercomputer to if you slapped 
 tentacles on it. 
  
  I was getting a kick out of the structure of the game, and the sounds and graphics are undeniably 
 terrific. But c'mon guys, didn't anyone playtest this nonsense? The boss battle with Corallis is 
 one of the most frustrating things I've ever encountered in any game. In concept it's pretty simple, 
 but the camera and Deep Blue's crappy controls are the real Bosses here, not Corallis.
  
  Shame on Rare, you've been working on this game for like, 400 years. You'd think the controls would 
 be tight. I expect better from a top tier developer. Or at least a former top tier developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is the reincarnation of the adventure game. This is the Xbox 360's Mario. Its fun, its midly 
 paced, its good clean and addictive fun.
  
  Kameo is rare's second offering to the xbox 360, and its the first next gen adventure game. The 
 game is alot like mario where you are thrown into a world that connects to other worlds where the 
 real action takes place. In this case, you are in the enchanted kingdom, a fairy world in the clouds. 
 Everything there is calm and peaceful, and when it comes time to fight, you are thrown into temples 
 (think Zelda) and other various locations to reclaim your elemental warriors and save your family 
 from your sister and the troll king thorn. Elemental warriors are different beats that you change 
 into, each with a different element associated with them (fire, ice, water, grass) .
  You start out with 3 warriors, loose them, and then by defeating shadow trolles and rescuing you 
 family, you gain them back one at a time until you end up with then. Each warrior has special power 
 and abilities that are used to solve various puzzles needed to complete the game. However, some 
 warriors have little practical use whereas others get used in every action level. Also, your last 
 warrior is super cheap as he makes all the other warriors a waste of time to even bother with in 
 combat. Aside from the gist, Kameo is a colorful and addictive game that has much more than meets 
 the eye. Upgradeability, alternate skins and unlockables and Co Op play make Kameo much more than 
 a once through adventure title. This is the decked out, fully loaded adventure game with lots to 
 offer despite its short 10-15 hour campaign. You will be playing this one for along time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigo4692
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  As I put the game disc into my Xbox 360, I thought it would be just another mediocre game released 
 in order to screw you out of your money. Boy was I wrong! I started the first level and I was amazed. 
 Gee, this game is AWESOME!! Look at this transformation! Look at me I am a boxing plant now Im 
 a Rolling Armadillo thing. I just couldnt get enough. I began to get very into this game. I loved 
 the Zelda series and the Ratchet and Clank series. Put those two in a melting pot and viola, youve 
 got Kameo. I began to do everything possible in the game. I would get all the eyes (which are attribute 
 increasing gems) , I would get every elemental fruit in order to soup up my warriors to be the best 
 that they can be, I would increase my health all the way by collecting all twelve Elixir of Lives, 
 and I would get every single Alternate Skin. I would pop the disc in for hours and just go as far 
 as I can until I beat the game. Now it is time to play the game again and get A rankings on the 
 missions. Now for the game play rankings and stuff.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  I wouldnt be raving about this game if the game play wasnt this great. It is nice twist on gaming 
 to be able to transform into 10 different warriors, all with special moves and different looks. 
 The action is great too. You actually crank up battle points during missions, which decide if you 
 get the A rating. I havent gotten any so far. You also get to participate in battles with your 
 fellow soldiers, and there is even one scene/part of the game where there are over 500 trolls on 
 the screen with the frame rate running as smooth as ever. Awesome.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Out of the games I have the (Perfect Dark Zero, Quake 4, Call of Duty 2, Amped 3, and Kameo) , Kameo 
 is only 2nd out of 5 (following Call of Duty 2) . It is very detailed and smooth. I dont thing 
 I have found a single jaggy in the game.
  
  Fun Factor: 10/10
  I love this game to death. Awesome. nuff said.
  
  Replay Value: 8/10
  I will definitely 
 replay this game, but I know many wont because it is pretty easy. It also may get boring doing 
 the things to get 100 fruits again.
  
  Overall: 9.25/10
  This game is DEFINITELY a rental, if not a buy. Dont be shy because it LOOKS kiddy, it isnt. 
 Be a man or a woman and get this game today (or tomorrow) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a fun platformer with a unique twist, but has some problems too., it could be longer, 
 have tighter controls, and could of improved on what it already does good.
  
  The gameplay works well. Its not a normal platformer though, a unique twist has been brought the 
 the genre where you can play one of many alternate personnas, such as the Pummel Weed, which is 
 basically a crazed flower which beats people up, or Rubble, who can throw rocks that are attatched 
 to him, as well as command other rocks to form things like rock bridges. These character all have 
 three unique moves, all mapped to the L and R triggers. You have to learn which character to use 
 at any given moment. This starts out simple but ends up getting a bit more complicated when doing 
 things like changing characters in mid-air to try to catch on to a ledge. The gameplay is overall 
 pretty good, but doesn't really offer a deep experience.
  
  The graphics are great, but in a cartoony style, and the models and textures are great. My one 
 problem is some bigger enviornments have the occasional pop-ins, which in my opinion shouldn't 
 happen with next-gen machines.
  
  The sound in Kameo is pretty good. The effects are nice, and the music is outstanding, but the 
 voices could be better. Kameo is a pretty short game, with not much to go back to, but some sequences 
 are really cool, which you'll want to replay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsvik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  There are few games today that can match this kind of adventure game. I instantly liked the game 
 and I've been playing in for 2 days straight now. If your only gonna get one game for your new 
 Xbox console. this is the one to get!
  
  The replay value is also great with co-op mode, and "chapter" rankings. Getting an A every part 
 of the game is not an easy task, and will keep you up some nights ;)
  
  What can i say. This game really surpised me, and i would recommend buying it as it will defenitly 
 be a enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a fun platformer with a unique twist, but has some problems too...
  
  The gameplay works well. Its not a normal platformer though, a unique twist has been brought the 
 the genre where you can play one of many alternate personnas, such as the Pummel Weed, which is 
 basically a crazed flower which beats people up, or Rubble, who can throw rocks that are attatched 
 to him, as well as command other rocks to form things like rock bridges. These character all have 
 three unique moves, all mapped to the L and R triggers. You have to learn which character to use 
 at any given moment. This starts out simple but ends up getting a bit more complicated when doing 
 things like changing characters in mid-air to try to catch on to a ledge. The gameplay is overall 
 pretty good, but doesn't really offer a deep experience.
  
  The graphics are great, and have a nice cartoony style, and the models and textures are great, 
 but this obviously looks better in HD. My one problem is some bigger enviornments have the occasional 
 pop-ins, which in my opinion shouldn't happen with next-gen machines.
  
  The sound in Kameo is pretty good. The effects are nice, and the music is outstanding, but the 
 voices aren't very good.
  
  Kameo is a pretty short game, with not much to go back to, but some sequences are really cool, 
 which you'll want to replay.
  
  Kameo's minor problems are what's keeping it from getting a better score in my book, but its still 
 enjoyable enough for the Xbox 360 owner to pick up, and its just $50 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman012
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  kameo was very fun alot of the time. some times it was a little hard cause, you somtime you have 
 to really use your head. it is a morphing link game.
  my favorite elemental warrior would be ash cause you can burn crap [or flex] . thorn was very diffelcult 
 thou. untill i found out how to kill him. co-op was a desapointment you have to unlock it first 
 then you can do the exact same thing over again. that is just freakin irritating [ i think] on 
 half the screen. i am a little excited for kameo 2 if there is going to be one. it was little predictible 
 at a ot of parts. majestic girl or whatever betraying your sister betrays thorn and dies in the 
 prossess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinnicks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The game Kameo has been circulating the gaming world for a few years now. A game announced by Rare 
 to be in development for Nintendo, then XBOX after the exclusive deal made between Microsoft and 
 Rare. Now with the launch of the XBOX 360 Rare has finally delivered Kameo to the gaming world 
 and the end results are well worth the long wait.
  In Kameo Elements of Power you play the role of Kameo, a fairy who has inherited the ability to 
 use elemental warriors in battle when summoned upon. After some family bickering you loose your 
 warriors and must embark on a quest to gain all the elemental warriors to save your family from 
 Torn, the troll king.
  The graphics in Kameo are stunning and really shows off the graphical power of the 360 with its 
 detailed environments, beautiful character models, and . One of the biggest letdowns graphically 
 is the water effects when your on top of a body of water. It looks like your floating in a pool 
 of molten metal and was very hard on the eyes. The sound in Kameo is also on top of its game. The 
 voice acting is very well done but its the musical score that was the biggest enjoyment from the 
 subtle tone of the town music to the imersive score of the grand battles that make you feel proud 
 to be a part of.
  The game play of Kameo is exactly what you would expect from a Rare platform game. Although a little 
 easy, there are times in the game where you will be challenged to complete a task with pin point 
 precision. Using your elemental warriors in battle is also an enjoyable task. You will have to 
 learn the special abilities of each warrior in order to advance through the game. You will however 
 find yourself using a couple of the warriors a lot more often than others, but all will be used 
 one way or another. 
  Although the game looks and sounds great with enjoyable game play Kameo is over just as the game 
 really gets moving. With a total play time spanning from 12-15 hours, depending on how much optional 
 exploring you do, you will definitely be wanting more substance from a next-gen game. But if the 
 length of the game can be over looked, you will find a gem of a game that none should miss and 
 a great launch title for Microsofts XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I am the first one to admit the concept of this game is fantastic. Kameo's creature helpers have 
 different, interesting abilities, make you think about strategy more than the average game (which 
 one or ones do I use in any given situation?) , and make you look forward to the next one you can 
 acquire. However, the painstaking tedium and frusteration bursts that bubble and makes it not worth 
 it. I can only tolerate this game in small doses. To give you an example of frusterating: things 
 that don't make sense. At one point early in the game, you can approach a gate that you can't get 
 through.... even though a hovering Kameo is small enough to fit through the holes in the gate with 
 no problem, the game blocks you from doing so. This is ridiculous, and frusterating, in my opinion. 
 If something makes sense, then let the player do it! It was careless of the developers to allow 
 for situations like this in the game. If the player is clever enough to find a way to continue 
 that makes sense, let them. Otherwise it's just insulting and ridiculous. Secondly, a lot of the 
 game is tedious try-and-try again tedious stuff. Like rolling up ramps as a ball at exactly the 
 right angle from exactly the right spot, to get over a wall. And then again. And then again. It's 
 just not fun after a while. Despite the clever concept and beautiful graphics I found myself with 
 a headache after playing this game. I wish I'd spent my money on something else. The $10 you save 
 by buying this game for $50, instead of the $60 most 360 games cost, I suggest setting aside for 
 asprin tablets. And by the way, this is not a "kids'" game as some have suggested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedcommando9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  At first glance the game felt sort of odd to me and I asked myself, why am I playing this, this 
 is the Xbox 360, where the so called cool in the game. Well the cool came very soon, right when 
 I got my horse (Towards the second level) and the camera zoomed out to see hundreds of enemies 
 on the map. I also started to obtain every character and realized what an amazing game this is. 
 You use each character to kill enemies and solve puzzles. Each character that you transform into 
 has its own abilities all of which are unique; I mean a boxing plant, thats pretty unique.
  
  You go around into different (what I would like to call territories) . For example there is 
 a forest, ice, water, and dark territory, each with its own unique quests and characters that you 
 get. Some parts of this game are challenging as well, its not all a walk in the park. By the way 
 the scenery that you see is amazing. Most of it looks very beautiful especially on HDTV, where 
 the colors jump out, and this game is very colorful.
  
  When I beat the game I still wanted to go back and collect every other collectable item. You can 
 get fruit, which upgrades your character, and go back to replay missions to unlock some cool stuff. 
 I had a lot of fun with this game and give it a 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  Kameo is the first "action, adventure" game to come out on the xbox 360. 
  
  The Good:
  The graphics are nice. There are loads of texturing on the characters that really add to the detail. 
 There are lots of "elemental warriors" for Kameo to collect (ten in all) and it's fun to get new 
 ones.
  
  The Bad:
  Some of control is really frustrating. Because you have ten "elemental warriors" but only 3 buttons 
 to lock 3 warriors to, you spend a lot of time switching between the different warriors (simply 
 because you don't know which one to use in a situation) .
  
  The whole game is spent collecting the elemental warriors. Once they've all been collected you 
 only have one level in which to use them all. Someone might say that this is unfair of me to say 
 because you can go back to the levels you've finished and use the elemental warriors to collect 
 items, which is true, you just don't have to in order to finish the game.
  
  The game is really short. I think I finished in about 8 hours. The time would have been increased 
 if I was the type of gamer who cared about collecting every single item in the game.
  
  The sound gets tiring after a while: specifically when the "what-not" book that tells you what 
 to do after you've already done it (the "what-not" book is a "mythical" book that helps you through 
 the game) .
  
  In conclusion:
  Download the demo from Xbox live and play through that. If you like it you'll enjoy the game. The 
 game was fun and I enjoyed it. It simply wasn't that amazing. I wouldn't buy it simply because 
 you can do everything in the game in the time you have it as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  When it first came out I didn't think it was going to be that great, but I was wrong. This is definitly 
 a must buy for all 360 owners. The gameplay is awesome with all the warriors you can change into. 
 All the graphics in the game are beautifull and full of color. The sound is also superb. The only 
 problem that I had was It was a little short. The game is not all that diffucult, but you can have 
 alot of fun with it. I also loved the upgrades in the game. When you collect enough of the fruit 
 stuff you can upgrade any of your spirit warriors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevutd12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  Ok well the bad things about this game, the bloody orges steal your horse when you get off it, 
 not enough orge fighting and the most anoyying thing, you can actually get hit during a cut scene. 
 Other than those things its a fun game, how people get 10billion points is rediculous, seriously 
 10 bill. Co-op seriously took a hit when they didnt allow you to play it unless you beat the level 
 first, uh doesnt that defeat the whole purpose of co-op? The game relys way to much on pummle weed, 
 hes really the only one who can no quick damage to get your focus up. After all that rambling the 
 game is ok. If it were on the GC it would he enbelieveable, but its not, so thats to bad. Till 
 next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clay10david
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Same ol' same ol' platformer gameplay thats been used for a ton of other games. It can 
 get repitiive and boring. That is what turns alot of people off of this game.
  
  Graphics: The best at launch by far. The Enchanted Kingdom and Forgotten Forest Glade are the highlights. 
 BUT when your out in the main area, the Badlands it almost looks like a glitch area compared to 
 those other areas.
  
  Sound: Very high quality spoken diologue and orchestra but sometimes its hard to hear the music
 
  
  Value: After beating the game, you probably will not want to go back and beat it again, but you 
 might want to go exploring all the places again when you finish. It will last you several weeks 
 but not months or anything.
  
  Tilt: I honestly didn't have that much fun in the game as I was expecting to. Boss fights are creative 
 but unexciting and boring, gameplay gets boring and repitive, the parts where you storm over trolls 
 is unexciting and unrewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daddo-splat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:14 am PT
Review:  My son and I both started playing through the game on separate Xbox 360's. Im 42 he's 11, and were 
 both glued to the game for game score and because its fun. He will play co-op with his friends 
 and play through the game again and again. I just beat it and I liked the story but probably wont 
 go through it again even though there are some incomplete mission times for more game score and 
 such. And collecting of fruit and battling in an arena to win stuff. Over all it was a three day 
 game with some amazing graphics on a 46 in hd screen. Some of the mountains and valleys when your 
 traversing from point to point are filled with great armies trolls vs. fairies. Kameo is a Fairy 
 like tinker bell she's got spunk and the ability to transform into different elemental beasts and 
 creatures with their own distinct abilities. Each elemental helps you through that part of the 
 game and you can pick from three at a drop of a hat and switch them in and out with a click of 
 a button. The game took me a few minutes to figure out the Major's rolling movement and how to 
 use it but after that all else was smooth sailing. I would definitely recommend Kameo as one of 
 my 360 games Call of duty 2 is #1 and everything else was okay. Kameo was Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Through most reviews ive read about this game say that it is way to short about 10 hours of gameplay 
 but maybe the best gameplay on the XBOX 360 that you will see at launch, so far i would say its 
 true. But also the reviews ive read say that most of the transformations are useless at times, 
 I think that isnt true at all, yes they may be useless at times but i think theres a reason for 
 it as you gain more transformations those newer ones are needed to advance and not the other ones. 
 My favorites transformations are the spiked rock throwing Rubble, the fire-breathing dragon Ash, 
 the beat the crap out of you and uppercut you to your death Pummel Weed. 
  
  Even though this game is extremely short i think it is definelty a game worth checking out since 
 the gameplay may be the best on the system at launch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I must say i was skeptical when buying this game. I thought that Kameo would be a little too childish 
 for me but when i really got into the game (which didnt take long) i found that there was alot 
 more there. This game presents different things for different people. Hatdcore typre gamers may 
 enjoy the massive battles and the pummeling of one's enemies and the more casual person will enjoy 
 the ability to avoid these types and enjoy the steamlined singleplayer. In the end the gameplay 
 has much to offer different gamers as long as you take your time to explore them all. Graphics 
 wise this game shows off alot of what the 360 has to offer. All models and terrain are very detailed 
 and it is clear alot of effort was put into development. Another great thing i noticed was the 
 lack of almost any glitches. When playing through the game i only encountered one glitch once and 
 it never came back. The only problem i had with this game was it was a little short, but with Rare 
 developing 3 launch games in a short period i dont blame them. The game was also a little easy 
 and the bosses only took one try to beat but for this style game its acceptable. In the end i definatly 
 recommend renting this game, when youre done you may find yourself buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2madtom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of power This is one hell of a show piece. A game that any Xbox 360 owner should 
 add to their library.
  
  Kameo: Elements of power is about a Fairy named Kameo who's family are taken by the evil troll 
 Thorn so the whole game is based around you finding your family and killing Thorn.
  
  In terms of gameplay, its a very good Wind waker copy in terms of elementaly themed caves. The 
 good thing is that the puzzles are not basic button pushing and block moving. The puzzles make 
 the say, get an enemy that can turn into a ball and throw him into the larva to make the door open. 
 To get to these caves you're going to have to cross the bad lands on your horse. These bits are 
 really fun because the lands are an openwar zone and you get to go through thousands of trolls 
 and kill them. That might sound pointless, and you'de be right. It is. But it makes a nice break 
 for you to do a bit of mindless killing before its back to the caves and puzzles. The game makes 
 use of all of the pads puttons but it still seams easy to pick up play. The land scapes are all 
 very sharp and colourful and the amount of stuff going on in one particular scene is amazing, for 
 example: in the badlands, there round about 5000 trolls with seperate AI on screen at any given 
 point witch looks fantastic!!!
  
  Your looking at around 10 hours of gaming if you don't want do do a lot of sight seeing on your 
 way which is highly unlightly because this is clearly the best looking 360 game out at the moment... So 
 go and buy it!!! NOW. Thats an order because not enough people go for a good adventure game any 
 more and its not right.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of this game are what catch your eye right off the bat. The game play is very easy 
 to learn and the auto save feature at key points is alos nice. The characters that you can change 
 into are also very cool and very different from any other game that I have played. The one down 
 side is that there is not much replay value for this game and is why I would not recommend buying 
 it. Once you beat it you may play it again to unlock to discover some things you missed, but after 
 that I cant see playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  
  Let me start off by saying this game is awesome.
  the gameplay is some of the solidest ive ever played in an adventuruous moderately platformer.
 
  
  The characters are all very unique qith theyre own great powers, there are 10 warriors in all and 
 are all quite good in melee and platforming heres some examples of the platforming.
  
  1. pummelweed uses his skillsaw like attack to get under low fences
  2. major ruin uses his charge 
 attack to get up ramps and across jumps.
  3. flex can walk on water and uses a "stretch shot" to hook onto things and pull towards them.
 
  4. deep blue the only char who swims underwater.
  5. snare not really much with platforming with this char except shooting "obstacles" down.
  6. rubble 
 agai not much platforming with this character except knocking things down.
  7. chilla able to climb walls and hit targets with ice to cause a reaction.
  8. ash is mainly used 
 to advantage with fire by blowing things up
  9.40 below uses his ball (feet) to easily guide across the ice.
  10. thermite is another character 
 mainly used for blowing up platforms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Formula_50
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. The ten characters are fun. The levels will require specific characters 
 and others are your choice. Co-op is virtually unheard of in the adventure genre and it feels great 
 to play this game with my little nieces. There are plenty of side quests to beef up your characters. 
 The game's difficulty is gradual. The end is about intermediate. The underwater controls of Deep 
 Blue are quirky. There aren't many twists to the story. It is pretty predictable. I was looking 
 forward to the online co-op, but it wasn't included unfortunately. I dislike the bias of this website. 
 I know that Zelda will score higher for no other reason than it is from Nintendo. Nintendo will 
 clone this game in 2006 just as Animal Crossing cloned The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is no doubt one of the best looking Xbox 360 launch game, from the unique artistic style 
 to the great looking Elementals, this game is sight to lay eyes on. Adventures in my mind should 
 be long, varied, deep and fun. Kameo is quite short, I finished the game in roughly 11 hours, many 
 environments and puzzles in the game are varied nicely, but sometimes they required you to repeat 
 some puzzles 2-3 times, which gets boring and repetitive. Kameo, in my opinion, relies on too much 
 puzzle-solving, such as boss-battles, where you must figure a way to defeat it using surroundings, 
 so if you just feel like going one-on-one with the boss, it's impossible. It gives you very less 
 freedom to beat it whatever ywa you like, and they should make strategy optional, not mandatory. 
 Other than that, each level of Kameo is pretty predictable, most of the missions require you to 
 ride a horse, do some puzzle, beat some monster, beat the shadow troll, do some puzzles again, 
 beat some monsters, then boss fight and it practically repeats itself like dozens time before you 
 finish the game. One of the horrible levels is the water level, where maneuvering your Elemental 
 in the water is really difficult, annoying and slow. That level will turn everyone off, and that 
 level is pretty early in the game. Overall, Kameo isn't a very fun game and is a rental at best 
 due to its length and quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:10 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game for the 360, and expected it to be another banjo kazooie style kids game, 
 but its a good laugh with brilliant characters and an easy to use control system, graphically it 
 does the job it set out to do, with very nicely done cartoon style and some amazing character models 
 and scenery. Some parts of the game are simply jaw dropping, and some parts are simply... not. 
 This is a good game overall, with a few minor flaws - the length of the game, the stoyline isnt 
 exactly amazing and the menu system could be improved upon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeneo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  Great Just Great Great graphics great details perfect in everyway good characters good gameplay 
 this is a game i would play for a very very very long time not only would i play it for a very 
 long time i would never get rid of it because this is truly a fantastic game there is alot to do 
 with this game but i will let u find out urself instead of telling you the entire game but there 
 is one thing i will say PLAY PLAY PLAY until your fingers are numb because the moment you put the 
 pad down you would wish you had carried on alittle longer saying to yourself i wonder what happens 
 next or what if i had just done that big boss so PLAY PLAY PLAY ty for reading this goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Wow!
  From the first trailer, I knew I had to pick up this game. While at first glance the game looks 
 to be childish, the challenges are not. Lots of variety, and the elemental warriors are a nice 
 touch. Beautiful graphics, sound, challenging "NON-TWITCH" gameplay. Makes you think and have some 
 fun with it.
  The plot is standard for high fantasy games, your family has been captured by the bad guy (your 
 sister) who has also unleased a horrible evil (the troll king) . During your ill advised rescue 
 attempt (where you learn to play the game at the begininning) , you look all of your transformation 
 powers. As you start from scratch you move through the landscapes, finding more elemental warriors 
 and eventually saving the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  Kameo is an adventure launch game for the Xbox 360. It is set in a world of fantasy where evil 
 trolls have invaded the peaceful elves. Kameo is the champion of the story. She is tasked with 
 freeing her family from the evil troll king Thorn.
  
  Kameo has the ability to transform into many different creatures. These creatures have unique abilities 
 that will aid Kameo in her quest.
  
  I have enjoyed this game and feel that it is the best adventure game to come around in many years. 
 The graphics of this game are stunning. The game is bright with colors and technical effects that 
 draw you in to Kameos world.
  
  I was really impressed with the Lord of the Rings type battles that take place. These are not pre-rendered 
 battles, but ones that are fully interactive. Thousands of trolls can be run over with Kameos 
 horse or battled with during the game play.
  
  Kameo is a standard setter for the all future adventure games. If you enjoy adventure platformer 
 games, then Kameo is an excellent addition to your library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuB3n
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  It's undoubtly one of the most fantastic games i have waited for until now. It's a shame that it 
 is so short. Using the power of xbox360, this game has fantastic graphics, the sound it's incredebily 
 good and it has a fun story. Transforming into little monsters is very fun and we have to use the 
 powers of that monters to go trought the game. Thre is a bunch of solving problems and in the war 
 time it's fight to the death, with very stange machines that you will have to handle with. For the 
 fans of Rare's game sthis is the right game to play, play it and you will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have high hopes when I picked up Kameo but what can I say it grew on me and is defintly 
 one of the best games out so far for the 360.
  
  The good!
  First of all I am a graphics whore and this game has great graphics, the gameplay is good, but 
 takes abit of getting used to, the storyline is addicting, the sound is good and looks and sounds 
 great in HD, the soundtrack to the game is amazing, it's almost halo good.
  
  The bad!
  The co-op is not all the great and would have been more fun if their was an online function. Abit 
 to short for an adventure game. Rips off Zelda alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is a great game, I'll give it that, but it won't last you too long. It 
 took me about 13 hours to beat the story mode, but that's the only mode there is besides co-op, 
 which are the same levels split-screened. It puts you in the roll of Kameo, a young princess who 
 is trying to save her family. Her family was taken by the troll king, Thorn. There is a war going 
 on between elves and trolls. The game is split into a few sections, each their own level. There 
 is a jungle-themed level, a water level, an ice level, and the last stage which is the level leading 
 up to the last boss himself, Thorn. There are ten different elemental warriors that you try to 
 save over the course of the story. Most of them are won after mini-boss fights with shadow trolls 
 . You can transform into the elemental warriors with the face buttons (A, B, Y, and X) and you 
 can also bring up a warrior wheel where you can select warriors. They have different elements and 
 power attributed to them. All of the moves are mapped to the right and left triggers, which provides 
 an innovative gameplay experience. The story in Kameo isn't really what keeps you going. It's the 
 rich, colorful environments and the quirky character dialogue and designs that will drive you to 
 finish each stage and move on to the next. Kameo is a very fun game, but once you beat it, there 
 isn't really a reason to play it over. Overall, Kameo: Elements of Power is one of the best Xbox 
 360 launch titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  Kameo is a game that is fairly is and becomes repetitive within the first couple of hours of play. 
 The game is also very predictable. With those few complaints aside, the graphics are very good 
 and the gameplay itself is very interesting. What interested me the most while playing the game 
 was how you had to transform into the different elemental warriors to accomplish different tasks. 
 The ability to upgrade the warriors was also a nice addition that I wouldn't have expected. 
  Overall, Kameo is worth playing, but the game is way too short and the time that you do spend playing 
 becomes quite repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLove336
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Kameo provides an immersive experience that showcases the power of the Xbox 360 perfectly. This 
 game is truly Next-Generation. The graphics are perhaps the best ever seen on a game console. The 
 gameplay has great variety and very little repition. The task of obtaining the next warrior and 
 mastering its powers keeps the player entertained and excited to keep going on. Additionaly, once 
 the new warrior is obtained the powers are simple enough to master because all the controls are 
 linked to the two triggers and combinations and the two. Kameo will provide hours of enjoyment 
 to gamers of any age (this game is definitely not just for kids) . This game is great and I highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The world of Kameo is more lively and entertaining than the one outside your door. Virtually every 
 character you meet has something to say, and some story behind it. The trees and grass are lush 
 and rock in the wind. The water splishes and splashes, the bugs are a little creepy. There many, 
 many references to other fantasy movies and games, everything from the Lord of the Rings to Super 
 Mario Bros., which is very entertaining. 
  
  The quest is relatively short, but you still feel like you've traveled a lot of ground and actually 
 achieved something. Partially, it's because throughout the levels, there are huge scenes of trolls 
 and elves fighting, so whenever you finish a mission or knock out a key catapult, you feel like 
 you're part of a major struggle. The last level, which I think is an homage to Bowser's Airship 
 from Super Mario Bros. 3, is also superbly paced and intense, and when you finally defeat the final 
 boss it's a great feeling.
  
  Controls are generally pretty good, although the camera gets caught in places. Battles are usually 
 entertaining, especially when you have a wide variety of ways to dish out damage. Puzzles are almost 
 always repeated in sets of three, which is slightly frustrating when you come across a boring/challenging 
 one you know you'll have to do twice more, but again, you do feel like you accomplished something 
 afterwards, not just pushed blocks around. 
  
  The most repetitive fight is taking out shadow trolls in the shadow world, which you have to do 
 five times. But the feeling of acquiring a new Elemental Warrior (each of which has an amusing, 
 moving cutscene when you unlock it) is always great, and you never feel like you wasted time. 
 
  
  The score is as good as the Lord of the Rings, and seems to have some nods to Star Wars and LotR 
 in the themes. LotR actually seems to have made a major influence on the game, especially the look 
 for Thorn's Castle (which looks somewhat like Barad-Dur) , and the horse sequences (charging through 
 a hundred trolls, anyone?) .
  
  There's not that much to do when you've finished except to try for insanely high scores to unlock 
 Achievements, and do some co-op, which hurts its value somewhat. 
  
  It makes a fabulous weekend rental though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This isn't just a next generation game, it is the first next generation game released for the Xbox 
 360 and with that position comes a great deal of pressure. Many people will look to this game as 
 a window into what Microsoft's new machine is capable of. Not only that but this game has been 
 in developement for many years, right back to the Nintendo 64 days and you would think with that 
 much time Rare should have made something great here. Putting all that pressure aside Kameo is 
 a game that welcomes you with open arms, the bright vibrant colours come at you from every angle 
 and immerse you in a world of action and adventure you have probably never experienced anything 
 like before. With all these colours flying around it is to no great surprise this game has already 
 been branded "childish" and been pushed aside for games believed to have more realism. For those 
 gamers who don't include this in their launch line-up i can't help but feel they are missing out 
 on a somewhat unique experience. This game isn't only fun, it is also very clever and with the 
 best graphics in any game from any console to date i believe it is a worthy addition to anyones 
 collection. 
  
  Kameo is essentially an elf princess with tiny wings that give her the ability to hover around 
 the landscape with relative ease, she can also jump and do flip-kicks but that is as far as her 
 moves go. You may be wondering at this point what the appeal of such a small array of moves can 
 be in terms of entertainment value and it would be understandable, fortunately for us this isn't 
 all Kameo can offer. Kameo was also given the unqiue ability to morph into a variety of weird and 
 wonderful creatures each with a handful of moves and abilities themselves which are easily accesible 
 via the shoulder buttons. There are 10 elementals or creatures if you prefer in all and 3 can be 
 assigned to the face buttons on your controller for convenience. Each elemental has their uses, 
 for example the first one you unlock is a boxing plant who has some quick jabs and some pretty 
 strong uppercuts that hold their own throughout the game. Other elementals include an armadillo 
 looking thing that rolls up into a Metroid Prime type ball and lets you explore places previously 
 unaccesible without it. Each of these creatures adds immense value to the gameplay and each will 
 be needed at various point of the game to progress.
  
  The game throws you into the action almost straightaway without really teaching you the basics 
 of combat and expects you to make your way through a castle full of trolls and other nasties, there's 
 even a fairly challenging boss fight at the end. After this somewhat frantic start the game then 
 puts you at the beginning of the adventure and teaches you the basics you need in order to progress 
 through the game. There have been many theories as to why the game was done this way and the general 
 consensus seems to point towards an opening that lacked any real wow-factor, so they stuck this 
 level onto the game to give it the opnening they felt it deserved. The opening level does show-off 
 some amazing visuals amidst all the action and if you are lucky enough to own a HDTV you will see 
 what this game really has to offer. Don't be disheartened if you don't though, this game still 
 looks much better than anything you will have experienced on a console to date.
  
  After you complete a somewhat simplistic training program the game puts you into a beautiful place 
 known as the Enchanted Kingdom, the whole place feels like you've been put into a fairy tale with 
 it's bright colours and it's stunning water effects. The adventure opens up at this point and gives 
 you the option of tackling the next level and obtaining that all important next element or simply 
 exploring the world and finiding hidden treasures such as elemental fruit. These give you the chance 
 to upgrade your creatures by giving them extra moves to pummel your opponents with, none of these 
 are necessary in order to complete the game but are welcome additions none-the-less.
  
  The game isn't all that difficult to be honest and shouldn't take that long to complete, one of 
 the reasons for this is the addition of a talking book that tries to help you just a little too 
 much. You may be playing through a level and enjoying it and suddenly a voice can be heard saying 
 "i have an idea" and the temptation to open the book and see what he has to say can be too overwhelming. 
 The adventure also isn't that long to begin with so this help can get somewhat annoying when you're 
 trying to get the most out of the game. If you are one of these people who wants to unlock every 
 single thing on the game and acheive those 1000 points towards your gamerscore this will take quite 
 a while longer, you not only have to find every single piece of fruit. elixer and crystal eye from 
 the game. You also have to go back and compete every level on the game with a rank of A which isn't 
 easy by any means.
  
  This game has quite a few impressive moments, there are full on epic battles in some portions of 
 the game, it's just a shame some of these weren't put to better use and perhaps a little longer. 
 This does add variety to the gameplay and there's nothing more satisfying than ploughing through 
 hoardes of trolls on a big horse. You'll also find some well thought-out puzzles in the game, while 
 not exactly taxing they do seperate the task of unlocking all the elements nicely. Throughout the 
 game you will face the shadow trolls, everytime you defeat one you unlock a new element into your 
 arsenal. These battles are all pretty much alike except for a slightly different challenge each 
 battle, dodge something here or dodge something there. This is a little disappointing because these 
 battles had so much potential, the battles could have at least had some reference to what elemental 
 you were actually unlocking. Once you beat them and you get your new creature all the disappointment 
 just seems to wash away because each elemental is so well designed and everyone of them adds a 
 new aspect to every battle you encounter.
  
  Again i feel i should stress this game is just too short, once you have all 10 elementals at your 
 mercy there is just so much potential, i am just so frustrated because i really enjoyed this game 
 and wanted to continue with the adventure. There is a two-player split-screen which sees you playing 
 the game with a friend but this isn't all that exciting and adds nothing to the game whatsoever. 
 The levels clearly weren't designed for two people and you will probably find yourselves completing 
 levels even easier than when you were on your own. If there are two of you and you want to both 
 enjoy the game together i advise one watching and one playing, at least this way one of you gets 
 to smash trolls into bigger trolls and one gets to admire the beautiful graphics.
  
  This game implements various thing's i would like to see included in other games, the save system 
 for one. The game saves your progress automatically at various points as you play through levels, 
 you don't have to stop and pause the game if you feel a challenging part coming as the game will 
 already be saved for you. Despite having these stunning worlds and plenty happening on the screen 
 with you the loading times are minimal and the framerate never really seems to drop, you can surely 
 only be impressed by it. The sound is just as impressive if not more so and the musical score that 
 accompanies this game fits in perfectly. An amazing soundtrack and some really quirky sound bites 
 that each character posseses wraps up the whole package really nicely. You just have to stop and 
 listen to any of the number of creatures you select, each one has a distinct set of realistic sounds 
 and you just can't help but be impressed.
  
  This is truly a Rare game and is impressive from start to finish, the game just keeps throwing 
 new gaming experiences at you and you just can't help but enjoy them. If you are looking for a 
 game to impress your friends with or just looking for a game to start you off on your journey into 
 next generation gaming you will not be disappointed with this game. Whether this game can stand 
 the test of time remains to be seen but i believe this will be a title to boost even the best of 
 game collections with it's crazy fighting and it's unique visuals. If this is what next generation 
 gaming is all about then give me another slice because i'm hungry for more.
  
  Gameplay - Simplistic but fun at the same time, the game lets you free roam or embark upon the 
 next challenge.
  
  Graphics - Amazing graphics that set the standard for the 360's powerful engine.
  
  Sound - 
 Great soundtrack and sound effects, each character in the world of Kameo has their own unique personality.
 
  
  Value - A little too short, no multiplayer value but plenty to unlock in order to acheive your 
 1000 gamer points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoochh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  when i first started playing on kameo elements of power i wasnt to fascinated but about 10 minutes 
 into it i was like 4 inches away from the t. v. this is without doubt one of rares top games it 
 even almost beats the legendery banjo and kazooi. what makes this game so awsome is the fact that 
 everything you do is different each time, having 10 changeble forms adds so much fun to the experience 
 even if the game took me about 9 hours to complete i was still going back for more. 
  
  the bosses in this game are realy interesting because of the sorta stuff you have to do to kill 
 them especialy the boss with the eyes. the fields of enimies in the badlands is out of this world, 
 there can be hundreds if not thousends of these creatures and you just smash through them which 
 personaly i find cool considering you get a horse to help out
  
  the graphics in this game are fantastic. my favorite game ever made is the legend of zelda ocarina 
 of time because of the graphics (at the time i was only 6 and i loved it ) , gameplay and the fact 
 that you dont know what is going to happen next and its the same with kameo. personaly i like the 
 grandtheft auto series but you expect the same thing each time to drive around rob someplace etc 
 but with games like zelda mario final fantasy so on they all have different puzzles, magic spells 
 weapons and places to explore and you can realy immerse you self within the game while GTA you 
 cant. i loved almost every minute of this game ( part from the first 10 mins) and im sure any person 
 who like donkey kong, banjo or zelda will do to.
  
  written by Capon
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BumFluff122
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for more of a family title that both you and your kids could enjoy Kameo won't 
 be a disappointment. Game play pits you, a princess able to transform into various elemental creatures 
 with different powers and techniques, (And if you choose, your partner on the other controller) 
 against the troll king and his minions in an attempt to rescue elemental ancestors.
  
  While this title isn't quite the next-gen people were hoping for it's still one of the best games 
 released for the launch of the XBox 360 and to my surprise, easily one of the most addicting. Probably 
 the only complaint I have about the game is the underwater controls. They could have been improved 
 immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power has been in development for Rare knows how long. It was first ment to 
 be released on Gamecube, then Xbox, and now it's finally released on Xbox360, but what has Rare 
 been doing all that time!? Can they deliver a great platformer once again?
  
  It's hard to say anything else than good things about the graphics in Kameo. The characters, the 
 environments and all the fantastic lighting effects all make this game shine. The game often looks 
 like a newly released Pixar film, but no... this is Rare's Kameo in High Definition. HDTV is highly 
 recommended to fully enjoy the visuals in this game, but of course it also looks great on a regular 
 TV. The reason I'm not giving the game 10/10 is because I think the 360 can do more.
  
  The sounds are great with some Lord of the Rings sound alike music, and some jolly happy tunes 
 as well. The sound effects are great with almost every character having their own voices. The one 
 thing that forces the score down is the acting done by Kameo's voice. She overplays every single 
 line, and ends up sounding ridiculous. The rest of the actors have done a good job.
  
  The gameplay in Kameo is just great. The whole game evolves around you changing into these monsters. 
 There are ten in all, and they are divided into 5 groups. Flame, water, rock, ice, and plant monsters. 
 They are all awesome, and can be upgraded with several fancy attacks and so on. Upgrading them 
 requires 1-3 Elemental Fruits, which can be found or earned by doing favors. The fact that Kameo 
 herself can't do anything else than hovering, jumping and kicking forces you to almost constantly 
 being these monsters. Which isn't negative at all, cause they are just so cool! They all have different 
 abilities such as climbing ice walls, melting ice, diving underwater, or shooting rocks. You will 
 need to use every monster alot to get through this varied adventure, which will last you around 
 10 hours to finish. But after having finished the game there are still things to collect, and level 
 records to beat so that you can unlock bonus features! Kameo isn't long, nor is it hard, but it's 
 a new kind of platform game that offers great entertainment from start to finish. This is one of 
 the few Xbox360 launch games that's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mech_Master
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Chances are you may have heard of Kameo: Elements of Power before. Maybe because it's been getting 
 a lot of attention since it's unveiling on the Xbox 360. But maybe also because it was a game shown 
 on the back of your Gamecube's packaging. Yes Kameo originally started out on the Gamecube (rumor 
 has it that Kameo may have even been planned for an N64 release at some point) back before Rare 
 was purchased by Microsoft and after that purchase was made, development of the game continued 
 for the Xbox instead. But in October 2004, one final delay led the way for Rare to turn their focus 
 towards Microsoft's next gen console that was due out at the end of next year. And that Kameo is 
 the Kameo we have today.
  
  With development time stretching out to nearly 6 years, Kameo has certainly gone through some changes 
 as well. Rare originally planned the game to feature well over a hundred monsters for you to capture, 
 but apparently this idea was far too ambitious and instead Rare focused on polishing up and perfecting 
 less warriors. They kept cutting down the amount of monsters (or warriors as Rare calls them) in 
 the game all the way down to ten. Rare unfortunately even had to cut out an entire warrior element 
 from the game to make the game's release. Some character and level art was changed over the years, 
 and to be blunt, Kameo has been through development hell. Luckily, in the end Kameo turned out 
 really well. It's one of the most compelling reasons to pick up a 360, and just one of the best 
 action/adventure games in general.
  
  The story of Kameo is simple, yet both interesting and unpredictable which should keep your attention 
 throughout the course of the game. Kameo's mother, Queen Theena, has to make a choice of which 
 of her two daughters she must pass her elemental powers down to, Kameo or her sister Kalus. Theena 
 chooses Kameo and in an uproar of jealousy, Kalus chooses to release the Dark King Thorn from his 
 stone inprisonment and makes chaos reigns over the once peaceful kingdom and captures Kameo's family 
 and ancestors. So it is up to Kameo to release find her family and prevent Kalus and Thorn from 
 wreaking havoc upon the land. To do this Kameo gets help from 10 elemental warriors she can transform 
 into and thus begins Kameo: Elements of Power.
  
  There are some interesting plot twists here and there, and just in general, the story is great. 
 Very memorable and entertaining characters. Each one brimming with a ton of personality and a ton 
 of interesting traits. It's just a shame the story ends a bit quickly. Luckily, the end leaves 
 plenty of room for a sequel. We'll probably be dead before that game finally surfaces.
  
  Shortly after being shown a, roughly, 30 second cut scene, you are immediately thrown into an action 
 level with no tutorial or without any time to familiarize yourself with the mechanics of the game. 
 You may see this as good or bad depending on the type of person you are. I like this idea, yet 
 I don't at the same time. I love how Rare made the game start with a bang and didn't force a two 
 hour long tutorial upon you like in a lot of games. But at the same time, even though I was already 
 aware of the story and events in Kameo before the game released, I would have rather seen a bit 
 of a longer intro cinematic to get a bit more info and backstory on the characters and world before 
 immediately delving into the game. But to be honest, new players to Kameo will have little difficulty 
 familiarizing themselves with the game. The game explains how to play all throughout the first 
 level, and enemies are little challenge, so the learning curve isn't nearly as steep as it may 
 first appear to be.
  
  The rest of the game is much more approachable. What I found to be very unique was the talking 
 wotnot book called Ortho, Kameo's guide. He's part of an adaptive hint system that, depending on 
 how good or bad you are doing, will give you hints and help you if you are stuck in a part of the 
 game. If you are a really good player and seem to be doing well in the game, you will seldomly 
 hear from Ortho. But on the other hand, if you... well, suck at the game, he won't ever pipe down. 
 He'll, in some cases, litterally give you the answers to the problems you're having. And if you 
 don't like this "adaptive hint system" you can simply go into the game's options and turn it off. 
 
  
  When playing Kameo the first thing you may notice, especially once you arrive in the Enchanted 
 Kingdom after the first level, are the outstanding graphics. This is the Carmen Electra of video 
 games when talking about looks. Kameo is one of the best looking 360 games you will lay eyes on 
 for a long time. Every object in the game is parallax mapped and normal mapped creating insanely 
 detailed textures that make the world come alive. Character models sport these same tricks and 
 animate near flawlessly with only a couple jerky animations here and there. Gorgeous lighting, 
 full time depth of field effects, and all that other technical mumbo jumbo most don't care to hear 
 about. Basically, the game looks awesome. For me, the best part about the graphics is the water. 
 You'll probably need a fork lift to get your jaw up off the ground when you see this. Not only 
 is the water just downright good looking with great reflections and refractions, but Kameo is the 
 first game to have mathematically correct water. What that means is that every last object in the 
 water will create realistic ripples that bounce, again realistically, off other objects and ripples 
 in the water. The amount of computations this takes to create is just insane, something not even 
 fathomable on current generation systems. Play this in 720p on an HD tv and you will be in heaven.
 
  
  That's not to say there aren't some bumps in the road. There are some graphical imperfections throughout 
 Kameo. A lot of the particle effects in the game seem to have been taken directly from the Xbox 
 version. And there are tons of reused objects like certain plants or textures all throughout the 
 game world. This is most apparent in the Badlands section of the game, which is essentially the 
 main overworld. From what I have seen there seem to be maybe four or five textures used MAX to cover 
 the entire landscape. They seem to be just copied and pasted all over the game world and not only 
 are these textures repetitious, but don't even have near the amount of detail as any other part 
 of the game. In addition to that, no objects in the badlands have self-shadowing aside from characters 
 within a few feet of you. Shadows from characters will just appear and disappear, no trees, bushes, 
 or any other object cast shadows, and the Badlands in general is just a graphical wasteland. The 
 only saving grace is the insane amount of characters displayed during some of the fights throughout 
 the Badlands. There will be fights with quite litterally thousand upon thousands of characters 
 fighting each with their own individual A. I.
  
  Speaking of which, one of the big new features Rare has implemented in the Xbox 360 version of 
 Kameo are the fights in the Badlands. But to be honest, I found these battles to be not as exhilarating 
 as they have been made out to be and they really have no effect on your progress in the game. They 
 just seemed unpolished. I know this may sound a bit crazy, but I really do think Rare needed more 
 time. They created the badlands and these huge fight scenes just for the Xbox 360 version and didn't 
 exactly have a large amount of time to do so. These portions of the game feel rushed and just whipped 
 together, but trust me, the rest of the game far exceeds the sloppiness of the Badlands.
  
  The big selling point, or gimmick depending on how much you like the game, for Kameo: Elements 
 of Power is the fact that Kameo can shape-shift and transform into 10 different elemental warriors 
 and must use their abilities to fight enemies and solve puzzles. To do this, she must hunt down 
 these "shadow trolls" that inhabit Kameo's world and chase them to the Shadow Realm where she must 
 then defeat and rescue the correspdonding elemental sprite. Each elemental warrior starts out in 
 a sprite, or baby form, then upon rescuing it, you are shown a brief cutscene of the sprite transforming 
 into its true form. These were actually the times I was most impressed with Kameo, and found myself 
 enjoying the game most when I acquired a new warrior. It just really blew me away to see the amount 
 of character, personality, and humor Rare can put in their games. Unfortunatley Rare could not 
 maintain this vibe all throughout the entire game, but still, they really did an amazing job with 
 these sequences.
  
  Each warrior, looks, feels, controls, and acts completely different from every other warrior in 
 the game. The Kameo team at Rare really let their imaginations run wild when designing each of 
 these things. Calling the game unique would be a major understatement and just downright insulting. 
 Rare has put that much effort into making all of these creatures play, look, and act great. Although 
 a lot of the warriors are used and needed quite frequently others are used scarcely and become 
 unneeded. And it never quite feels like the abilities of each of these creatures is exploited to 
 their fullest which makes the transforming element of Kameo start to feel almost like a gimmick 
 at times. A ludicrously fun gimmick, but a gimmick no less.
  
  Kameo is an action/adventure game. It's around 60% action and 40% adventure. Kameo, unlike a lot 
 of games in this genre, is mainly combat-oriented. But even the puzzles are combat oriented and 
 take use of the warriors' combat abilities. Luckily with a good variety of enemies, stunning boss 
 fights (although the final boss is a bit underwhelming) , upgradable moves, and new warriors to 
 acquire, the combat never once feels repetitive. Your enjoyment of the game's combat really comes 
 from how much effort you put into trying to enjoy it. If you upgrade your warriors, try to figure 
 out some really unique combos with the different moves of the warriors, etc. then I garauntee you 
 that you'll never get bored with Kameo's combat. Another interesting element Rare adds in is Warrior 
 Focus which is essentially bullet time. This can really allow your imagination to roam wild and 
 come up with some crazy combo moves with the monsters and defeating enemies in this mode and coming 
 up with creative ways to defeat enemies heavily affects your score, which prevents this Warrior 
 Focus mode from becoming a gimmick, like in so many other games that use some form of "bullet-time." 
 The scoring system is no gimmick either. There are a bevy of unlockables too, which comes back 
 to the scoring system. Just trying to get a good score in the score attack mode and unlocking things 
 will increase the longevity of the game substantially.
  
  The other part of Kameo, the puzzles, are a lot less frequent than the combat and like I said earlier, 
 are still more or less combat-oriented since they all take use of the combat abilities of the warriors. 
 Most are quite inventive and make you think, but they are nothing too hard, or too easy either. 
 A lot of these puzzles actually encourage the use of multiple warriors. For instance, early on 
 in the game you will see an icy wall that only the ice creature, Chilla, can climb, but there is 
 a huge gap in between where you are and where the wall is. So how do you reach that wall? Simple. 
 Propel yourself over the game with Major Ruin and in midair switch to chilla so you can continue 
 to climb the wall. It's creative things like this that really bring out the best in Kameo. But 
 there is a downside. The temples and dungeons in Kameo are far too short and small to really make 
 use of all of the characters' abilities. But in this case it's quality over quantity so I don't 
 mind all that much.
  
  While I'm on the subject of the length of the game, there is a huge misconception going around 
 that Kameo is an insanely short game. Some saying less than ten hours. Yes, the main quest is around 
 ten hours, but that's only if you avoid everything in the game. There's just so much to do that 
 it's like you would almost have to try to avoid all of the things there are to do in Kameo. Numerous 
 unlockables, score attack, side quests, elemental fruit to find, upgrading your warriors, etc. 
 There's just an insane amount of things. One of the things that will probably extend the length 
 of the game for most is the co-op mode. Two people can play coopertively through the action stages 
 of Kameo. This mode is neither spectacular, but nor is it bad. It's fun, but playing split-screen 
 takes away a lot of the fun. Online and system link co-op is coming in the future, but until then 
 we'll just have to settle for split-screen.
  
  I saved the best part of the game to talk about last and that's the sound. Kameo in my opinion, 
 is just one of the greatest games of all time as far as sound goes. Rare went far beyond the call 
 of duty and everything is done perfectly or moreso. Whether it's voice acting, sound effects, or 
 music, it's really hard to fault the sound. Rare for the first time actually went and got some 
 professional talent to do voice work for Kameo instead of using people from in house. Suprisingly 
 these voice actors did a commendable job, although I do miss a lot of the trademark british accents 
 from Rare's games. Then there's the game's music. Just, just, just do yourself a favor and go out 
 and pick up the soundtrack to Kameo. Yes, I'm recommending a game's soundtrack. I never buy video 
 game soundtracks or listen to them, but Kameo is the only exception. It has some of the most brilliant 
 music I have ever had the pleasure of hearing. Steve Burke is the composer at Rare and has done 
 and absolutely mind blowing job on the music in the game. I have litterally just put down my controller, 
 sat down, and just took a moment to enjoy the music of the game. That's a sign of a good soundtrack 
 if I were to ever see one.
  
  Kameo: Elements of Power is a great entry into what could be one of Rare's best franchises yet. 
 This series has a ton of potential just waiting to be put to good use. The only complaints I have 
 about Kameo are that the badlands is makes the game worse rather than making it more fun, it's 
 a fairly short game for one of this genre, and not all of the abilities of the warriors are used 
 to their fullest potential. But nonetheless, Kameo is one of the best looking and playing Xbox 
 360 games available right now, and as far as action adventure games go, I think it has set the 
 standard for this next generation so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasparov78
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I honestly thought Kameo would be a children's game, and when I saw the huge teams of bad guys 
 in the screen shots when they first came out, I felt that Xbox 360 was going to go the way of PS2-type 
 games where you just line up a billion bad guys and wipe them out en masse. I prefer PC and Xbox-type 
 games for the fact that there is usually less chance of getting this kind of repetitious gameplay.
 
  
  I preordered the Xbox 360 in July, specifically believing Oblivion would come out in November. 
 Yes, naive, but when it comes to Elder Scrolls I will never learn. In the meanwhile, I was going 
 to buy either THAW or Amped 3 to get through Xmas, but I knew my daughter would love Kameo.
  
  She does, too. I, of course, rushed back to Gamespot. com to read the full review while she 
 played, and thought it looked like something that an old Zelda fan might really enjoy. So, late 
 that night, I took a shot at it.
  
  The first thing I have to say is, "Dragons." The opening sequence blew me away. The ATI graphics 
 which shone on the Gamecube are finally showing through on the 360. The key word would be "surfaces," 
 especially in that holiest of qualities, wet. Water effects are always the most difficult to pull 
 off, and Kameo does an amazing job of it.
  
  Wet surfaces are more than having a shiny surface with a bump filter. Older generation games which 
 used this technique were awesome in their time, but still looked like plastic. The textures, which 
 really become impressive during fairly-rare camera "scrunches" (will there ever be a 3PP game that 
 doesn't have that problem?) are convincing, even with the camera forced right up to them. Again, 
 the ultra-smooth rendering of the ATI graphics gives the whole atmosphere a real sense to it.
 
  
  Since water can't be processed one molecule at a time (yet) , it can't look perfect, but the quality 
 of the waterfalls and ponds fit perfectly with the look of the game. The misty areas around waterfalls 
 are beautiful and convincing. A large part of fantasy games is atmospheric lighting, and the view 
 in the throne room as the afternoon sun shone through the stained glass, with the pixie-ish "dust" 
 floating through the air was absolutely priceless. Add to this the changing seasons as you play, 
 and you can imagine why I gave the graphics a 10.
  
  So, after getting through the introductory level, which was totally cool, I settled into the Enchanted 
 Kingdom and began questing. I think the worm turned for me when I wandered through the castle. 
 I'm always disappointed at big, beautiful areas which have no secrets to go and find. I also like 
 how going through the levels leaves easter eggs behind which require an upgrade or different elemental 
 character to obtain. This alone gives it mega-tilt for me.
  
  Yes, I'm one of those people who likes to slaughter a thousand trolls, then wander around looking 
 for elemental fruit for the next hour. Gamespot says the overall campaign only takes about ten 
 hours (which they attributed to Wotnot's ubiquitous and annoying help cues -- which I disabled almost 
 immediately) , but I want to savour this game. I think it is going to be a hit with kids, but I'm 
 already hooked as well.
  
  I can't overstress how much I appreciate that it isn't just a mindless hack'n splash, although 
 the guts-slopped camera lens during battles is perfect. Fighting a thousand trolls (after ignoring 
 Wotnot's pesky advice not to get involved) while being able to obtain a situational awareness, 
 and attack trolls that aren't neatly lined up waiting to be killed is too awesome to describe. 
 Never mind the thrill of charging the horse through them.
  
  Little surprises, like "accidentally" punching a town guard who hits back just adds that little 
 extra quality which makes a great game magical. My rule is gameplay over graphics, but with this 
 game I'm getting both of these in abundance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is an incredibly immersive, addicting game that you will really come to 
 love!
  
  The gameplay flows together and works perfectly! every time you need to transform into a new character, 
 it's so simple, and can be done very fast! the combination of the different skills of the elemental 
 warriors is incredible! sometimes you need to combine their skills to defeat an enemy. most everything 
 is intereactive.
  
  what can i say about the xbox 360's graphics? THEY ARE INCREDIBLE!!!! Kameo looks soooo good on 
 this system. the environment is so beautiful, the characters are perfect, and evryhitng else that 
 you can think of is great too.
  
  the sound is impeccable. all the sound fx are perfect for the game, and sound great. the music 
 is perfect for this game, and sounds great!
  
  Overall, this is a must have game for xbox 360 owners. even if you don't like these types of games. 
 it's incredible fun. please check it out!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind-Future
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Kameo, 1 of 2 360 launch titles from Rare, with its Highly Addictive Gameplay, Great Sound and 
 Good Graphics looked like a good start for the 360, but is Kameo all its out to be.
  
  In my honest opinion, sort of, the game oddly forces you to go through and complete a short level 
 before it teaches you the basic controls, an odd way to go about it, i know. From thereon your 
 told the story of how Kalus became jealous of Kameo and in her jealousy became evil and unlocked 
 the troll king, Thorn. 
  
  Here on in is where the real meat lies, your sent out to rescue your ancestors and collect the 
 10 elemental sprites. Heres where Kameo's biggest fault lies, while there are 10 elemental sprites 
 you seem to find and collect them rather too quick and you soon find that the game flies by. Kameo's 
 other major fault is the difficulty level of this game, its far too easy to finish. The boss fights 
 aren't as hard as they should be and most of the time require no thought at all, the Wotnot book 
 makes life even easier, the hint system barely gives you chance to think about the situation at 
 hand. As for the Co-Op in Kameo, its not all its made out to be, it consists of action levels rather 
 than allowing you to do the entire game as a pair, which to me completely destroys Kameo's replayability.
 
  
  Overall Kameo's gameplay, graphics and sound make it a sure hit for anyone who's keen on action/adventure 
 games. The achievement system in this game is very rewarding, a little too rewarding some might 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  First of all I must say this is a must own for any 360 owner. I loved this game all the way through. 
 It was relatively short, but had a great story line. The game play is solid. Solid controls, solid 
 performance, solid story, great sound. I would not hesistate to buy this game. IT is only $50 where 
 most new 360 games will be $60 now. I would not hesitate to give this game a 9/10. 
  
  The game is mainly a action game with a twist of RPG. It takes some strategy at parts and some 
 precise timing at times. But is not too hard, that it gets frustrating. The level of difficulty 
 is perfect, for some challenge and little headache. I fully recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Large_Soda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Microsoft acquiring Rare, I was a little doubtful. Was this developer 
 typically known for making "kids" games going to see big success with Microsoft's older audience? 
 Furthermore, I had a less then stellar time playing Perfect Dark Zero, over a weekend with a rental 
 system. Was Rare's reputation about to smothered in mud? 
  
  When I got the call to buy my 360 I was more or less forced to buy into a bundle that included 
 an extra wireless controller and Kameo. I obviously bought the system, but posed myself the question, 
 should I open the game? There were other games that had higher priorities. 
  
  I did open the game and am so glad because of it. I have been playing the best, most refreshing, 
 beautiful platformer in years. Kameo is immediately satisfying with it's loveable characters and 
 infectious gameplay. The opening to the game is the only weak area. You are kind of thrown midway 
 into a mission and you need to learn how to play the game, while playing in a level that is tailored 
 to a person who has already had experience playing the game. It is not that hard to learn, but 
 it is different than a game like Call of Duty 2 that let's you get accustomed to the moves for 
 10 minutes and then seamlessly transitions you to the real game.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking regardless if you are playing on a standard television or an HDTV. 
 I found that this game's graphics get better as the levels progress and I got the Wow factor a 
 handful of times and this next gen beauty.
  
  What really steals the show in this game is the music. Beautifully scored and orchestrated, you 
 feel like you are watching a Pixar movie scored by Danny Elfman. It really helps make the game 
 feel huge!
  
  There are a few control issues to speak of, but they are minor and do not hinder the overall experience. 
 You are on your quest to unlock 10 elemental spirits, and you can map any 3 to the X, Y and B buttons 
 for quick access. Once you get 4 or more it is a little cumbersome switching between elements in 
 the heat of battle. This system caused a few deaths here and there but nothing too aggrevating. 
 It would have been a really simple fix if the gameplay stopped while choosing the element rather 
 than playing through.
  
  After playing Kameo I have definately decided that it is MY favorite launch game, and I eagerly 
 await a sequel. I just hope it gets here quicker than the last 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strg8t
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Having purchased my new 360 I was eager to find a game I could play. I hate FPS and there were 
 no RPG's available. Someone told me this game was a lot like Zelda, boy were they wrong. This is 
 just a very beautiful platformer and if platform games is your joy then I guess this game is for 
 you. I found the game very repetative but as I have said this genre is not my cup of tea. Lets 
 hope the XBox people will push a couple of good RPG's out soon for us old timers and please some 
 RPG's that are turn based. Please!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With 10 Different Characters, Each With There Own Abilities And Characteristics, You 
 Find Yourself Constantly Entertained With Intesnse Battles And Boss Fights. You Can Morph From 
 Character To Character Thoughout The Game To Solve Puzzles And Defeat Numerous Enimies. Each Elemental 
 Warrior Has Its Onn Unique Style And Control, Strengths And Weeknesses And Each Of Them Play A 
 Signifigant Role In Your Quest. An Advanced But Yet Simple Control Sceme Works Perfectly For Just 
 About Every Warrior. The Environments Are Huge And Filled With All Sorts Of Ambient Life You Can 
 Spend Hours Just Exploring.
  
  Graphics: Bright, Colorful And Pact With Detail, Kameo Looks Fantastic. Every Level Has Its Own 
 Unique Design And The Sheer Amount Of Will Take You Breath Away. Truly Next Gen Visuals All Across 
 The Board. 
  
  Sound: As A Whole Kameo Has Great Sound, With A Perfect Blend Of Peacful And Dark Music. Waterfalls, 
 Fire Blast, Birds Chirping, Trolls Grunting Is Just Some Of The Sounds That Make Kameo So Great. 
 
  
  Value: With Only About 10 Hours Of Gameplay, The Length Is Really The Only Downfall. But Unlike 
 Short Games In The Past, Kameo Doesn't Leave You With That "Empty" Feeling. The Story Isn't Even 
 What Keeps You So Entertained. Its The Challenging Non-Stop Action That Has So Much Variety, You 
 Can Literally Play The Game Over And Over Again.
  
  Reviewe's Tilt: Overall Kameo Takes You Though A Thrilling And Fun Adventure That Packs More Content 
 Into It Than Any Game Of Its Kind. With Georguos Visuals And Heart Pumping Action, You Really Can't 
 Go Wrong With This Game. The Xbox 360 Truly Can Be Prowd Of This Launch Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellknightshade
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a great launch game. It has good 3d graphics with nearly perfect rounded textures. The 
 ability to change into multiple different forms is also a fun thing to have in a game.
  
  One of the major downers to this game is the controller setup. The controls arent horrible but 
 they certainly arent what you would call excellent either. The button setup for different forms 
 is complicated, although you get used to it it still complicates playing the game.
  
  The gameplay itself is fun. Using different forms for their abilities to advance through the game 
 gives the game a bit of depth. Quick switching for boss battles makes it easier to fight them.
 
  
  Another downer to the game is that it is too short. Although many games have been shorter this 
 is a type of game you would expect to be longer. The storyline itself is good but the shortness 
 to the game really makes it a downer in that sense.
  
  All around Kameo is a decent game worthy of the title of a great launch game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  the best game where you can transform into something ever. next to perfect dark zero which are 
 probably the two best games on xbox 360 so far if you take my advice. i love all of the monsters 
 that you are able to turn into including the massive fire dragon and the giant ice monster. the 
 great part of the game is where you charge through oh say.....2000 monsters just classical masterpiece 
 of fun. if your pondering over weather o buy this or not well dont just go down to your local shop 
 and buy it i promise you will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumanje
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  
  From the very first cut scene, I have been hooked on this hack and slash RPG!! The game play is 
 fast and furious and brakes off into story line activities at just the perfect time and pace to 
 keep things interesting and the player happy.
  
  I couldn't help but notice that the feel of the environment and play reminded me allot of the Xbox 
 game Fable which in my opinion, is a good thing. You can also tell that some of the character designs 
 were borrowed from another Xbox Game Conker. 
  
  I only have a few complaints about Kameo, camera angles at times, was erratic and hard to control 
 especially during the fight sequences and when you interact with non player characters. The short 
 length of game play should be addressed as well. I believe an average gamer playing about 1-2 hours 
 a day will beat Kameo in about a week. (Just like Fable) . If you have a Block Buster Gamer Card 
 rent Kameo. You can probably beat it before you have to return it, but if youre looking for a 
 solid hack and slash RPG to add to your new 360 collection, this game is a solid choice. 
  
  Overall I very pleased with the game play, graphics, and story line of Kameo and feel it was 
 worth the $60 price tag.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Was a little hesitant to pick this title up at first, because it seemed targeted towards kids. 
 But after playing it for awhile.. I found it pretty entertaining. Reminds me a bit of zelda, but 
 with some innovative gameplay using your creatures to solve problems and take on the enemy.
  
  It's a very pretty game, especially in HD.. with a good use of color. Definitely worth a peek 
 just for the eye candy. Especially for some large-scale battle sequences in the badlands.
  
  The only real negatives I could find for this game is the single player isn't all that long.. 
 and is quite linear. If it took 20 hours to complete instead of 10.. and was a little more open-ended 
 and promoted exploration.. I'd call it an instant classic.
  
  Co-Op mode is pretty nifty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  After a long day of blowing peoples heads off in GUN, pistol whipping cyber punks in Perfect Dark, 
 and breaking every traffic law possible in Most Wanted, Kameo is rather refreshing. The first part 
 of the game feels wierd, and turns you off to the game almost immediately for reasons I can't really 
 explain. Something about the way the begining leaves you hanging.... Anyway, if you toughin' up 
 and play through the first half hour or more of the game, it starts becoming really fun.
  
  Pros- Kameo can become a ton of creatures that look good graphically and control very well. Their 
 abilities are over the top, which is why the creatures are so cool. Deep Blue the water creature, 
 can spit black ink, which then can be lit on fire by the dragon. The boss batles are unique and 
 usually involve a crazy puzzle of some type. The puzzles are challenging yet not frustraiting, 
 which can't be said for many games of this genre. Even if you get really stuck, you can ask the 
 Wotnot (magic book) for help. This game takes a more combat approach then the typical puzzle platformer. 
 The game at times opens up to huge battle fields filled with litterally thousands of trolls and 
 humans killing each other. These parts are tight cause you can run into battle and kill to your 
 hearts content. Only Pummel Weed is accurate enough (atleast where I am in the game) to fight the 
 trolls with out killing humans too. You could run up there with the dragon and roast some mo' fackos, 
 but you probably kill just as many humans as trolls. The game is truely an experience if you give 
 it a chance.
  
  Cons- All of the charector models are awesome, except Kameo. Kameo looks like a generic fairy, 
 nothing special about the way she looks. With all of these cool creatures to be, you probably only 
 use Kameo in fights against those Giant Dark Demon boss things you have to fight to get new creatures. 
 Don't get me wrong, if Kameo was a real woman, I'd try to get her phone number. But since she's 
 a video game charector, I wish she was more pleasing on the eyes and less generic. Another thing 
 about the game I dislike is that it either holds your hand too much or not enough. The begining 
 sucks mostly because the game gives you little to no direction at all. Other times, I can't be 
 anymore blunt with hints and advice. Oh, 1 last thing I almost forgot. The Wotnot is a great idea 
 and all, a book that talks to you. But when the game is paused, and your trying to heat up chicken 
 wings, he just won't shut the .... up. He keeps saying over and over, "you look stuck can I help"? 
 Or my personal favorite, "It's not THAT hard is it"? Little hint, use the green halo/dashboard 
 button on the controller instead of start to shut him up.
  
  Final Word- This game is the one of the best looking on the 360, and definantly a good action/puzzle/rpg. 
 Acouple small things are annoying, but avoidable entirely. All and all, this game is worth the 
 $60 and is best played after a bloody session of Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Shark
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Kameo is by far the best Adventure game I have ever played, the story is great, though it didn't 
 get me hooked, It was the gameplay and the graphics that kept me goin.
  Grapics 10/10
  Kameo has the best graphics I have ever seen in a video game. when I got to the first forest area 
 I had to stop and just admire the amazing graphics, It blew me away when I saw the way the grass 
 reacted to me running through it, or the way the water rippled when I swam through.
  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay was great, it handle very smoothly, but at sometimes it wasnt as 
 responsive as I would have liked it, especially when being Kameo. When in a warrior form I had 
 no problems at all. The problem with Kameo is minor, it doesn't even really effect it.
  Sound 10/10
  The sound was great, very good quality, thats all I really need to say about it.
 
  Over all Kameo is an amazing game, and if I were you I wouldn't waist anytime running out and 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  I really liked how Kameo took a cartoony game and made it detailed, it looked really nice. However, 
 I played the game for only about an hour and a half before I ran back to EB and traded it in. Maybe 
 it's just me, but if I wanted to roll into a ball, charge up and spin up walls and into enemies, 
 I'd bust out with a Sega Genesis and play Sonic 3.
  
  The fact that you are thrown into the mix right away might work with some people, but for me it 
 left me confused. I wasn't sure which character to use when. Don't we usually get an introduction 
 to your abilities before your cut loose in a giant level of platform jumping and shape shifting?
 
  
  I don't blame the game entirely, though. It's a matter of preference. If you like platform games, 
 you'll probably enjoy it! I, myself was looking for something to whet my tastebuds while waiting 
 for Oblivion to come out... not even close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is confusing me to the bone for kids or adults? With the bright and childish feel I really 
 couldnt care less its a good game. The game play is fun and something new for a change. With 
 3 console jumps I would hope that it would be fine turned and it is... with some exceptions. The 
 characters given to you in the game while fun and easy to use in reality you dont really need 
 them all. Some are only used once in the game to just solve one puzzle which is a waste of even 
 having the creature if you'll never use them again. However the best part of the characters is 
 that they can be leveled up and upgraded.
  
  The graphics are nice, bright, and beautiful to look at with no exception to the sound. The storyline 
 is solid with deepness to it that it feels like a fairytale... ha-ha get it FAIRYtale. Anyways 
 this game is however short and can be beat in around 10 hours give or take. The so called co-op 
 mode is nothing new just playing as 2 Kameo's with the same old powers. I enjoyed this game but 
 others might not because of the childish feel to it. However if you have kids and need a game rather 
 than just shooters I would recommend this game for them so there minds don't corrupt as Jack Thompson 
 would say...*psh*.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan314
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever seen because the game is really fun. Its like Conkers 
 Bad Fur Day though but it really is good. Oh and i used Conkers Bad Fur Day because the game is 
 similiar. It doesn't have the type of humor Conkers does but its has the graphics the gameplay 
 and the hours of fun. I highly reccomend this game people who like graphics that are cartoony and 
 have a Curby type of game play. Isn't it funny I'm using really old games to compare.
  
  This is why I do:
  
  "Games from the past didn't have the graphics but they definitly has the 
 gameplay to look up too" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinDragoonX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  At first this game seemed like a game I wouldn't care for, I mean its all about power with the 
 360, however, if you look, this game has just as beautiful visuals as any other game. The controls 
 do take time to get used to, so if you try the demo out and you find the game feeling weird, play 
 the demo again. Play the demo at least twice before determining if you want this game, and I'm 
 sure most people will find this to be a very fun game. Each level gets more and more interactive 
 and clever. The first level you play in the demo is no where near as cool as some of the other 
 levels you play later in the game, and you only get a taste of the many characters you can play 
 as and unlock new skills for them (some skills you can actually see appear on your character, like 
 the thorns on Pummel Weeds leaves.) This game has become my favorite Xbox 360 launch game. With 
 this game being $10 cheaper then the normal price, don't be afraid to pick this game up if you 
 enjoyed the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a very solid game. Specialy cause it is a launch title. Would reccomend this to anyone 
 searching for a 360 game. At first i looked at kameo and thought this looks bad. Then i got it 
 and it turned out to be really fun. The graphics are superb and the gameplay and sound are great. 
 The creepy music is really effective as well. If your lookinng for a great game then please buy 
 this. A+ highly reccomended. this is a very solid game. Specialy cause it is a launch title. Would 
 reccomend this to anyone searching for a 360 game. At first i looked at kameo and thought this 
 looks bad. Then i got it and it turned out to be really fun. The graphics are superb and the gameplay 
 and sound are great. The creepy music is really effective as well. If your lookinng for a great 
 game then please buy this. A+ highly reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this type of game since Super Mario Bros. on the old NES system but this game 
 was a lot of fun. Got this game in the bundle pack and glad to have been able to play it. It was 
 so fun to get the new elementals and find new ways to bash the enemy. The game play was addictive 
 and overall had a very good length of time (3 days to complete) . The funniest character to play 
 I thought was Thermite. Overall great graphics, sound and gameplay. Any gamer of any age should 
 pick this game up at least for the laughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaMeh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Kameo: Elements of Power, I didn't look into it to deeply, assuming it was 
 just annother half-baked, kid-oriented action-adventure. Around the Xbox 360 launch I started digging 
 up the videos and previews for all the launch titles, and was pleasnalty surprised to find that 
 not only did it look like Kameo would be a good launch title, but a good game as well. So when 
 I walked out of the local Costco last Tuesday at 8:30 with an Xbox 360 bundle including Kameo, 
 I was glad with the way things turned out. In turn, Kameo has not diappointed, delivering fun, 
 action-oriented game play with a fair number of Acheivements for your gamer card and some unlockables 
 within the game. The game definitely "feels right", in that you're almost always rewarded for trying 
 to fight an enemy with an elemental warrior it should be weak against (for example, fire against 
 plant or ice, water against fire, etc) , and they combine in fun ways to solve puzzle or to fight. 
 The games graphics and audio are also first rate, and combine to help give all the elemental warriors 
 their own personality (my personal favorite at this point is Flex, if only for the sound he makes 
 while falling) . What I find detracts from the fun, however, are the puzzles that involve rolling 
 any of the various ball-shaped objects in the game to a certain location. If there's any way to 
 grab onto these balls, I haven't found it (though I haven't tried using any of the characters that 
 can grab enemies, to be fair) and it's far to easy to end up with the ball rolling off to your 
 side and getting left behind/pushed off course when using any of the faster elemental warriors 
 or Kameo herself. the best strategy I've found so far is simply transforming to one of the slower, 
 wider elemental warriors, and hoping you get it in place in time. The occasional defense tasks 
 could also be made more clear, as the only thing that really allerts you to some of them is the 
 health appearing on your screen... which looks pretty much exactly like the boss health guage. 
 Aside from minor gripes like these, however, it's hard to fault the game. Like all adventure games, 
 there isn't much to do once you've reached 100% completion in the single player, though the Score 
 Attack mode (for unlocking the score-based acheivements) and co-op play help add some longevity 
 to Kameo. Ultimately, however, whether or not this game is worth keeping beyond that first through 
 the single player (assuming you're not a collector) rests on how much you enjoyed the game and 
 if you think you'll come back and play it again - and while the game is great fun and I'm sure 
 many will want to come back to it, I think I'd rather have the cash, so I'm planning to sell once 
 I 've beat the game and had my fill of unlocking acheivements. By the time I'm getting nostalgic 
 about Kameo and wanting to play it again, It'll probably be a Platinum Hit, or at least be available 
 cheaply used. In short, I feel like this is a great game, but not one that will leave its mark 
 on history aside from being that rare gem - a great launch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiggyRob44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  I will start off with the negatives (since there are only a few)
  
  1) Only about 12 to 14 hours long
  
  2) Help is available to solve puzzles or battles way too 
 easily (although you can turn it off)
  
  3) Side quests are not all that interesting and do not add anything of real value to Kameo.
  
 
  With that said, the game is graphically phenominal, acoustically pleasing and overall enjoyable.
 
  
  The story is good (not great) and I find all of the elementals exciting to play (although I tended 
 to use my favorites more than others except when I had to use them for quest reasons)
  
  I beat the game in about 12.5 hours and traded it in already (Gamestop only gives $20.00!!!!) 
 
  
  I hope they make Kameo 2 and implement some of the suggestions from above as I would buy it again!
 
  
  You should buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkblush1992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  I love this game my older sister claims it to be a kiddie game but when she began getting into 
 the game, looks who is playing the so called kiddie game. This game is fun and fun for all ages. 
 Th graphics are cute, the action is amazing, the quality and gameplay is awsome, and the energy 
 the game gives off is cool. I Mean im a girl and i like this game. Its fun for both boys and girls 
 older or young this game is just outstanding. And this to me is the first best family game for the 
 xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: your_mom91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game can only be described as awesome!!! This game's compelling graphics, great storyline, 
 and independence is a must have in any gamers' arsenal. It's the next best game next to Call of 
 Duty, after all theyve been working on it since the 64 came out. The only downside for this game 
 is the lack of having your creatures abilities unlocked when you first get them, yet again there 
 wouldnt be anything new about it then. In conclusion Kameo Elements Of Power is a truly innovative 
 game that shows the true potential of the X Box 360!! Get It Today!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SantaMayCry
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  Hmm, if you like zelda.. but wished there werent any items to collect at all... this is the game 
 for you. You have the ability to go anywhere that you wish, but you don't really need to.. you COULD 
 go to the shop.. but why? who cares.. the game is fun with some really clever puzzles.
  
  box pushing is a thing of the past, the game teaches you how to use each creature you get skills 
 once.. then your on your own. Just the way I like it, the game continues to throw puzzle after puzzle, 
 boss after boss, challenging you to use your skills. For instance, there was a big golem dude, 
 i used ash's flame thingy so I could rack up carnage points (forced bullet time) then when i entered 
 slo-mo, i use major ruin to crash into him monkey ball style for extra damage.
  
  of course.. thats just an example.. I didn't want to give anything too clever away... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxPaYnExX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Rare, wow, you are on a roll. Two games at launch. Two very amzing games I might add. Kameo starts 
 off by putting you right in the action and allowing you to quickly learn the basics of the game. 
 It is packed full with so many good qualities I don't think I can name them all. Graphics and Gameplay 
 are the two most important aspects of a video game, in my opinion, and this game excels in both 
 these areas. Graphic wise this is a visual masterpiece. The levels look absolutely amazing. The 
 lighting effects the atmosphere, the grass blowing in the wind, the bushes moving when you walk 
 through them, everything in this game just looks amazing. Gameplay wise, I heard this game was 
 short ( approx. 10 hours) but you know what, this doesn't bother me at all, because when I play 
 this game I get so into it, I get so interested in the story, in my surroundings ( especially water, 
 I love the water effects in this game) that it doesn't even cross my mind that this game is short. 
 I enjoy every minute. Another aspect of Kameo that I like alot, is the traditional humor that you 
 can expect to find in a Rare game. Games like Banjo-Kazooie, Conker's BFD, and now Kameo all show 
 similar comedic characters that add that little taste of uniqueness only Rare could pull off. This 
 uniqueness is also seen in the character models, the monsters in this game have striking ressemblences 
 to past monsters from older Rare Games. This game is surpassing my expectations of the 'next-gen' 
 console gaming, This is an beautifully made console launch game, and I am hoping that Rare will 
 keep showering us with these absolute wonders. Wonders we call video games. Thank You Rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Koala
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Making it a priority to play through Kameo: Elements of Power on your shiny new Xbox 360 is a very 
 good idea. Originally in development for the Gamecube, the long and winding development cycle of 
 the game  combined with the buy-out by Microsoft  has finally brought the game to retail. So, 
 with so many delays and empty promises preceding it, is Kameo a game worth playing? The answer 
 is a resounding yes; on the surface, Kameo is an incredible-looking, awesome-sounding game that 
 truly takes an epic feel akin to The Lord of The Rings into the gaming world for the first time. 
 Deeper inspection, however, reveals a superb game that was obviously the focus of a lot of dedicated 
 and talented peoples attention, and the end result is a product that is technically stunning, 
 endlessly charming, and marvelously polished.
  
  Kameo puts you in the shoes of the titular elven warrior who can channel her magical energy and 
 turn into a number of strange creatures. Turns out her family has been kidnapped by Thorn, an evil 
 troll who, along with our heroines own sister, Kalus, is leading an invasion on her land. The 
 game actually begins at Thorns castle, where you are launching a one-woman assault against the 
 mighty tyrant. Surprisingly, youre pretty much on your own here, and as you move around through 
 the area, little prompts come up and tell you the controls as straightforward as possible. If youve 
 played adventure games before, this may not seem like such a big deal, but for people who have 
 been out of the loop for a while, Kameos opening sequence might be an exercise in frustration.
 
  
  But whatever. Its a relatively short sequence, and without too much surprise, Kameo fails in her 
 mission and returns to the Enchanted Meadow, a sort of safe-haven where the trolls cannot reach. 
 Its also here that the game seems to begin anew; youll be filled in on the games plot by The 
 Mystic, who can watch things through her crystal eye, and before you know it, the game is filling 
 you in on how to do things like move Kameo around an area, as if you hadnt discovered that yet. 
 Its a bit weird, as the game basically seems like its begun twice in the first hour, but, hey, 
 the quicker you get over it, the better.
  
  Unfortunately, the three creatures you could turn into at the games outset  Pummelweed, a scrapping 
 piece flora who can box enemies with abandon; Major Ruin, an armadillo who can spin at high speeds 
 and launch himself off ramps; and Chilla, a brutish creature who can use enemies as clubs  are 
 taken away from you in relatively short order, and youll need to gain them all back, as well as 
 seven more creature forms, before youre truly ready to once again show up on Thorns doorstep 
 and rescue your family.
  
  Kameo is an adventure game through-and-through, and it will go on to prove that theres no filler 
 here  virtually every gameplay sequence feels fresh and interesting as you progress. As Kameo, 
 you pull the 360s triggers to jump and hover, and you pull both at the same time to perform a 
 backflip strike. As you gain creatures, you assign them to the context-sensitive face buttons for 
 easy selection, and they control in a similar fashion, with the triggers working their varying 
 abilities. The real interest (and challenge) in Kameo is combining various creature personalities 
 together in order to solve puzzles and defeat enemies.
  
  Things start simple. For example, in an early boss fight, you must brawl a troll soldier whos 
 completely covered in impenetrable armor  except his chin. Using Pummelweeds uppercut maneuver, 
 you can send the troll into a daze, his head tilted up and revealing his neck for all to see. Its 
 then a matter of using Chillas ice-spear throw to finish him off. As you move along and pick up 
 more creatures, the puzzles diversify and layer themselves to present you a deeper gameplay experience. 
 By the time you reach end game, youll need to be able to switch through personas frequently and 
 sometimes without hesitation, lest you meet with an untimely death.
  
  Like it or not, the gameplay tends to be pretty easy overall, as the visual cues presented to you 
 are as stunning as they are blatant. Flame-covered imps got you down? No problem  switch to Deep 
 Blue, a squid-like creature, and douse them with water. Burrowing plant warriors giving you troubles? 
 Dont fret  Ash the dragons fiery breath will make short work of them.
  
  The games built-in hint system further speeds up your progress. Your elemental powers are stored 
 within an ancient tome called the Wotnot, which is governed by a wizard named Ortho. Ortho is always 
 ready and willing to give you hints as to what you should be doing next. Unfortunately, this turns 
 out to be something of a double-edged sword. On the upside, youll never be aimlessly wandering 
 around for a moment of your game; on the downside, however, the challenge of having your bearings 
 on the gameworld is lost, as you can often read what to do as soon as you need to do it, if not 
 before the challenge actually takes place. Its not a deal-breaker by any means, but it does diminish 
 much of the games challenge.
  
  But no matter  the most important part of Kameo is the experience itself. From the first sequence 
 to the last, Kameo feels grand and wondrous. The world is designed with an amazing level of detail 
 that really makes each individual area stand out on its own. Each area has new enemies and a unique 
 angle on the turmoil surrounding it. Theres an undeniable sense of personality and whimsy as you 
 uncover a new area or tidbit of the plot. Truly, Kameo takes adventure to the next level.
  
  This is helped along by the absolutely phenomenal visuals on display. In short, Kameo is arguably 
 the best-looking Xbox 360 launch title. But the graphics certainly bear more mention than that. 
 When you look at a screenshot, you see an intricately detailed scene that is rife with character 
 and style. But you really need to see the game in motion to truly appreciate it. Apart from its 
 bump-mapped good looks, youll be treated to dazzling special effects, silky-smooth animation, 
 and lots of other neat technical tricks, the most impressive probably being the scenes which take 
 place in the Badlands, where Kameo must race through vast plains on horseback as hundreds upon 
 hundreds of elven and troll soldiers battle for supremacy. Basically, Kameo is nothing short of 
 a bona fide visual feast, with or without a high definition display.
  
  Pleasantly, the audio fares nearly as well. Kameos audio fidelity is consistently crisp and clear, 
 especially if you take advantage of its ProLogic support. Each area has its own distinct sound 
 effects and musical theme, and all of them are of excellent quality. The music, though ultimately 
 forgettable, consists of a variety of powerful orchestral and choral themes that set the mood very, 
 very nicely. The default mix is perfect, requiring no tweaks and always giving you an optimal aural 
 experience. The only downfall is some subpar voice acting for some of the characters, but luckily 
 the ones you hear the most often also happen to be the best.
  
  Unfortunately, Kameo is an experience that ends too soon  the single-player game will probably 
 last you about eight hours, and that number isnt too likely to vary, thanks to the games (a little 
 too) helpful hint system. Beyond that, there are a couple co-op levels that you unlock over the 
 course of the solo experience, but these arent terribly interesting, especially when contrasted 
 against the unforgettable story mode. But what Kameo lacks in quantity, it certainly makes up for 
 in sheer quality, as well as density, and is definitely one of the most attractive launch titles 
 available for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I opened my Xbox package to find this game instead of the NFS that I requested from Mountain 
 Dew, I was pretty darn skeptical. I thought that it looked really childish and that the gameplay 
 would probably suck since it was meant for a completely different age range. Good thing I was wrong. 
 This game ended up being a complete surprise for me, and extremely enjoyable! I thought that the 
 whole morphing thing was going to get repetative, but it was still pretty fun using all of their 
 different abilities, especially Chilla. Nothing beats picking up a baddie and using him to beat 
 down everyone else. All in all, I think that this game doesn't have a whole lot of replay value, 
 which would make this an awesome rental. I finished this game in 10:01, so one would have no problem 
 beating this over a weekend. Don't pass on this title because it looks childish, or else you'll 
 be missing out on great graphics and good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilCed01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:26 am PT
Review:  Absolutely takes charge of the new Xbox 360 game engine. Great graphics and sound. I loved it. 
 This is definitely a must have for X360 fans just starting their library. It's been a long strange 
 journey. What began as a Nintendo 64 title was later migrated to GameCube as the "new" generation 
 of consoles arrive. Microsoft's purchase of Rare forced the development to move to Xbox, but the 
 push for fresh titles at the launch of the Xbox 360 forced the game to be moved to another console 
 one last time. Regardless of how it got here, it has arrived. What are you waiting for, go fire 
 up your shiny Xbox 360 and start playing this entirely fresh Rare platformer. 
  
  I loved the storyline. All the different creatures you were able to portray. This game is definitly 
 all its cracked up to be. It was a very good game I give it an 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  I ONLY PLAYED THE FIRST LEVEL OF THE GAME, BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT THE GAME LOOKS GREAT AND STUNNING!!!!!!!!! 
 KAMEO WILL TAKE YOU AROUND THE WORLD TO DIFFERENT INVIERMENTS THAT LOOK TOTALLY DIFFERNT AND ARE 
 STUNNING IN THERE OWN WAY. THERE ARE CASTLES, KINGDOMS, UNDERWATER LEVELS AND MUCH MORE. YOU CAN 
 TRANSFORM INTO DIFFERENT FORMS OF CREATURE THAT ARE FUN TO PLAY AS IN THERE OWN WAY. EACH ONE HAS 
 DIFFERENT MOVES AND STYLES OF PLAY. OVERALL I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS GAME TO ANYONE WHO LOVES 
 ADVENTURE ACTIONS GAMES BECAUSE THERE IS ALOT OF ACTION AND COMBAT MIXED IN WITH SOME PUZLE SOLVING 
 STYLES OF GAMEPLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Kameo; orginally slated for N64, then Xbox and finally released for Xbox360. I got this game with 
 my bundle pack at Costco and I didn't expect much. Seeing the pictures of the game, I wasn't impressed. 
 But when I actually played the game, I felt like a dumbass. The game is a really good looking game 
 indeed, and I was so intrigued with the gameplay. I mean this, this is one of the best adventure 
 games I have ever played. It just makes such an impact, and makes the game so interesting how you 
 can change from 10 different elemental warriors. Each warrior possessing different abilities and 
 original looks. But you know what really impressed me? The onscreen characters in battlegrounds. 
 When I first entered my first battleground in the Badlands, I said to myself, "Damn, look at all 
 these trolls." As I rushed through thousands of them on horseback. I have never seen so many characters 
 displayed on a screen at once. It was a sight to behold no doubt. Like EGM said, like Lord of The 
 Rings, but with googly eyed monsters. I seriously hope that gamers don't shy away from this game 
 because they think its a kiddish game because I kinda thought that way. But since it came with 
 my bundle pack I gave it a try and I was really really impressed. I think Rare put a great amount 
 of time into the making of this and definately made one of their best adventure games yet. So far 
 Rare is doing good with two great games, Perfect Dark Zero, and Kameo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahahahago
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game after i bought perfect dark zero and wasteland and this game is the best out 
 of all of them. it has great graphics and great gameplay the value is great and it has very good 
 sound. all together it is a great game and i am glad i bought it. it was only 50 dollars and all 
 of the other games are 60 (accept for king kong it was 40) so i had to buy it. It is great and 
 very fun because you can morph in to different characters and upgrade different abilities that 
 you can upgrade like rubbles power of shooting rock all ways then i upgraded it now i can shoot 
 rocks in one direction and do more damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatshott
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is a game I quickly over looked when it came to the games the new Xbox 360 was offering. 
 After some reviews and seeing the demos it made me give it a try. Well let me tell you will not 
 be disappointed. This game has it all. First of all the graphics on my HDTV are out of this world. 
 Have to say best that I have ever seen on a gaming console ever, and by a long shot. Also the game 
 play and sound is fantastic also. Lot of time and care has been put into this game and it really 
 shows. It will keep you entertained for endless hours. You have to check it out in 5.1 Dolby digital 
 or if you have what I have 7.1 the sound wraps you right up into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n_v_lance
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  It is so sweet. I love the graphics and how the music really goes with it. I also really like how 
 you can upgrade the spirit warriors with abilities then battle hordes of monsters using ice, fire, 
 rock, and plant or whatever. But yeah since I won this game it's a really amazing bonus to getting 
 a free X-box 360 and a t-shirt and a head-set and a pen and coasters and coupons and all that. 
 So yeah if you want to play a fun game here one is. I think the way they made the battleground 
 part of this game resembles somewhat lord of the rings. Oh yeah but if you like really long adventures 
 this game might not be for you cause it only took me like 12 hours to win on easy. Someday I will 
 try on a harder level but for now I'm just going back and increasing my scores on the levels that 
 you can replay after finishing and you can play co-op after you beat the sections of the game. 
 The thing that sucks is I only got one controller with my X-box 360 and there were absolutely no 
 controllers at wal-mart and at superstore there was only controllers with wires and I wanted another 
 wireless controller because that's what I'm getting used to and having a cord would suck. Anyway's 
 if you buy this game I say : Enjoy while it lasts!
  
  Nate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. the graphics rock, the gameplay is awesome. I just plain love it. This game 
 does have its downs though. Like the co-op isnt all that great, but still. This game awesome. I 
 seriously hope this game spawns at least one sequel. Rare is definetly a great game developer and 
 this game is no exception. It is at its best when its on a HD TV (which I just happen to have) 
 and the sound is awesome when its in surround sound (Which I also happen to have to.) I reccomend 
 this game to anyone who loves games action and adventure elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  WOW is the word for me. At first it was a ya, ok, but after playing awhile into the game I was 
 impressed. Into Fairies, Trolls, Dragons, Fire , Axes, plus alot of other cool stuff, this is it 
 and it's kid safe for those of you with young ones, or like me where my young ones have young ones 
 (grand kids) . Played a couple of levels in Co-Op and had some good fun. This will be a game that 
 will be played together by alot of families, at least in my house it will be. I can't wait for 
 my grandson to come by and check it out. The characters are pretty cool and each has their own 
 special ability, which is greatly need. Graphics are great !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil78956
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I was completely blown away by this game when i first played it. The graphics are top notch the 
 sound was unbelivable. All the pieces seemed to fit together wonderfully, making this game wicked. 
 The gameplay was sweet and characters are incredible. it didn't take but 3 minutes for me to fall 
 in love with this game. Even my sister, who doesn't play video games at all and hates it when i 
 do, loved the game. When i get my 360 this is the game i will be bringing home. Of course that 
 won't be for a long time because of the stupid "shortage" of the 360's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mscianciara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If even a handful of next-gen games come close to the sheer beauty that is Kameo, the future of 
 gaming looks very bright.
  
  Despite the dark and somewhat ugly castle the game opens onto, graphically it is most impressive 
 - dragons circling overhead, a fire battle raging around you, and bats filling the air. Amongst 
 all of this you and your elemental warriors are climbing, rolling, wobbling, and fighting your 
 way out. The real eye-candy begins, however, in the next stage. After a near escape from death 
 in the castle, Kameo is brought to the Enchanted Kingdom where her real quest begins. The tall 
 grass parts as Kameo runs through it, and the glistening water reflects what is flying overhead; 
 everything is given a very ethereal feel by the shimmering fairy dust and dragonflies flitting 
 through the air. Too many adjectives? Just wait until you see it for yourself. Everything on the 
 screen is smooth and sharp - nothing short of breathtaking.
  
  So the graphics are amazing, thats been established. What is equally amazing is that despite everything 
 happening on-screen there is no lagging or choppiness. Everything is perfectly smooth. Perfectly. 
 The controls are fairly easy to master and as soon as you have that down theres no stopping your 
 fire-breathing, icicle-throwing, rock-slinging journey through the kingdom as you morph into 10 
 different elemental warriors, each with its own array of skills. These warriors can be summoned 
 with in an instant as Kameo encounters different puzzles and bosses that call upon each warriors 
 unique abilities. The storyline is completely straightforward; once one task is completed Kameo 
 is told what needs to be done next, guided by a glowing dot on the on-screen map. 
  
  Kameo is without question a fun, fast-paced adventure through a simply stunning environment. With 
 its definite replay value, Kameo is well on its way to become an instant hit and a definite classic.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is definatly a cool game for the 360... The graphics are really solid and gameplay is great. 
 The camera can be a little unco operative at sometimes but that isnt too bad. I like the fact that 
 you can play co-op in this game. Now you and a friend can play a 360 adventure game on launch. 
 The one thing i dislike about this game is the fact that Kameo herself cant really fight. All she 
 can do is this backflip click and when theres 3000 trollz on the screen that dont do much now does 
 it. But other then that a really solid game. Some will like it while others will get annoyed that 
 you have to transform into 10 different creatures to do certain parts of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero232
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Kameo: Elements of Power is one of the greatest games ever played! I'm telling you, it's good! 
 I don't want your opinion, I like this game hands down. I played it once and it would be a little 
 more real. I did love the graphics and the music was real great. The story was okay. I did agree 
 with Gamespot a little. I would love to learn more about this game. I would like this game to be 
 nominated for a reward. Only thing wrong with it it the part where it needs to be more real, and 
 I wish fo enough money for an Xbox 360. Oh well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has some very important key items. At least for me it's got 1. Cooperative Multiplayer 
 and 2. Family Oriented. Too many multiplayer games are one against all other players. That just 
 gets boring, damn boring after a while. Get a group together and fight the machine is much more 
 fun and can make replay value unlimited. And, while I do enjoy my blood and guts action, you can't 
 play that stuff with your kids all the time, it at all. Family used to be the rule with entertainment. 
 Now it seems to be the rule not to have such stuff. There needs to be a mix, and games like Kameo 
 need to be more in supply. Thanks Microsoft!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longfire3000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The textures in this game are amazing. The sound and all the different characters you can turn 
 into is great. There is a massive story mode and a great Co-Op mode over Xbox Live. Towards the 
 beging of the game it is a bit repetitive, but really after 20 minutes into the game you really 
 feel the true power of the Xbox 360. The enviroment and all the textures are lush and sharp. All 
 the enemies have their own mind therefore allowing them to make their own decisions in the battlefield.
 
  
  This game really shows off the Xbox 360 potential and really does live up to its brother Perfect 
 Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  Just gave this game a try ---very cool.
  
  Don't listen to the reviews by 'professional gaming journalists' for Kameo. They rushed through 
 the game and that's why they're claiming that it's too short. If you explore and 'savor' the experience 
 (as it's really meant to be played) , there's a lot of good content here. And for a first generation 
 game Kameo does a lot of things right. Very epic feel and lots of good gameplay. A great way to 
 take a breather from FPS games like COD2 and PD0. Kameo is one of the BEST GAMES for the first 
 generation of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luram
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow This was an awsome game. It really is a good start to the XBOX 360!!
  It can really put the XBOX 360 in a very good head start to the PS3.
  I have to get this game.
 
  The review was very good and I think it was definitly not a waste of time to make this game for 
 a couple of years. The grafics are great.
  PS3!!! Watch out. 
  I wonder what PS3 is gonna throw out?
  How many things can anybody really do to do all these?
 
  Only thing is that it should have more animals to transform to.
  IT only has ten???!!!
  That can really limit some things. 
  This game is just like "Threads of Fate"
  "Threads of 
 Fate" wasn't that great though.
  It was for PS1. It had terrible grafics and the gameplay wasn't that great
  either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFir3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Kameo , another great game for the Xbox 360, I can't wait to pick it up for myself after my experience 
 of playing the demo. If you want a fun , exciting , very good action adventure game, pick this 
 up now. If you are wondering if it's going to be long enough , it might not be what you expected 
 but the lengh was ok and I was fine with it. The variety of different monsters was so fun and its 
 alot of fun getting to find out what the different summons could do and doing the right thing at 
 the right time in certain places. Get this game.
  Another good pick up for your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Seeing this game demonstrated time and again at show after show, I had to take it for a spin at 
 first chance I could. The game play is well worth the wait as you have to use a bit of strategy 
 instead of button mashing. The Graphics are superior as of now in this Genre and thankfully they 
 have set the standard high in the beginning instead of at the end of the console Cycle. Although 
 the full potential of the 360 will be found at a later point in its cycle, this definitly sets 
 a nice bar.
  This is a definite family must have if you are able to get the 360 at opening of the system. (Also 
 one of the only family friendly titles) . It is easy to learn, and should take the average person 
 just a few minutes to learn and use the controls. Although they should have put the training level 
 as the first level, instead of throwing you in so you know what you are doing when the tutorial 
 comes on and makes the tutorial not as useful. 
  The value of this game is great for a family, because it can be played by Kids and Adults alike. 
 And Co-Op, although looks like it was meant for just one player, makes it even funner competing 
 for combo's/K. O.'s. The challenges, hidden secrets, give it a descent replay value as well. Its 
 a descent story line, and I would like to see Kameo again, in a larger game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingdomofDragon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Wow talk about a disappointment. I played gamecube games that are in similar catagories, like I-ninja, 
 zelda, or even Beyond Good and Evil, that seem to look better upscaled to my 720p tv than the native 
 720p of this game. The control scheme is horrible. While I can make the adjustment to using the 
 triggers for combat my two sons one six , the other eight, couldn't help but push the usual buttons 
 one would use in a game like this. At times this would lead to a change in characer which is not 
 suited for the situation at hand. I notice the popularity with this title was with the younger 
 crowd who generally have smaller fingers than adults so trigger buttons are more difficult to use. 
 It does feel like Microsoft fix the response time to the trigger buttons a little, but they still 
 feel sluggish. They could have easily put the monster changes on the trigger and kept the combat 
 and jumping on the buttons like everyone else. Also the directional control is way too touchy in 
 my opinion which makes aiming more difficult than it should be. It's my opinion that people should 
 wait for more titles in this catagorie to come out on the Xbox and hope that they feel a little 
 more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solar111
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Well I played this game myself on an HD-TV, so I know what I'm talking about. First of all the 
 graphics are beautifull, very detailed and sharp textures. The water flow and ripple looks amazing 
 too. You get the urge too dive at the water on the TV screen on an hot day. 
  
  Character design and momevent is also nicely done. Kameo moves smoothly and gracely across the 
 worlds, press the L button and she spreads out her hypnotising elven wings. While Deep blue really 
 moves like an soggy bag of water on land, and like an effective submarine under water. Chilla well, 
 moves clunky and lanky like an ape-like should do. So the movements really fit the different characters 
 well. 
  
  The level lay-outs are quite challeging and beautifull. I played the Castle level where tons of 
 dragons fly in the background, and trolls roam about. 
  There are some half-pipe ramps where you need to spin up, with major Ruin. 
  
  Off course there 
 are different ways to smach up enemies, and some enemies require an specific monster to be dealt 
 with effectively. For example there are monsters who cower under an iron shell. You can choose 
 pummel-weed and do the burrowing move, to knock him from under his shell. 
  
  There's not too much thinking required, you have an mini-map too find your way around. Most parts 
 of the game are action/exploring based. 
  The game length is in GS opinion too short. Well it's nog an bad sign. The game is so nice and 
 colourfull, you could wish it would last for-ever. 
  Value of an game should not always be difined with Game-length, do not make mistakes about that. 
 This game is just fun too play, and you should not miss it no matter how long or short it takes 
 you to finish it. 
  and If youre looking for a good-looking, fun, easy-going, exiting, and colourfull adventure to 
 start the X360 expierence with. Then go for Kameo and her band of monsters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandman100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I so far like the game. The first level of the game is very amazing. Before I started playing it 
 I thought it was going to stuck. But playing the game it doesn't stuck. I thought it was for little 
 kid myself. But it not for little kid. It for everyone. It the first game I like that challenge 
 you to really think of what character to uses to take down the enemy. I wish their was more large 
 scale battle in it. Or Online play. Or better Co-op play, and that it was a little bit longer myself. 
 But it still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  The game looks as far as graphics fair. The overall game looks pretty childish. The gamespot review 
 said it was very short and there was about 10 different transformations. I will save my money on 
 this one. I think you should wait for a price drop for this one. For the younger group getting 
 an xbox 360 this is perfect for them but older and more advanced gamers should sit this one out. Most 
 people will not be to thrilled to open this up on launch day and play for 10 hours because by then 
 it will be over. That is my opinion on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtvance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Despite what the extremely misinformed sony fanboy had to say about this game, it is NOT a kids 
 game. Afterall, it is rated TEEN. This game has more in common with WoW than it does kiddie games. 
 Just because this guy likes a certain type of game I guess that means all the other genres or styles 
 of games suck. Alot of people actually have deemed this the 360's first "kiddy" game, but it really 
 isn't. Sure it takes place in a fairytale land and all, but so does shadows of the colussus, or 
 other adventure games. People need to realize that this is a RARE game. What games does RARE make? 
 Conker, Donkey Kong, Sabre Wulf, this is just RARE's normal cartoony style. So if Shadows of the 
 Colossus had a cartoony style to it would that make it a "kids" game? NO. Even PD0 has a bit of 
 this in it. Like I said, the game is rated TEEN, so it definately wasn't targeted for kids, so 
 don't let yourself be misinformed. 
  
  Anyways, that's besides the point. Usually this type of game really isn't something that would 
 interest me. But after playing it I kinda got hooked on all the cool stuff you could do (i. e. change 
 into all sorts of sweet monters and stuff) Granted I only played the demo, so I'm sure the final 
 game has even more to it. The graphics are a step above previous gen games. I will say that rare 
 could have taken it a little more easy on the extremely bump mapped environments that create a 
 somewhat plasticy look, but the character models and everything else are pretty good. If your looking 
 for a 360 game to blow you away graphically this really isn't it, but that doesn't mean its not 
 fun. The gameplay is pretty solid and the controls are as reponsive as ever. The sound I could 
 not hear very well as it was running on a demo kiosk, but nevertheless with the score in this game 
 I'm sure it would sound awesome hooked up to a 5.1 system running in Dolby Digital. After playing 
 the demo, and reading the gamespot review I'll probably either end up renting this or waiting to 
 see what it has to offer online before I make the decision to buy. But that's just me. If games 
 like WoW are your fancy, and you like legends of dragons, and other folklore stuff like that, this 
 game will be a pretty good adventure for ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpapaya007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Kameo Is a great adventure game. Though a little short (clocking in at around 8-10 hours) there 
 is still a bit to explore once you've finished the main story. The environments are some of the 
 best looking iv seen. Iv read reviews that have actually stated that the surroundings are too vibrant 
 or distracting. Over achievement, in my eyes never would result in penalty and this world is such 
 lush that just exploring the realm was worth my time.
  
  Kameo can transform into multiple spirit beasts of all different nature. Each with their own abilities 
 I felt that once I really started to master a form i was already going for another. The repetitive 
 troll battles to release new transformations fell very short of expectations. The dungeon boss 
 fights however were much more innovative. Swimming controls, although go inverted i felt werent 
 as awkward as people made it out to be.
  
  If you like the challenge going after achievements Kameo has a mix of both stupidly easy and challenging. 
 Most achievements you will unlock automatically going through the main story. The Score challenges 
 however are much harder. Playing through the dungeon levels to earn a certain high score can easily 
 be said to be the hardest part of the game. 100% completion will take much longer than the main 
 story line. 
  
  All in all great game, great graphics, great sound score, mostly solid controls, some repetitive 
 gameplay makes this game my favorite launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360playa34
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game looks amazing, plays amazing, and well keep me playing for a long time. First let me say 
 that I am not the biggest fan of action adventure type games not since I was alot younger did I 
 ever "get into" a game that is like this ..... but this game is WOW for real just trust me on this 
 one guys it is a no brainer for a title that you can really get into and just play and forget about 
 everything going on in the "real world". A must buy. And dont think that you are too old to play 
 it if you are over 21... I repeat And dont think that you are too old to play it if you are over 
 21. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthWario
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Kameo is one of the greatest games ever. You play as Kameo but can acquire the ability to morph 
 in ten different warrior creatures at any time and do battle against the trolls. The enemy bosses 
 are huge and require several warrior forms to defeat. Several battles will have you fighting against 
 thousands of enemies and it's truly a sight to behold. The graphics are better than anything any 
 console before could ever hope to achieve and as always by Rare the music is so good. Every character 
 also has full speech and it really adds to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Kameo is truly a masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmuronfire85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I can say is wow! this is a superb game if you are into platform games. Rare always 
 comes through with the best platform games and with the capabilities of the 360 we are sure to 
 see alot more in the future. The graphics are absolutley stunning I love the real life looks of 
 the other games but this is like going and being in an interactive Pixar movie. The worlds are 
 amazing the characters are all so neat and cool in their own way. This is a must have title for 
 anyone in to this genre of game and defiantly a renter for anyone else looking to just have some 
 fun! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
