-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kane & Lynch: Dead Men
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/kanelynchdeadmen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting multiplayer mode.
 You'll see a variety of different scenery as you play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Artificial Intelligence is quite lacking.
 Weapons don't feel right.
 Characters and storyline do everything in their power to drive you away from the game.
 No online co-op mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.7, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 4,849 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kane & Lynch: Dead Men has a lot of promise, but nothing in this game works out nearly as well as 
 you'd hope. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Kane & Lynch: 
 Dead Men Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 What makes Kane & Lynch such a letdown? Find out in our video review.       Watch It            
      The Good            Interesting multiplayer mode  &nbsp;      You'll see a variety of different 
 scenery as you play.                The Bad            Artificial Intelligence is quite lacking 
  &nbsp;      Weapons don't feel right  &nbsp;      Characters and storyline do everything in their 
 power to drive you away from the game  &nbsp;      No online co-op mode.                      After 
 The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Bonus Content    Posted: 
 Nov 6, 2008 10:20 am PT      In April, a free update known as "The Dope Bag" added four new maps 
 titled Clean Cut, Hooker&apos; s Trail, Flying High, and Hasta La Vista for use in the Fragile Alliance 
 multiplayer mode. Five new achievements worth a total of 250 Gamerscore points were also added 
 on the Xbox 360. &nbsp;               

  Io Interactive is best known for its stealth-focused Hitman series, but there's nothing quiet and 
 sneaky about its latest release, Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men. This time around, the developer put 
 together a crime-themed shooter that starts out with a couple of simple, heist-like objectives 
 and then rapidly spins out of control until, without much warning, you're gunning down soldiers 
 in the middle of a foreign revolution. While the journey sounds interesting at first, and has a 
 few bright points, it's weighed down by bad storytelling, a real lack of character development, 
 and a host of gameplay-related issues. The end result is a game that squanders much of its potential 
 and just doesn't come together as well as it probably should have.  

           Kane and Lynch don't get along -- not in an especially interesting way either.      

 
  The story mode opens with you in the role of Kane, a death row inmate on his way to his execution, 
 apparently convicted of being a very savage criminal as part of a notorious gang called The7. You're 
 on your last ride with a quirky guy named Lynch who tells you to cover your head. After an explosion, 
 you're both busted out and on the run. That might sound great, but it's a fate worse than death. 
 The surviving members of The7 have busted you out to force you to recover something they think 
 you stole from them. They consider you a traitor and will kill Kane's family if he doesn't comply. 
 Lynch is sent along for the ride to watch over Kane and report in if anything weird happens. Circumstances 
 change over time and the back half plays out like a revenge tale, but it's a revenge tale where 
 you don't actually care if anyone actually gets their revenge. Every single person you play as 
 or encounter is despicable and wholly abrasive; thus, it'll probably be tough for you to find anyone 
 to latch onto and care about, even if you typically go for this sort of crime drama on TV or in 
 movies. You can play through this story alone or with a friend in co-op mode, though this mode 
 is only available locally and takes place on a vertically split screen that makes it difficult 
 to follow the action, even on a widescreen TV.  

  The core gameplay in Kane &amp; Lynch is your standard third-person shooter with cover elements 
 and a light dusting of squad tactics. You can fire from the hip, but it's somewhat more accurate 
 to fire while aiming. Unfortunately, even when you're aiming, hitting your targets is more difficult 
 than it should be because your automatic fire has a wide spread on it. Kane is supposedly a badass 
 arch-criminal; he should be able to hit his targets with short, controlled bursts. You're able 
 to get behind cover and either blindfire or pop out for aimed shots, but there's no easy way to 
 stick to walls. You don't press a button or anything; instead you sort of get up against a wall 
 and turn sideways. Then after jiggling the controls back and forth a bit, you'll eventually snap 
 into place to get behind cover. It's such a pain that you'll rarely want to use it, and it seems 
 like you're always snapping into cover behind something at the most inopportune times, making the 
 game quite frustrating. There's no health meter, but if you go down, you don't die immediately 
 either. You can be revived by one of your teammates with an adrenaline shot. If you get that shot 
 too frequently, you'll overdose and die. If your teammates don't reach you in time, you'll die 
 too. Also, if one of the guys on your crew gets dropped, you have to make sure he gets revived. 
 If he dies, the game ends. Between your poor accuracy, the enemy's sharp accuracy, and the boneheaded 
 AI from your squadmates, this all adds up to you keeping your squad on a very short leash.  

  When you've got a team with you, you can order team members around individually or order the 
 team all at once by telling it to regroup to your location, move to a specific spot, or attack 
 specific targets. Telling team members to move to locations is the most effective move because 
 you can keep them close and revive them when they get shot down. Sending them after targets results 
 in your squad running around aimlessly and trying to get too close to targets. That leads to them 
 getting dropped in the line of fire, where you probably won't be able to rescue them. So whether 
 you're doing the shooting yourself or hanging back and letting your men do the dirty work, the 
 game is a real disappointment, especially when you consider how well this same sort of stuff worked 
 in the developer's previous squad-based game, Freedom Fighters.  

  There's only one multiplayer mode in Kane &amp; Lynch, and it's a great idea. Unfortunately, the 
 idea doesn't translate into a great or long-lasting experience. It's called Fragile Alliance and 
 puts up to eight players in one team of criminals. Then, it sets the team off to steal money, cocaine, 
 and jewels from various locations seen in the single-player game. So you might start out in front 
 of a bank, run in, collect a bunch of cash, and then escape from in a van out back. The catch is 
 the way the money is split up among teammates. If you all work together, the money is split evenly. 
 But at any point, a player can go rogue and gun down one of his teammates. This brands you a traitor; 
 thus, any money you collect and escape with is yours to keep. Of course, this also means that other 
 players who are still part of the team will try to waste you before you escape with their hard-stolen 
 loot. So every round is a tentative affair where you always expect the worst -- you're just never 
 sure when someone's going to finally turn on you. When you die, whether it's from the AI that opposes 
 you or another player, you respawn on the other side of the heist. Now you need to stop the heist 
 by eliminating the other players and you earn money by collecting it before the criminals collect. 

  It's a bummer that the multiplayer is mucked up by a few different things. First, you're still 
 playing Kane &amp; Lynch, so all of the inaccurate firing issues and poor cover tactics from the 
 single-player still apply. But another problem is that you can see the names of the other players 
 over their heads from a distance and through walls, even if they're on the other side. While you 
 can run while crouched to make your name disappear, it's pretty weak that you can see the names 
 of the police team members as they head your way. There's no element of surprise. Also, there are 
 only a handful of different scenarios for this, and they play out the same way every single time. 
 The security guards are always in the same positions in the bank and the cops are always waiting 
 for you right outside, so it gets old fast.  

  While it might seem like a basic heist game, Kane &amp; Lynch does a good job of moving the action 
 around, and you'll see a variety of different environments and situations, ranging from banks, 
 to prison breaks, to full-scale conflicts in the middle of illicit poppy fields. It also has some 
 good-looking player models, with Kane and Lynch both looking appropriate as over-the-hill criminals. 
 And even though their faces don't animate much in-game, they still look good. Most of the animation 
 isn't so hot, though, and you'll see a few ugly textures here and there too. Some of it looks a 
 bit unfinished, like the way you see guys go through the motion of hitting you with an adrenaline 
 shot, but their hands are actually empty.  

           The multiplayer mode is a really cool idea that leaves you wondering who's going to turn 
 traitor on you, but it isn't strong enough to make you forget the game's other problems.      

 
  The soundtrack is probably the best part of the whole game, delivering some tense music when the 
 game calls for it. There's a lot of voice acting in the game. The voices are appropriate for the 
 characters, but the dialogue is hokey and filled with gratuitous cursing. The good ol' F word is 
 certainly appropriate, given the nature of what these guys are doing, but when it's every third 
 word out of every character's mouth, it comes across as a crutch that drags down the rest of the 
 game a bit. Lynch frequently responds to your squad-orders by just shouting "F*** you!" Things 
 like that just make the game feel purposely abrasive, and not in a "gritty" or "cool" sort of way. 

  The game is available on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 as of this writing, and the differences 
 between the two versions are minimal. Both games have occasional frame rate issues and the control 
 issues with finding cover and hitting targets are noticeable in both. The only real difference 
 is that the PlayStation 3 version doesn't seem to have voice chat support. The multiplayer mode 
 only really clicks when you can talk things out with other players and try to convince them that 
 you're not going to turn traitor -- only to turn traitor on them and then laugh about it. Without 
 that, the whole experience feels a little dry. The Xbox 360 version also has the standard set of 
 1,000 achievement points, a few of which reward you for specific moments in co-op, like having 
 the player controlling Lynch put a few cops out of their misery, rather than leaving them to writhe 
 on the ground.  

  Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men is a premise with promise, and if you've been waiting patiently for 
 a game to really dive into the whole "crew-based heist tale" concept, you might be able to look 
 past some of the story flaws. But when you consider the nearly ridiculous number of extremely high-quality 
 shooters available recently, there's not much room for something like Kane &amp; Lynch, even taking 
 into account the somewhat unique nature of its story. That said, the multiplayer is a smart idea 
 that's worth seeing, even if playing it makes you wish that it was used in another, better game. 

    Editor's Note: This review has been updated to include differences between the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 versions and a clarification on the game's multiplayer mode.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (180 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unit15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The game wasnt good for the story. So the guy is a old mercanry that is going for death roll and 
 a cracked up guy saves him. And it goes on from thair.
  But i dont understand that the story starts off like that. The Sevens or what ever thay call themselfs, 
 want 2 brief cases from Kane ( the guy you play) .
  I want to know how he owes him the cases, how the story began before he got in jail. And if they 
 can have 2 BETTER storys, see how Lynch got into the mess and killed his wife and his part of the 
 story. Hes a guy that takes drugs for his mind and works for the Sevens. i want to know how he 
 got the condtion or if he was forced into the Sevens or something.
  Kane's Story: Old mercansry that owes the Sevens Brief Cases
  i want to know how did he owe them, 
 why he did it, and how he got into jail.
  Lynch's Story: Psyico that killed his wife and black outs.
  I want to know how he killed his wife, 
 how he got the condtion, and what he use to do.
  I want more detail and more story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmax_thegamer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  What we have here is a game created by the developers of the popular Hitman series. Let me begin 
 first by saying what this game is not. This game is not Hitman, you do not carefully plan out an 
 attack then execute it with precision and care. This game is not Gears of war, though similar in 
 style and rate of action, the story is more laden with F-bombs and the cover system does not work 
 as well. What this game is, is a sort of mix up mish mash of the two. Perhaps what you might get 
 if you dumped both into a mixer and then pureed for 20 minutes. 
  
  Kane & Lynch is a strait forward action shooter title. You play as a Character named Kane, who 
 in the beginning of the game has just been broken out of prison, where he was sitting on death 
 row for crimes he committed in Venezuela. Some very bad men who you might have or might not have 
 double crossed want revenge. They order you to do their bidding and retrieve the money you cost 
 them or they will kill Kane's family. Your basic plot in a nutshell here is this, Kane tries to 
 get the money, Kane tries to save his family, Kane tries to kill his blackmailers. It's not groundbreaking 
 stuff but enough to keep the game moving along at a steady pace.
  
  The kicker here is that the game was designed around coop game play. This means that you have another 
 human player, most likely a friend plug in a second controller play as another character named 
 Lynch. The game does not have to be played by two people but in my time with it I could not fathom 
 trying to go all the way to the end with the computer controlling my partner! A live human buddy 
 just makes better decisions, and can communicate and attack with you. Playing single player with 
 the computer, the game would have been more aptly titled, Kane and Lynch: Bullet Magnet! If one 
 of the two characters is fatally shot the other must find a way to reach him without dying and 
 administer an adrenaline shot to get him back on his feet and moving again. If it is Kane who is 
 down, sometimes a computer squadmate can administer the shot, but don't get your hopes up. On more 
 than one occasion I lay there dying as a fellow team member controlled by the computer stood right 
 next to me and watched me bleed until my friend playing as Lynch showed up to save me. Now if it 
 is Lych who is down and Kane is nowhere nearby, be ready to read the game over screen, because 
 no one but Kane can save him for some odd reason. You also have to save any other squadmates who 
 get riddled with bullets or you get a game over. This can also be tricky as they are usually out 
 in the open in the worst of places!
  
  A cover mechanic has also been devised for this game. Usually the ability to take cover in a game 
 is a blessing, a way to temporarily stop the flow of bullets that are slicing you up like a Thanksgiving 
 turkey, and recover a little health at the same time. This is normally achieved by approaching 
 an object that lies between you and your attackers and holding down a button that makes the character 
 take cover. This is not the case in Kane and Lynch, in this game as you approach an object, if 
 you walk up against it and stay for a moment the character presses up against it for cover. This 
 works in some cases but not in others. More times than one I was trying to get around an object 
 and shoot at someone just to have Kane press up against it and take cover. Not what I wanted to 
 do, and it resulted in me getting filled full of holes by my attackers. It is nice to see someone 
 thinking outside the box, it just doesn't always work here. If something is not broke, don't fix 
 it. Just use the same cover mechanic and controls of other games. The only other tiny gripe I had 
 was in threat detection. This is a 3rd person shooter so you are not granted a full view of the 
 screen like in 1st person games. Certain levels were to dark to see where you were getting shot 
 from, while other levels were to packed with people to discern who was an enemy and who was not. 
 One level was to packed with people and then was also to dark to top it all off, and took several 
 attempts to make it through successfully. But no game is perfect, and this one has enough action 
 story to keep you entertained despite it's flaws. Add in the fact that by now it is most likely 
 at a bargain bin price and you can't complain to much. Pick up a cheap copy or rent it for an evening 
 or weekend of bullet and swear word leaden fun with a friend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OB-47
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is an action packed gritty 3rd Person shooter adventure with 2 main protagnists 
 (who don't get along) in an interesting way. First up though and don't say I didn't warn you, this 
 is a non-familiy-friendly-game, not in the violence only but (mostly) the cursing. But that just 
 adds to their charectar. It makes for an over all more realistic game in terms of narrative. 
 
  
  Kane and Lynch are not your typical gaming protaganists, like Master Chief. The not so dynamic 
 duo aren't heroes. They are indeed actually afraid of certain things. Simply put they aren't bred 
 for war. One is a pscho, not in the stupid moronic way and the other a mercanary. 
  
  Ok now the story that Gamespot claims is so weak is true but in truth Gears of War's one wasn't 
 a whole lot better, though Gears Of War is the much much better game. K&L story is some cliched 
 revenge story. But the action more than makes up for it. Like Gears it has a cover system, basically 
 the same. So you can't just gun and run like any 3rd person shooter (ahem Lost Planet) but have 
 to constantly take cover to kill. Co-Op splitscreen is a blast, helping each other and reviving 
 each other, it's just too much fun. And unlike Gears in single player you can still get revived 
 by the team mate with adrenaline. There is a thing called overdoes though, so to much reviving 
 can actually kill you, for good
  
  The set pieces are really amazing like rappling down a huge tower, or shooting the hell out of 
 cops in the night life city. The set pieces are really quite amazingly executed. But then the Graphics.......
 
  
  The graphics are honestly nearly comparable to the old Xbox on all formats. Even the PC version 
 could use some tweaks. The game has some glitches which do get annoying.
  
  But if you can ignore bad graphics then this game is really quite a great 3rd person shooter folllowing 
 the much loved style of Gears but in a different way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinamanson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is a interesting game. Unlike other reviewers i liked the storyline and the varied 
 environments were fun and let you play some classic crimes like bank robbery and prison break. 
 However they were some negative features as well.
  First, the negatives. The cover system is rather poor compared to games like GTA4 and Mass Effect. 
 While you can more or less take cover without using the system. The friendly AI can also be very 
 frustrating especially your daughters in the last mission. Finally the game is way too short, it 
 took me around 5 hours on the first playthrough on the default difficulty setting.
  Secondly, positives. The game is generally fun and the bank robbery and prison breaks are especially 
 fun to play. The characters are amusing in a psychotic way and the game features some interesting 
 gangster cliches which are fun to play.
  In conclusion, a fun but disappointing and way too short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  With all of the bad press surrounding Kane & Lynch and Eidos, I was completely prepared to hate 
 this game. Imagine my surprise when the game was actually pretty fun. It was definitely rushed 
 out and it shows in several areas, but the basic gameplay is a good shooter.
  
  First off, you play as a bad guy. Not a funny bad guy like in Grand Theft Auto. Not a bad guy with 
 greater cause like in Assassin's Creed. You are a very bad person that does completely bad things 
 for mostly bad reasons. Everyone you come across hates you. If they don't at first, they will by 
 the end of the game (well, that or they will be dead) . This may turn off many gamers because it 
 is difficult to relate to the characters. The story is good with a few twists and turns that help 
 keep it interesting. There is a scene in the middle that tries to be shocking, but it was a near 
 duplicate of a scene from The Darkness (which is an awesome example of a game where you play a 
 bad guy that you can't help but like) . The ending on the other hand, just sucks. The final cutscene 
 is about ten seconds long and just finishes making you hate your character. The final mission tries 
 to imply that there are two possible endings, but I have played the last level three times and 
 can't for the life of me figure out if there actually is a second one. It is also fairly short; 
 another game that can be finished in around five hours.
  
  The next person that complains to me about how terrible the guns are in this game, I will personally 
 pay to have them spend the day at a gun range (no, not really) . There is a big difference between 
 where you think you are pointing a gun and where the bullets actually go. Gamers have come to expect 
 perfect accuracy and any game that tries to go for a more real life feel gets ridiculed. I loved 
 the game for being realistic and thought it made the gun battles more intense. Pistols aren't a 
 last resort weapon like in other games. If you need to try and pick a guy off at a distance, they 
 are your best bet.
  
  Another thing the game is wrongfully insulted for is the cover system. Most people have said that 
 it basically doesn't work at all. With a little practice, I found that it works exactly the way 
 it was supposed to. The problem is that it isn't explained very well. If you face directly at a 
 wall near a corner and let go of the joystick, your character will automatically snap to the wall. 
 Occasionally, I got stuck to a wall that I didn't intend to but it never got me into trouble so 
 it wasn't too frustrating when it happened.
  
  The boss battles are either ridiculously easy or quite difficult. One battle has you fighting a 
 gigantic dump truck. Your character says that you need to shoot the driver who barely exposes himself. 
 After dying numerous times, I found out that you don't actually have to hit the driver. All you 
 need to do is break the windshield of the truck, which for some reason takes about four complete 
 clips of ammo to shatter and causes the entire truck to shut down. On the opposite end of the spectrum 
 is the final boss fight. I defeated him three different times and twice I was able to win without 
 him firing a shot. Luckily, the sequence leading up to the fight was rather intense. One thing 
 I have to say for the game is that it is constantly building toward the end. Many other games have 
 there best levels very early on, but this one gets better further in.
  
  One thing that really hurts the game is the moronic AI. Quite often, an enemy didn't react to his 
 ally next to him being shot. Other times, enemies would run in a straight line through a bottle 
 neck while you unload on them with an automatic weapon, killing all of them before one fires a 
 shot. These things didn't hurt the game too much and they aren't anything I haven't seen in a hundred 
 other games (but that doesn't make them any more forgivable) . The AI problems that really hurt 
 the game apply to your teammates. The do actually kill more guys than in other games, but they 
 perform more stupid maneuvers also. The worst was when they run up behind you and start shooting 
 at the same enemy you are, usually killing you. Most of the time, it will be so fast that you won't 
 have any idea what happened until the camera spins over your dead body and you see your ally standing 
 behind you, still shooting over top of you. They also like to run out in the open an get gunned 
 down. The problem is that you have to run up and save them in a set amount of time or you fail 
 the level. During the more dangerous areas, I usually ordered my group to stay behind while I went 
 ahead and killed everyone. This successfully destroyed the 'squad based' part of this squad based 
 shooter.
  
  The graphics show, more than any other part, how rushed the game was. The levels are very bland 
 and the textures are not detailed at all. Shadows don't appear for objects until you are about 
 ten feet away, which gives the game a very cartoony look. Transition animations are terrible. For 
 example, in the second level your character picks up several guns during an in game cutscene. When 
 he touches each gun, it disappears for a second and reappears in his hand. These are the types 
 of problems that are fixed in the last month or so of development, so you can tell the game was 
 rushed. Most of the levels are passable, but one annoyed the hell out of me. It was in a dance 
 club where you start in the owners office and must fight your way out. During your escape, you 
 must fall through a window and end up back in the same office, which leads to you fighting your 
 way back out along an almost identical path. That is just lazy level design. Also, co-op being 
 split screen only with no online option is completely stupid in this day and age.
  
  The game is a fairly well done shooter that is hampered by poor graphics and bad AI. The story 
 is good, but you will be hard pressed to like your own character. If you go in only expecting a 
 fun shooting game and are prepared for the games faults and short length, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeenoControl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men was the type of game I waited a year for. I was itching for a fantastic 
 crime thriller. When the demo hit the Xbox Live Marketplace, I was somewhat disappointing, but 
 I was still determined to get it. When I got it for Christmas, I played the hell out of it. and 
 was convinced it wasn't as good as I thought it would be. But when I tried the online multiplayer, 
 I was deeply suprised. Fragile Alliance is truly it's own unique experience and is definitely the 
 high point of the game. The idea of being a traitor to get all the money for yourself is a great 
 concept. And it definitely works. What's even better is the recent Dope Bag map pack which was 
 a free download. But your lucky if you find a game to actually play. It's a ghost town as we speak, 
 and will probably stay that way until Kane & Lynch 2 gets a big preview. But my thoughts now are 
 very much different then the beginning. I think Kane & Lynch is a great shooter and one of the 
 most underrated games of 2007. But it did have it's problems, like the very disappointing absence 
 of Online Co-op. It's only local play. The AI is also quite dumb, but the gameplay is fantastic 
 and level designs are decent. The characters, plot, and voice work is all fantastic. Lions Gate 
 has already snatched the license for a film. Billy Bob Thornton is rumored to portray Lynch, and 
 Bruce Willis to portray Kane. In the end, I deeply enjoyed Kane & Lynch, and can't wait till Kane 
 & Lynch 2 and the film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I played this game after playing Army of Two so I was already familiar with playing a 2 man game. 
 However, this one didn't quite live up to the hype as I thought it would. 
  
  The story is typical as a death row inmate, Kane, is broken out of prison only to have to find 
 some items in order to trade for his families lives. Of course, things go horribly wrong and a 
 ton of killing ensues. You can control Lynch and tell him where to go and who to attack but most 
 of the time he does his own thing, this would also go for any other teammates you have throughout 
 the game. I had to redo several missions because my team would go do their own thing and get killed 
 or I would die trying to save them. There is the adreneline option where if you or a teammate go 
 down you can be revived but if you die again too soon you will die anyway from an overdose. 
  
  There is a nice variety of weapons available and ammo is plenty and always around when you 
 need it. Also if you happen to run out, one of your team will resupply you with a few bullets. 
 This is helpfull later in the game on sniper missions. However most of the time you wont need any 
 help. There is also a few car missions where you have to shoot people in a moving vehicle. Somewhat 
 of a challenge but not impossible. 
  
  The control isnt al that bad but sometimes it was difficult to get into a defensive position or 
 lean against a wall which cost me valuable health or lives. Plus the accuracy of the enemy is spot 
 on. They hit me all the time no matter how hard I tried to hide. Most of the levels have massive 
 amounts of enemies versus only 2-5 of my team. Getting your team to obey while hiding or shooting 
 enemies can be frustrating sometimes. 
  
  Overall it was a good game to play and the challenege was definately there but I have played much 
 better third person shooters. Good game if you can find it in the bargin bin and you dont mind 
 the F-Bomb being used every other word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstSidShotCallr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is an action adventure game that follows he story of two men that are set on one 
 goal: Revenge.
  
  It's worth mentioning that the story is well done, there are a few details about Kane and Lynch's 
 past that I would have liked to see develop more but for the most part it's a good revenge story 
 and worth checking out
  
  Graphics wise, Kane and Lynch gets the job done. The character models look good with a decent amount 
 of detail and the environments are nicely varied and well designed. You'll be taken to different 
 locations such as a night club in Tokyo and a exciting Prison breakout. The levels are very exciting 
 to play through and give a movie like feel to the action
  
  Now when it comes to gameplay, Kane and Lynch begins to stumble. The aiming is on the clunky side 
 and the sound of the weapons doesn't have the ommph you'd expect hear. The cover system is very 
 awkward to use as well. There is no button mapped to the controls to get into cover. Instead you 
 have to kind of shift your character toward the cover and position him until he automatically attaches 
 himself o the wall. It's an awkward cover system that should have been easier to use, especially 
 since you will need this a lot in the game.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game really shines, its called Fragile Alliance. The premise of the multiplayer 
 is for you and a group of team members to break into a bank or jewlery store and grab as much loot 
 as you can before you are killed. The twist to this is anyone of your team members can easily betray 
 you and take the loot for themselves and kill everyone on the team and then take their loot and 
 escape with all the money.
  
  Kane and Lynch has its problems, mainly with the awkward controls and some graphical issues but 
 its a fun game with a good story, fun and exciting levels, and a great multiplayer suite. It wouldn't 
 hurt to check this game out if you go in with an open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simply put Kane and Lynch Dead Men is a good overall game. Its a lot of fun to play. 
 I'm currently at chapter 5: The Night Club. Its a frustrating part, but still a good challenge. 
 This game is definitely a great challenge. Its one of the hardest games that I have ever played. 
 Its worth a rental, but not worth paying full price. I might pick it up when the price drops a 
 lot. My biggest complaint is that it is too hard. Also the aiming sight on the screen is way to 
 small. It should be as big as it is in Left 4 Dead. The game play in this game is very good and 
 as I said a lot of fun. The game play is fast paced and action packed. Playing as a criminal and 
 letting out your evil side is a blast, as in shooting bystanders and hostages. The graphics are 
 very good aswell. Everything looks pretty real. The sound effects are great in this game. The overall 
 sound is great too. The value and replay value is not good however. Its just mediocre. Once you 
 play through the campaigne you most likely won't want to play through it again. The tilt/controlls 
 are great in this game. Its easy to controll your character. The story is quite good and it keeps 
 you interested at all times. It makes the game move along nicely. The combat in this game is very 
 good and it makes the game much better.
  I give 7.5 out of 10 for the game play. Very good game play. 7.5 out of 10 for the graphics. 8 
 out of 10 for the sound. The sound effects are great, the music is good, and the voice acting is 
 great. The value and replay value I give 5 out of 10. 8 out of 10 for the Tilt. The controlls handle 
 quite nicely. 7 out of 10 for the story. Good story. 7.5 out of 10 for the combat. Very good combat. 
 Overall I give this good game a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This is a very dark and violent game. It plays like an action movie. The plot is excellent, with 
 the opening scenes alone being very tense and shocking. You play a criminal on the run. You and 
 your partner must make your way through a city landscape, as you hide from helicopters, dash across 
 streets lined with cop cars, and look for anywhere you might find shelter from the relentless gunfire. 
 They spend more ammunition in this game than most others I've played put together. 
  
  Players will often find that it is safest to let the ancillary CPU characters run ahead of you 
 and take the majority of the police gunshots for themselves. Don't run across a screen before you 
 get a good look at the surroundings. You can and probably will waste many lives if you take things 
 for granted. 
  
  Gameplay is a little clumsy, with the camera often spinning around if you are standing in a corner. 
 Kane also doesn't run quite as fast as he could, when compared to characters in other games. Still, 
 if you like your games heavy, they don't come much heavier than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I can understand why Kane & Lynch has split gamers opinions.
  On one hand its a great action game with some amazing moments of gameplay, whilst on the other 
 it can be difficult to see past the rough edges and cheap punishing difficulty.
  
  Ok, so lets get the negative out the way first.
  
  For starters its apparent from the beginning 
 that this game needed at least another few months in development. Clipping is constantly visible, 
 be it your gun or head through a wall or someone running straight through you (most of these happen 
 when you are on the floor dieing, so it doesn't get in the way too much) . 
  
  The cover system is broken at best. You are supposed to be able to walk up against a wall and you'll 
 automatically take cover. You don't!
  
  The punishing difficulty is the biggest problem with Kane and Lynch. Its just cheap and I can imagine 
 it will easily put alot of people off. 
  
  Now for the good:
  The Story in Kane and Lynch is great. 
  Yes it might be a bit cliched in places but the two main 
 characters work well together and you want to keep playing to see how it all turns out. It would 
 make for a great movie.
  
  The shooting/killing is really satisfying. It's hard to put into words why, but I found myself 
 really enjoying playing through the game. The bad guys in later levels feel like proper guerrilla 
 terrorists and the almost stealth feel to the game makes you take your time over what you do rather 
 than the usual run and gun feel to alot of FPS.
  
  Overall its a great game to play. It may not be to everyones tastes but if you can see past the 
 brokenness of it all, there are some great moments of gameplay backed up by an interesting story.
 
  
  
  7.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterj93
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Here are the pros and cons about the game Kane and Lynch
  
  Pros: An awesome dark story with good characters, nice voice acting and always keeps you on your 
 toes. Nice weapon choices. some good coop experiences. lengthy campaign mode. Nice level designs 
 especially the car chase.
  
  Cons: VERY VERY Hard especially in the later levels. Could have been a bit more weapons. Ending 
 could have been a little better. Some aiming problems. Enemies seem to shoot through cover some 
 times. Not a lot of replay value.
  
  Final words: An exciting game that wont keep you bored with its hard difficulty and good story. 
 The coop adds a very nice touch to the core game play. The game is still pretty tough even with 
 a friend with you. So overall if you like games with good stories then this is definitely a game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyd803
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Deadman is my first Eidos' production.
  
  I really like this game's storyline. I O Interactive is doing a fantastic job on this part. I really 
 want to find out what would happend in the next minute. It really addictive me.
  Although the stoyline is excited, it doesn't means that the game is good. The control is fine with 
 me. The friendly AI is fine at the first two, three or four missions, but it becomes stupid and 
 useless at the mission which takes place in Havana. I forgot dat mission's name. Your ally sometimes 
 go nut. Foor example, this game has the ability of controling your man like regroupind supressing 
 fire or go to that position. Your man sometimes disobey your order like you give them an order 
 to go to a certain position but they didn't make any movement. Your man is easily to get damage 
 by bullets. They got too mant of shots and fall down on the floor after you just gave them an adrenaline. 
 They go nut and couldn't fight well.
  The weapons need to improve, too. I count, there's about two pistols, one sniper rifle, one shotgun 
 and three machine guns. Unless to other games. The weapons aren't a lot. The grenades are fine, 
 but frag grenade add nothing to the game.
  
  The ending isn't good enough which made me a little bit dishearten. Instead, I love the beginning 
 very very much. Still, it is a good game which immersed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is a crime filled story of two unlikely heroes: a flawed mercenary Kane 
 and a medicated psychopath Lynch. The end result is average graphics, flawed AI and some bad shooting 
 action.
  
  Story starts by introducing an ex-mercenary Kane, who is on his way to death row to be executed, 
 when a daring rescue is made by friends of a medicated psychopath named Lynch. Afterwards it becomes 
 clear that Kane has three weeks to get a nice sum of money back he has stolen, or his wife and 
 child will be killed. Extortionists don't trust Kane's honesty, so they put a watchdog on his tail: 
 Lynch. This is how a journey of these two men starts to unfold around crime, blood and a lot of 
 shooting. Story is told through cutscenes and in-game voice acting and the ability to choose subtitles 
 makes it a lot easier to follow the dialog in the heat of battle. Voice acting includes lots of 
 swearing and it gets annoying really fast. At least it's a different setting for a videogame, but 
 still it's not that interesting.
  
  Graphics are mostly average and sometimes even below average. Character models especially are blocky 
 and lack detail, but at least everything moves in a life-like manner. Sound design is great in 
 terms of voice acting and sound effects, but music doesn't live up to standards: you might not 
 remember anything about the music after you've finished playing.
  
  Gameplay is a third person shooter with a few squad controls in it. What is the most important 
 aspect of any shooter? Well shooting of course and in Kane & Lynch shooting is not fun: guns are 
 way too inaccurate and their recoil makes it too hard to aim and shoot. It doesn't feel fair to 
 use a full clip to a guy whose standing right next to you. And speaking of enemies their AI is 
 mostly terrible: they usually just stand still and shoot. Enemies are supposed to be trained cops, 
 but still they have no teamwork what so ever in their assaults.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints, but they are at reasonable length apart and if you fall there's a 
 good chance that Lynch have enough time to revive you. You can also play previous chapters as many 
 times as you wish, if you are after certain achievement points.
  
  This kind of game is just made for co-op fun with a friend, but here you can only do it locally 
 with split-screen or via system link. So what's missing? Co-op through Xbox Live of course! In 
 this day and age it's just an unforgivable flaw to release a co-op game without online support 
 in it.
  
  Multiplayer is interesting and you should try it at least once. It's called Fragile Alliance and 
 all six players start as robbers in order to attack a bank. If someone dies along the way he respawns 
 as an agent trying to stop robbers from getting what they want. When the loot has been taken there's 
 a choice to be made: a) run away and share the loot equally or b) betray your friends by killing 
 them and get all the money for yourself. It's an interesting concept, but still it might not keep 
 you busy very long.
  
  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is an average crime story with average graphics, bad enemy AI and horrible 
 shooting. The lack of online co-op is something that I just can't tolerate. The game tries to be 
 different and in some ways it succeeds, but in the end the result is not a success. If you get 
 a chance to check it out for free then by all means go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReisendeMac
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Not because you're playing the game though...
  
  
  Now I'm supposed to write something constructive to fill up the 100 word criteria, but I guess 
 there's not much else to say. Except maybe something my grandma always used to tell me; Don't do 
 drugs (except some herbs to relieve the tension now and then) , and never mix game-reviews and money! 
 To point out how important this is, I'll say it again for you all to remember;
  
  Don't do drugs (except some herbs to relieve the tension now and then) , and never mix game-reviews 
 and money!
  
  Since I'm still missing some words (and since my grandma stressed how important this is) , I'll 
 give it to you all one final time; Don't do drugs (except some herbs to relieve the tension now 
 and then) , and never mix game-reviews and money!
  
  
  -Cheers from Norway- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch: Dead Men is an epic crime drama game that immerses players into the storyline. It 
 delivers non-stop action and the storyline is very engaging. This game is developed by eidos interactive, 
 the creator of the Hitman series and i have to say that they have really created a good game but 
 has been criticised by reviews. Basically, Kane, a former member of the the7 gang, has been threatened 
 to give the leader of the the7 gang a suitcase in 3 weeks time. But kane failed to get it and the 
 leader killed kane's wife and tried to kill his daughter, Jenny but didn't. Kane vowed to kill the 
 leader and eliminate the whole of the the7 gang. Throughout the game, you will be accompanied by 
 Lynch, a former member of the the7 gang, to accomplish missions and tasks. Lynch also vowed to 
 eliminate the the7 gang. At the last 5 missions or so, you will have your own group of 4 guys that 
 will help you eliminate the the7 gang. During battle, you can order your guys to move around or 
 stay at a specific point. You can ask them to follow you, ask them to attack a specific target 
 or ask them to cover you while you run across the place. But sometimes, they will curse you for 
 ordering them around. Kane would do anything to save his daughter and he doesnt care what happens 
 to the other guys. He is willing to sacrifice his guys for the safety of his daughter. Ande those 
 guys don't like it and are reluctant to work with Kane. As such, you will see them not listening 
 to you sometimes, or calling you a traitor or asking you to shut up and so on. There are also some 
 humor and jokes in the game. Mission are aplenty and range from a few varieties. Examples include 
 robbing a bank and escaping the police by driving throughout the city, bursting through a hotel 
 in Tokyo to eliminate a person and sneaking in a jungle to reach the the7 gang leaders to kill 
 them. You will really enjoy these missions.
  
  Graphics are top notch and the environment is detailed. Framerate is always at a steady rate and 
 doesn't drop at all. The sound system is excellent and the character's voices are good. The character 
 design and models are excellent and their skin doesn't look like plastered skin. Cutscenes are 
 well done and interesting. Weapons are aplenty and there are rocket launchers, sniper rifles, AK-47, 
 shot-guns and pistols. And there are enemies that are having sniper rifles too and you have to 
 constantly dodge their aiming and try to kill them as quickly as possible. This is quite challenging 
 as their aiming skills are excellent and they shoot really fast that you have no time to pause 
 and stay still in the game. Explosions are good and you can see the particles vibrating. Multiplayer 
 modes are really nice and i liked the mode at which you and your crew would rob a bank and escape. 
 You can kill your own member and take his money. Thus, you are labelled as traitor and the rest 
 would try to kill you.
  
  This game has bad aspects that can be quite irritating to some of you. For example, when you stop 
 moving kane, he will move slowly to a particular direction. This is especially fustrating in a 
 mission where Jenny is at gun-point and we are not allowed to move. If we move. the guards above 
 will shoot us. Thus, kane just moved slowly by himself and the guards just shot kane and MISSION 
 FAILED. You have to press the button to completely stop him from moving. I also hated the fact 
 that you are only able to revive your fallen crew member. And nobody can revive them. If anybody 
 can revive you when you are fallen, then why not they can also revive other fallen members? Why 
 must it be that Kane can only revive them. This is especially fustrating when in a midst of a battle, 
 one of your member got injured and if you don't revive them, they will die and MISSION FAILED. 
 You can't just go to them and revive them in a midst of a battle where the enemies would just shoot 
 you down. I would have appreciated if your other members could have revived other fallen members.
 
  
  This game is a game that is good enought for a purchase and hopefully, everybody will enjoy the 
 game. But be warned: This game has every character using foul language and this game is definetely 
 not for the young.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  We all know the story by now. This game is down and dirty, gritty and violent. And so it stand 
 out.
  
  You will either fall in love, or hate this game, i really don't think there's any in between. 
 
  
  I wasn't gonna bother with it, until i saw it on ebay for 7, and its well worth buying at that 
 price.
  
  The story is ok, but boils down to your basic revenge plot, that is obviously leading into a follow 
 up. Its entertaining while it lasts, which is better than most plots these days.
  
  Most games are judged by how they look - graphically. This, sadly is one area where K&L is laking, 
 that's not to say it looks worse than Bill Clinton in a dress, its just no Gears of War. But at 
 least there's plenty of variety in the levels, though they are on the short side.
  
  The sound on the other hand, is really good. With possibly some of the best voice acting in any 
 game, even with the "F" word used - lots. At least it fits in with the characters - hard arsed 
 cons.
  
  Game-play wise, is a bit hit-n-miss. There are some really neat ideas throughout, and most are 
 done to great effect, and others are, well - awful. Take the cover mechanic as a perfect example. 
 Your meant to snap to cover whenever your close enough, but this is so erratic, and never works 
 when you want it to - the game, simply needs a button press! Also, some of the AI is really bad, 
 as your team-mates will run out into danger and not do as their told.
  
  Overall, Kane & Lynch is enjoyable, and worth playing. Even better if you can pick it up for a 
 barging price on ebay. Its got problems, and with just a little more time in development, it could 
 have really been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  First off I rented this game.... It was not a bad rent for 9 dollars, but personally this game 
 is really just not fun at all.... The hit detection system is horrible, the AI is dumb and your 
 teammates constantly curse for no reason, just to look hard..... The game has some cool levels 
 (the bank heist and the skyscraper level, tokyo club level) but games like GTA 4 and hitman have 
 done them better anyway..... all in all the game has ok voice work from kane and lynch and the 
 story is somewhat brutal with the murder of kane's wife and just about getting cash and other stuff.... 
 The multiplayer ---- (no body plays it) is ok if you can get a game started.... Personally just rent 
 this game... you could beat it in like a day if you wanted to... that being said im not sure why 
 anyone would want to play this game unless bored out of your mind, then it is fun it that respect 
 to waste time, but as a game in total its pretty bad and it sucks.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  They Hype about Kane and Lynch was big, everyone talked about it and how great it was... and then 
 there are people who put it down. I, personally, enjoyed it. I have played through the game about 
 3 times (all on multiplayer) and not one time did i not enjoy it. They problem is that, this is 
 a game you just CANT play by yourself, its much better with someone else to play Kane (or Lynch, 
 depending on who you want to be) . I was Lynch the entire time, because nothing says great like 
 a revovler and a shotgun (my two favorite weapons ever) . The story was absolutly amazing, it was 
 connecting and flowing and there was a point... to kill the people who set Kane up. People also 
 downed it because it was different. This is the first game I have ever played when there is a semi-medicated 
 Psychopath, and a ruthless mercenary, who break out of prison. So to the people who didnt like 
 it... please let me know why, because $10 says its not the game... just you. I read some of the other 
 reviews and saw that some people didnt like the use of the F-word (said it was used too many times) . 
 Well, i hate to tell you guys, but these men are CONVICTS who BROKE OUT OF PRISON. They are not 
 about to walk about talking all polite and proper! All in all I would have to say that this game 
 is underappreciated.. and it was extremley fun, graphics, visually, and story wise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettyboypoptik
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  this a great excelent game the people who give bad score and not like this game only because they 
 are crap at it it is realistic and it is real good because the people are not young like kost games 
 they are modern age and funny characters this game kicks some seroius arse:) it is full of action 
 action action action action action action action action action head hunters shotgun cops dead kil 
 kil kil kil kil you take hostages and go to a dance and this would be ione of the best games money 
 can buy there is action when you want it and there is action when you dont you can actully die 
 this game deserves all the good ratings so dont bother with the others and the people have a good 
 past and they look cool when they get beat up 
 
  :::::::::::P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1106
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so some people are just going to write me off for speaking my mind, but i didn't find this 
 game to be as bad as people say. I really enjoyed the shooting and combat. It takes getting used 
 to, but so does even the most intuitive game (which, I'll grant you, this isn't) . 
  The story is minimal and a bit convoluted. Still, if you can keep it straight, it's actually not 
 bad considering the type of game this is. It's got some genuinely great action moments and one 
 of my favorite levels in any game is Level 3 (the bank robbery) . I do feel like the characters 
 are a bit hard for people to relate to (unless you are a psychopathic killer) , but it doesn't really 
 hinder the main focus of the game: the action. 
  Aiming controls are tight and responsive in my experience. The cover system is atrocious, but it's 
 far from a deal breaker. The cover system is a lot like Gears of War's only it takes an act of 
 congress to do something as simple as pressing your character up against a wall. 
  The graphics are par for the course on the 360. they look pretty good. Also, they sometimes sacrifice 
 detail for clarity which is a big plus for me. I'd rather be able to see my enemy than every contour 
 of my M4. Speaking of the M4, the weapons are... a bit lackluster. The rifles are basically the 
 same guns with different skins. There are minor differences in full auto rate of fire and minor 
 differences in accuracy and power, but generally, you just go with whatever one you think looks 
 coolest. Shotguns are useful in the game if used properly, but I had some trouble getting sniper 
 rifles to work well. You only have the one pistol and it's decent. 
  The soundtrack is phenomenal as is the voice acting. The script writing, however, suffers a bit. 
 The writers seem to think that dropping the F-bomb every other sentence (sometimes not even that 
 often) will make their characters seem edgy and intense. Instead, they come across as middle schoolers 
 who just learned a dirty word. 
  Anyway, nitpicking aside, the game really is great if you give it a chance. Don't compare it to 
 anything else, because it's not quite like anything else. Just have fun with it. Hope this helps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_wutang
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game... what can you say... They made hitman which is a great game, and i had alot of expectations 
 for this game and it just don't deliver. The controls is the baddest i have ever tried on a xbox 
 controller. I went down and bought the game even though i had heard bad things about the game, 
 but every bad thing you hear about this game is true. The look of the game is BAD... When you sit 
 down after school/work and play this game you rather go back and do some hard work then doing missions 
 with kane and lynch that is the best way i can discribe this game. 
  We can also look at the story that is just meeningless and the dialog of the game is just plain 
 bad. The F-word is used more in this game than and common word as "And" that just make this games 
 worse. Up to date the baddest game ever made to consol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I remember in the days of old when people talked about Kane & Lynch, I was actually excited to 
 play the game and I just never got to it, but, I rented it recently, and I am pretty upset that 
 it was not a free rental, the game HAD material to be a good game, the story was nice, but the 
 damned aiming and cover systems were more hideous than the melee system on army of two, the sneaking 
 was terrible, when covering bullets still hit me, your allies AI is awful and the directions you 
 have to give them, Eidos WHAT THE HELL?! they got killed over and over, and just stood in the open 
 getting shot, what really got on my nerves was the online community, the game dynamics was good, 
 until people started to be asses and betray you for no reason at all, wrapping it all up, thank 
 you Eidos, for the most hideous game i've played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch Dead Men is the cause for lots of controversy over here at GameSpot. I was willing 
 to put all of my opinions on it aside when I started playing this game off of a free rental and 
 I must say that I enjoyed the game quite a bit. The truth is that nothing about the way that the 
 game plays is original, there is definately something about this game that will stick with the 
 player long after they completed the seven-eight hour campaign, much like Sony's GTA inspired The 
 Getaway.
  
  I really liked the story in this game, and I felt like the game really had the atmosphere of a 
 movie, which I really liked. The story is about Kane and Lynch (obviously) who have just escaped 
 from prison. Now that he is out The7 want Kane to get back the money he took from them in the past, 
 and as collateral they have Kane's family. Lynch is a medicated psychopath that The7 have hired 
 to make sure Kane is doing what he is told, and their strange partnership begins. At the start 
 the game plays out almost like a homage to Michael Mann because as soon as you escape from prison 
 you rob a bank Heat style and then soon after that you travel to a nighclub much like Collateral. 
 I really enjoyed this but after a while the game's plot does a complete 180 and all of a sudden 
 you are fighting in the jungle, supporting a revolution almost like something from Freedom Fighters 
 (made by same developer) . This isn't a bad thing but it was an unexpected twist.
  
  Kane and Lynch's gameplay is pretty much like any other third person shooter out there except it 
 adds some team work elements to it as well. The gunplay works quite well and there is a bit of 
 hand to hand combat as well. Its quite obvious that to get the absolute best out of Kane and Lynch 
 is to play it co-op with a friend. The funny thing is that even though this game tries to but a 
 focus on cooperative gameplay you can only play it this way split screen and not over Xbox Live 
 which is a huge downer and one of the things that makes this game just a rental instead of a purchase. 
 There is a multiplayer mode available over Xbox Live but I was never able to find people playing 
 the game so I was unable to get to know the multiplayer aspect of the game.
  
  The graphics in this game are not amazing, but they are not bad either. I didn't notice many glitches 
 or anything like that and the character models do look quite nice. There are some minor details 
 that you will notice as you play the game that really add to the feel of the game (ex. a smokey 
 nightclub) . The voice overs are the best thing about Kane and Lynch besides the story. The characters 
 sound like they mean business and they speak like you would expect them to, although if you hate 
 games with lots of swearing you might want to pass this title.
  
  Kane and Lynch is a fun game for the short amount of time that the single player camgaign lasts. 
 The game is built to play co-op but seeing as how you can only play it split-screen it makes the 
 game seemed rushed. Sure its always fun to play a game with someone who is sitting right next to 
 you, but on Xbox Live it is always easy to find someone to play with. There is one Xbox Live gamemode 
 'Fragile Alliance', but I never found anyone playing it so I guess this game doesn't have much 
 of an online community. That being said if you rent this game and you are a fan of crime drama's, 
 especially those directed by Michael Mann, Kane and Lynch will provide fun for a weekend rental, 
 but little more.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 6/10
  Tilt: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch are two bad guys that are being taken to death row when a group of crooks breaks 
 them out. This may sound like a few other games but this one is definenlty unique. Not because 
 of it's story, characters, or dialogue. But because this game does things that we haven't seen 
 yet on the 360 as well as an incredibly unique multiplayer which can keep you entertained and thinking 
 for a long time.
  
  First things first, the graphics aren't very good but don't believe people when they say this game 
 has PS2 graphics. The character models are rough, the textures aren't completely crisp, and the 
 explosions are jokes, but the graphics really aren't that bad when you look at everything.
  
  The sound isn't necessarily top notch as well. The voice acting is decent but is not nearly 
 as bad as the dialogue. They swear so much just for the hell of it in this game. If you run out 
 of ammo and the computer doesn't want to give you any, he tells you to *inserts F word* off. Then 
 throughout the game, you hear it constantly and it's just out of place and done out of bad taste. 
 One positive is that the guns sound good when they fire and that explosions sound very good but 
 sadly, that's as good as the sound gets.
  
  The story at first seems interesting but eventually gets dull and stretched out. Basically, you 
 took a bunch of money and left a group of men you were once apart of called "The7" for dead and 
 now they want it back or else they will kill your family. Throughout the story, they try adding 
 twists and turns that don't do alot for the story and it just gets dull. One of the let downs of 
 the story is that they don't go very deep with the characters. You hear about different things 
 that they've done but you don't get details on why or exactly what they did. They also try to make 
 Kane the anti-hero in this game but after playing the game, I saw him as the bad guy and Lynch 
 isn't any better.
  
  What shines in this game which saves it from being abysmal is the multiplayer. You will never find 
 anything like it on the Xbox 360 no matter how hard you look. Here's a rundown of it. You start 
 off with 4-8 players and you have to make your way through the map taking all the money that you 
 can. When you make it to the end, a van or chopper will pick you up and everyone splits the money. 
 Here's where it gets interesting. If someone dies, they come back as a cop and their goal is to 
 kill you. If they kill you, they can take your money and they get a 10% finders fee. If you kill 
 them, they're out for the round. What makes it interesting as well is that teamates can betray 
 eachother and become traitors. What that does is make it so that the traitor doesn't have to share 
 his money at the end of that round. The problem is that now you have a $100,000 bounty on your 
 head as well as the 200K bounty that the person you killed gets if they kill you. So this all creates 
 interesting gameplay as teamates will secretly forge alliances to make sure that they get out with 
 the most money. Sometimes, players will even make deals with dead teamates who are now cops and 
 can promise them X amount of money for helping them get out. So the multiplayer in the end, all 
 comes down to trust and strategy which makes an incredibly interesting multiplayer.
  
  So, while it wasn't the game we were all hoping for, Kane and Lynch brings something new to the 
 table as well as opens the door for other games to improve on what Kane and Lynch did and maybe 
 we can see some more games like it in the future. I give Kane and Lynch a 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  IO Interactive decided it was time to take a break from the Hitman series and try out co-op gaming, 
 with not one, but two anti-heroes; and thus Kane & Lynch Dead Men was born. I'll admit, when the 
 game was announced I felt that it could have been something that would be interesting, I mean I 
 love getting to play a bad guy in games and the ability to do this co-op like in Gears of War? 
 Awesome in theory, not so much in execution. Gears of War  I apologize for mentioning you in the 
 same sentence. 
  
  Kane & Lynch stars the titular men, one of whom is a ruthless mercenary and the other a highly 
 medicated psychopath. I'd explain who is who, and why each are on their way to their death via 
 the prison system but that would spoil the fun and shocking revelations of the game. Just know 
 that you play as Kane, and if you can somehow finagle a partner to play they'll take control of 
 Lynch - otherwise the single player can order the other around via the less than desirable squad 
 system. Apparently Kane used to be part of a group known as The7 and, before being tossed in prison, 
 was part of either a massive heist or conspiracy. Obviously he supposedly is the only one who knows 
 where the heisted item is. The7 break Kane out of prison while in transport and quickly partner 
 you with Lynch in a quest to appease The7 so you can get on with your life. The game then turns 
 to a weak revenge plot that quite honestly didn't hold my interest at all. Even playing as these 
 bad, bad men couldn't hold my interest. It's a shame. 
  
  Having an already workable third person engine, I hoped that the controls for K&L would have been 
 a lot tighter than they are. Aiming your weapon, whether zoomed in or out, is a slow and somewhat 
 imprecise process, especially in multiplayer. If aiming was the only problem then that might be 
 ok, but even the cover mechanics the game employs are a broken mess; especially when compared to 
 other 360 shooters. No need to press a button to enter cover, simply lean into a spot which you 
 think might offer good protection, and sometimes your character will take cover. I found myself 
 progressing through the game avoiding cover, and only using it when it was accidental and even 
 then it was a panic to get out from cover. 
  
  As mentioned the single player game uses a lot of squad tactics that are mediocre. I understand 
 the need for differentiating between telling a crew to lay down, suppressing fire and taking a 
 position, but why can't the team take a position and look around to take out waiting combatants? 
 I have found worse instances of squad controls and K&L, while definitely not the bottom of the 
 barrel in this regard, doesn't quite have the right feel to be a solid squad shooter. Quite frankly, 
 I personally stopped playing the single player campaign after making it to a certain point where 
 you gain control of a large group of militants to make a strike. The game hit a turning point and 
 fell into a very generic title with even worse game mechanics than the first 75% of the game. Most 
 importantly, thanks to poor AI on both enemy and ally, the battles were always bloody and very 
 rarely in your favor. 
  
  Here's a quick note to any aspiring game creator out there  simply littering your game with an 
 abundance of expletives does not make your game edgy, cool, tough, mature, or the especially important 
 x-factor of video games - entertaining. On a somewhat positive note, the voice acting in the game 
 is not terrible, but sadly it's not impressive either. There's still the feeling of all voices 
 being recorded separately and then edited together in a disjointed fashion. Rather than the feeling 
 of a real conversation taking place, it's a series of edits to stitch together something which 
 sounds half-way decent. Graphically, the game isn't much to write home about but I didn't notice 
 any major glaring flaws. The characters are slightly blockier than games of this generation and 
 the overall feel of the world is fairly bland and dull. Even in the final tropical setting, it's 
 a "Far Cry" from other titles that are placed in similar settings. 
  
  The one possibly redeeming reason of this game is the multiplayer aspect. You can work through 
 the story mode with the aide of a partner; which might actually have been a little more enjoyable 
 than busting through single player. Sadly, the option to play co-op online does not exist. The 
 sole option for Xbox Live play exists in a mode called Fragile Alliance. In what is a nice take 
 on a multiplayer game, you control one of up to 8 robbers on a mission to hijack cash from one 
 of the very limited locations but with a possible twist. Each robber who makes it to the escape 
 van is entitled to his or her fair share of all the cash safely taken. However, as any movie has 
 shown us, a double cross is a good way to get greedy. At any time you can take out a teammate and 
 steal his cash, but if killed they spawn as the police and have a chance to get payback. Each online 
 session consists of multiple rounds. If you become a traitor early in a round, be prepared to be 
 attacked on each subsequent round. 
  
  Personally, K&L gave me more problems than I've ever had with any Xbox Live title. Almost every 
 time I tried to enter a game, I was kicked before even joining the lobby. On the rare occasion 
 where you do connect to a game, chances are high that the game will freeze on you between rounds 
 and require a reboot of the console. If you do manage to get into a quick match, most people only 
 play with 4 at a time making the heist slightly boring and predictable. With a game style like 
 this, having more players are more entertaining and an absolute must. Sadly the faults of the single 
 player mode come into play here as well. With shoddy aiming and clunky controls, taking out a traitor 
 or becoming one yourself can be tricky. But, fun can be had  in one of my games I was actually 
 able to complete, someone pulled the ultimate heist. There were four of us working together to 
 get the cash out, but only three entered the escape vehicle on the first approach as the fourth 
 watched. As the vehicle drove away, he tossed a grenade under the van causing it to explode and 
 kill all three of us leaving all the cash for the fourth. An excellent move that I wish I had thought 
 of initially, but sadly moments like this are few and far between. 
  
  There's been recent controversy over this game concerning a fired editor over at a particular gaming 
 site. I fully agree with what he said. This game is severely flawed and his rating was more than 
 appropriate for this particular game. Sloppy and muddy controls, a broken aiming mechanism combined 
 with a couple of characters who you'll never really care for at any point make for a dull and tedious 
 gaming experience. Compound that with the shoddy squad mechanics, lack of online co-op, and a seemingly 
 broken online experience doesn't make the game sound appealing in the slightest. The online arena 
 does show some potential if you can connect and stay in a game, but that alone does not warrant 
 enough of a draw and it's just not worth the effort of obtaining a copy. You can safely skip this 
 game and not feel like you've missed out on anything too important.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 23, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  - Game had great potential
  - Some nice game mechanism 
  - Multiplayer is kinda interesting
  
  Negative
  - Very disappointing game 
  - Poor artificial 
 intelligence
  - Bad story
  - Awful controls
  - Horrendous camera
  
  Is it me or is this is most disappointing game on the XBOX 360? Who would have though that the 
 creators of Hitman would turn up such a terrible game? Kane & Lynch had lot of promising action 
 and game action, but nothing is worth checking out in this game.
  
  Some of the game mechanisms are fun at first, shooting looks fun at first. Multiplayer is better 
 than the single player mode. That's the highlight of the game. But nothing in the game works quite 
 well. Almost everything you hoped to be good came out bad. Artificial intelligence is quite lacking 
 unfortunately. Controls are horrible which make shooting a pain. Story is awful and dis-joined. 
 Probably pointless. Graphics are dull and ugly. That what most people look at first, the eye looks 
 first. Normally people even I think that a game is good by just looking at some screenshots and 
 videos. The things that aren't shown here are the controls. And as I mentioned the controls are 
 a mess. That's why there are review so people like us can give what they think of things that cannot 
 be seem by just watching videos. There is some voice acting and music but not that great. Frankly 
 they are better thane everything else in the game, except for the multiplayer. 
  
  Lots of promise, but nothing revolutionary. Theirs is absolutely nothing remarkable about this 
 game which is a game that really should be missed as much as you can. Too much shortcomings and 
 annoying things. Ok, the multiplayer is at least half good, but there are much better third-person 
 shooter than this one, this one is a total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  
  The rare game where the storyline involved is actually better than the game. Better by a large 
 margin. It'd actually make a rather good movie. And it's a good thing, because it didn't manage 
 to make an excellent game.
  
  You, in the single player game, are Lynch. You get busted out of prison by a wealthy group known 
 simply as the 7 who attach to you, as your sidekick and basically the guy watching you, psychotic 
 Mr. Kane. Your family is threatened if you do not return money that you apparently stole from the7 
 years ago and the game is your pursuit of the money to save your family and to return the money 
 you stole.
  
  Your missions take place in some amazing locales. A packed and pulsing Tokyo nightclub is one of 
 the most genius areas. In terms of taught story-telling, few games have ever managed to compete 
 with this. And the music only makes it better. And the online "Fragile Alliance" mode is a terrific 
 distraction, but not something with a great deal of depth.
  
  Sadly, the gameplay itself is lacking. First off, aim is a nightmare. Your guns all have lots of 
 recoil and actually successfully targeting and hitting enemies seems to be random luck. Hitting 
 an enemy from afar with anything besides a sniper rifle is an exercise in sheer frustration. Fortunately, 
 your enemies (and this is playing on hard --- it will only be worse if you play on a lower difficulty) 
 will just sit there and just wait for you to kill them until you hit a certain location which will 
 alert them to your presence. You can occasionally get stuck in areas by NPC's that won't move and 
 block you in. Happened to me late in the prison level and it required me to re-start that area, 
 which was a bit irksome. NPC's should either be able to be walked through or moved physically out 
 of the way if needed. The visuals are decent, but not the most amazing things you'll ever see. 
 Moving the camera is a headache as wel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOC48
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  First of All I was appalled at the ratings this game got. When I first played it i got the feeling 
 is was a 8 or higher rated game. that is not the story with these people who call them selves professional 
 game testers. Anyway I say it has great gameplay. The game is just plain fun. the story is a bit 
 funky but has a good twist near the beginning and i say it overall has a great story. The endings 
 can be a bit hard to get down. The Multiplayer is pretty clever and very fun. This game is like 
 of the best co op game i have ever played as well. I do not know why but when you get a friend 
 over you play it so long you beat it. It is that fun. Of course it is no a long game but of decent 
 lengh. The graphics are okay but not bad enough to complain. The controls have had some words thrown 
 at them but they are easy to get used to. Overall I say get this game. I love it. Maybe you wil 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Playing through Kane and Lynch's story is like watching a two star action movie, and personally, 
 I like that. It's fun, easy to get into and nothing overly complex. Kane's story starts out very 
 dark, which is cool, but the problem is, it stays that way. I mean, I understand that it's an M 
 rated game, but I would have liked having the possibiity for a happy ending. I just don't understand 
 why the developers decided to put in two endings. A "bad" ending and another "bad" ending. What 
 the hell?
  
  In all fairness, the story is quite interesting and I did enjoy it a lot. Even though it only lasted 
 about eight hours or so. The controls work pretty well and there aren't any real camera issues, 
 but some of the levels are "overly hard" and can be frustrating.
  
  Kane and Lynch's multiplayer is very unique. "Fragile Alliance" has you woking together with other 
 palyers to rob a bank, but the catch is that you have the potential to betray each other. Sadly, 
 it's somewhat broken and the games usually consists of groups of frends working together. There's 
 also some major lag.
  
  Kane and Lynch is worth a rent, but i wouldn't reccomend buying it. It won't keep you busy for 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is definantly not one of the coolest games and it is not one of the very goods...
  it have a pritty bad look I mean the pictuers are not so good, the story is kinda cool but because 
 of its so many bad things it becames irelivant, and the tactics and its combats are not so good.
 
  to me the best game is the one who have a great look, no picture flaws, no head going iside the 
 walls, and it most have a great story to make the players wanna to complete the game not make them 
 put the disc inside the trash can...
  and this game simply dont have all the good stuff to make it worthy playing, it worth trying but 
 not so cool for playing and be proud of completing it...
  first I thought it was a great game as some of my friends told me it is, and they told me to play 
 it after I got it it made very disappointed .
  I didnt finish it yet but I will finish it as I have to finish what i started not because of the 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rivermouth93
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game before reviews was done, thinking it was a great game because of all the 
 hype. And I liked it, the missions were fun, the stuff you do has never been done that good in 
 other games (the bank robbery, prison breakout) . 
  
  Graphics: Not very good, but passable, a lot of flaws. The ones who played Hitman: Blood money 
 knows what to expect, the guns look good, and is much of the same that were in Hitman
  
  Sound: The voice acting is passable, nothing special. Guns sounds like toys, and are not fun at 
 all
  
  Gameplay: The way the game works is a bit oldschool now. Health system is the same that were introduced 
 in Call of duty 2, and when you pass out your buddies will get you up and running again with the 
 help of a syringe loaded with adrenaline, but be careful not to overdose! The game supports splitscreen 
 co-op which is always a plus. One thing that could have made the gameplay a bit more interesting 
 would be if you could swithc between controlling both Kane AND Lynch (you always play as Kane) 
 , and let them have both pros and cons.
  
  Multiplayer: Incredible fun and genuine, this is almost worth the cost of the game, this is truly 
 a lifesaver. The game packs one gametype only, but it's unique and exciting. but it wouldn't hurt 
 if there were a bit more gametypes too
  
  Replay value: The campaign is nothinf you would care to do twice, unless you are doing it with 
 a friend. Online is the thing that saves this game from being just a rental. If you find it at 
 a budget price, you won't be dissapointed, IF you go online or play woth a friend.
  
  Summary: Kane and Lynch is a good game wiht some major flaws like short and boring campaign, not 
 that good graphics, but the online multiplayer adds up, at least a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sperls
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I absolutely hated Kane & Lynch: Dead Men. One, if not, these most disappointing games in my collection. 
 I sold it on eBay for $20 after less than 8 hours playing it, but probably would have paid someone 
 to take it off my hands. Don't waste your time or money buying this terrible game, unless you are 
 looking for a $50 plastic dvd holder. I gave this game a 1.0 mostly because I suckered someone 
 into taking this disaster off my hands for $20. The Gamespot review is right on although I think 
 he gave it to high of a rating. I absolutely hated Kane & Lynch: Dead Men. One, if not, these most 
 disappointing games in my collection. I sold it on eBay for $20 after less than 8 hours playing 
 it, but probably would have paid someone to take it off my hands. Don't waste your time or money 
 buying this terrible game, unless you are looking for a $50 plastic dvd holder. I gave this game 
 a 1.0 mostly because I suckered someone into taking this disaster off my hands for $20. The Gamespot 
 review is right on although I think he gave it to high of a rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOtherGuy720
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  I played this at my friend's house and thought it was great, we did the co-op and i thought the 
 story was hilarious. Maybe it's not as fun single player (I wouldn't know, I have never played 
 the single player) , but try teaming up with a friend if you don't think it's entertaining. I played 
 as Kane and had some fun when he was freaking out. Entertaining if you have a good sense of humor. 
 The story is serious, but is still pretty funny. The story is good and pretty original as far as 
 I know. Lynch is an ex-gangster that has been broken out of prison to help them out again, but 
 the Seven turn their backs on him when the job is done, and you have to get them back. This was 
 actually the first game I played on xbox 360 and now i'm saving up to get an xbox 360. Buy this 
 game if you want some action and a few laughs along the way. Or at least rent it for a few days 
 because it is definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massivebollocks
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  In all the games i've played i'm quite sure that i haven't seen a less stable more poorly put together 
 one! The fact that i played it on a friends' Playstation 3 merely made the experience worse. The 
 PS3's pads and looks alone the game itself is just a shambles. There's no real plot to it and the 
 controls feel clunky and the camera angles quite spastic.
  
  It's a shame as this game could have been so much more and had a very good premise. Unfortunately 
 it turned out to be a colossal failure of epic proportions. Unrealistic gameplay, poor graphics, 
 spastic camera angles (as mentioned) , rubbish weapons, poor targeting system.
  
  Needless to say after my awful experience on the PS3 I did not buy it for my 360, i wouldn't cheapen 
 the console with it. There are far better games out there if it's co-op play you desire. Try Rainbow 
 Six Vegas & Vegas 2 for starters, awesome games, well put together and a joy to play. Get your 
 hands on the better games of the year rather than this absolute waste of time and money.
  
  -Pete- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Kane and lynch? hmmmmmm well the first thing that springs to mind is bad story, bad characters, 
 good guns but thats about it especially because your character loves to hold it sideways for some 
 stupid reason and characters who claim to be vigilantes but are just pure evil, i mean kane would 
 probably destroy the entire world to save his daugter, boy what a lame story. And then theres lynch 
 i dont know too much about him except hes a freak who likes to shoot stuff but enough of that.
 
  
  Gameplay in kane and lynch is a third person shooter similar to that of gears of war with a very 
 unhelpful cover system and amazingly bad story, i wont go into much detail about that except you 
 help some guys they betray you then you try and save kanes daugter, thats about it.
  
  AI in kane and lynch is probably the dumbest youll see in a game to date as for example me and 
 my squad were mowing down everyone in a forward advance and some genius decides to run at us i 
 mean what an idiot. the same about your squadmates aswell except they just dont listen, at all.
 
  
  And finally the one thing at some point in the game caused me to take out the disc and play something 
 else, the swearing. They just say f**k all of the f***ing time its a f***ing joke i tell you its 
 like stop f***ing swearing you stupid f**k or im going to f**k you up real good.
  
  But seriosly if you can stand insane amounts of swearing, being an army of one and bad story then 
 this game may be for you but if not dont even rent unless you were unlucky enough to think this 
 actually looked good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  (Sigh) I'm going to write this review, but let me get this straight, oh boy I hate this game (pure 
 sarcasm) . First off you start the game in a prison truck, sitting next to someone that tells you 
 to "cover your head", meet Lynch the psycho, and Kane the cold-blooded mercinary. You start the game 
 and I mean through the whole game as Kane, but wait why Kane? Why can't you switch between Lynch 
 and Kane before each mission starts? Well you can only play either Kane or Lynch on Coop mode. But 
 let's get to my point here, you get off the ground after the prison truck crash, and the controllers 
 are alot similar to Hitman Blood Money. You pick up the pistol from the cop's body and fire at the 
 enemy. But most of the guns just don't go with a good shooter, if you pick up a shotgun or a fully-automatic 
 gun, the bullets that fire out are just wide spread. The blind firing is what I hate, the blind fire 
 is just some useless joke for you character to shoot the corner without even looking, but that's 
 for close encounter enemies only. Getting behind cover like in anyother shooting game out there 
 is no cake walk. You have to force your own character the very corner of the cover like (vending 
 machines, tables, crates etc.) . But wait a moment. You can't take cover with buttons, only with the 
 analog stick, what were these guys thinking!? The enemies that you encounter are really annoying, like 
 if you cover still, they will just sneak up on you and shoot you down waiting for help. The concept 
 of robbing a bank gets old after I play for a few weeks or less. But the only with the missions 
 are they're to quick to finish and really aren't that fun too. Plus you can give team orders to 
 your own comrades, like attack, regroup, and move to positions. But why would you team move towards 
 the enemy when you press Y button for attack?! That is the most hairbrained A. I. plot I've ever 
 seen! They'lle get themselves killed! The AI is really terrible and silly, so you need to work with 
 these guys wisely to plan out your attacks. The short sprints really doesn't last to long, but only 
 for a second or two. But it's the only way to live from death. The explicit character dialogue to 
 the game is really starting to get annoying, almost every sentence always begins or ends with the 
 f- or s-word. The character voice acting is pretty good (my only pro. to the game) I must say, but 
 the character designs look really gross like a scar across the eye, or a burnt face. During every 
 cut scene, the grapics look totally choppy and eccentric made by a really poor graphics engine (I 
 think) . The cut scenes I must say are pretty friegthining. Every time one of your teammates are down 
 and nedd adrenaline bad, it's dumb. Why can't Eidos just make a command to one of your own men to 
 tell him to heal you injured teammate. It really seemed like Eidos didn't have enough enthusiasm 
 to make this awfull game. The worst plot to this review is the broken and boring concepts and controlls 
 this game. But no wait, we should call this game "Pain and Lynch DeadGame". And I really don't want 
 to play this game right now, okay? You are granted three types of grenades. Frags, indenciary, and smoke. The 
 frag explosion looks like poo-poo. Like some explosion off from some magic spell from a RPG game. Indenciary 
 is the explosives that put your enemies on fire, which you don't use throughout the game. The smoke 
 grenade doesn't help that much. But if these guys are going to make another sequel, it better be 
 good than the one piece of junk I have now. But even though Kane and Lynch Deadman is not such a 
 bad game. The best core of fun is the Xbox Live Multiplayer to either act as robbers or cops. Well 
 that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 1
Date: May 14, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  For months I've been waiting for this game to come. The title and the story rocks but the graphic 
 and game play sucks!
  The first cinematic was perfect and makes the player easy to get in touch with the characters but 
 when the game starts my first reaction was the graphics! The details... well if you can see any 
 let me know. Anyway, the details are horrible, it's like the game creators was in a hurry making 
 the game. The hair on the long-haired character (Lynch I believe) looks like the hair on Lego figures. 
 It looks so plastic without any details except for the colour fading when moving. The environment 
 is so simple made. It all actually reminded me of Bad Boys (the game) . When you shoot someone the 
 blood looks just like red powder in the air and they just fall down. There is no reaction on where 
 you hit the persons it's just like it doesn't matter where you hit them. Anyway I really tried 
 to play the game because of the story but after half an hour I just couldn't stand it. It's all 
 so stiff, there is nothing nice I could find when spending the couple of hours playing it. I'm 
 sure the story rocks but the game play is really, how can I put it.... old school?
  I'd say it's not even worth renting it.
  
  If you wonder about the Co-op, read what I've just 
 written about the game. There is no difference there. If you're after a game that you wanna play 
 yourself or with a friend I HIGHLY recommend Army of Two!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Nice Storyline
  +Good Multiplayer Idea
  +Longer then I thought
  +Many different places
  +Good Presentation
  
  The Bad:
  -Controls are sloppy
  -Multiplayer 
 is laggy
  -No Co-op over XBL
  -Enemys have more bugs then everything else
  
  First off, I dont think people should judge this game by the whole Gerstman-thing. I dont think 
 it was ok, but after all as a serious reviewer people should judge the game for what it is and not 
 what happend around.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Basically it is a usual 3rd Person-Shooter, with a minimal Team-tactics component.
  You get to 
 see many different places, and I personally didnt though ending up in a Warzone at the end of the 
 Game.
  The Major problem of the Game are the Controls. Sometimes aiming and hitting the Enemy seems more 
 luck then everything else. The Enemys are stupid as hell. Sometimes the just sit there and do nothing... are 
 they are as accurate as a sniper. This is for both Single-and Multiplayer.
  The Controls of your Character arent really the best too... aside from targeting, leaning against 
 a wall can be a real pain.
  The Multiplayer was really a good Idea, but since its suffering from all issues of the SIngleplayer 
 (plus a most of the time bad community IMO) it gets almost destroyed. After all this game still 
 remains still a bit of fun but it feels really unfinished... too bad, because the Level-design and 
 almost all suurounding stuff could have ended up in a pretty good game. If the developers just have 
 spend just a bit more time with the game...
  
  The Graphics:
  The Grahics have two sides... on some points its like "Wow, this looks awesome" on the other parts 
 it gives you the feel that you have seen better textures on the Xbox. This ends also in a lot of 
 clipping issues. Same goes here... just a bit more time with attention to detail and it whouldnt 
 be bad. At least there are many different-looking places, which is a plus.
  
  The Sound:
  Actually that a point where is nothing to complain about. The 5.1-Mix is the usual stuff, the Sound 
 quality is not stunning but ok. I played it with a german Voiceover which is usually horrible, but 
 even there is nothing to complain this time.
  
  So...:
  Too bad this game has its small issues become so vital. I think there could be a bunch of people 
 who like it a lot anyway, but I think its not really worth too much money. If you really love games 
 like this and you get it cheap its ok, but dont pay above 30Bucks... Its just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Kane And Lynch is a different approach to todays 3rd person shooters.
  If anyone has played one of Eidos previous games, Freedom Fighters, you will be familiar with the 
 gameplay.
  
  The whole concept and the story of the game is fantastic on a man's tale of revenge, backstabbing 
 and brutality. The game i can see being better as a movie than that of a game since it is rather 
 short. Some control's are a bit sloppy, like that of the cover system... since really there is 
 no real control for getting into cover apart from running into a wall. The combat itself is much 
 like Gear's of War's third person aiming, allowing you from within cover to blindfire and then 
 aim out of cover. 
  
  The graphics arnt terrible but are not the best to the 360's ability after playing such games as 
 Mass Effect and The Darkness, but it isnt a total let down. The voice acting in this game is superb 
 and you can expect more F'ing and blinding than your typical goodfellas movie. Some of the cutscenes 
 (Which is why i think it would make a better film) are genuinely moving (I was playing Teardrop 
 by Massive Attack in the background) . 
  
  Kane And Lynch from the start had been hyped and to alot of people it was a massive let down, but 
 with maybe a litte improvement and more attention to detail this game could have done better with 
 itself.
  
  After reading tons of reviews on here about Kane And Lynch i decided that some peoples reviews 
 werent exactly fair (There were plenty of mixed reactions) . Of course some people may have their 
 own opinions, but if all your going to do is complain about how shoddy you think a game is... whats 
 the point of writing a review if your not going to weigh out how other people may look at the game... 
 instead of what one review said just touching the game will give you cancer or herpes or something 
 like that... and frankly as funny as it sounds here it is really quite sad. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomonemich
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is like maybe the 3rd time that I've played this game and now that I got to the rather 
 abrupt end again, I found myself scrolling through the old missions to see which one I wanted to 
 play again. Granted, it isn't perfect but no game is, they are all in a state of evolution. So 
 heres what I have to say:
  Gameplay is definitely standard tactical shooter with a lot of Rainbow Six style operations without 
 the first person view. Not very hard and pretty satisfying once you get the hang of the akward 
 cover system. I didn't like the way the you had to be right up to and a little bit past the corner 
 before Kane actually took cover. And I didn't like the way he could still be hit will behind cover, 
 I didn't think that was fair really, I mean, I'm under cover right? Other than that, very satisfying. 
 You really feel a part of the action as walls and pillars are disintigrating around you and there's 
 shrapnel flying everywhere. I really like the fact that your teammates can revive you. You could 
 essentially play through the whole game if there is a teammate nearby and you don't get a shot 
 of adrenaline too often. I remember one sequence where I was revived on 5 seperate occasions before 
 I actually OD'd. 
  Levels are really fun except for the prison break, which was pretty dumb, in my opinion. I loved 
 the whole Japan setting from the club to the skyscraper to the mad dash to the bus terminal. The 
 jungle sequence was pretty cool too. I would have liked more bank robbery style levels as the first 
 bank robbery scene was really fun, with the ensuing car chase and escape from the tunnel. 
  So, despite the negative hype, even 6 months later, I will continue playing this game when I get 
 bored until Kane & Lynch 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch: Deadmen is a tactical shooter that is about a prisoner and a over medicated psycho 
 getting revenge. It's not all that great of a story but it works for the rest of the game. The 
 one major problem Kane and Lynch faces is the horrible controls and aiming. Sometimes you may think 
 you have a headshot but you really don't. It always seems like you're off a little bit and the 
 controls make you feel like you have to jam the buttons. Otherwise the enemy's and ally's A. I. 
 is pretty good, the commands are easy to use, and there are some really great crowd seens (best 
 I've seen in a game ever) . overall the game is not great but definitly not horrible.
  
  pros:
  1. great crowds
  2. easy to use commands
  3. good A. I.
  
  cons:
  1. bland graphics
 
  2. bad controls
  3. bad aiming
  
  overall: 7.5/10-good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Kane&Lynch is not the best game on the market but it's an amazing game for the people who likes 
 some pure action.
  
  In the overall graphics and the cutscenes are great .Espicaly in the nights on Tokio levels. Plus 
 Kane&Lynch has the best -realistic shadow system i have seen in a game. You'll also see destructable 
 enviroment.
  
  The story is purely amazing the scenes, levels are just awesome but you might be a little dissapointed 
 in the last levels espically when you go to a civil war in havana which has nothing to do with 
 a crime-action game. 
  In my opinion gameplay was quite normal i didn't have hard times while aiming or while covering. 
 AI was a little poor but way better than titles like Stranglehold. To be honest gameplay was a 
 little big buggy. that's why i gave it an 8 and few people complained. You might see few glitches 
 and bugs throught the game
  
  When it comes to sound Jesper Kyd did his job again. Instead of some orchestral mixed electronic 
 musics he did in Hitman series, K&L's soundtrack was all mixed up with some electronic music that 
 gets the action to the top.
  
  In the overall it's a very good game i think every person who likes drama-action movies should 
 play this game to be a part of that movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradas101
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch are two old criminals that have been broken out of prison by a major criminal organisation, 
 however the story takes a twist and Kane and Lynch are out to get the black 7s leaders. It offers 
 some interesting gameplay however the controls are difficult to use and the AI is pretty rubbish 
 if you tell your team members to put fire on a certain position they will end up getting killed. 
 It seems to me that nearly every other word is the F word and it gets to point that you think what 
 is the point in using it that much? You are able to crouch or stand behind walls so you are parallel 
 to them however this takes along time to do and at certain point you just get board of trying to 
 fidle around with the charector so they go up against the wall so you don't do it.
  Kane and Lynch has the making of a good game however it lacks the polish which games like Call 
 of Duty 4 have making them amazing games.
  
  5.5/ 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game makes a good saucer for your coffee table. Where to start well how about the good, it 
 will be short. The concept of the game is cool and the idea in the multiplayer is good, just a 
 bunch of cops and robbers simple but it works. Well that was fast; the graphics are ok at best, 
 kind of choppy at times. The weapons suck I have no idea where the go the sound affects from but 
 they are crap. The game play is awful finding cover is still a concept in this game not an action. 
 Example you hide and find some cover then when you shoot you expose half your body out in the open. 
 You are for the most part a bullet magnet the whole time. The AI has three positions standing there 
 and shooting, hiding or running around for no reason. I've watched moths around a light that were 
 more organized then the AI in this game. Don't rent it don't buy it just forget it. This is the 
 game you will have to play in hell for eternity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expert-Assassin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  The first time is booted up Kand and Lynch: Dead Men I lost sight of what I paid for, all of the 
 story is a bit confusing and you are put in an enviroment which you could no nothing less about. 
 This is a shame however since the rest of the entire game is consistantly great, whatever you do 
 dont breeze past the first five or six levels and give up because you dont like the game. The chances 
 are however by the time you're that far into the you'll have a breif idea on the story as the characters 
 of the secretive group "the7" become more clear and identifable. Be sure that you like this game 
 by the time you get the achivement "have gun, will travel partII".
  
  Firstly I will tell you more about the story but not too much. You are Kane an ex-member of "the7" 
 and after a series of nasty deeds you are on death row, this is when you are set free and you must 
 get an ominous breifcase and then return it to "the7" or there will be a not so good ending to 
 your loved ones, the rest of the game is a chase to get revenge on this gang and rescue your girl 
 jenny, there is a pretty intresting twist very near the end of this game infact there are two possible 
 endings. One involves a quick escape while the other is doing what is morally right, this makes 
 such a diffrence as it unlocks a whole new chapter.
  
  Graphics are a major part in this game, the power is amazing with notible scenes in which herds 
 of people run is a huge pack. In a prison, a night club and in a civil war. Some possible tweaks 
 need to be made to the framerate which is the downfall of the graphics, it breaks up the scenes 
 and almost spoils it. Buildings are nice and the game has parts where the city can look stunning. 
 Weather effects also match in but they dont effect the gameplay. Overall the presentation is great 
 but might be a bit plastic sort of like the club.
  
  Design ways the game is a little fair. The short campign mode is not nearly enough. The sixteen 
 chapters should really be more like twenty-five. The multiplayer extends the games life and you 
 could always go back and complete the game on co-op which can be decent to great at times. The 
 amount of weapons is not really impressive. I didn't count them but all of them seemed the same 
 except the rocket launcher and the pistol. This game was a little unfinished and they should of 
 extended its campign mode slightly.
  
  Finally the gameplay in this game is good. Nothing awesome, just a little above avarge. The objectives 
 system seems to work well plus to boss battles are good such as shooting the drive of a truck or 
 slaying a helicopter with a rocket launcher. If you run out of ammo a partner often will share 
 some of theres also a teammate can give you adrenaline shots if you die brining you back to life, 
 be careful because doing this twice in a minute will overdose you which finishes you off. Tactical 
 elements are simple and good even if your team a. i is on the wrong side.
  
  On the whole this game is awesome at times were your running through a crowded building with a 
 full team but is lame on some slow down cutscenes also when the game begins in a blury mess you 
 might not like it but you'll forgive once your in the deep part of the game. A good game, great 
 would be a stretch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i-kill-people
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  It's really a great game once you get passed the whole confusing cover system. It's a highly underrated 
 game in my opinion, and I think it deserved a higher score. The games controls aren't too hard 
 to learn, but they probably could have been worked on a little bit. It's pretty realistic, except 
 for the fact that a bullet to the hears can be fixed with an adrenaline shot, making you good as 
 new. But hey, no games are realistic, right?
  
  I wouldn't say the game's too long or too shore, or too hard. I think it's just right. The story 
 is amazing. That all I have to say. The voice acting and sound effects are very nice, but even 
 though the graphics are great, some of the characters look a little... funny.
  
  All in all this game is worth buying, so if your store has it on the shelves I would go out and 
 at least rent it but I wouldn't pay more then $30 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is awesome. There are so many memorable levels. 
 I wont name any in case i spoil it for you. But overall, it is short, but i think its awesome. 
 There are some levels you will want to replay cos thet are great. Overall, 9.5 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer- I have spent quite a while with fragile alliance. For those of you who dont know, 
 fragile alliance is the only multiplayer mode. It puts you and your team in a level eg the shopping 
 mall. There, you will start out at the top, and will proceed to the jewelley stores, where you 
 take the jewels and money whilst being hassled by security guards and SWAT teams. You work together 
 to excape with as much money as possible. Any members of your team will respawn as police and try 
 to kill you. Some people on your team might get greedy, and they might kill you and take your money. 
 He will then be labelled as a traitor and you get a reward if you kill the traitor. It actually 
 suits the game quite well and is a unique experiance. In addition, the game features split screen 
 co-op for the campaign. Its neat and really quite fun. 9/10
  
  3) Graphics- I actually liked the graphics quite a bit. but they arent as good as say, COD4 for 
 Gears of War's graphics. 8/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound the bullet makes is very cool. Makes it a little more realistic. The music 
 in the game is also great and adds to the intensity and tension of the game. 9.5 / 10
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. I have encontered 
 a few glitches, which made me have to replay a level. Also, the hit detection is aweful. It takes 
 so many bullets to kill someone, even if you shoot them in the face. Also, the cover system wasnt 
 as good as Gears of War's and I found it quite fiddly. 7/10
  
  Overall, you might want to rent it, as the multiplayer mode isnt everyones cup of tea. I liked 
 it alot though. Althoughthe single player is short, its memorable, and the multiplayer is cool. Overall 
 score, 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: besighyawn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men
  
  In the midst of the 2007 holiday season, there was little room for shooters not named Halo or Call 
 of Duty. Yet the huge competition won't stop companies from developing for the shooter genre, definitely 
 a money-making category. One of the games vying for a share in the crowded market, Eidos' Kane 
 & Lynch: Dead Men, attempts to hook gamers with a story focused on men in the organized world of 
 crime. It initially works, but there are problems with the gameplay itself that keeps Kane & Lynch 
 from elevating itself to the level of the competition.
  
  Kane & Lynch begins with Kane, an imprisoned mob assassin on death row, on a prison transport. 
 Along for the ride, fellow prisoner Lynch pulls off a an escape with the help of a shady organization 
 who's reason for freeing Kane is to force him to return some money from a deal that apparently 
 went wrong. If he couldn't do it, his family would be in trouble. With the help of schizophrenic 
 Lynch, they set out on their mission. The real center of the story is Kane's desire to correct 
 the wrongs of his past by doing good, particularly for his daughter. We see this narrative formula 
 performed to success in plenty of movies and television, and in this case we somewhat do. We want 
 to root for Kane as sort of an antihero who wants to help his family. Yet, when the bodies of cops 
 and prison guards pile up, how can we feel pity for him when it seems he doesn't have pity for 
 anyone but himself. In fact the more entertaining story is probably Lynch's, who's struggles with 
 his condition aren't explored enough.
  
  For the most part, the story is engaging and does reach a conclusion that's less than Hollywood. 
 Actually, there are two possible endings which play on the morality aspect of Kane doing anything 
 he can to help his daughter. However one of the endings requires an extended, 20 or so minutes 
 of gameplay. For those looking to get their money's worth, a piece of advice, be a good boy.
  
  However, that depends on if you aren't tired of the gameplay by the game's conclusion. You 
 control Kane through a third-person perspective while controlling Lynch and other crew members 
 through the D-pad and face buttons. You point where your partner attacks or moves and works surprisingly 
 well. When there's more than one crew member, your control switches to the next person automatically 
 allowing for more tactical move and cover maneuvers. This works because, as with any narrative 
 involving crime, there will be guns and shooting, and this game has plenty of that. With a wide 
 array of common modern weapons from pistols to SMGs to sniper rifles, there isn't a shortage of 
 weapons to use, but you will learn to use your teammates to do much of the dirty work for you. 
 Your crew AI does a decent enough job of targeting guys and taking them down. There's even an achievement 
 for completing a level without firing or using your one-hit kill melee attack. Even on the easy 
 difficulty, having your squad do most of the work is helpful because the enemies are bullet sponges. 
 This is the type of shooter where you'll fire at a guys chest, he'll go down, but come right back 
 up a second later. It's cheap way to extend the difficulty for a game in its later stages, but 
 shooter veterans have seen it time and time again.
  
  This also highlights the lack of polish in the game's shooting mechanics. You'll have a hard time 
 taking down guys not only because they can take so much damage, but also because you just can't 
 center your aim on them. I had to adjust my sensitivity settings many times just to get it right, 
 but even then shooting targets that were on the move was frustrating. If you find yourself having 
 trouble aiming, there is a cover mechanic added to help, but unfortunately is even more frustrating. 
 There's no dedicated button assigned to taking cover such as in Gears of War, but rather you stay 
 behind cover and you'll automatically attach yourself to it. Sounds simple, but getting into cover 
 felt so inconsistent that it just wasn't useful to take the time to do it. Sometimes you'd have 
 to constantly adjust for the game to recognize you want cover and other times it'll give you cover 
 when you aren't needing it.
  
  All of these gameplay problems are just reasons for you to use squad commands and let your crew 
 do the job for you. However, this isn't the let-your-squad-do-the-work genre, and shooter/action 
 fans will be disappointed.
  
  For those that finish the single-player, which will take you about 6-7 hours, there is a multiplayer 
 mode that you can play online called "Fragile Alliance". You and others perform a bank heist against 
 either the AI or other players. The twist is you all start out on the same team, as the robbers. 
 As you work towards gaining more money, you can betray your partners and take their cash. However, 
 anyone that dies at the hands of the computer or through partners, respawns as a cop and can take 
 their revenge. It's an interesting mode, but it's the only mode, and probably isn't enough to satisfy 
 online gamers.
  
  Besides the online mode, Kane & Lynch doesn't try to innovate and tries to go for what fans of 
 shooter games and action movies like: lots of guns and a story about crime. In fact, the story 
 is good enough to at most get you to the end. Yet, with average shooter mechanics, the game won't 
 takeover your console if you already have Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4 in it already. 
  
  
  - Allan Chatto
  besighyawn
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is just terrible all around. I had high hopes for this game since it is coming from 
 the devlopers of Hitman but as soon as you start playing you realize how bad the game is. Everthing 
 about the game is off. The controls are god awful and terrible at best. You'll spend most of your 
 time wandering why you can't hit the broad side of tree when your ten feet away from the tree. 
 The story is kind of interesting but evverthing else is so bad that it over shadows the story. 
 This game was probably one of the most dissapointing game because it had the potential to be a 
 great game but instead its just a crappy game. The multi-player is interesting but with such a 
 bad game its not enough. The multi-player is the highlight of the game and that's too bad because 
 everthing else sucks. If your like me and have this game I would recommend trading it in for something 
 way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Well the game's bloody awsome Campain And Online so if you have xboxlive buy it now, Okay it get's 
 lame on first few mission's but woow.. i'am pretty amazing... for a game that only has to people 
 init... most games have like one or five lol
  .
  Well the game's bloody awsome Campain And Online so if you have xboxlive buy it now, Okay it get's 
 lame on first few mission's but woow.. i'am pretty amazing... for a game that only has to people 
 init... most games have like one or five lol
  Well the game's bloody awsome Campain And Online so if you have xboxlive buy it now, Okay it get's 
 lame on first few mission's but woow.. i'am pretty amazing... for a game that only has to people 
 init... most games have like one or five lol#
  
  
  Well the game's bloody awsome Campain And Online so if you have xboxlive buy it now, Okay it get's 
 lame on first few mission's but woow.. i'am pretty amazing... for a game that only has to people 
 init... most games have like one or five lol
  Well the game's bloody awsome Campain And Online so if you have xboxlive buy it now, Okay it get's 
 lame on first few mission's but woow.. i'am pretty amazing... for a game that only has to people 
 init... most games have like one or five lol
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuttinXD88
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is worse than trash i'd have more fun playing with a dirty tampon. don't buy or rent 
 this crap. i'd rather have sex with a dog than play this. tic tac toe is better than this. this 
 game will give you cancer. touching the disc causes herpes. kane & lynch is the reason why millions 
 of people die each year. if you buy this you support terrorism. kane & lynch was created by satan. 
 The makers of this game are pedophiles. this game will give your 360 three red lights. it will 
 make your monitor melt. you will die. you'll have erectile disfunctions. your xbox will blow up. 
 people will stop liking you. you'll have no friends. your girlfriend will cheat on you. you'll 
 start liking men. you'll never get married. your parents will shun you. your kids will hate you. 
 your family will catch on fie. your cat will eat your eyes while you sleep. everything you love 
 will leave you. kane & lynch is the reason why videogames are not taken seriously. this is the 
 reason why people think games are for immature kids. don't buy this game. this game is self torture. 
 your eyes will pop. your dick will fall. you'll have non stop diarrhea while you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_dawg84
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  For months I've been waiting for this game to come. The title and the story rocks but the graphic 
 and game play sucks!
  The first cinematic was perfect and makes the player easy to get in touch with the characters but 
 when the game starts my first reaction was the graphics! The details... well if you can see any 
 let me know. Anyway, the details are horrible, it's like the game creators was in a hurry making 
 the game. The hair on the long-haired character (Lynch I believe) looks like the hair on Lego figures. 
 It looks so plastic without any details except for the colour fading when moving. The environment 
 is so simple made. It all actually reminded me of Bad Boys (the game) . When you shoot someone the 
 blood looks just like red powder in the air and they just fall down. There is no reaction on where 
 you hit the persons it's just like it doesn't matter where you hit them. Anyway I really tried 
 to play the game because of the story but after half an hour I just couldn't stand it. It's all 
 so stiff, there is nothing nice I could find when spending the couple of hours playing it. I'm 
 sure the story rocks but the game play is really, how can I put it.... old school?
  I'd say it's not even worth renting it.
  
  If you wonder about the Co-op, read what I've just 
 written about the game. There is no difference there. If you're after a game that you wanna play 
 yourself or with a friend I HIGHLY recommend Army of Two!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  You know this game had so much potential. It didnt quite live up but its a good fun game. I didnt 
 beat it in the 5 days i had but i had a good experience and ill buy it when its around 30 dollars. 
 Anyways the controls feel delayed, youre running around and try to turn or something and it feels 
 like you got to bench 250 just to turn him. The story is good and it kind of draws you in, as the 
 game goes you keep learning more and more and i know thats what most shooters do but this one kept 
 me interested and wanting to watch the cutscenses and i hate cutscenes theyre normally so boring. 
 I hate the aiming system. ITS A WHITE DOT. i think red would have been better but whites sufficient. 
 Its one of those games where you have to heal your crew with adrenaline but it gets tedious because 
 they die so much its unreal, noit to mention they dont do anything but shoot and never hit anything. 
 
  
  As for online, IT SUCKS. youre only option is a game where your goal is to work together but that 
 doesnt work becasue once you spawn the dude behind you always kilss you and makes you a cop so 
 its not fun. Its a good idea but it should be harder so theyres a reason to keep the others alive
 
  
  all in all this game is fun, its a good story mode and decent multiplayer when you play with cool 
 peaople so i definitely suggest playin it as long as you dont have a short temper and throw controllers 
 and stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Don't you love the crime life? Bank heists, getaways, murder and... fighting in a civil war??? Ohh 
 ok.. its to murder a gang I see.. Anyways, Kane and Lynch is about a ex mercenary named Kane, who 
 is in lock up and is kinda busted out rather harshly by the mentally insane Lynch, and crew. After 
 that, you go deep into the life of the organized Kane and the disturbed Lynch.
  
  -Storyline-
  You play as Kane, an ex-mercenary in jail who you find writing a letter to his daughter 
 that he has never saw, Jenny. He gets busted out by Psycho Lynch and goes on a wonderful journey 
 to .. er... steal his own stuff then kill the people he was stealing for. Finding yourself from 
 haviing gunfights from a donutshop, to the bank, to Havana in the civil war, you will have very 
 few men to help you out and sometimes you will fight under reeally extreme and somewaht impossible 
 conditions. Story is err jumpy and kinda crazed.
  8/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  Oh yay, a Gears of War button layout with a call of duty 4 sprint and grenade mechanism... Such 
 fun.. You run by clicking the left thumbstick, throw grenades with the right tab, aim with the left 
 trigger, shoot with the right. Seems to be all in order... Wait what? Command my men with X, Y, B? 
 Since when did Ghost recon get criminal? oh well. You can hug walls but you may have to twiddle 
 with the thumbstick for awhile to make it work. Though the tactics and the shootouts are kinda fun 
 especially when a SWAT member gets to close and you do some close combat mumbo jumbo.
  8.5/10
  
  -Visuals-
  I actually liked the visuals, the enviroments were realistic and well 
 made and each character model was nice too. Kanes face is scary..
  9/10
  
  -Audio-
  Well, there isnt much music, just the sound of gunshots and Kanes & Lynchs wonderful bickering. Maybe 
 some music would of been cool..
  7.5/10
  
  -Multiplayer-
  I found this alot better than going at the story alone, your buddy can turn his controller on and 
 do a Co-op story line as for he or she plays the psycho, Lynch. Really fun and sometimes easier 
 because the computers A. I for Lynch is like a 5 year old. Online multiplayer could be somewhat 
 better, because it only lets you play a team based game called "Fragile Alliance". You and your 
 team of convicts try to rob or obtain something without getting killed, When one member gets alot 
 of money and you get greedy, you kill him and take the money he had and your own, though it labels 
 you as a traitor. When another person on that team kills him, they get the money. When the person 
 killed by the traitor is turned into a guard, and kills him for revenge, they get a reward. Kinda 
 Iffy eh? well thats why its called 'FRAGILE alliance". Fun, but is really frustrating when your 
 whole team kills each other because they all got hit by the greed bat.
  7/10
  
  -Overall-
  This game is somewhat good but it isnt really bad either, its more like the kinda 
 game you find in the 20$ bin in Walmart. Interesting story, nice visuals, no apparent music and a 
 dead multiplayer makes this game a major underdog but its still fun nevertheless. rent it first.
 
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob_dAmAgE
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  (before i begin, i must give a very big THANK YOU to XBM for including the Kane & Lynch demo on 
 their magazine demo disk. after reading and watching all the horrible reviews i would have never 
 even bothered to download the demo via XBL. i've learned a very important lesson though, never 
 let other people/reviewers make a decision for you, experience things for yourself, because you 
 never know....)
  ok. so this game got really trashed for various reasons, most having to do with some fat reviewer 
 on gamespot, a bunch of his cronies from various other magazines, and tons of mindless "gamers" 
 who never even took the time to play the game. you know all about the stupid controversy, and if 
 you want to learn more, search out gamespot or google. enough. time for my review:
  
  K&L is all about throwing the player into his or her own Michael Mann wet dream. K&L are extremely 
 dark characters, who are very much at home with killing, cussing, betrayal, and death. Kane is 
 a man obsessed with revenge, and Lynch is a skitzo that has lost his mind. 
  If you are reading this review, you probably know all about the characters and story, so i wont 
 go into detail about it. Just realize one thing: K&L is a character driven game. The thing that 
 sets K&L apart from most all other shooters is that story is the most important feature in the 
 game.
  In a word, the game-play is "fun." you usually have a team of baddies with you and with the push 
 of a button can command them to stay close, investigate a certain spot, or attack a specified area. 
 this makes the game very easy to pick up and play and reminiscent of the creaters previous "Freedom 
 Fighters" game.
  besides taking care of your team another important thing to remember to do in k&l is to take cover. 
 you can blind fire, or precision aim once you are safely crouched behind a wall or other such life 
 saving barricade. k&l is positively NOT a run n' gun game. far closer to gears of war than to (i 
 dunno, been a while since i played a typical shooter) serious sam, or the punisher? 
  the game takes you to many different geographical locations, the best being a u. s. airport, a tokyo 
 dance club and on a bank heist.
  there is also multiplayer in the game called "fragile alliance." as i do not have the XBL gold 
 membership at this time, i cannot review this part of the game. the object from what i've read 
 is to go in with a team, steal a large sum of money, then decide if you want to murder your partners 
 & keep the loot to yourself, or let everyone live and share it.
  K&L is a linear game, yet not to the point where you feel like you cannot use the environment to 
 your benefit. if you see a busted up car far off somewhere, chances are you can run up to it and 
 use it for cover.
  many people have complained about the controls in k&l, so let me tell you exactly how it is. ever 
 play hitman? ever play hitman and get so frustrated that you blow your cover and go on a shooting 
 rampage? if you can remember how those controls and targeting system is, you have a (less detailed) 
 idea of how the controls in k&l are. READ the manual. edit the controls to your liking! 
  no game is perfect and here are the problems i found while playing k&l:
  
  1. hit detection 
 could have used another couple of months work. i'll be firing half a clip off into a far away targets 
 face and nothing happens!
  
  2. cover system could also have used another couple of months work as well. sometimes, i'll try 
 and take cover and absolutely how i fiddle with the coverage, nothing happens.
  
  ultimately, k&l is a very fun, story driven, gritty, adult action game. k&l should definitely NOT 
 be ignored and shunned like it has been, hence the reason why i've written this review. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljm69ljm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people think this game is so bad, there is only one problem with this game... 
 The Length, if the game was longer, had a few more weapons and interactive equipment then I would 
 say it was an amazing game, the best thing about this game was the story line, I have to say the 
 storyline to this game was better than any other game out, it was like a film, only shorter.
  I rate this game 9/10 for the effort that was put into the creation of this game, although if a 
 new one was to come out, I'd strongly reccomend more weapons and longer gameplay... the game took 
 me 1 hour to complete, and I'm not brilliant at games.
  Overall I reccomend you RENT the game before BUYING it, there are many better games out there that 
 you can purchase for 40, and this is not one of them, its too short, and is boring if you just 
 repeat the game over and over again.
  
  If you got this far then I'd like to thank you for reading my review.
  Happy Gaming,
  
  Liam 
 McArthur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesommersHP
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  It all starts with a bang, like many other games of this type, and then it all goes downhill from 
 there. What seems like a good game turns into a game with terrible hit detection and pretty crappy 
 AI. Mixed along with a strange learning curve, this makes quite a headache of a game.
  
  So, you complete the first level, finding that it's pretty fun. Mabye a few camera niggles, but 
 still pretty fun. The second level's fine, but when you get to the third, it becomes unbearable, 
 especially on co-op. Little health mixed with lots of enemies does not make a terribly fun game, 
 and the difficulty is one of the reasons i scored it a 6.
  
  The hit detection is one of the worst i've ever seen, worse than most PS2 games. Sometimes when 
 you can see 30% of an enemy, you can't shoot him until you flank them which is terribly unappropriate. 
 
  
  This may make me sound like i hate this game, but this is far from the truth. I had alot of fun 
 Co-op, especially on levels like the prison and the nightclub, but some problems do hinder the 
 entertainment value.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Whilst quite good, probably not up to the standards of many good games 
  6/10
  
  SOUND:
 
  
  Generally good, but not really noticed.
  7/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Overall quite fun, but little niggles dissapoint.
  7/10
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  
  Not really 
 that long, and the only reason for a replay is on different difficulty levels.
  5/10
  
  
  OVERALL:
  Generally fun, but ultimately a disapointing game.
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Ive read most of peoples reviews on this game and the 'video' review and agree and disagree at 
 the same time! I think the overall concept of Kane and Lynch is very good however when it gets 
 down to it its so hard to 'like' the main characters in this story. I mean they really are I mean 
 really are bad guys! So when I was playing I couldnt help thinking that I deserve to just die! 
 I have to say that the graphics on this game arent appauling however considering Assassin's Creed 
 came out around the same time the difference is significant. Also the control system is very slow 
 and sluggish (play GOW and Halo 3 then play this to see what I mean) which can be irratating at 
 times. The worst thing about this game is the language I mean I really dont mind language (I am 
 a hardcore Deadwood fan, cant get much worse than that) but they just didnt take the time to think 
 this is a bit over the top even though the voice acting is top notch. On the postive side of this 
 game is the story, I think its one of the best story driven games on the market and I really got 
 into the story. Also Fragile Alliance is a really good new multiplayer game. Although it can get 
 boring after a while they did try to do a multiplayer that wasnt Slayer or Team Deathmatch! Overall 
 a really good concept and story whose gameplay and script let it down. (In my opininon lol!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is really a great game i liked the charectors a lot the story is great the game is fun Eidos 
 and io interactive did a really good job the graphics are good liked co-op mode i beat it with 
 my friend evan and it was really fun. A MOTHER **** KICK ASS GAME this game was awsome i loved 
 the storyline i thought this game was **** perfect and this game was so **** awsome man i love 
 this MOTHER **** GAME. This game was awsome. Really **** fun god damn this game kicked so much 
 **** ass. This game was just really fun a masterpiece a good next gen game a mother **** kick ass 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixlynch777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I really liked Kane and Lynch: Dead Men because unlike most shooting games the story is actually 
 central to the game and the characters are really good and you feel sorry for them and you want 
 to find out what happens to them (especially Lynch) . The gameplay is quite solid with a very good 
 dose of action and squad tactics with a very good variety of guns to play with. You get to see 
 many different locations such as: the jungles of Cuba, a Tokyo nightclub and a bank heist. The 
 story is amazing and the ending is very unexpected and made me me feel quite sad. The game has 
 some very shocking moments and it is not a game that you will forget for a while. The graphics 
 are very good especially the character models. The soundtrack is the best thing in the game and 
 it sets the mood perfectly. The flaws are an extremely high swear count and it gets a little frustrating 
 later on in some of the harder missions towards the end. The game is absolutely amazing and I would 
 like to thank Eidos for making it split screen as it really make me sad that there are hardly any 
 offline 2 player games anymore for people to play who live together. And for the people that say 
 the aiming was impossible maybe it is just because that they are really crap at games and do not 
 want to accept it. A bad carpenter blames his tools.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Story: 10
  Sound: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  After hearing some negative things about it I decided not to purchase it, but then I won a copy 
 from Xbox. com. au.
  
  I opened up this game with scepticism, I mean this was the game that had a lot of bad press in 
 recent times, and to be honest, I expected utter crap.
  
  The game itself is not bad, it has nothing really groundbreaking, just an excuse to make a co-op 
 TPS. The storyline is not engrossing, it has something to do with one crazy guy busting you out 
 of prison and being responsible for you, even though you tell him what to do then entire game.
 
  
  Throw in a daughter who hates you that you, the player can't really develop an interest in, and 
 a wife who dies in her first 20 seconds in the game and you have a motive for the player that is 
 so hackneyed it's practically a stereotype. When you play this game it just feels like going through 
 the motions, shoot this, enemy incoming, shoot them all, and there doesn't appear to be any real 
 variety to the game. The end of the game gives you 2 different ways to finish, both are kind of 
 dumb and expected. It's the kind of storyline that is killing the movie industry (and ashamedly 
 is now making its way into video games) , very similar to everything that has come before, ergo, 
 not engrossing.
  
  The controls are awkward to start with and take a little longer than I would've liked to adjust 
 to, as well as awkward controls for commanding NPC's, makes getting the controls down the half 
 the battle.
  
  Having said all this, the game managed to hold onto me until I have finished both endings, but 
 I feel that may have been only for the achievements more than anything.
  
  If you ask me, this is a game to hire, not to own, and the only way to play it is co-op, otherwise 
 don't waste your time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch: Dead Men is a delightfully painful game that gives you all the action you want 
 with mixed results. In the single player mode you play as kane, a man who is sent to death row 
 for a crime never really told. While being shipped to get executed a man named lynch tips over 
 the car and frees you... well kinda. once escaping the police you are handed over to a group called 
 the7, they have beef with you for ditching them for money to let them die, so they want the money 
 back in a few weeks or they'll kill youre wife and your daughter the only thing that matters to 
 kane anymore. paired with lynch the game begins. The games major flaw is its AI with it being either 
 really dumb or sometimes to smart ( which is rare.) Other flaws are little enviroment glitches 
 that are annoying. One thing that does get on your nerves is that it never really tells you what 
 happened in the past but leaves little clues so there could possibly be a sequel. The campaign 
 takes about 8 hours to beat with two different endings. One good thing about this game is the graphics, 
 very nice looking areas and nice models. The voice acting in this game is great and is never to 
 dramatic but just right. The multiplayer in this game is very innovtive and is enjoyabel for a 
 while only because it has one game mode: fragile alliance, in this mode you aand other players 
 try to get as much as they can, once you get enough you can either split the money with your friends 
 or kill your team and keep all the money you collected. It can be fun but loses its flare after 
 a while. In all if u want a quick ooh and ahh then RENT THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelStrife
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  
  The Good:
  Great presentation
  Interesting story with entertaining characters
  Variety of scenery throughout the game
  Many fun and intense action sequences
  Shooting can 
 at times be really fun
  Squad commands work quite well
  Interesting multiplayer mode
  
  
  The Bad:
  Shooting often feels wrong
  Hit detection doesn't seem right
  Dodgy cover system
 
  Artifical Intellegence is quite lacking for both alies and enemies
  Lack of online coop
  Multiplayer could have been refined more
  
  
  Breakdown:
  To me, this was a fun enough 
 game to play all the way through, it just lacks any real gameplay merits. Interesting gameplay 
 designs, yet poorly executed. Graphics are fine, though nothing looks that great, nothing looks 
 too bad either. Be warned that it is a very short campaign, with not much reason to play through 
 a second time other than with using different guns or really wanting to see the story again. The 
 multiplayer mode 'Fragile Alliance' seems quite unique and has kept me addicted to play quite a 
 few games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  This was a game I had been looking forward to for a while. It looked edgy, it looked dark & it 
 seemed as though it may have an intense storyline that unravels throughout the game. It has none 
 of the aforementioned & probably even less. The cut scenes appear as a simply delicious piece of 
 cinematography with the whole shebang of interesting angles, textures etc... cue gameplay. Wait 
 where did all the texture go? Is this a PS2 game? Is this a PS1 game? WHAT THE HELL! Alright, the 
 graphics are not that bad but damn it in this day & age they should not look like this - the intensity 
 that I was promised is lost by block colour without texture & poor voice acting. The gameplay is 
 easy enough shoot everything in sight end of level. Squad based gameplay ---I laugh in anger at 
 this phrase because tapping the "Y" button & sending a squad member away just to get shot so you 
 have to go in & save them is not squad based gameplay it is a waste of my bloody time.
  
  Multi-player is a great idea where you can either work together or betray each other, unfortunately 
 it doesn't work because everyone just betrays each other so it just ends up as a blood bath, that 
 would be if blood came out of a body when you shot it but it doesn't they just collapse & disappear. 
 
  
  This could have been a really, really good game & in all the previews actually looked half decent. 
 So what happened it was just like they rushed a beta version of the game & then just left it. Yeah 
 it's reasonably fun but it took all of 4 hours to complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seleca
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  So much this game needs to answer for. 
  
  Glitches being priority and lack of depth to the game. If you take it from a gameplay view point, 
 its decently fun, 3am with a friend on co-op. Everything else feels like such a flaw. The poor 
 A. I right down to the annoying dialogue that is littered with gratuitous swearing. The multiplayer 
 is slightly mroe redeeming though with the innovative look at fragile allience. And the game certainly 
 is different in storyline from others i have played so far. Just not done so well.
  
  The weaponry is very limited and random and the environments themselves are very underworked and 
 all feel very simplistic and feel an aspect of forgotten detail.
  
  It could have been good if only the creators were a little more focussed and knew what they were 
 doing, instead of trying to hype up a game that couldnt live up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game does not deserve the terrible ratings it's getting. However it's isn't the best thing 
 I ever seen either.
  
  The whole concept of the game is great, robbing banks, repelling down the side of a skyscraper 
 etc. is awesome. Somethings are stupid, like getting shot several times and then being revived 
 because they injected you with adrenaline. You should at least have a limp. 
  
  The graphics were pretty good, not GOW but good. It would of been nice to see the heads blown off 
 like you see in GOW after someone gets sniped.
  The death effects were good , after an enemy goes down sometimes they are not completely dead, 
 so you can walk up to them and finish them off.
  
  Like the Gamespot reviewer said, there is a lot of the F word which seemed realistic for ex-cons 
 but is really not neccessary. The main characters are not likeable but who cares, it's not a movie 
 it's a game.
  
  I bought this game because after downloading the demo, I had fun with it. So that's probably a 
 good place to start for anyone who is unsure if they will like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akalinga
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game is sorta outdated because you can't shoot while popping in/out from behind cover. cha-ching 
 baby! Even way before Gears, old games like Brothers in Arms and Full Spectrum Warrior had a real 
 cover system. cha-ching baby! Here you just crouch behind stuff and hope the enemy bullets don't 
 pass through solid objects. cha-ching baby! There's no online coop and split screen is framey. 
 cha-ching baby! When you play single player your teammates stand around and get shot up easily 
 since there's no dedicated cover system programmed in the AI. cha-ching baby! I think this game 
 was rushed for the holidays or something. cha-ching baby! Because 360 games that cost $60 shouldn't 
 look this bad. cha-ching baby! For example, most Wii games cost $50 bucks max because Nintendo 
 knows their system can't handle next-gen graphics. cha-ching baby! But this game looks like a PSP 
 game so there's no excuse. cha-ching baby! If this was priced at $29 then I could understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I had second thoughts about this game, 
  at first I read the review and thought to myself, have I ever listened to a review? this coming 
 from someone who enjoyed the game boiling point, and boy was that game rated bad...
  
  so I went out, bought this game, and looked at the back to see "co-op play" was in the game, so 
 I thought, wicked a game me and my "real friends" can play together, and not be bored...
  
  so I began playing a game, that would lead me to hate idiot interactive forever.
  
  Eidios 
 interactive, famous for their hitman games (and thats all I can remember) which I enjoyed quite 
 a bit, considering that kane and lynch is on the hitman engine, I thought it would be pretty cool,
 
  
  WRONG
  
  I started off the game swearing just as much as kane and lynch did, the controls are very awkward, 
 not having a button to go into cover? can I kick the genious responsible for that?
  bullets that don't hit their target no matter how good a shot you have, arn't these guys trained 
 criminals?
  
  and the story, or lack-there of, is well, pointless, I didn't really pay attention to it because 
 it didn't really make sense,
  The ai is pretty crappy, people don't take cover, and they use that tactic of having too many enimies 
 shooting at you to make up for it...
  
  sounds a bit like crap to me...
  
  instead of listening to me rant, Ill just warn you...
  don't buy it,
  im serious, I have played 
 some of the worst rated games on gamespot, and still gave them half decent marks, but this pile 
 of steaming crap coming from a respected gaming company? 
  what gives?
  ill give it a 3 for effort
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber-
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  If you were hoping for the amazing work that Lo Interactive did with previous games you will be 
 dissappointed Im afraid to say. While most PS3 and 360 games need to focus on the visuals this 
 game does not even do that. The AI is unresponsive and as many reviews have already said the duck 
 and shoot strategy is a pain in the ass in this game.
  
  Another common phrase is that the overall story isnt that good either. The characters are hard 
 to like, the chit chats are cheap due to constant profanity, and the plot is so cliched for the 
 anit hero that you just end up wanting to throw the controller at the screen.
  
  Dont support this game please. I know that many 360 games sell well (the good and the bad) please 
 do not let it happen to this game. Show companies they have to work for your dollars and go buy 
 an older game like Freedom Fighters or Hitman: Blood Money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_hiphop
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of contemporary crime films, I love Guy Ritchie's Snatch, Lock Stock, and Tarantino's 
 pulp fiction & reservoir dogs. That's why im interested on getting Kane & Lynch. The mix of crime, 
 comedy and drama. And it's found on this game.
  
  The plot itself are really interesting. Two men from deferent background is very interesting, especially 
 Lynch. Psycho and on medication. Those guys are working under the threat of The 7 crime organization. 
 Kane has dealing some unfinshed business with this organization. He is gambling for his wife & 
 daughter's live. The story itself really potential to make game based movie. 
  
  Another magnet is that, these main characters are wearing good looking suit, and tie. It's another 
 great addition on the game. It's really cool to see Lynch in tie and suit, while doing some action. 
 The best scene is at the Tokyo downtown action, which all of our crew members wearing suit. The 
 moments are ruined when the action in Cuba start. They were wearing miitary camo outfit, that totally 
 ruin the overall game looks. Now it plays like military action game. 
  
  The Graphics is great, most people says that that the visual is bad. Because they didn't notice 
 how much models can fit in a screen. Yes, K&L able to fit over 500 person models in a screen, the 
 most noticable level is the one in night clubs. These are beautiful renders. No noticable jaggies, 
 and they're very smooth. 
  
  Kane & Lynch gameplay are great, but only for some levels, which is the levels involve downtown 
 carnage, nightclubs, or some public areas. NOT MILITARY operation. The level of Venezuela & Cuba 
 are really dissapoiniting. They totally ruin the story, and ruins its gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummermike6380
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I played this game honestly having no idea what it was going to be like. My friend and I 
 eventually beat the co-op gameplay. But let me tell ya, it was a battle. We played on the difficulty 
 "aspirin" and still had a struggle completing the game, and both he and I are avid gamers. Simply 
 put: this game is hard as balls at times. While we breezed through certain missions, on others 
 we had to re-try multiple times to get past one part.
  
  As far as the multiplayer goes, I found it to be quite un-entertaining. Almost every game I played 
 consisted of nobody working together, and simply shooting every member of the team and attempting 
 to get out with all the cash. I have to say, it kinda ruined it for me. Nonetheless, if you're 
 looking for something to do on a boring weekend, the co-op is good to play if you have a friend 
 to play with.
  
  While certainly not a great game for the 360, it's worth a look if boredom sets in, or if you're 
 looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch... put simply, is a train-wreck in videogame form. Broken controls, bad gameplay, 
 horrible graphics, lackluster story and jumpy difficulty comes together to form this game called 
 Kane & Lynch.
  
  Due to my friends recommending this game, I finally picked it up. Thankfully, only a rental. But 
 after a couple hours of playing this disaster, I decided that my friends were wrong.
  
  First of all, this game has horrible graphics. I usually don't focus on graphics considering they 
 are just eye-candy, but when the graphics are this bad on an XBOX 360 title, there is simply no 
 excuse. The textures in this game are disgusting, the character models are mediocre at best.
  
  The sound effects are bad. The only thing remotely good about the sound is the voice acting, 
 and when the characters are saying 'F***' and 'S***' over and over again, it doesn't really help 
 matters much.
  
  The AI in the game are stupid and horrible, and the enemies can see you in impossible situations.
 
  
  All in all, this game is bad. Don't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scadman12
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I played this games for days so i have the ability to judge the quality of this piece. I would 
 not pay my worse enemy to play this game, instead i would make the disc a coaster. I need to make 
 this review longer so let me tell you about the graphics. Poor animations and it feels really clunky. 
 It feels like your driving a truck onthe ice on a curvy road that goes on for miles. Have you ever 
 read a classic book like "Clockwork Orange" well the story is not like it. It seems they had a 
 C-list celebrity write it like Dr. Phil. Dr. Phil loves violence and swear words obvisously. Is 
 there anything else to say about this game. The sounds in the game are poor. It sounds like they 
 recruit carnies to read all of the lines for the characters. Gun shots sound weak as if they recorded 
 the blasts of paintball guns. I have advise for you spend 50 dollars on a chocolate Sundae. Make 
 it a huge ice cream desert because it has alot more value than this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakehips57
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I had to review this game as I felt Gamespot did not do Kane & Lynch justice. Before the game was 
 released I was looking forwart to buying it as it had quite a lot of hype, but when I saw the reviews 
 it put me off buying, and so did the demo on xbox live. After I ran out of games to play I borrowed 
 this one from a friend, and I was extremely surprised.
  
  No matter what GS says the story is fantastic and runs as though you are playing though a movie, 
 and apart from this the graphics are well detailed and you get to play through various different, 
 but all graphically proficient, landscapes. 
  
  The game makes you do a LOT of shooting, and plays similar to Gears Of War, though the weapon accuracy 
 can be terrible at times. Another frustrating habit the game has is when you are dying and need 
 adrenaline (or whatever they give you to revive you) sometimes your allies tend to walk straigt 
 past you and ignore you, resulting in you having to return to your last checkpoint.
  
  Ignore the reviews, and rent it if you must, but at least give it a try/ It takes a while to get 
 into it, but the result is a slightly buggy game with intense shooting and an epic story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. if you love action movies, then you'll deff. love this game. I cant figure 
 out what people hate about this game. The only things i diddnt like about the game was with the 
 recoil on certain guns and that the co-op is Split-screen 1 xbox 360 only (no xbox live co-op : () . 
 Other then that there's nothing wrong with the game and id reccomend it to anyone who like's action 
 movies or previous Eidos games. The two main characters are fantastic, a medicated psychopath and 
 a traitor. If you play the game in co-op as Lynch its so awesome becaues sometimes he'll just go 
 berserk and kill people, or everyone on his side of the screen will turn into cops. All in all 
 i enjoyed the game and im glad i bought the game when it came out. if you dont think this game 
 is right for you as a buy, then rent it first, but is personally reccomend the game to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is another game that provided me with a short time of entertainment despite 
 some glaring problems and a huge scandal. Kane & Lynch isn't a blockbuster game by any means but 
 what it offers is a very dark and gritty story that is over in about 6 hours.
  
  
  The graphics aren't impressive by any means, looking mostly like a supped up port from a PS2 or 
 Xbox title. However, the characters are very distinct and even worth a little bit of praise. Far 
 too often are the lead characters in video games these buff and young male figures with nary a 
 hair out of place. Not in Kane & Lynch they're not. Kane is a balding man in his late 30's to mid 
 40's with a broken nose while Lynch is an unstable male in the same age range sporting a mean looking 
 skullet. (Think a balding mullet) What you end up with is some of the most distinctive antiheroes 
 in all of gaming.
  
  
  The best part of this game by far is the interaction between these unlikely heroes and the hellish 
 ride they go through full of murder, betrayal and botched plans. I have to say that there is nothing 
 to like about Kane or Lynch's personalities at all. Kane is an ex merc that is unwilling to take 
 responsibility for situations he's got him and his family into and Lynch is simple an under-medicated 
 mental case. The end result is almost worthy of a movie. Almost is the keyword, the story doesn't 
 flesh out what exactly what The7 are, the details of the double cross and the connection between 
 some of the levels.
  
  
  The gunfire that takes place throughout the game is often of action movie quality also. Literally 
 hundreds of bullets are flying in any given fire fight and many of them end up missing their intended 
 targets. Kane can take an impossible amount of lead before he falls even on hard, which hurts the 
 difficulty a bit. Besides AI lacking in the aiming department, they also tend to see around corners 
 and try their hardest to shoot through obstacles. Not effective or even smart at all. 
  
  
  Speaking of fallen characters, the main squad seems to do a decent job of staying alive if 
 you position them right. If not, you're often in a bad position where you have to run into the 
 line of fire to inject them with adrenaline. On the other hand, if you're the person that finds 
 yourself planted face down in the dirt, the AI is often good enough to stick you and help you get 
 back to cover.
  
  
  All the voice work is done very well; it's just that the dialogue is right on the edge of being 
 perfect, or overdone. There is a wealth of swear words flying around in any given situation but 
 these are death row inmates, crazy people and ex mercs we're talking about. I don't think proper 
 English that a high school English teacher would use in class is appropriate either.
  
  
  Gameplay is by far the game's biggest flaw. The cover system, when working properly is just simply 
 ok, but when you're sticking to doorways when you just want to peak out or you're still catching 
 a few rounds even though you're tucked behind something, it tends to take the fun out of the game. 
 
  
  
  Also IO Interactive tends to leave a few things up to imagination that often ends up in frequent 
 reloads. Telling you to take out the driver of an industrial sized dump truck is easier said than 
 done for instance. When you're shooting the driver and it doesn't look like you're hurting him 
 at all or letting you know you have a very short time limit are a couple things that would be nice 
 to know.
  
  
  K & L's highs and lows mimic the tumultuous reception it received, a great story with mediocre 
 game play and ugly graphics are fat too similar to its over hyped previews, luke warm reception 
 and the horrible backlash it caught from a misunderstanding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buyugold
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Kane And Lynch: Dead Men developed by Swedish developer Eidos is the story of a mercenary, Kane, 
 with a tortured past, as he fights his way to revenge and saving his family. As the title shows 
 Kane is accompanied by Lynch, a long haired psychopath that has a little more to him than meets 
 the eye. Kane is on his way to death row until his armored car is smashed off the road Kane is 
 helped to his feet by Lynch and then the action just doesn't stop.
  
  After Kane is busted out he is brought before the mercenary organization that he used to work for. 
 The 7 , who Kane left at a bank robbery gone bad, blames Kane for the deaths of some of its members, 
 Kane is told that his family has been taken by them and he has a week to retrieve a mysterious 
 briefcase that the 7 wants.
  
  From there its a virtual ride through hell with several different locals to wreak havoc in and 
 a variety of weapons and the addition of a squad keeps things refreshing. The aiming system, that 
 has been complained about by everyone, is modeled after real life making it some of the best/most 
 realistic shooting in a while. The graphics may not be the best out there but each character model 
 is unique and the environments are detailed. 
  
  The sound design is great, unique gun sounds, great voice acting and memorable dialog that adds 
 to the mayhem. The games controls are somewhat easy to get into with a few tricky situations but 
 this is just a small flaw. AI in the game is simple but sometimes it will surprise you and you 
 will get mobbed by 20 police officers with automatic weapons then the heat is really on.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is well done with a team of up to 8 facing off against AI controlled guards 
 with everyone going for the most money, which leads to betrayals and sticky situations of not knowing 
 who to trust and some intense face-offs. 
  
  Overall it is a great game to pass time with and invite a friend over for some fun Co-op gameplay 
 and a memorable singleplayer that leaves you wanting a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykalob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  In the begining i readed the review on gamespot. com and expected to see a garbage game but seeing 
 many people giving it high rates confused me so i decided to try and as exprienced gamer (for 9 
 years) i got the xbox 360 version and tried and here's my mind of it
  1-The chrachter design was very good actully it was edgy and detailed
  2-as a shooter the shooting 
 is just fun its not a stupid shooting game in kane and lynch you are forced to hide and huntng 
 enemies you can crouch and shoot and i like the two styles of hide behind walls you can sneak and 
 shoot or you can use the gun (many weapons really) if you don't want to sneak and maybe get injured
 
  3-sound is just balanced i admit that the only thing that gamespot. com is right about is the sound 
 system but i am not totally agree why ?because when you try you will say "i isnt that badits 
 good but the sound that shake your knees
  4-the story is nice (and some user said in his review (playing with two old guys whats funny... blah 
 blah blah) i can say about that its a story and the charchters sreve it good . and defending my 
 point of view i will say in prince of persia two thrones as an example PLAYING WITH A FREAKY DARK 
 SMOKING CREATURE WHATS FUNNY 
  
  Thats all folks
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mechakucha
Rating: 1
Date: May 13, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Just an ugly game trying to be 'edgy.' If I wanted to see two old men say the f word over and over 
 again and kill things, I'd just go on a VFW hunting trip with my grandfather. Gunplay is busted, 
 you'll be lucky if you can hit someone 10 yards away, let alone someone at 100 years. The graphics 
 look like a first gen 360 game at best, with a plastic sheen around all the characters and low 
 resolution, poorly textured environments. And don't get me started on the spotty voice acting that 
 plagues this game throughout. If you don't believe me, well, you can always download the demo off 
 XBL or PSN and see for yourself. Don't have take my word for it. Avoid this game at all costs; 
 there are so many better games out today that deserve your time. If you like shooting things there's 
 Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, Bioshock, The Orange Box. There is more quality in a tiny sliver of these 
 games than in the whole package of Kane and Lynch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  No doubt that if you look on gamespot (and the internet for that matter) you'll notice that Kane 
 and Lynch has taken ridiculously high amounts of flak. I'm not gonna retell the story, theres the 
 internet for that; and in fact most people who bashed the game (around 90%) hadn't played the game, 
 so facts were almost completely false. I wasn't convinced however, so i had to play it. This is 
 an honest opinion.
  
  From a presentation standpoint, K+L is pretty decent. The character models look good and the environments 
 are well detailed as well. There are somethings that are lacking, but nothing to serious. The audio 
 is amazing, especially in the voice acting. But be warned, this game uses the "f-bomb" at almost 
 every opportunity, although it works with the story, its a given that many people will be offended 
 by this games content. 
  
  As for how it plays, i prayed it was like freedom fighters; which had excellent squad AI, and fluid 
 controls. K+L sadly has neither. Aiming without using precision targeting is a nightmare, and you 
 WONT hit a damn thing, and precision is bad as well, but nowhere near has horrible. The AI is broken 
 as well, with squadmates charging blindly into combat most of the time, and just dieing, forcing 
 you to dash to them to revive them. There is a cover system here as well, but you don't choose 
 what to take cover against (a la rainbow six Vegas) instead, you just "snap to" a certain object. 
 Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. The rest of the gameplay works, shooting people is satisfying, 
 squad controls are simple, and THERES NO JUMP BUTTON (minor complaint)
  
  Although the single player is good/bad, the multiplayer is also interesting but flawed. There is 
 no online co-op, just the "fragile alliance" mode, which one of the more unique takes on multiplayer. 
 It starts with you and the other players fighting a group of bots, trying to collect as much money 
 as possible then escaping alive, but theres a twist. You can KILL YOUR TEAMMATES. Thats right, 
 you kill your teamies and steal their money. But when you die, you respawn as a cop to exact rightful 
 vengeance against your killer. Plus all your other teammates will gun for you. Its interesting, 
 except for that one idiot who shoots everyone at the START of a match. Then again, its people like 
 that who ruin any multiplayer game.
  
  Overall K+L did NOT deserve its reputation. Would it have gotten more respect if a certain incident 
 never occured? YES. But would it have if the game was in development for just a few more months? 
 You be the judge. 
  Worth a look for its unique multiplayer and cool (but short) single player, but it might only last 
 a few playthoughs at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdragon303
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Im very sorry to say that Eidos and Io interactive, the creators of the Hitman series have dissapointed 
 me greatly in their new game. Although the style of the game seems to resemble the 3rd person quality 
 of hitman, the game lacks originality, a good story line, and suffers from terrible repition. The 
 lackluster story is merely about revenge and nothing else. Like a poor action movie, the 2 characters 
 kane and lynch run around gunning people down with the first battle the same as the last. After 
 some cut scenes the two characters are plunged into different countries without any barely understanding 
 of why your there or whats going on. It's dissapointing to say the creators of such an awesome 
 game like hitman have gone downhill to making a videogame so unoriginal its painful. so all in 
 all, the game lacks the ability to present itself anywhere near worthy the hype the game brought 
 up previous the release date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheapage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This game teach me 1 thing. Don't judge the book by its cover. Frankly, when I watch the trailer I 
 had this word in my mind "Wow Cool!". After that I went banana over the game but when i buy it and 
 play it, I was so disappointing about it and so I change to other game. After a few days, I had no 
 other games to play so I once again play Kane And Lynch. After passing a few mission, it kinda grows 
 on me, so I invited my big brother to play with me. I manage to complete the game and then I think 
 back that the first time I play I was so disappointing about it and making news about Kane And 
 Lynch.
  
  Serious, the game is not that bad until you can crack it. The graphics may be ugly but it is not 
 that ugly, the gameplay is also quite nice, the sound is also nice and the rest I will just say it 
 'quite nice'.
  
  P. S.
  
  Remember, don judge the book by its cover. And please rate this review if you are reading. Thank Q. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samremnant
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Kane and lynch dead men is a 3rd person shooter in which you play as ex mercenary adam marcus AKA 
 Kane in his effort to save his wife and daughter from the mysterious organisation known as The 
 Seven.
  
  The game has, in my opinion , a great storyline, Kane is in a prison van heading to death row for 
 crimes committed in Venezuela, when the man sitting next to him (lynch) tells him to cover his 
 head and a huge explosion occurs followed by an intense firefight between the player and his AI 
 controlled allies and the police , unbeknownst to kane this is not a breaak out but a kidnapping, 
 he finds out that he has been kidnapped by the seven and that they will kill his wife and daughter 
 if he does not retrieve the lost money from the last job that got him sent to death row, howver 
 if he gets the money his family will be spared and only he will be killed , after that kane and 
 lynch (who has been sent to keep an eye on kane) set about finding the money and saving kanes family.
 
  
  Where gameplay is concerned this game features good controls and gameplay delivering just what 
 you would want from a 3rd person shooter, an easy cover system, simple squad commands and easy 
 controls, the combat is usually intense and is made much more fun in the more crowded areas like 
 the Tokyo nightclub and the prison breakout, the fighting gets even more frantic in later stages.
 
  
  The sound effects aree good with loud and powerful sounding weapons and top-notch voice acting.
 
  
  
  All in all Kane & lynch is an excellent game that is over far too quickly, featuring a great story 
 and voice work mixed in with very fun gameplay gameplay, this is definately worth checking out 
 even if you only rent it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinematic0903
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is such a great game. I don't know where to begin..
  
  I guess we can start wth the graphics. Because the game is made by the creators of the Hitman Series, 
 the graphics look similar, but better... ALOT BETTER. The levels are awesome! Every level looks 
 bloody amazing! And there's a huge variety. Tokyo, Prisons, Cuba. There's alot of different and 
 fun places to run and gun.
  
  The gameplay is great. The camera looks alot like where it was place in Gears Of War. Shooting 
 is really fun, you can either just fire using a tiny crosshair, or you can zoom in and fire precisely. 
 The way your character moves looks very realistic as well.
  
  The online multiplayer is probably the most innovative idea this year. The whole premise is robbery 
 (money, jewels, etc.) . You and a group of teammates go into a place and rob the sh*t out of it. 
 Then try to make a getaway, taking out cops and civilians in the process. The catch is, that at 
 any time, you can shoot on or all of your teammates, and become a traitor, which means you don't 
 have to share any of your money! When you die in multiplayer, you revive as law enforcement and 
 you have to stop the other players. There aren't alot of maps, but the ones that are there are 
 very fun. Hopefully there will be come downloadable content on xbox live.
  
  All in all Kane and Lynch is a fantastic game, and I can only hope for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch has been receiving a lot of awful reviews all around, some that personally I think 
 carry a lot of weight and people did not only destroy the game with non-sense criticism they also 
 HUMILIATED the game to a point that, sincerely, even if it was as bad they say it is, there's no 
 need to do that to any game; I mean someone spend their time, money and patience doing this game, 
 to humiliated it is to attack the men and women behind the project itself, it's sad how people 
 don't think about that kind of thing when they attack games and movies like that...
  First of all, this game isn't like I expected it would be, but it's great nonetheless, I thought 
 it would be more like Hitman, but it's nothing like it, it's a straightforward shooter.
  The story is very consistent, is goes about Kane, a mercenary serving the end of his death sentence, 
 he's being transferred when he gets rescued by other criminals with the help of another guy in 
 the truck with him, this would be Lynch. Kane used to work with the 7, a powerful mercenary group 
 who he abandoned (well, Kane says he believed trhem to be dead) to die as he took the briefcase 
 all to himself (it's not clear what the briefcase carries) , anyway he was arrested and sentenced 
 to death. Lynch is a problematic man, he's schyzophrenic and needs to take some pills in order 
 to be himself, one day he lost his mind and murdered his wife, he doesn't remeber anything, but 
 he got sentenced to death as well. Now the 7 contacted Lynch, they did not die and they want the 
 briefcase back: the deal is simple, they have Kane's ex-wife and his daughter at gun-point, if 
 Kane delivers the briefcase the women go free and Lynch takes Kane's place in the 7, Kane gets 
 killied any way.
  The first missions look like a mix of what there's best in Michael Mann's movies (Colateral, Heat, 
 etc.) , during load screens you're explained how they are getting to the next mission and things 
 like that, you also get the background of Lynch during gameplay, listening to hime talking to people 
 (and himself) , yes, that's right, you're never alone, in the game, other than Lynch there is always 
 more people helping you; after some incidents that I won't spoil you get to participate in a major 
 jail-break and the inmates you're after become constant help.
  The scenario will remind you of many movies, again Colateral and Heat seem to be a major influence 
 in the game, by the end you get to fight in a guerilla in Havana and then you go to the jungles 
 of Venezuela, to a Hazienda, (this is the final part of the game) , then it reminds you of Rambo 
 and other good commando-like movies around.
  Graphics are wonderful, the faces are very near perfect (like in Mass Effect) , the guns however 
 could have been much more polished. Sound effects are good, but the music, I must say that Jesper 
 Kyd let me down this time around, even though it's not bad at all, it doesn't give that epic rythim 
 we had in Hitman.
  Gameplay is simple, it's not confusing at all and it makes everything pretty easy to handle. "AI" 
 is pretty good, nothing special, however there is something very interesting: if you don't help 
 your mates, if you let them do the dirty work always, wait for oo long to revive them etc. In other 
 words, if you act like an a*shole they will return the favour by not obeying you, not healing you, 
 not giving you more ammo, etc.
  This game is a must have for fans of the genre be it in terms of gamming or movies and a rent (it's 
 very short but it does have two different endings) for anyone not so fond of shooters; anyway it's 
 a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynster
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Like alot of people i was initially a bit disappointed when I first played this game as my expectations 
 had been built up too high. Once I got over this I found that I still had a very enjoyable, action 
 packed game. 
  
  The graphics were very good, if nothing spectacular. 
  
  There were a couple of problems with the controls, but nothing major.
  
  The plot was very 
 interesting and kept me playing to see the outcome.
  
  The multiplayer game was excellent and a refreshing change from the usual online deathmatches that 
 most games offer.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone who enjoys an adrenaline rushed, actioned packed, 
 violent shooter. But if you are still undecided, play the demo first and then make up your own 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The coop play for this game is a lot of fun. Weapons are accurate to real steel. The graphics may 
 not be great but great gameplay beats graphics anyday, as seen with starcraft and final fantasy. 
 I had a lot of fun playing this game because the co op mode was well rounded. The game wasnt easy 
 so the game lasted us awhile, making for good gameplay. I probably wouldnt suggest buying it because 
 im not sure about the online play but id suggest you atleast rent it. It requires cooperation and 
 tactics to complete this game. Im not sure where all the hate is about this game, i personally 
 liked it and may buy it, theres a scene near the end that is just like the movie Heat, i loved 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunface1011
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The Game starts off by putting you into the persona of Kane. Kane is an Ex-Mercenary who worked 
 for a group called "The 7" but after he failed his final mission they kill your wife, and concludes 
 with you fighting a rebellion in Venezuela.
  
  Gameplay: 4/5 
  I think that GameSpots review for KL: DM was a little undermined because i noticed as i was playing 
 that its the EXACT control scheme for Gears Of War, which gamespot gave a 9.6. The Firing system 
 was i think a little hard to remember but at least it had a dot when u wanted to blindfire. They 
 use Rag-Doll physics when it comes enemies dieng, which i think everyone enjoys watching.
  
  Story: 2/5
  Gamespot was right on the story, it skips ahead of things that would make the 
 overall game better, like adding cutscenes, i remember playing in the US of A, then kane says one 
 word and then theres a loading screen the poof, were in Tokyo, Japan! Kane and lynch dont get along, 
 and not in an interesting way either, i mean interesting would be Spike Spiegel and Jet Black from 
 cowboy bebop, they throw around a few F***'s and thats it.
  
  Summary:
  Kane and Lynch: Dead Men is an alltogether fun game with few, but annoying flaws which dont actually 
 hinder its gameplay, the storyline is present but dosent do much to make itself Extravagent. This 
 Is why Kane And Lynch: Dead Men gets a 7.5-"i was aiming for her legs" out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumK1ndaMonster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  It's not nearly as bad as some people make it out to be. I wouldn't call it abysmal, but i wouldn't 
 call it great either, it's rather average in my opinion. 
  
  It is an awsome story plagued by repetitive and boring gameplay. Gunplay while fun at first is 
 let down by the useless weapons and their horrible accuracy. I excpect a gun to be dead accurate, 
 but when 8 out of 10 bullets miss the target you start to wonder. I respect the implementation 
 of the squad, but it was an excercise in futility. They never follow orders, they don't go where 
 you tell them, or attack who you specify they just do their own thing and most of the time get 
 killed doing so, leaving you to pick up the peices. 
  
  It is action packed adrenaline filled ride and i enjoyed the diversity of the levels, but under 
 all those cosmetic changes, it was all the same. I appreciate IO's attepmts at breaking up the 
 gameplay with different situations and that one car mission, but it just wasn't enough. 
  
  It is not the most graphically beautiful game either. It is gritty and real and the team took a 
 good direction in terms of the art. You won't be blown away, but it is definantly easy on the eyes. 
 
  
  In my opinion it is a good game that could have been great. It is well worth the play for the story 
 alone, but don't expect to be blown away by the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This is a game, because of the cnet scandals and whatnot, has been given ratings far down in the 
 3s, but it deserves much better than that I think. I'm not saying this is an amazing game on the 
 other hand either, but it's better I just get right to the facts:
  
  The Odd Couple: The story goes, at least as far as the first mission - Kane, a convicted convict 
 about to be sentenced to death with a misty past is being taken in an armored carrier to his fate. 
 Unbeknownst to him, Lynch, a mysterious convict essentially stops the carrier with terrorists by 
 his side to free a large amount of prisoners. However, it gets more complicated than that, as you 
 will see through the missions. 
  
  Unfortunately for some, this game is not going to end on a happy note (also not a spoiler, even 
 Max Payne wasn't going to end with Rainbows and lollipops) , which leaves a strange aftertaste from 
 playing, whichever route you decide to take. Nonetheless, the story is embedded right into the 
 campaigns, which seem to feel like every tarantino movie made combined together.
  
  The look of the K&L World: The cities and environments are pretty well made, the graphics engine 
 and frame rate combined remind me of the 360 version of Splinter Cell: Double Agent. It's quite 
 good, but it's no Mass effect either. 
  
  The sound of Brutality: The action sounds, voice acting, and soundtrack al fit pretty well in the 
 game, surprisingly good at capturing the personality of the 2 jailbirds, especially kane as the 
 missions go on.
  
  The Bottom Line: Kane & Lynch is a solid game, but obviously isn't for everyone - If you enjoy 
 the down and dirty TPS style of the Max Payne games and always wanted something like that, it might 
 be up your alley. However you'll likely be able to find something a little more worth buying. Some 
 good examples can be seen on my other reviewed games. 
  
  Final Tidbits:
  
  The Good
  -Memorable scenes in the campaign
  -Many of the missions will really keep you on your toes, the 
 bank one 
  is a great example
  
  The Bad
  -The ending, in either direction, is a big downer.
  -Sometimes the gun action can get a little 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara661
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  kane and lynch dead men is a very mixed bag. On one hand its a fantastic action game filled 2 the 
 brim with exciting , violent shooting action, an equally violent, dark and gritty story and a cover 
 system that works quite well if u can figure out how it works .
  
  on the other hand its a game full of glitches, occasionally crappy and often glitchy cutscenes, 
 bad AI and dialogue where the characters mouths dont often move.
  
  but dont worry the good far outweighs the bad.
  
  first off i wanna just clear a few things 
 up, every bloody review i read the reviewer always complains about how every third word the characters 
 says is f#%k thats probably true now that i think about but so wat its not that bad deal with it 
 , and secondly the cover system is not as crap as every1 says it is its actually pretty damn easy 
 once u get the hang of it but its still a pretty damn fun game its got a great story, intense bloody 
 and extremely fun gameplay and graphics that r at least decent even if they're not the best on 
 the console 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerDurdenisme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is a great game that has a large amount of fun and replay value packed into it's 
 short single-player. 
  
  Good things:
  Graphics
  I thought they looked nice and fit well together, although this may be different from what most 
 think.
  Level Design
  The level design I felt was great. Every room had it's own uniqueness and it really felt open.
 
  Story
  Great story and voice acting. Really kept me wanting to play.
  
  Bad Things:
  The AI:
  The AI was less than fantastic but it got the job done, so I wont elaborate on that.
 
  The combat system:
  Nearly every time I took cover I ended up shooting it, as opposed to the enemies. It was just easier 
 to stand about 3 feet away from it to get a good shot.
  
  My review may be a little ambiguous but all in all I felt it was a very good game. I've seen a 
 lot of mixed reviews, so I'd suggest a rental before a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4Chelski
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Its a complete joke i havent had my hands on such a bad game for some time now theirs just soo 
 much wrong with K&L.
  
  Bad points
  
  To start off the graphics arent up to scratch we could pick a game back from 1/2 years ago on the 
 Xbox 360 and you'd easily find better graphics are by far better gameplay, You'd just have to look 
 at the likes of COD2 which only costs 10/20 and then you have K&L being awfully demanding with 
 the price (40/50)
  Next comes the gameplay i just cant understand how awful it is to shoot a gun in this game.. They 
 add in a cover system were you can place your back against walls but theirs no point of bothering 
 with it because half the time you cant face a certain side that you are wanting to shoot from so 
 most of the time you will find yourself running and gunning which is fun for a couple of hours 
 then it get repetitive.
  
  Good points (sort of hehe) 
  Multiplayer has its ups and downs (note this is me trying to find a good point about the game i 
 cant say all the negative things lol) the betraying of teammates can be worth it and if you have 
 a good clan you will find yourself doing well and it would be best with a clan as if it isnt your 
 most likely going to be betrayed by someone or either you wont be able to help yourself
  The storymode is good i wont go into too much detail as i dont want to ruin the game for anyone 
 only downfall is the consistent use of profanity which isnt even needed lol you'll know what i 
 mean when you lead your team around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  when you start it and feel that you are enjoying, it is finished;
  story is good and fit for the game; but the elements and branches are so-so; the end is a mistery; in 
 one you safe your daughter, in the second you leave your friend (why should you do not take him?) start 
 is in US, then somewhere in SOUTH-AMERICA; in jungles of africa are the ends; until he half of the 
 game the story rise up itself strongly and shinny; suddenly it free itself in the darkness of knowlege; a 
 heavy, top and modern story with a weak narration of old styles; when you think you can understand 
 it, it is finished; why, I do not know;
  AI is sometime so clever, sometimes so foolish; in the close range shooting they can win but in the 
 far distence, you can defeat them without a harm; your freinds are good but not so, you can count 
 on them;
  graphic is so nice in objects and places, so ugly in persons, so real for water effects and fires 
 but in average it is good;
  a good game with a good story;
  you can play and enjoy; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Yes, I know this game has received a lot of fire and heat and God knows what else, but when you 
 sit down with the game and actually play it it's not that bad to be honest. It has the hiccups 
 and it's far from perfect but the game is an enjoyable romp from beginning to end.
  
  You play as Kane, an ex mercenary on his way to death row, he meets Lynch and they escape with 
 the help from The7, the organization Kane worked for. However, it's not for a favour. Kane took 
 the loot from them from some job and left them for dead and now they want it back. They coerce 
 Kane into doing this by threatening to kill his wife and daughter. Cue lots of swearing, shooting 
 and blood by the gallon. The story is fairly predictable -- gritty, mature and laughable in both 
 a good and bad way. By that I mean, it's Michael Mann stylish but does nothing to extinguish itself 
 from any of his films or subsequent games. And by laughable I mean it tries to hard at crossing 
 the maturity barrier and takes itself a bit too seriously. But, I know this is the torch and pitchfork 
 moment, I kind of like the character chemistry and for its daftness, the writing is really good 
 despite the heavy reliance on the F-word. It would make Gordon Ramsay blush.
  
  Predictable controls for this sort of game. Plays in almost the same way as other shooter games 
 -- streamlines minimal squad control, and the fascination with a cover system for games these days, 
 which is broken in this game. It's highly annoying and I never really used it. What else does this 
 game have despite a short campaign mode? Well, it has co-op that is actually quite good. It's offline 
 unfortunately but the mixtures of things for the second player is quite good. The second player 
 plays Lynch, naturally, and he usually does something different to Kane, such as sniping. It's 
 also interesting to see his schizo effects and when he loses control. Just keeps the game dynamic 
 and intriguing. Then there's an online mode, well just one online mode, Fragile Alliance. It's 
 an interesting concept and it's more or less conveyed well but it's weak because of the controls 
 and the fact that there's always a maverick and he kills everyone ALL THE TIME!!!
  
  Sound design is good, longtime Io Interactive composer Jesper Kyd does his usual fantastic music 
 that sets the mood and tone just right. Sound effects doesn't seem that far removed from any Hitman 
 game, Io's magnum opus series which is bad. Not BAD bad, just bad. Ah sod it, it's pretty lazy. 
 Voice acting is really good, especially from the leads. They suit the ugly characters greatly and 
 these guys aren't saints or nice people. Which to me is a great breath of fresh air. But then you 
 realise you can't relate to the characters or give two flying Fs.
  
  The game is about 8 hours long max with a okayish co op and questionable but okayish, again, online 
 mode.
  
  Kane and Lynch had a bag load of potential to be something truly great and an example of Io branching 
 out from the bald one. But this is not a Freedom Fighter quality made game. This is a game with 
 questionable values and morales. But that's unfair. GTA is hardly the same in story wise, with 
 criminals with no redeeming qualities other than being funny. Kane and Lynch is funny and the game 
 is enjoyable, frustrating at times and an evil cover system that just doesn't work. It's worthy 
 of a rental and it maybe worthy of a purchase when it's going really cheap. But for now at 50 quid, 
 get The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  What seemed to be a really promising game has turned out to be total garbage. The few cool cinematic 
 moments and all the f words in the world aren't going to save this game.
  
  The characters are boring, unlikeable, whiny, and lame. The fact that everyone has some cookie 
 cutter badass name doesn't help. There isn't much of a story to go along with these characters 
 either. 
  
  Ok so we don't have a story but the game can still be good right? I mean gears of war pulled it 
 off? Nah. The gameplay is horrifying. The weapons don't work. The pistol is more accurate at long 
 range than almost any other gun. The grenades and grenade launcher have almost no damage radius. 
 (you pretty much have to shoot people directly with it) Unless you shoot it near yourself, it seems 
 to work really well for suicides. If your behind cover and you try to do a blind fire with it you'll 
 probably end up shooting the wall and dying. The smoke/tear gas grenades are just for show. 
  
  Beyond the mechanics of the weapons there are several other issues with the gameplay. The squad 
 based commands don't work. you tell your guys to kill someone, they rush ahead and die. Oh and 
 if you let them die you have to start your scene over. This isn't always easy to fix either because 
 if your guys rush ahead into heavy fire odds are that your going to die before you can give them 
 the magic adrenaline shot that will revive them. If you tell them to go to a particular area because 
 they are totally imcompetent, odds are they won't listen to you and still run out and die. Enemies 
 will often shoot through walls and kill you. The cover system should be the most important part 
 of this games mechanics but they managed to do a half ass job on it as well. You have to put your 
 back on a wall to cover and a lot of times you have to be crouching too because your taking so 
 much fire. This is a really awkard system of trying to look away from your enemies so that you 
 can take cover. It doesn't handle very well and your enemies still end up shooting you anways.
 
  
  
  The graphics and sound are both acceptable but they don't make the game. The skyscrapers and alleyways 
 look good. Everything sounds the way it should. The characters look like their supposed to - beat, 
 scarred, dirty. I actually don't mind all the swearing but it disconnects you even more from the 
 characters. Between all the F-bombs they could say something intelligent or meaningful.
  
  
  To make a bad game better it wouldn't have been too hard. They could have elimated the squad 
 commands and removed the penalties for having your fellow felons die. At no point do you really 
 feel connected or assisted by these people. They ultimately make the game more difficult. You lose 
 if you let a squad member die but kane lynch are both pretty chill with their wives dying. Can 
 we get some character devlopment that makes sense? 
  
  
  In conclusion, the game isn't really worth playing. It frustrating and shallow. But if your out 
 of games to rent from gamefly like me and you have no choice - put the game on easy mode and use 
 your pistol often. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaizeNBlue
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game didnt get good reviews from several of the game graders, but I really liked it. Planning 
 to buy it when the price comes down. It is rather longer than I first thought. 16 chapters with 
 up to 4 scenes in each. The tactical end is somewhat doggy and can get to be a pain. Like if you 
 send a guy out and he is behind you they'll run right through your fire, or do the same to you. 
 So then you have put yourself in the line of fire to save them. This doesnt happen too often but 
 it will in some of the rougher scenes. Late in the game in Havana it got rough and had to play 
 several times over. The acheivments where fun and have alot more to go. The Sun Tzu one was fun. 
 You have order your guys to do all the work on any level. I suggest giving your guys the best weapons. 
 The shotgun is cool. but overall worthless for long shots which is most of the game. 
  
  The bottom ine is I liked it. If you have ever scene the movie HEAT, it is kinda like that. At 
 least the robbery scenes. You; ll love the cherry pie all over the wall too. When you hit a guy 
 with a bullet it sprays the wall behind them. The reviews said the weapons felt off but I didnt 
 think so. The ony one that felt off to me was the RPG. Seemed to crisp and stable. The SAW may 
 seem like a cool weapon but it rises too much when fired and is highly in accurate, give it to 
 your guys to lay down suppressing fire. I used the M-16 most of the time. Its accurate as hell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  I dont know why some people gave this game bad ratings and i know that some of these battle scenes 
 shouldnt have been put in the game especially the truck. This game was pretty cool actually and 
 the weapons blast i really love, because you know on some games when they have these guns that 
 have no sound or just crappy gun sounds but this its loud i love it! Some of the stuff i wish was 
 on some other modern shooters and i hope they make another game like this but not as much swearing 
 and better story, a little more guns, and more places to go. yes and a very poor story and some 
 great amount of swearing can really screw up a game ecpecially thats made by Eidos come on you 
 can do better, hell you made Hitman a really good game that could continue for a long time. They 
 couldve made this game like it. A kinda good try by Eidos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapezanidis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch dead men is a hard edged criminal action game in a brutal tale of hate loss and revenge 
 featuring a full on explosive co-op and single player game play with squad based combat and also 
 a back stabbing
  online multiplayer experience that will blow u away from IO Interactive the creators of the award 
 winning hitman series...
  
  The Story 
  is about Kane a flawed Mercenary and Lynch a Medicated Psychopath thown together in an all out 
 awesome story featuring levels such as a memorable Bank Robbery and a night club scene like the 
 movie collateral and a Tokyo street shootout that is very inspired by the shootout in Micheal Mann's 
 'HEAT' movie 
  and an all out action prison van break out 
  
  The Graphics 
  
  the grapchics are quit impressive id give them an 8/10
  the characters are very well done with 
 some nice smoth textures 
  and very nice graphics done to the face profiles. 
  
  Now on to the cover system that every one thinks is so bad
  
  is the cover system bad? no the 
 cover system works well
  it snaps into place by itself standing near an object to use as cover
  i had no trouble with 
 it myself. 
  
  The Weapons and aiming system
  
  u get a large variety of weapons in kane & lynch 
  the weapons are such as smg's & assault rifles 
 
  and hand guns.
  
  the aiming system is pretty good u do have some times trouble with the aiming but nothing to freak 
 out about, very minor problems about so all out the aim system is 7/10
  
  Type Of Gener
  
  The Game Is A 3rd Person Shooter
  
  Should I Buy This Game? Yes This Game Is A Buy It Game
 
  you will be very impressed
  
  My score 10/10 perfect game great for what u get and pay
  
  thats it thats kane & lynch
  
  Cheers Brandon
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is yet again another great game for the 360. The review may seem bad here on gs, but it is 
 a good game. The graphics are so-so, no free-roam, but the storyline, weapons, and AI are terrific. 
 The AI moves if they are being shot at, they move to cover and run up against walls, and throw 
 tear gases to stun you for awhile. Your character Kane, left his wife and his daughter Jenny, but 
 it has all come back to him, when he betrays the 7. The 7 give him three weeks to sort all of his 
 dogsh*t out. He fails to do so, and badness arises.
  Lynch is just a pain so deal with it. He just kills innocent people, has break downs that are uncontrolable 
 and you cant help it. Its a little annoying, but you will get used to it as the game goes on and 
 on. 
  This is a game that i would recomend because if you like gta, 3rd person shooters, then this would 
 be your kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  ... And we shall begin with the achievements front of the game. The first 200 achievements can be 
 picked up in the first few hours of play, with 50 gamerpoints for playing in co-op. Finishing a 
 set of missions gives you high point achievements. As you play more of the missions, you get to 
 the 600 range. Then the rest lies with you and your team in a new mode called Fragile Alliance 
 Online. 
  - Hitman never had any online, cos it was a very simple stealth game. The series has diverted from 
 stealth into rapid fire team shootouts. FA provides teams up to 8 to cause a stir in 4 (2 more 
 coming soon) maps, all with unique diffuculties and challenges. The aim is not to shoot each other 
 but work together to get the money, into the van, so you can improve your rank and buy better weapons 
 and clothes. Traitors are clearly marked and can be killed in a instant, so never become one.
 
  - Hitman never included co-op, even two controllers. This does. Invite a mate to your house and 
 do the whole short story together, collect the achievements, and then send him home again. The 
 experience is amazing, so dont push it by keeping him in any longer than neccessary. 
  - Hitman never included a half decent AK, this does. If you run low on ammo run to lynch or your 
 nearest team member, in both online and offline modes, to magically resupply your quick fire ammo. 
 Its a great weapon which has great preccision and rapid fire to decrease the 7th most dangerous 
 population
  - Hitman never included heists, a real story, or 257 guys to kill per mission, this however does 
 it brillaintly. The story is to same your wife and kid from the seven, the gang Kane worked for 
 and the gang Lynch reports back for. The aim is to complete the requirements in two weeks for the 
 seven, however, towards the end, you betray the gang by kidnapping your wife and child, stuffing 
 them in a safehouse and killing the population of seven. The war starts to kick off and by the 
 end of the game, you carry both your wife and child into darkness, and a loud fading scream can 
 be heard, actually thats a load of rubbish, they just die. Shame really, because with the amount 
 of adradraline in your body by the end of the game, it surprising that you don't die, being Kane 
 and all. 
  - So you round this one off, compared to Kane and Lynch, Hitman had, well, nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  The cover system is rather clunky and resentfull, but otherwise the action packed story makes up 
 for the controls. The graphics are seemingly low end, but its nothing that bad.
  
  The multiplayer is the most universal gameplay i have ever seen. Its low amount of levels are made 
 up for by the insane gameplay, and the never ending possible outcomes.
  
  The difficulty is through the freakin' roof. Even on easy you will die numerous times even in co-op 
 using the revival system. Medium and Hard are not even worth the try.
  
  The story line is rather hole ridden, and the voice acting is rather low end. The solo campaign 
 will only last a few hours with straightforward gameplay but the multiplayer is well worth the 
 purchase.
  
  The cussing is rather extreme, but it adds that extra pizzaz to make it strictly for adults. With 
 this you feel more impowered by the way you can say, No baby, the kids can't watch me play this, 
 so go take 'em to the mall or somethin'." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The story behind this game is quite good! The control isn't that bad ... there is no auto snap 
 aim or anything, but those of us used to FPS games on the PC don't expect aiming help :)
  
  It is somewhat difficult to get the player to take cover properly - certainly not as easy as it 
 was in gears of war. However, it is possible to take cover and use it properly.
  
  I played part of the way through this on coop mode with my adult son. We had a great time. It was 
 difficult, but not impossible. We didn't die anymore than we did in Gears of War under the same 
 circumstances.
  
  I'm not sure what the "ridiculous amount of great shooters currently available" are as mentioned 
 in this review. Most of them have a silly story. I tried the FEAR demo - did not enjoy ... Bioshock 
 demo seemed rather silly also.
  
  Anyway - I don't have any idea bout the online mode as I do not have xbox live.
  
  I give this 
 game an 8/10 as the control could be better - but the voice acting and story are quite good! Bring 
 on more adult games like this one. Reminded me of several good movies I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Not all my friends are online. This game has split screen co-op, that brings the full story line 
 in during the game. Other, but few games that do this are Halo, Outfit, and Brute Force. Unlike 
 Rainbow 6, where you just play the levels together in co-op with no integration into the story, 
 with K&L you get all the cut scenes and continuation of story. It's nice to be able to have someone 
 over and play a game together with this feature. 
  
  The game itself was fun and intense for co-op. We actually played it through twice so we could 
 switch character roles, play it on hard, and play the second ending.
  
  The game sounds and feels like your playing the movie Heat, especially during the bank scene when 
 you have to take to the streets. In short the game is damn fun, the graphics and sound are on par 
 with most games, though I think the feel and sound of the weapons are on quality with Heat.
  
  The story is interesting enough, and as for GS review of you never care for the characters 
 or connect, I disagree. You don't care for the characters like Masterchief, lets save the world, 
 but more so you identify with their attitude in, if I'm going to go out, I'm taking a few along 
 with me," attitude. After all it's a video game with you vs the good guys. Nice change of pace.
 
  
  I'm not going to rehash a lot that has been said in other reviews, just let me add some thoughts 
 and information to maximize your game play.
  
  The game's cover method works just fine. The difference is that most games have you push a button 
 or trigger (Gears or Rainbow) for cover. If your used to that, this takes a level or two to untrain 
 yourself. The key is once your under cover to just push the left trigger to aim out (the game teaches 
 you this) , if you move your character left he'll come off the cover. This totally makes sense because 
 your telling the device, move my character left. Once you get it down, you'll use it constantly.
 
  
  You earn separate achievements for both characters, so you'll want to switch roles on your 2nd 
 time through.
  
  Your co-op person earns achievements under their sign in name, even if it's not an Xbox live account.
 
  
  Multiplayer online is 1 person only, not split screen.
  
  Split screen is only in vertical for HD, not horizontal, though I did not test in 640 non HD. The 
 old Halo worked in horizontal if you dumbed down the graphics.
  
  The game takes about 6 to 7 hours first time. Second time takes about 5, even hard, because you 
 know where to go, and you have started to work as a team better, which rocks.
  
  Hard level seems to be enemies have more hit points per an enemy and a little more accurate, not 
 more enemies. More enemies would have been nice.
  
  If an achievement is generalized, like shotgun messiah, it usually takes 40-60, give or take, of 
 said action to get achievement . 
  
  The game doesn't explain real well Lynch's special ability, but if you pay attention, especially 
 on the streets after the bank, it is one of the highlights. It's also an achievement for his character. 
 To get the achievement let me just say...... don't be shy. I wish they had more of this in the game, 
 because it would force you to make choices, your crew reacts to your "ability" in a very subtle 
 way that effects you for that mission. The whole lynch thing is very cool, but short lived, and 
 easily missed if your not paying attention to the characters, but instead focusing on the mission.
 
  
  You can only get the Hard Achievement by playing the entire game on morphine, and choosing the 
 village ending scenario.
  
  Be prepared to have to set your controller after each time you quit. It takes 30 seconds but is 
 annoying that for some reason it does not remember that you or your partner was inversed on Y axis.
 
  
  Your squad is about 80% right on, the other 20% they may block your view or run out into a fight. 
 This is easily fixed by hitting the B button and planting their butt right behind you. Overall 
 it's nice to have them because they can bring you ammo, which eliminates the stupid run to some 
 random placed ammo box. That more than makes up for it.
  
  In the end I gave this a 8.5 because it's a solid game, it's designed for spit screen co-op which 
 are far and few between, and for the developers taking creative freedom to put something out that 
 is new, unique, and just fun to play. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_Gow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Aidos ? we know it from the games like Hitman or Tombrider for these monthes or years , this studio 
 made some bull-s*** games too like infernal ... but kane & lynch is diffrent professional killers 
 are out from prison and they are trying to help the kanes daughter and wife . Lynch =psychopath 
 , Kane =Mercenery
  Believe me in co-op this game is awsome but in single player i don't think so . some times ur crew 
 is stuck to some wall or room and they can't make it out from there , some times ur crew is stuck 
 on ur crosshair and he doesn't let you to take down ur target and bla bla bla bla ...... yeah this 
 are some S*** that bugs you and makes you angry sometimes , but the story makes you Fresh ! levels 
 are awsome and they are makes you fresh too.
  from prison to street and to the bank to the jungle in Cuba . u don't have any idea about story 
 !! u can change ur weapon with ur crew members and kane or lynch , and some times lynch is become 
 mad and u can't control it (Overdose) , this are the points of game that makes it awsome in co-op.
 
  the graphic is good and its not weak . i finished the game on MORPHINE Difficult with my friend 
 in 7 hours (in the end u will unlock the Cool gamer pictures) but i didn't try Online mode, if you 
 wanna play a great co-op multiplayer game Kane & Lynch is one of you'r best choice :)
  Believe me !? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  From the creators of the Hitman franchise comes Kane and Lynch: Dead Men, a game that combines 
 a well-written story with awesome level design and the kind of down-to-earth grittiness that would 
 make Martin Scorsese grin. Unfortunately, all of that promise nearly collapses under the weight 
 of the game's problems, particularly the lopsided artificial intelligence and a missing key ingredient 
 with co-op.
  
  In the game, you play as Kane, a convict who's seen better days. He's just written a farewell letter 
 to his wife and kid, on his way to execution. However, in the police van, he meets up with a fellow 
 convict named Lynch, a junkie addicted to medication and subject to violent, life-ending outbursts. 
 A breakout ensues, with the duo fighting police forces and eventually making their way to an unmarked 
 van. It turns out that Kane's previous employer, a shadowy group known as The 7, still has loot 
 to collect from him. He's a dead man anyway, but they force his hand by kidnapping his wife and 
 daughter and employing Lynch to keep an eye on him. What follows is a bloody, violent onslaught.
 
  
  In terms of story, Kane and Lynch: Dead Men unfolds beautifully, as you seek out The 7's bounty. 
 One minute you're downtown, strategically robbing a bank and shooting down members of the local 
 police department with reckless abandon. The next, you're off to Tokyo, trying to find a certain 
 girl while fending off angry bouncers and clubgoers. Did we mention that you also end up in Cuba 
 fighting a militia? Really, to give the story away would be a crime, as it's one of the game's 
 biggest assets.
  
  Another thing working in Kane and Lynch's favor is the presentation. The bank level alone is very 
 intricate, dropping you into the parking lot and concluding in a subway station after a stop on 
 a freeway overpass. The animation is great, especially during the more tense moments when Kane 
 and Lynch get in each other's faces. This also leads to the game's excellent audio, with lots of 
 edgy, profanity-filled dialogue (get ready for some F-bombs) , fitting music and thunderous sound 
 effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunoisbigboss
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I really dont see wats so bad about this game, sure the aimings a little tough but that just makes 
 this game more of a challenge, and yes the lack of online co op sucks but that doesnt mean that 
 this isnt a game worth picking up. The story is deffinitely solid with smarter AI than in most 
 games ive played although they still dont have a full grasp of common sense, the environments of 
 the game are pretty impressive along with the characters and their unique personalitys. Kane and 
 Lynch themselves are very entertaining due to their conflicting personalitys. Kane is an ex-mercenary 
 trying to save the family he left in his past, and Lynch is a medicated psychopath whos motives 
 arent fully clear till later on in the game. One particular interesting things about the Lynch are 
 his "blackouts".
  The multiplayer is pretty interesting since youre always gonna be wondering whos gonna backstab 
 you or not. Overall kane and lynch is a good game with few flaws that are greatly exaggerated, 
 and if you really find the aiming that horribly difficult maybe you should stick to the simple 
 stuff junior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srapp002
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch got a lot of bad reviews and i'm not sure if it was just becasue everyone had such 
 high expectations for it or what? I read some of the reviews and saw the scores that everyone gave 
 the game, but i've been dying to play a co-op shooting game so we rented it and played it. only 
 took like 6 1/2 hours to beat but overall it's pretty fun. deffinatly would be a harder and more 
 time consuming game in a single player mode. I wouldn't reccomend buying the game since you can 
 beat it in such a short amount of time, unless you like the xbox live portion of the game, I havn't 
 had a change to play it yet, but the description of the game seems interesting and has potential. 
 Totally worth renting and at least playing for a while because it is a fun game despite what most 
 of the review say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  What is everyone talking about, i dont get what is so bad about the game you see one bad review 
 and everyone agrees? So the aiming system isnt perfect but thats not the whole game. The graphics 
 are good the story is good its not a waste of time if its available to rent. I liked the game but 
 must admit the ending was horrible one of the worst endings ever besides final fantasy X. The games 
 not perfect but worth playing, especially in co-op. I just think everyone sees one bad review and 
 everyone agrees because they can't come up with their own opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  ** (Note: This is based off of my PC review, but I did sample the 360 version, and it's entirely 
 the same) .
  
  
  
  As many GameSpot users are aware, the departure of Jeff Gerstmann was surrounded by controversy, 
 and centered around his review of Kane & Lynch, which he labeled as "ugly."
  
  Too keep matters short, he wasn't kidding.
  
  
  It's hard to talk about Kane & Lynch without 
 immediately starting to bash the game by pointing out everything it does poorly. Unfortunately, 
 it's going to happen, so brace yourself.
  
  Story/Presentation:
  The premise of a newly created partnership between a ruthless mercenary and a mentally unbalanced 
 murderer in a No Holds Barred action title sounds absolutely fantastic, almost to the point of 
 wondering how the Hell Io Interactive managed to screw it up.
  
  There's a story here, but you soon won't care, and many players won't even bother to pay attention 
 past the 2nd level. Kane is a man who betrayed a group called "The7," with the latter hiring Lynch 
 - a fellow inmate of Kane's - to assist in breaking him out soley for the purpose of Kane being 
 able to "set things right." Kane's family is held hostage, he's apparently made enemies (who are 
 FAR to eager to forgive him in less than 3 seconds, even when he murdered everyone they know) , 
 Lynch has.... issues... and that about wraps it up. Oh yeah, there's something about betrayal, revenge, 
 yadda yadda yadda, but you won't care.
  
  The biggest issue with the story is the lack of solid presentation. Much of it is told through 
 audio played during load times. It's a nice distraction, but entirely skippable, and entirely boring. 
 There are hardly any cutscenes that tie the story together, and leave the player in the dark without 
 a flashlight. For instance, there will be one mission where you and your crew head off to a Latin 
 American warzone solely for the purpose of finding The7, but no clue as to why there's a war, why 
 you're in it, and why an entire Army division is after you. Cutscenes and story ques here aren't 
 just essential here... there's absolutely required. The handful of cutscenes there are, often focus 
 on either each character's lack of trust in anyone, or their ability to use the F-word at will, 
 and out of context.
  
  Graphics:
  Kane & Lynch is a good looking game, very reminiscent of Hitman mixed with Grand Theft Auto. The 
 color palette is slightly washed, but there are lots of nice effects including tons of particles, 
 destructible elements, and a very impressive depth of field. The character models are detailed 
 enough, but movement and animations are clunky. Enemies are all pretty much the same throughout 
 the game (cops, soldiers, men in suits w/ ties) , but the environments are extremely diverse and 
 full of detail - city streets, bank interiors, industrial gardens, war-torn Latin American ciities, 
 and jungle warzones.... they don't all make much sense, but at least they look good... and full of 
 up to 100 NPCs at once, which impressive to say the least.
  
  The visual weak points manifest themselves as extremely poor color palette, a weak lighting system, 
 and clunky animations.
  
  Sound:
  There's something off with the game's scripting as the sound quality can unexpectly dip down to 
 an abysmal level, resembling a chewed up audio tape. The voice acting is decent - I should say, 
 they did the best with what they had. The lines, quite frankly, are awful. Gratuitous use of the 
 F-bomb and other words works well if used in proper context. Responding to my squad order by shouting 
 "**** you!!!" is NOT one of them. Anyone who's ears are physically harmed when hearing the F-word 
 will cringe, and anyone who willfully uses the F-word on a daily basis will also cringe. It's lame, 
 it's not funny, it's stupid... it just doesn't work.
  
  But in fairness (for good or worse) , the swearing out of context isn't the problem. The subject 
 of each line is just bad. I understand that you're a rag-tag group of enemies uniting for a short-term 
 common goal, but that doesn't mean that every order is responded by a comment of pure hate or displeasure, 
 or that each character should just randomly piss and whine about however life screwed them over 
 every time they speak. The lack of a decently and thoroughly explained story also hurts here.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Picture Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter created using the Rage engine from a Grand Theft Auto 
 game - it just ain't working like it could. The controls are very clunky, but the basics work. 
 Aiming while zoomed in is a little too slow, and every gun seems to have an effective accuracy 
 range of only 25 ft, but forgivable due to the amount of gunplay in the game.
  
  The first issue is with the cover system. It's broken. Appearing to be animation-based, your character 
 must have his body perpendicular to the object before he will snap himself to it... meaning that 
 you will often have to pan the camera completely sideways 90-degrees - loosing sight of what you 
 were shooting at! - just to have him properly take cover. It's very annoying, and many will simply 
 result to hiding behind the abundant cover items rather than taking the actual cover position.
 
  
  Squad controls are there, but also broken. You can order individually members to Attack a target, 
 follow you, or hold a specific position. Having up to 4 other characters to babysit makes this 
 set-up somewhat ineffective due to mico managing, and bad commands. Each command issued cycles 
 to the next person, meaning you can't issue 2 orders to the same person in a row if there are other 
 members present. It simplyfies things, but doesn't solve them. Your squad members also have the 
 habit of "moving" to a new position by taking the worst possible path. What should've been a "go 
 there in a straight line path, using cover" command turns into a "go there by making a large curve 
 out into open territory, identifying yourself as a human bullet magnet" command.
  
  The gunplay itself is fast-paced, and can be very satisfying, as long as you're not bothered at 
 the moment by all of the game's short comings. Shootouts are always exciting, and they're right 
 around every corner in Kane & Lynch. If you've ever watched "Heat" with Al Pacino, Robert Deniro, 
 & Val Kilmer, and desired to play out the exit shootout of the bank heist, you'll get your chance.... sure 
 it's a blatant ripoff of an idea, but it's still awesome and done with style. Definately one of 
 the highpoints of the game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Kane & Lynch is made for the "Team Killer." The most drawing aspect - and the one to piss most 
 players off the most - is the ability to work together as a team to secure loot... and then betray 
 your teammates by killing them in order to better your score. Dead teammates respawn as cops, and 
 matches quickly turn into a quest for revenge. This issue is a "online jerk-off's" wet dream as 
 he'll have the opportunity to piss off everyone of his teammates, at his gain. The problem rears 
 it's ugly head though, when people in matches will often simply betray people they don't know, 
 or people who aren't affiliated with the majority of the team. This can often lead to instant deaths 
 in your first 7-8 series of matches, which is bound to frustrate many casual gamers in to quitting 
 the game right then and there.
  
  Overall: 6.0
  Kane & Lynch truly is an "ugly" game. There are too many problems that don't just outweigh the 
 good points; they absolutely bury them. Each concept, no matter who intruiging or how awesome it 
 may seem on paper, is just poorly executed. Still, it has it's moments in the sunshine, and if 
 you're one of those people who just love to get into a game and start blowing people away regardless 
 of the reason or method, then this is right up your alley. Hampered by a bad presentation, poor 
 voice acting lines, clunky controls and a muliplayer that's bound to receive mixed reactions, Kane 
 & Lynch feels like a game that would've been a AAA Title under a bigger and more experienced development 
 house. If this were a Ubisoft title, no doubt, the game would be in a much better state.
  
  For now, we'll just hope that the 2nd time around does the trick for Io/Eidos with Kane & Lynch 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why everyone thinks that Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is the worst game forever & ever. 
 Apparantley you have never played Hour of Victory before. It is a trigger happy game that you should 
 have fun with but just because someone got fired it sucks. If you are one of the people that have 
 given this game a 1.0 or lower, then you suck and you have obviously never played Hour of Victory 
 or Vampire Rain. Now those are the cream of the crap
  
  On the Positive side: Their are alot of large-scale heists, I found the story to be Genuinely Absorbing 
 story and the co-op single player mode is also pretty good.
  
  On the negative side: Their are some rough parts to the game, and even though the multiplayer was 
 good, it didn't feel as if it was complete.
  
  Verdict: Everyone who has given this game a 1.0 or lower, then you can go to hell and die and stay 
 their for the rest of your already dead life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JmorebideGarc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  It would seem as if IOI had spent countless speed-induced nights watching American cops/robbers 
 films to come up with what they did. The entire game plays out like a preteen boy's fantasy after 
 sneaking a copy of 'Heat' into the family DVD player. However, these qualities can hardly be considered 
 anything but features in Eidos' 'Kane and Lynch: Dead Men'.\
  
  You play as Kane, a self-proclaimed "ultra asshole" who embarks on a quest to save is wife/daughter 
 from the hands of The7, some ex-partners of his. Lynch, who just happens to be with you at the 
 start of the game becomes your partner throughout their adventurer. The story, as stated before 
 seems ripped straight from any blockbuster film and shouldn't really be given much thought. Instead, 
 I would suggest you play through this game with your own tale in my mind as you rip through hundreds 
 of thousands of unexplained enemies.
  
  Graphically the game is top to bottom of it's next generation comrades. While not "the best of" 
 this Holiday season, it retains an ability to hold its own. . The swearing can be a bit ridiculous 
 and the try, die, try, die again approach to lengthen the game is more than upsetting but the overall 
 product is worth more than it's share as a rental. Take the plunge and shoot up a dance club, why 
 don't ya?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJTurbo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a nice action game, that said you can compare it to titles like Max Payne or Gears 
 of War.
  it's been said much about this game, but not everything is true.
  The graphics are clean: game world and characters are decently detailed, maybe gfx fx are not that 
 great, but only if you actually take the time to look at them extensively, else they'll be just 
 fine.
  Sound is good: decent music, different sfx for each weapon and awesome voice acting (one of the 
 best in a game, imo) .
  Gameplay: actually good, if played at medium and high difficulty it'll be easy to die, as in real 
 life after all, the aiming system is realistic too (powerful weapon? powerful recoil) , the cover 
 system is not broken, you simply have to know how to activate it (no button, as in real life you 
 would do you have to get to the wall and place your side to it) .
  Story: nice, it may not be fresh, but it's the classic revenge tale.
  
  In the end i'd suggest 
 renting it, because it's quite short, and you can do a couple playthroughs in a week-end, after 
 that there is not much else to do unless you like to do the same 4 multiplayer maps over and over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  ok giving that this isn\'t a very popular game i\'ll get rid of the good points.
  The only reason to own this game would be for the multiplayer because if your like me and enjoy 
 pissing off 12 year olds who pretend there the gamers ever then this game brings that ability with 
 the greatest of ease.
  the multiplayer is very addictive and i think they should have took the shadowrun route and just 
 made it a multiplayer and got rid of the single player because it sucks vast amounts of testical!
 
  
  ok now to the crap!!
  giving the fact that this game has more glitches then gears of war when it was first released you\'d 
 think that some actual gameplay would make up for that, the answer is no because the game developers 
 got round a big table and decided that annoying hard working gamers was much more fun then actually 
 releasing a game with any depth to it!
  the story is pathetic at best, i mean come on like we haven\'t heard the the story of an ex gang 
 member having his family kidnapped and being held for ransom a million times! they could have at 
 least made it so that his pet monkey was taken that would have at least given the game a new angle, 
 and what the F**K is it these days with all the main female characters who either get killed or 
 kidnapped being called Jenny?? do game developers not realise that there are more names to choose 
 from?
  the graphics are pathetic aswell its like these people orinally made it for the PS2 and forgot 
 about it for years untill they randomly walked by it at a christmas party by mistake. 
  one of the worse points is that you can\'t do co-op online!! why the hell am i paying for it then! 
 thanks to you i had to buy a memory card just to try the co-op to see if it was any better and 
 the cheek of it all is that it isn\'t any better where in fact its worse because the camera angle 
 goes to one side so i cant see anything!
  
  i could go on but to be honest talking about the game is annoying me to put in a simple word its 
 BAD!!! and not bad like the ending to assassins creed bad but worse my advice is to only buy the 
 game for the online multiplayer but if you want to try the single player my i suggest that watching 
 star wars episode 1 ten times in a row without stopping is a better way to waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulred21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  In an era of commercial and brain dead games ,this is actually a interesting release .Sure it has 
 it's flaws and in my opinion it leaves you with a "what this is it !!" thought ,but beneath that 
 this actually fits into the new game genre ,the "push many buttons and u might just win" games 
 .Many people expect this game to be a new successor to hitman ,but it failed miserably .There's 
 no connection with the main characters nor Is there any of that "sparkle" that most tactical shooters 
 have ,I mean I tell Lynch to cover me from distance and he just skips to the new floor of building 
 that's not really smart AI .Sad part is that most games are getting dumbed down .. so the average 
 man can understand what is happening .
  "I don't want to think ,I want to be entertained, that phrase my friends says it all ,so why 
 should Kane and Lynch be any different ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  ok, the story sounded good, everything seem to be nice... but no! the game is not what it was supposed 
 to be. you are a con that was break out of prison, you are obligated by some criminal organization 
 you use to belong to, to get some stuff back and get attached to a psycho named Lynch.
  
  so far so good, but no, the controls are all bad, you can't see what you are shooting at. remember 
 the first hitman??? same lame controls, but hitman was a long time ago so it was not that bad.
 
  
  Graphics, forget it, lame graphics feels way to old after seeing assassins creed and COD 4.
  
 
  Story, that's the strong point, it actually catches you but the game mechanic makes you drop it 
 before long.
  
  it's a rental, this game should go back to pre-production and fix it up, invest some money in it 
 and it will kick butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Lately I will do anything I can to avoid being left entirely alone with my own thoughts. It is 
 for this reason alone that I bothered with Kane &amp; Lynch. Two utterly unlikeable asses who swear 
 and curse like its going out of style. What can I say really, the aiming is clunky, graphics are 
 poor, the training section is frustrating and if we are desperate enough for simulated violence 
 to play a completely uninspired game like this with characters that are almost impossible to identify 
 with then maybe we all are as sick as Jack Thompson seems to think we are. No I haven't lost faith 
 in games. I can undersatnd the thinking behind the game. I myself have dreamed about pulling off 
 the perfect bank heist, and it is an interesting scenario to play. It is just the execution is 
 less than good. Infact if you pay full price for this game you're going to feel disrespected at 
 a level on par with getting hit with a piece of wood with snot on the end. Just stay away unless 
 you're THAT bored..... or sick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_Methany
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  When I first started this game, I thought that maybe everyone was being too hard on it. This game 
 is actually tolerable/good for the first few hours. Then, the story takes a turn for the worst. 
 Its honestly as if they fired their writers mid-production, and ended up going with the first half 
 baked idea some idiot from Marketing came up with.
  
  The good:
  -Gun play is interesting and keeps you occupied at least...
  -Voice acting is decent,
  -Graphics,
 
  -Controls,
  -Online gameplay is halfway decent (No deathmatch to keep the idiots occupied while the rest of 
 us play Fragile Alliance? Come onnn...)
  
  The bad:
  -Poorly written storyline that jumps around from plot twist to plot twist without any sensible 
 order or well, SENSE.
  -Hit detection is garbage; trying to hide and pick off enemies doesn't work (try spray and pray, 
 it makes it fun at least) .
  -Everything else. Literally.
  
  I hate to be hard on this game. But the ending is honestly the worst thing I've ever seen in a 
 video game. Don't buy this game until it winds up in the bargain bin at Circuit City. Even then? 
 Steal it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game looks great, sounds great and has a great story. However, it plays very badly indeed. 
 The weapons are inaccurate, and the cover mechanics don't work as well as they should. The poor 
 implementation of these two areas alone cripples the game. In short the game has been rushed out. 
 If the developers had given themselves (or should I say been given) more time to iron out the problematic 
 areas this could have been a classic game. A classic it isn't though, it is a blemish on a top 
 developer and just not as much fun to play as it should/could have been.
  
  If you want to play a good bad boy crime game then go buy The Godfather.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Just to let you all know I HAVE played this game in multiplayer and I've beaten the single player. 
 Now lets start with the review. This game is barely even worth a rental. It's that bad. The graphics 
 for one, are horrible. The faces especially. The controls work ok if your not trying to take cover. 
 They put in a cover system that doesn't even work! The sound is awful too. Guns sound like toys 
 and voice acting is also bad. The only good thing in the game is multiplayer which is more interesting 
 than the story. Overall, don't play this game unless you get it for free. But nothing is for free 
 except crap that you'll never use. So why isn't Kane and Lynch free? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch was one of the titles I was really looking forward to. With all the videos and mult-player 
 options it looked like a sure winner. The concept ( I consider this games concept like that of 
 the movie Heat) was great, I mean many looked forward to not only the single player but possible 
 online game play of pulling a heist. Sadly the game mechanics are so clunky and the AI so brain 
 dead it leaves little to be desired. I really got the feeling that the game was rushed and not 
 polished enough. The story line could have used more polish as well. But the biggest game breaker 
 to me is the controls. For a shooter its a must... the cover system if you can call it that doesnt 
 work.... This game offered the chance at some unique things.... sadly they just did not spend enough 
 time with the game to get it to the level it should have been to be released. I gave it a hard 
 rating simply because controls were horrible. Wait till its in the discount bin and then if its 
 less that 14$. As it stands sadly this title had so much promise but it didnt follow through and 
 it shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game turned out to be good, Its a bit short (actually, it's really short) but its fun. The 
 story was good for how short it was but it felt like it was rushed. This game seemed like it could 
 have been a lot longer and that there was a lot of the story that was just skipped over. Co-op 
 is what really makes this game good. Being able to split your party in to because someone else 
 is controlling Lynch makes it easier to get the missions done. I didn't play the multi-player so 
 I can't take a shot at it. In the end the game is a rental, a must play, but really only a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khalpz
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total disappointment brought to you by the makers of Tomb Raider, Legacy of Kain, 
 and Hitman. You play as Kane with Lynch being controlled by artificial intelligence. The two characters 
 can swap weapons and also go for cover like in Gears of War.
  The problems are abundant, however. The controls are horrible, the storyline is 
  horrid, and 
 nothing works correctly. I've run into a ridiculous amount of glitches where I am just walking 
 around and just fall into the floor and continue falling into space forever
  Fragile Alliance, the game's multiplayer portion, definitely does not work any better than the 
 single player or co-op modes.. the same problems exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_grady_76
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  The control is less than precise throughout the game, the characters are woefully predictable, 
 action movie cut-outs. I can't shake the feeling that this game was created by a marketing department 
 comprised of guys who might have seen a handful of Quentin Tarantino flicks, maybe even a John 
 Woo movie? Occasionally the visuals are quite good (it's not a total loss) , if they weren't, I'd 
 be convinced this game was a joke played on someone. Unfortunatley the joke is on you if you buy 
 it at full price. It's hard to say if this is even worth a rental. For completists and masochists 
 only. Good gag gift this holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechzz
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game tries to be something it's not. Good. 
  
  There's so many broken things about this game that could have made it a blow out. When I played 
 this game, I could have sworn it was still in beta mode. All the aiming was digusting and the dialog 
 was boring as hell. I can't believe that they would release a game that wasn't polished in any 
 aspect after all the hype up they did for the game. The game tries to make use of the cover system 
 however it's just a hassel and you'll find yourself running and gunning because the A. I. is pretty 
 useless and stupid. Your own A. I. is pretty useless in it's own right however. The multi-player 
 is a pretty cool concept but it gets over very very fast.
  
  One positive thing I can say about the game is the crowd mechanic. It's a pretty cool concept to 
 put yourself gun slinging in a crowd full of innocents. OH wait, Grand Theft Auto already did that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notTheOracle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  I was honestly hoping for something like Freedom Fighters, but I was utterly dissapointed. The 
 developer might be the same, but this game... man its just like they let some of their kids recreate 
 a Michael Mann Movie. 
  
  NOTHING of IOs former genius and design is left here.
  
  From the broken cover system to the uninspired graphics, this game has little to offer for anybody 
 looking for a decent diversion from hits like Halo 3 or The Orange Box. The only decent thing about 
 it is the multiplayer. Fragile Alliance CAN be quite fun - provided youve got a couple of friends 
 willing to deal with the horrible cover system.
  
  But then again, the MP is also Kane&Lynchs most dissapointing ommission.
  The fact that there 
 is a 2 Player Coop which is only playable LOCALLY makes this game feel like it was released 2-3 
 years ago.
  
  Cmon Eidos, we all know youre cheapstakes but releasing this crap AND trying to promote it THIS 
 WAY?!?!
  
  Ive always had a bad feeling about IO and Eidos and today, on November 30th they have finally 
 proven their willingness to destroy this industry just to make profit.
  
  Make no mistake:
  
  No matter what you want from it
  
  This game will dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieworm
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Salvador Burgenstine, how could you? You're billed as the managing director of quality assurance 
 for Kayne and Lynch, a 360, but we wonder if you're even a real person. Surely, you must be a pseudonym. 
 You must! Sir, when it comes to this "game," there is simply no quality to assure, and of that 
 we assure you. Kayne and Lynch is, in fact, such an awful, putrid title that we would determinedly 
 avoid it as a promotional Flash mini-game on a beer website. You want 360 owners to pay $59.99 
 for this ludicrously amateur and downright offensive endeavor? Why would we do that when we could 
 sit down and enjoy the still-bad, but far superior mini-game on the official Kayne and Lynch website? 
 See? $59.99 saved.
  
  Kayne and Lynch, published by Eidos, is a shooter game about as deep and flashy, so to speak, as 
 the website game mentioned above. Players use the 360 pad, aiming to the left or right, up or down, 
 to shoot their weapons at opponents. It's a concept that seems perfectly suited to Microsoft's's 
 controller, but the execution and the end controls have been so irreversibly botched that there's 
 little fun to be gained. Strike that - no fun. Comedy, yes, for a very short while, but that's 
 about it. In direct contrast to Halo 3, which offers direct control, the mechanics in Kayne and 
 Lynch are so far removed from one-to-one control that you feel like you are pre-selecting shots 
 and not really manipulating the gun. You can aim to the left or right more than a second before 
 a returned shot comes your way and your character will still not die, no problemo. . Worse, you 
 can simply shake the analog stick around like a monkey on crack and you will still successfully 
 kill opponents for minutes; you may even win matches.
  
  We can keep going. There's no satisfying way to add techniqu or cover with any sense that you have 
 actually influenced the outcome with your controller. The collision detection is atrociously broken 
 - bullets will fly through character models and disappear off screen. Some special shots are merely 
 violent screen shakes meant to confuse players, and not in a good way. The game's storyline consists 
 of quickly cycled static images from photographs - 360 discs store as much data as DVDs, so what 
 gives? Character models only faintly resemble their CG counterparts and animate stiffly and robotically. 
 The in-game environments lack any graphic finesse whatsoever. And the "witty" one-liners are cued 
 so often that players will tire of them in minutes. Don't get us started on the game's rudimentary 
 interface.
  
  The only conclusion we can draw is that players who receive this game as a holiday or birthday 
 gift should know that their parents secretly hate them. No, really, they called and told us.
  
  Finishing up
  No. Sorry, no. Please return to sender. It's been a good while since I've come 
 across a game of this caliber, which is to say that I don't often see titles that suck this bad 
 in this day and age. In the early age of 3D, which Kayne and Lynch harkens back to, yes, but not 
 in today's gaming industry. That is at least an accomplishment of some kind, although I doubt it 
 will be an award that the publisher wears proudly on Kayne and Lynch. I would tell you not to buy 
 this game, but if you have access to the Internet, you're already smart enough to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jocubus
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Aside from a unique take on multiplayer everything else is derived and derived poorly. Kane and 
 Lynch has taken the worst parts of the Hitman series and tried to make it into a full length game. 
 Who didn't see a disaster coming? Enemy AI is among the worst I've seen. I can confidently say 
 Goldeneye 64 has smarter enemies. The weapons feel weak and the shooting is mechanics are frustrating 
 not too mention the thrown in cover system which is equally terrible. 
  
  Now I don't consider myself a prude however this game uses a gratuitous amount of vulgar language 
 to little or no effect. I doubt anyone could seriously consider the dialogue to be realistic. It 
 would make sailors blush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1005
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for the game but oh how i was disappointed. The AI is less than intelligent most 
 of the time which is poor when so many other titles released this year have amazing AI. The guns 
 feel like their airsoft versions of the real thing and lack any real punch or deadlyness to them. 
 Then there is the fact the game has no coop mode when it has two main characters. Either the developers 
 were lazy and didnt get round to adding it in or they totally forgot they were making a game with 
 two main characters in it.
  
  Overall Kane & Lynch is a big disappointment and considering the hype it has recieved i can't believe 
 the final product turned out like it did. Your better of renting or just passing this game all 
 together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXRandom-HeroXX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I'v been waiting for Kane &amp; Lynch ever since i seen the first trailer, and boy has it been 
 worth the wait, i only have one small problem with it, and thats that i dont have Xbox LIVE To 
 play The online multiplayer.
  There is an offline Co-op, one player controls Kane and the other Lynch, and in co-op, there are 
 things you see and do that you don't in single player Lynch's Freakouts for example.
  I think this game is seriously under appreciated, The things the official review mentioned like 
 the Cover system being useless, or the aiming difficult aren't faults at all, it just takes a while 
 to learn how to use them to your advantage.
  The story is great, its about 2 Convicts that are sentanced to death, in the prison Transporter 
 they get smashed into by the Gang Kane betrayed, and they want him to do a job in return for his 
 families safety lynch is assigned to watch over Kane.
  You will have to find out the rest for yourself though.
  
  Online its supposed to be alot of 
 fun (unfortunatly i haven't played it YET)
  Everone goes in together to rob a bank set at various locations of the story mode, if you all choose 
 to stick together, the money gets split evenly, but if you kill a comrade, you become a traitor 
 and get to take whatever you can steal, but once you are marked a traiter the other players will 
 try and hunt you down to get a cash reward, and anyone who dies will respawn as a cop, so they 
 will know your escape plans,
  Overall this game is amazing, its quite long and there are never any dull moments, the locations 
 range from banks, prisons, jungle, and even a civil war battlefield so it never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun right off the bat is what I have to say. I'm very disappointed in gamespot 
 for their 6.0 review. This game by what they've said is boring and isn't interesting, but in honesty, 
 its very fun and is also very interesting. The controls are well-done and the combat can get very 
 hectic at times. The AI can be dumb sometimes but no game is perfect, right. The cover system though 
 I have to say is disappointing because they didn't make it as smooth as other cover systems in 
 other shooters. The games multiplayer has gotten the most credit for some reason but I honestly 
 think the multiplayer isn't as good as it was depicted by review sites. Each match is very, very 
 short and almost no tactical prowess is used. If anything, the story is the strongest and best 
 part. Oh yeah and another thing, voice acting and music, Excellent, just plain excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazanger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch is a great game with bank heists and jail breakouts, taking you everywhere from the 
 inner city to havana.
  The gamespot review for this game is very misleading. Yes, the cover system takes a while to get 
 used too, but after the first mission or two it's very quite simple and easy to use. The missions 
 are great and a lot of fun, especially robbing banks. Gamespot also told us that they swore excessively, 
 let me tell you, it was nothing unusual. Only once or twice during campaign did i hear one of my 
 men say "**** you" and it wasn't a response, it was during a cut scene. Sure they swear, but not 
 every other word, and not an abnormal amount. They also told us that the characters were very unlikeable 
 and the story was boring. This, i have to say, is the worst part of what their review. The characters 
 in this game are very different than your normal  but that's 
 a good thing, to me at least. The story is great, full of desperation, fighting, and revenge. My 
 only complaint with it was that it was very, very short (around 6 or 7 hours) . Once the credits 
 started rolling i was like "that's it? BUT WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THAT?" so, hopefully there will be 
 a sequel. Anyway, the graphics are average, nothing special, but the environments are beautiful. 
 The campaign mode doesn't last long, but it's a blast to play, especially with a friend, and once 
 you finish the campaign, who can say no to multiplayer?
  
  Pros of Kane & Lynch:
  fantastic story, although short
  fun and addicting multiplayer
  great weapons
  robbing banks 
 never gets old
  
  Cons:
  graphics are, well, they're average, nothin great, but nothing bad.
  short story (although we're 
 seeing that in a lot of games now a days..)
  controls take getting used too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shozz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch has got some pretty unfair reviews, the concept is a winning combination. Io took 
 the hard hitting and gritty crime related theme of the Hitman series whilst adding elements of 
 another of their best games, Freedom Fighters to the mix to create a fast paced frantic third person 
 shooter. The result matched my expectations for the game which were quite high. First off most 
 reviewers have been comparing this to Hitman which is totally unfair, because this is a totally 
 different game to Hitman , in fact its different to anything else out there at the moment. Whereas 
 Hitman is for stealth junkies, Kane and Lynch is for those of us Hitman players who lost our patience 
 and decided to whip out the twin silverballers and attempt to rack up a high body count. The action 
 is some of the best I've played in a third person shooter since Gears of War, double the fun if 
 you're playing co-op or online multiplayer. There are similarities to Hitman, iconic lead characters, 
 impressive and varied level design and excellent sound work. The story is engaging as well in particular 
 the interplay between Kane and Lynch although it would have been great to see them actually going 
 at each others throats when bad blood was brewing between them as opposed to standing around shouting 
 at each other. Graphically its no Bioshock but still damn good looking thanks to impressive art 
 design and some nicely detailed character models. The ending I liked because it wasn't typical 
 Hollywood cheeseball happy ever after, although it brings doubts if there is a sequel in the works. 
 Overall this is a great fun game to play as it tries to do something different and succeeds. The 
 only gripes I have with it are it could have been longer (10 hours is a little short) and there 
 could have been more physical violence between Kane and Lynch rather than just the odd argument 
 to flesh out the deep seeded hatred these two men have for another that was expressed quite a lot 
 in the trailers. However with a video game BAFTA nomination under its belt for best game of 2007 
 (in case you're wondering Bioshock won that prestigous award) and engaging, fun and addictive gameplay 
 this game is a lot of fun and well worth a look at. Here's hoping for Kane and Lynch 2 after all 
 if you cast your minds back several years to when the first Hitman was released that was met with 
 mixed reception and look where it is now. I reckon theres a lot of life left in these two dead 
 men, lets just hope Io agrees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malp123
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I rarely write reviews for many of the games that I play. However, I felt the need to for such 
 a game as Kane and Lynch. All the hype before the game's release as well as the stunning trailers 
 seemed to suggest a dark gritty story combined with highly intense 3rd person action. Don't beleive 
 the hype!
  The story doesn't involve you at all and frankly I don't care what happens to anyone in the game, 
 which for such a story driven game spoils it right off the bat. When you start getting into the 
 game, this is where Kane and Lynch really falls though, the graphics are just dull and uninspiring, 
 the sounds effects similarly boring, enemies of little challenge. 
  None of this however, compares to one of the most frustrating parts of an already poor game! The 
 aiming! For an ex-mercenary Kane is abysmal with any kind of weapon! If you work on about a clip 
 per enemy that is how inaccurate he is, whether you are single shot firing or full auto Kane will, 
 almost comically, make bullet holes all around his target hitting them maybe twice! This is the 
 only reason why I have given the game a hard rating!
  For a game that showed such promise, I feel cheated that I got so excited when my pre-ordered copy 
 arrived! As much as I would have loved this to be the perfect game, don't believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was announced many months ago and I was very excited for it. It turned out to be not 
 what it was said to be. A good idea done wrong is a good way to put this game. The genre of mob 
 shooters is a new and good one that needs further investigation. However, Eidos did a terrible 
 job with both play mechanics and plot.
  First off, yes, they may say f&^# a lot, but otherwise the voice acting isn't all that bad. The 
 graphics aren't that bad either, just a little weird. It's the plot that really bothers me. The 
 first few levels are awesome - you break out of jail and rob a bank. OK, cool! After that, you 
 get involved in a bunch of random missions including taking down a HUGE truck to killing Japanese 
 people in a club to fighting with a Cuban resistance group in Cuba. What the hell happened here?!?! 
 If the developer just left it at robberies and hits, the game's plot would have been a lot better. 
 The shooting gameplay isn't bad, it's just boring. What really shines though is the multiplayer. 
 The game's multiplayer is so fun and addicting you will play it for a long time before getting 
 bored. But that's the thing; it gets boring. This is because the same events happen every time; 
 you can get each level down to a science. First I go here, that guy pops out there, I shoot him, 
 I walk down the stairs, etc. The game is not all bad though, it has decent campaign, great multiplayer, 
 ok co-op and good idea. Fix it for next time Eidos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsszStake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  You know in my country Denmark, i have heard a lot about this game, it should be so great . But when 
 i bought it and tried it i got an bad experience, not in the start but after a while. The only 
 good point about this game is the multiplayer. I thought my fellow Danes could make a better game, 
 please... make a sequel and then make it much better. IO Interactive you have a much bigger potential 
 with ths game that your not using. Great story in the game, there could have used a little twist. 
 Buy this game if you want action where the word F**k is mentioned hundred of times. But my advice: 
 Borrow it first, then think about getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignore78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  just ignore the other reviews, cause they havent played the game !
  
  i finished the game this holiday and i felt, wonderful!
  i want to play it again.
  its the 
 best co-op game ever. 
  
  in the begining you escape prison, and the police chasing you, shooting like nuts. your running 
 through sideways of town into a garage and a donut shop, driving then away with a van that you 
 always have with you.
  
  the loading times dont exists, bacuase the main characters have funny discustions. like the sega 
 game "toe-jam and earl" when they ride the elivator. this game have the same feeling.
  
  the difficulty is just right , but sometimes you going nuts, because there are so many cops all 
 over the place. but that its just fun.
  
  
  graphics = 8 
  controls = 8 changed the acceleration in controller setup to 0. then its playable=)
  entertaining 
 = 10 100% fun through entire game
  
  
  i give this game 9.5 its the only game that have given me what i wanted so far in a co-op action 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcain3
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  With a company like Io and Eidos working on this, and all the hype I thought this was going to 
 be a great game, oh how I was wrong. Sure it may look great, but thats the near only truly great 
 thing about this. The shooting is broken, the story actrully gets predictable near the end, and 
 the A. I. is downsized to kindergraden retards. Early in the game you learn how to handle the controls 
 which are about as easy as a botton-mashing. And it seems that these guys just want f*** in there 
 so badly, that heres of guys repsond to what ever you tell him, "f*** you." every damn time. This 
 is a game you should rent even if you preordered it. Overall it gets a 5.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch: Dead Men, deserves a part two. Although the story is pretty good it is bogged down 
 by all the unrealistic cussing. When the F word is over used it loses its power. 
  
  The only time during the story I actually cared about what happens to a character is at the end. 
 If you want a stupid ending, take the chopper; if you want more gameplay and a better ending, go 
 to the village. 
  
  There are annoying technical issues that keep this game from being awesome. The aiming is messed 
 up. It feels more like a PS2 game. Games like Rainbow Six Vegas, Gears of War, and Halo do a good 
 job with the aiming mechanics, but Kane and Lynch don't. It is sad because all they had to do was 
 give more control over the movement. If you try to get a head shot you have to barely touch the 
 stick to move the cross hair slowly. Less sensitivity like Halo would have made this game so much 
 more fun. I hope they get with the times if they make a part two. 
  
  Another technical issue is that grenades do not kill enemies that they should. Cover is not done 
 well. Sometimes it is almost impossible to kill an enemy that is peeking out of cover, even though 
 you see your bullets hitting his head. The reason a bastard enemy does not die when you throw a 
 grenade next to his feet is probably the cover system's technical issues. 
  
  Gameplay
  Even with the technical issues this game is worth playing, especially because of the co-op. The 
 co-op is done well and it's fun. I only wish there was co-op online as well. 
  
  The online is sort of fun, but because enemies appear in the same place every time, it does not 
 have lasting fun. If they made the AI and enemy spawning more like RB6V, the online would be loads 
 of fun. That and if they fixed the technical issues. 
  
  The level design is well done and varied enough that it kept me interested enough to beat the game 
 again by my self on the hardest setting. On the hardest setting Kane and Lynch is still not much 
 of a challenge. 
  
  Graphics
  Nothing special about the graphics but they do look nice. The animation is okay. 
  
  Sound
 
  The voice acting is good, except for the overly used F word. Weapons sound fine. The music is 
 good, but the atmosphere is nothing special. 
  
  Controls
  They work well enough, but could be better. Aiming needs work. 
  
  The game is short. Rent 
 it first. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maccer101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch has its highs and its major lows, like the environments taken straight from crime 
 movies, like the night club scene from "Collateral" and the amazing street shootout in "Heat". 
 If only these cool scenes were backed up by solid game-play, sadly though, the guns are pretty 
 bad all because of the short range on them and especially the recoil (they sound great though) .
 
  
  The multi-player aspect is pretty unique. Everyone starts off as robbers trying to steal as much 
 money as possible and then escaping in the getaway van, however someone can decide to just kill 
 you then and there to get your money, while the victim re-spawns back as a cop.
  
  If your a big a fan of the crime genre then this is probably for you. The story is really short 
 at about 4 to 5 hours, while the story can keep you you more than 50% interested the ending is 
 really disappointing. but multi-player is pretty fun and will keep you going for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I cannot belive this game! At E3 it look like it had good graphics and gameplay then you buy the 
 thing and it looks like CSS. The online modes are fun... for an hour then you want to kill yourself 
 of being so bored and the story is so weak it makes me want to throw the disc out the window. Plus 
 the single-player is like 6 hours tops. Like at E3 it actually looked like a next-gen game from 
 graphics to orignality but now that I play it, I feel like i shouldn't review it because it's so 
 bad. The 4.5 was for good online thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  
  There are a lot of factors you need to consider before you buy Kane & Lynch.
  
  1st- Are you starved for a new kind of shooter? Tired of old gameplay elements?
  
  2nd- How 
 much do graphics influence the amount of fun you have with a game?
  
  3rd- Are you patient, most importantly in learning new control/ gameplay mechanics?
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The tricky thing about Kane & Lynch is that its pros could also be considered cons, depending on 
 the player.
  
  For Example:
  
  1. The aiming is very DIFFERENT in Kane & Lynch. Notice, I did not say that it is BAD. In my opinion, 
 it is some of the more realistic aiming I've seen in a video game. Obviously you are going to have 
 troubles hitting a target far away with a machine gun. Holding down the trigger will overwhelm 
 you with recoil also. You can fix the aiming "problem" almost 100% by firing in short bursts, or 
 shooting far away targets with your pistol.
  
  2. The graphics are meant to fit the mood of the game. They aren't the most realistic graphics you'll 
 find in a next-gen title, but they are indeed stylish and create a great setting. I had no complaints 
 when it came to the graphics department. The game obviously needed to place a lot of action on 
 screen at once. At any given time there can be tons of police, gunfire, explosions, etc.
  
  3. The cover system is automatic. Basically, you have to walk behind a piller and turn slightly 
 sideways to activate it. At first it can be a little difficult, but once you learn the angle you 
 need to turn your character, you won't have any problems slipping in and out of cover. The main 
 problem you'll have is accidentally taking cover when you don't mean to. The benefits of an automatic 
 cover system is leaving the button mapping open to more interesting controls, such as squad commands.
 
  
  4. The squad commands are very similar to Freedom Fighters. However, you might think your squad-mates 
 aren't following your orders at first. This is mostly because your teammates won't attack unless 
 theres a specific target for you to highlight. However, if you use the defend option ("Hold this 
 position!") they will attack anyone in the area. It took me about half the game to get used to 
 this.
  
  5. The plot is very gritty. There are lots of curse words, and they are especially noticeable in 
 the first 30 minutes of the game. Sometimes you'll think someone took the finished copy of the 
 game, and just added curse words to the beginning and end of all the sentences. As the plot thickens, 
 this will become less and less apparent. In my opinion, the immaturity of the language is extremely 
 overlooked by the epicness of the plot.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall:
 
  
  Kane & Lynch will frustrate, and sometimes dissapoint you, but there's a dozen amazing moments 
 in the game that will keep the controller in your hands until the very end. It's an extremely rewarding 
 and fun experience, given the openness of the player to accept it for what it is- a no holds barred 
 grudge match in a big, unfair, violent world.
  
  This game would normally score a 7.5 in my book, but I give it an extra 0.5 for having enough originality 
 in a time when games and gamers alike are in desperate need of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch is about two criminals that are being sent to death row, but Lynch gets both himself 
 and Kane out of it and on the way to freedom. Both characters have distinct personalities. Kane 
 is a flawed mercenary and Lynch is a medicated psychopath and their both represented really well. 
 The story is interesting and flows very well, but there are some annoyances with the constant "scene" 
 headings on the screen. 
  The graphics are actually pretty good, both characters are well detailed and some things like Kane's 
 scar and Lynch's glasses look really good and you don't see those kinds of details on screen. The 
 first few levels are sort of bland, but later on it looks cooler and with more effects.
  The sound and voice work are also really well done, but most of the dialogue is a bunch of swearing 
 which isn't necessarily bad just weird in some places.
  The gameplay is sort of where things go down a notch. Shooting mechanics are pretty simple and 
 the cover system isn't the kind of Rainbow Six cover where you pop in and out, and bob and weave 
 crazily. The shooting is fine with certain weapons like shotguns and pistols, but machine guns 
 have too much recoil to constantly use and some players will need to adjust to it. The squad commands 
 are also throw aways, because Lynch's AI is good enough to stay alive and be effective and your 
 other henchmen you don't really care about so you'll probably never use them. 
  There is the singleplayer game with offline co-op available and the new inventive multiplayer mode 
 "Fragile Alliances". In this you must do some sort of heist and collect money throughout the mission 
 and escape and you split the money between the survivors at the end, but you can choose to kill 
 your teammates so there is less of a split at the end, but once you do people will be alerted you 
 do so and the other players you kill will become SWAT and police officers and hunt you down. This 
 mode is fun, but the singleplayer problems also follow into the multiplayer.
  Overall, this game is pretty standard fare from Eidos and Io. It's a pretty evenly good experience, 
 just nothing done exceptionally well, besides the characters and story, though worth a play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch was okay I mean I expected more from the creators of the Hitman series. The story 
 was greatI believe the story was the highlight of the game. What I didn't like about it was the 
 cover schemeI actually hated it.. sometimes Kane would just start walking by himself with me even 
 controlling him.. And everytime I tried to take cover it was kind of difficult. Oh yeah and the 
 aiming was horrible. I swear one time I had this guy dead in my sights.. I let off about 6 to 
 7 shots and he was still standing.. shooting.. on top of that I died. crazy.. Not sure if any of 
 you read my previous reviews but it's all about the ending for me with games.. If I get closure 
 or not. With this game I really didn't get any type of closure which is bad for my standardsI'm 
 not going to give any the ending but I didn't like it even though is has two endings. 
  
  The sound of the guns was not all the great either.. I mean the shotgun sounded great and the 
 handgun was coo but the others was poop! Don't get me wrong the game is fun to play and the story 
 and very interesting and it also funny how Kane and Lynch go at each other in the game. But some 
 things in the game was just not all that great it seemed like they needed a few more months to 
 work on the game. I'll rent this game don't spend $60 
  
  I'm starting to think the people who made Hitman didn't make this game.... lol 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  There's nothing like playing the bad guy. Whether its embracing the Dark Side in a Star Wars game 
 or baiting police in GTA, shirking the righteous path for a life of crime is the most dubious thrill 
 a video game can offer. And in Kane & Lynch, teaming up with friends for a spot of lawbreaking 
 is a crooked treat.
  
  Following the exploits of two vicious criminals who've escaped death row, K&L's biggest delights 
 are found online; teams of players can work together to pull off the perfect crime, stuffing their 
 pockets with cash and capping cops as the destructible environments crumble around them. Even better, 
 as you're playing a bunch of nefarious thugs you can choose to ditch the plan, kill your friends, 
 pinch their loot and make a beeline for the getaway car without incurring much in the way of penalty.
 
  
  The single-player adventure isn't nearly as thrilling as the multiplayer action - and feels like 
 Hitman with a spot of team gameplay, little surprise as it's from the same developer - but for 
 badass action both on- and offline, K&L is hard to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6love6metal6
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I was ssceptical at first about the game but when i actually got to play it with my mate it really 
 suprised !! it is actually quite a good game and is strangely addictive, all the missions are extremly 
 varied and i dont think we ever had to do the same thing twice. Although the game does have its 
 problems like the graphics arn't up to scratch and the AI isn't the most intelligent but the story 
 and varied gameplay more then make up for these problems. Kane & Lynch isn't as good as you would 
 have expected for the makers of Hitman but it isn't as bad as some people are saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dony11
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I like how every video game magazine online and otherwise hyped this game up so much prior to testing 
 the final release, to only embarase themselves at the end. I agree with Gamespot, this isnt a good 
 game, in fact its pretty lousy. everything about this game is lousy except for the concept and 
 the general appearence fo Mr. Kane. 
  
  Im sure if someone in hollywood can pick this up and run with the concept it would make a much 
 much better movie than the video game. 
  
  Frankly im dissapointed from the makers of hitman; all they really needed to do was pretty much 
 use the same engine and add a wall cover but it seems they tried to reinvent the wheel only to 
 make it look like a rectangle. 
  
  I havent finished this game but Im going to leisurely play it between Drake, Assasin's Creed, and 
 Mass Effect to only be more dissapointed. 
  
  Kane and Lynch 2 can only be better, its pretty hard to go down after this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know what Gamespot's deal is on their review but I totally disagree with their opinion. 
 There are some games that go a low score that I liked but when I read the Gamespot review the reasons 
 for a low score are usually justified. In the case of Kane and Lynch I would have to say that maybe 
 someone wrote that review after fighting with their girlfriend or something.
  
  First off, they talk about how the characters are unlikable. Now they obviously do not mean that 
 they don't have any personality because if its one thing that the characters in this game have 
 a lot of its just that. It seems like they were speaking on the fact that the characters were not 
 good guys so it was hard to root for them. So what, this is a case of bad guys being manipulated 
 by other bad guys. If you want characters that will touch your heart then play Mario or something 
 like that. I think it was a good Hollywood type of concept of putting together this odd couple 
 spin on video game. I mean you got guys who are on your side at the time, that you can command 
 but they shout out an occasional "F You" when you give an order. Its kinds of humorous to have 
 characters fighting side by side while also arguing with each other.
  
  Another thing that Gamespot talked about was the controls and games play and how they were frustrating. 
 Honestly I didn't have a problem with none of it. As far as taking cover, as long as you walked 
 up on the right spot on the wall the character immediately snaps into place and if you didn't want 
 him to snap in place you simply move him. Second, they say that the targeting system is terrible. 
 Now there may have not been any aid on lining up your shot but I think it work just fine. They 
 had blind fire, they had a little white dot on the screen for targeting on the run, and you can 
 hold down the left trigger to bring up a more precise aim. Although the more powerful weapons had 
 a more powerful recoil (WHICH IS VERY REALISTIC) firing in short burst worked like a charm. I was 
 gunning down bad guys left and right even on the morphine setting. I don't really see what the 
 problem was Gamespot????? They also griped about the AI. Once again I have to say that I must not 
 have been playing the same game because I hardly had to give commands and the other men did fine. 
 I had to revive them every now and again but nothing about it was frustrating to me. As far as 
 overdosing on adrenaline shots, this only happens if you get two of them too close together. As 
 long as there is a few minutes between shots they will not kill you. If they have to revive you 
 just lay low, be cautious, kill a few bad guys and don't get gunned down again right away, there 
 will be no problems.
  I also read another player review talking about not knowing what to do because the game never explains 
 anything. Ummm not only was there a tutorial after the opening level but anytime you had to press 
 a switch, pick up a gun, repel down a rope, or perform any other action in a game the button icon 
 appears next to the object letting you know, hey walk up to this and press this button. You cant 
 explain what to do much better than that. Some of the actions were done automatically by simply 
 getting close to them, not to mention that there is always a bright green dot on the map, which 
 also appears on the screen next the where ever you may need to be, guiding you the entire time 
 so getting lost is not really an option. Honestly if you did not know what was going on in the 
 game then it is you that sucks not the game.
  
  Now we come to the graphics. True enough that this game is not visually mind blowing, but come 
 on we all know that is to be expected when you have a game that has both destructible levels and 
 a lot of action coming in from all angles. There may not have been a high level of detail but when 
 you are constantly ducking bullets who has time to examine the wrinkles. You also have to love 
 that fact that each level is absolutely unique. You go from city streets, to banks, to clubs in 
 Tokyo, to city parks, to construction cites, to prisons, to office buildings, to towns that are 
 completely ruined by battle, to the deep jungles of south America. You could not ask for more variety.
 
  
  The story line in this game is not explained in great detail except to know that the 7 are a group 
 of criminals that want something you took and they will kill for it. Due to the fact that once 
 you bring it to them they will kill you when the job is done, you have no choice but to kill them 
 before that get to someone you love. I think that the lack of information may set up for a prequel 
 in my opinion. Maybe if they come out with another installment they can fine tune some of the mechanics 
 for those of you who thought the game was too difficult, wah wah wah.
  
  The bottom line is I like this game. It was fun, it was action packed, and never repetitive. The 
 characters although they were not care bear loveable they were cool. You got Kane who is a killer 
 with brains and connections, he keeps a cool head and always has a plan to get done what he needs 
 to. Then you have Lynch who is not so bright but is an efficient killer who has to take pills to 
 keep his violent rage under control. Then you have several other characters who are not really 
 a huge part of the story but they do a good job at aiding you in your mission. If this games had 
 just a few more levels, it could have possibly been one of my top single player action campaigns.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablusx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  When the Kan and Lynch game information came out most people thought that it would be a great idea. 
 The problem is that either it had too many ideas for any standard controller or were just executed 
 wrong. The plus side is that is has good graphics and a nice story in line with most movies my 
 Michael Mann. After that there is not much else to say about the game. The concept of hiding and 
 shooting is hampered by a combination of both no button to hide and the lack of character AI to 
 hide no matter how long you push against an object. The ability to control your AI characters would 
 be great if not for the fact that once you give an order the concept of cover goes out the window 
 and they will charge across any field of fire to get that one character. This results in them dieing 
 and sometimes resulting in you having to restart the scene. The premise of the game was that it 
 would be a gritty game that you can control characters and get into a great crime story. This came 
 delivers neither and after a while the profanity that starts out nice just becomes an annoying 
 background noise. At one point I got annoyed at the character for telling me to F off when I gave 
 an order I shot him myself. When you play this game you will understand why I did this 8 times. 
 This game in the end is not a buy and hardly worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgiggles24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much variety and interesting characters. Also the control scheme is very easy 
 to use. Also the cover system theoretically is better than having a button to push. You can get 
 off cover just by moving the joystick instead of pushing a button. And you stay behind cover if 
 you aim with the left trigger. Also the left trigger view is very nice. The co-op is offline only 
 and thats the way I like it. I want more offline co-op games other wise you can't have a friend 
 over for a sleepover or anything. My friend and I have so many quotes and the co-op was worth the 
 money alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch does very good in my book it dosent quite live up to the hype saying sometimes the 
 graphics arent very solid and the sound sometimes needs works the controls suck at first but you 
 really get into them and the whole first three chapters are ammazing and this is the first game 
 that i can say i help start a prison riot broke men out then started a small miltia and the story 
 will blow you away so yes kane and lynch has it's flaws but dosent everything ...... needless to 
 say if you love sction and third person shooters this game is for you and it is also great in co 
 op if it's on a big screen small screens just don't cut it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  First of all, "it's a violent game"... Yeah, so what?
  
  It's much like a Tarantino's movie.
  
  Reminds me "from dusk till dawn".
  Kane and Lynch 
 are two criminals. There's a blackmail on the background and a few more things (I don't want to 
 be a spoiler... so... that's it) .
  
  Well, about the gameplay...
  
  I'd played almost every game published by EIDOS.
  
  From Tomb raider to Hitman.
  
  This 
 game is a "remake" of FREEDOM FIGHTERS.
  (not the story, but the gameplay) .
  
  You can give the same commands as in Freedom fighters. Your crew can Defend a postion and atack 
 a target.
  
  Well, you can't control as many soldiers as on Freedom Fighters, but if you loved FF, then you'll 
 enjoy this game.
  
  Lots of guns.
  Amazing graphics (reminds Stranglehold) .
  
  I'd finished the game today, and it's like a book. If you like the beggining, you will enjoy reading 
 till the end.
  
  You can try renting first if you're with some doubt. But be ready to spend some real money on buying 
 your own copy.
  
  In the end, it's worth. You'll see it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  As for a game, Kane and Lynch does a so-so job on what could have been a great horror video game. 
 . Many of the missions are to linear, there is some backtracking and the occasional around the 
 corner scare, but K & L became dissapointing because of the story and over abundance of repetative 
 gameplay. To many times do you fend off a lot of enemies at once, but many of those enemies are 
 the same variations of which you first encounter in the beginning. 
  
  Diologue is fantastic for the speech actors, but is not to consistent with the in game diologue 
 which can get a little annoying. Maybe they should stick to the million dollar Hollywood business, 
 cause royalties don't seem to be coming to him anytime soon. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley451
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright. I no longer have any faith Jeff Gerstmann, the guy who reviewed Kane & Lynch. Not trying 
 to rip on you Jeff, it's just you gave a horrible review for a very awesome game. To those who 
 are reading this, just rent the game and try Kane & Lynch. 
  So, I don't understand why they say the characters are bad. They're very interesting, different 
 from the cheesy best-buddies you usually get in today's game. Their partnership is realistic. You 
 don't hate the characters, as the review said, but you can actually identify with them. 
  The guns are very cool. The only problem is that there's not too many of them. You get a nice connection 
 to reality because they feel right, and are guns you know about. They're guns people like Kane 
 and Lynch would use. They are perfect for this type of game.
  The environments are also sweet. Taken from streets, to banks, to prisons, to third-world countries, 
 to the jungle. They all have their place and they all fit together nicely. The battlefields are 
 very well constructed. There's just the right amount of cover in just the right places. It's very 
 fun to play co-op with a friend and use special tactics. 
  Gameplay is stop notch. This game is obviously going to be compared to Gears of War. They have 
 different feels, yes, but are quite similar and I must say; as much as I like Gears, Kane & Lynch 
 is better. It does not have gorey ways to kill people, but it has superior gameplay and is ultimately 
 much more fun. 
  AI is not bad. My friend and I had quite a fun time out manuvering them. Throwing a smoke grenade 
 to cover your advance, splitting left and right flank, hitting the turret with tear gas, then charging 
 up and finishing them off. Utilizing your surroundings and equipment allows for a lot of creativity 
 and improvising. 
  One thing that I totally disagree with in the official review, is that Kane & Lynch doesn't work 
 well with controls. It works perfectly. Gears of War, I found to be annoying. You could hardly 
 control your movements as the "A" button did almost everything. Try to roll away from an enemy 
 and you'd stand on a wall and get shot. Kane & Lynch works much better. It takes five minutes of 
 getting used to and then it works perfectly. 
  All in all, this game is just amazing. Seriously. If you're not convinced, go to a store and rent 
 it. You'll see that it is much more than the official review said it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That is one violent game. All you do is kill people the whole time. You can kill whoever to 
 want. You feel kinds fucked up just pleying, but you're having so much fun while doing it. I think 
 that its only fun when ypu're playing with a friend so you can both be scremin at the top of your 
 lungs while your swearing and stuff. Yea... its just one on those games. You feel kinds fucked 
 up just pleying, but you're having so much fun while doing it. I would rent it, but i wouldnt buy 
 it. I think it would get old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yokuz1166
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrible game. And it hurts me to say that because it's developed by the same studio 
 that created Hitman. But pound for pound, crap is probably worth more than this game. A horrible 
 storyline. The aiming is probably the worst-done job I've ever seen in any shooter. Weapons feel 
 like aerosoft guns when fired. Sound is muffled. Unnecessary swearing whenever it's not needed. 
 Because of poor aiming, you're going to get very mad at this game when the inevitable 20 SWAT members 
 rush you. Poor variety of weapons. Graphics are on par with original Xbox games. Just an overall 
 disappointing experience that I wish with every fiber of my being, I would never have wasted the 
 time nor money on this piece of garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jucice
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is wayyyyyy better than gamespot gives it credit for. In single player or co-op the game 
 is worth playing. So what the curse alot! so do I. it really adds to the movie type feel of the 
 game. the missions are original. Espicially the prison break in to break out your gang. Really 
 reminds me of the movie "Heat" mixed with "tango and Cash". The team AI leaves a little to be deesired 
 but the get the job done. i like the different locations of the game. What you have to do to make 
 it work. the co op is a nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganman17
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the concept of the game is probably one of the most intriguing of many modern 
 games to be released. But for such a great story line, the game definitely does NOT deliver. Online 
 multiplayer is a blast, and if your buying the game solely for online then i'd recommend it. I 
 mean, robbing a bank with 5 of your buddies while SWAT comes in and tries to wax you.... its some 
 intense ****. But nevertheless, the controls on the reticle are absolutely abhorrent. The aimer 
 is ridiculously heavy and for some reason does not feel right at all. Perhaps the best part about 
 the aiming is that its not dead accurate. You can place the reticle on a person and give it a couple 
 bursts but your not guaranteed to take the target out. After all, you are a bank robber and not 
 a NAVY SEAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  There were two games I was looking forward to for COOP. This and Army Of Two. In general this game 
 this was on my list as a game I had to play anyways, the previews really made you think it could 
 be almost GOTY worthy even though it didn't really have any fancy game mechanics. So I start it 
 up and...... and.... um? Is this the alpha version of the game? What happened?
  
  K&L story starts you out with NO... I say NO idea of whats going on. Right from the beginning its 
 very confusing. Maybe thats the idea but all there is, is a basic menu then you start the game 
 and your thrown in with a crappy tutorial that doesn't help at all. There not even an intro, just 
 start playing! The whole story is crappy although the characters are great. And while I love hearing 
 swearing because its makes a game feel real this was so overdone it got old quick. I think the 
 F-Word was used more then normal words.
  
  The graphics... I don't even know if those are called graphics! The characters look amazing. But 
 everything else varies from pretty good to utterly horrible, something that almost looks like its 
 from original XBOX. And then there are things like animations which vary and the synchronization 
 of the mouths which seems off at times. Then you have the guns which I don't know why but they 
 don't feel right, maybe it they camera angle or something but it feels horrible when you use them. 
 Another blow to the already bad game. 
  
  The controls are ok.... except for the fact that you have no idea what to do. Mix this along with 
 the fact that when it tells you to do something your left wondering "What do I press to do that?!?!?". 
 
  
  Music and sound. The sound was nothing impressive and the music is at least one good thing. Its 
 Jesper Kyd. Finally some good news from the game.
  
  The gameplay is a mess. As I mentioned half the time there so much confusing things going on because 
 of the crazy half brain story you really aren't sure what to do. There will be a green arrow on 
 the map but since the controls aren't explained you really won't know what to do. Oh and theres 
 the fact when you "die" you get injected with adrenaline by a team mate to come back but you can 
 only do this so many times then you really do die.
  
  Or if you are really confused like me you just lose period because you failed your objective since 
 you had no idea what to do or how to do it right such as missing a train because you are expected 
 to fight 30 swat members at once. Lets not leave out the AI. I wondered if we were facing AI guys 
 from the original Unreal game. They will stand behind cover even if you approach them from the 
 side and let you shoot them. Or they will just stand in the open and shoot and not bother to do 
 anything "AI". You can order guys around but since this game is so useless all around it doesn't 
 even matter. Even on easy its not hard to die anyways.
  
  So after all this is there ANYTHING that is good? 
  
  Well the characters if put in a game 
 that wasn't crap would be awesome. I mean these are amazing guys. Bad yes, sort of, but great concept! 
 The online mode is fun too. Its like a fun cops vs robbers thing where you have steal jewels and 
 what not. But even it has some issues. But its alot funner then the actually game itself.
  
  So overall this game is crap. Story that makes no sense, control that are screwy, ai that is 
 dumb, graphics that are messed up and everything in between! Don't even rent it! Only rent it if 
 you want to play it with the sound off and the music up. Because thats really about all its good 
 for. Or for skeet shooting. Which ever you prefer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaselx45
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  When I went to Blockbuster to rent a game, I found K&L, and was very happy to find a good game 
 to rent. Oh god, I couldn't have been more wrong. Let's start with the plot. You play as Kane, 
 a retired mercenary who has been rescued from death row by a mysterious crime syndicate called 
 "The7", who has hired a medicated psychopath named Lynch to watch over him, who, after The7 leave, 
 submits to Kane's will. When I booted up the game, the first thing I noticed was the clunky controls. 
 They felt unresponsive, making it feel like I was playing while my hands were numb. I then got 
 sick of the dialog, being that it consists mostly of the word fuck. 
  Once I got to the bank robbery mission it got worse. I soon realized that you could not stick to 
 cover, at all. I still don't know how to do it. So to make up for it I simply had to crouch-walk 
 everywhere. I also realized that the enemy AI's main job was to shoot at me from a distance, or 
 run at me like an idiot. The friendly AI's job was to cuss me out, shoot a few guys, and yell at 
 me.
  In two later missions, these problems were amplified. In a Tokyo nightclub, you have to escort 
 Lynch through a nightclub. While he carries a woman on his back who seems to make him a bullet 
 magnet. The game suggests you sneak through the club. After trying this ten times or so, I simply 
 decided to shoot my way out. In a later mission, I was given about 30 soldiers to help me fight, 
 along with my squad. The soldiers drop like flies, and the enemies continue to gather up against 
 you. Oh, forgot to mention the attack chopper that drops you at the snap of a finger. When you 
 drop, a squadmate has to come over and revive you. You also have to do this for them. This sometimes 
 proves difficult, when they're in the line of fire. 
  The plot, well, it's sort of interesting, but it's really just a rip-off of other ideas. The multiplayer, 
 well, I haven't played it, but since it's still K&L, I'll go out on a limb and say no. When it 
 comes to this game, I'm done. I'll say something the dev'olpers probably said during devolpment. 
 Fuck it. When there are so many excellent shooters out there right now, why spend your sixty dollars 
 on this tribute to mediocrity?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsleiden
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that is fantastically mediocre, Kane and Lynch: Dead Men is definitely 
 the way to go. I can honestly say that I haven't played a game that has not left some kind of impression 
 on me in awhile. I just kind of feel like it's there and it passed six hours of my life that I 
 normally would have just spent sleeping, so I can't say I missed out on anything playing this game 
 or I'm angry about losing that six hours of my life. But if you have shit to do, I wouldn't recommend 
 putting that aside for Kane or Lynch.
  
  As far as the game play goes, it's just your every day third person shooter. I can't say they did 
 anything cool, hip or groovy because they really didn't. You can shoot from the hip or you can 
 hold right trigger for a smaller crosshair for more accuracy. Duck and cover, blind firing, everything 
 you'd expect in any other shooter is there as well, the problem is, they forgot to put that something 
 in the game that sets it apart from every other shooter. Playing on the normal game setting, there 
 was some really annoying parts of the game as far as breaching enemy strong points goes, but other 
 than a select few scenes where there's a ton of baddies, everything else was sort of a breeze. 
 At first it may take you awhile to figure out how to get passed some enemies or how to approach 
 the beginning of a mission, but after that it's just a shoot'em up fest. Thinking back on it, when 
 you first start playing, it seems like they really wanted to add an element to the game where they 
 make you do certain things and be inconspicuous about it, but as the game goes on it's like they 
 just said "fuck it" and turned it into an action shooter with no other real elements. If you were 
 like me and expected something along the lines of Hitman, in a setting up a bank heist, taking 
 things slowly and than just mowing down everyone to escape, it's just not there.
  
  The visuals are alright, I guess. While playing it doesn't look very different from Hitman: Blood 
 Money but it's obvious that it isn't polished as well. Sure, at first glance you're like "at least 
 the graphics are as good as Hitman's!" but as you play a little further, it becomes apparent that 
 they aren't. It seems like they really tried to give it the old Hitman look but nope, didn't happen. 
 It's a little more gritty and not in the good way. I wouldn't say there is graphic issues or anything, 
 I didn't notice a lot of model popping or tearing or anything like that, it's just not as clean 
 and solid looking as Blood Money. When it comes to the cinematics, the few that there are, it's 
 in the same boat. They look good, good enough to hold your attention, but they still are not as 
 well done as other games.
  
  Speaking of cinematics! The story of the game is pretty boring and doesn't make you feel anything. 
 Aside from our foul mouthed anti-heroes constant abuse of the word "fuck." I can't say I remember 
 too much about what was going on. A lot of things were left unexplained, most of the story was 
 just done in narratives over the loading screens with no cut scene or images at all. Just the voice 
 actors talking to each other. When there was a cut scene though, it was mildly fun and entertaining 
 to watch but nothing special. Nothing really awesome at any point ever happen, but the direction 
 the game takes you makes you think sooner or later it will. I personally thought the awesomeness 
 would ensue once the game was beaten, but boy was I mistaken. There is two endings to the game 
 and the one I got sucked hard, and after reading about the other one, it sucks too. 
  
  I noticed that Lynch didn't freak out and go all crazy as much as I hoped he would. I was expecting 
 him to be a complete lunatic, but it really wasn't that bad and for the most part it didn't effect 
 the game what so ever. When he did manage to forget to take his pills and lose it a little, it 
 was normally doing a cut scene and you couldn't do much with it, I'm not actually sure why it's 
 even in the game or was mentioned during the hyping process. It's a story element, not a game play 
 element that has any bearing on anything.
  
  I played the game on co-op with my good buddy Pete, and it wasn't too bad. The game worked well 
 in a co-op setting, but any shooter works well on co-op. I haven't tried any of the multiplayer 
 Fragile Alliance game modes but I surely will not either. The game didn't hold my attention long 
 enough for me to go back and play it again, I really have no will or desire too. If you're looking 
 for something different than your average deathmatch or whatever, just pick up Saint's Row which 
 has really good and innovative multiplayer. 
  
  Overall, I don't think I would have played Kane and Lynch by myself. Honestly, I'm glad I waited 
 to hang out with Pete to play it on co-op. Without question I would have ended up never finishing 
 the game because it just isn't there, but if you and your friends have a couple hours to kill, 
 definitely rent it and enjoy the foul mouthed antics of Kane and Lynch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  So, I was eagerly waiting for Kane and Lynch, along with Mass Effect and all the games that come 
 out this month, when I spotted K&L's official score. A six. 
  
  
  Usually I agree with Gamespot's reviews about the games I'm concerned about. The review put me 
 on the fence, and my friends told me not to buy it. I ignored them, and picked it up on Friday. 
 
  
  
  I wouldn't call it a game that Gamespot really screwed over, but it's not a loss either. The trailers 
 never promised any ground-breaking graphics, only a squad-based third person shooter in the style 
 of Hitman and Freedom Fighters. And it delivers perfectly.
  
  
  This is a review for single player, only. I haven't got Live just yet. But, story-wise, I haven't 
 yet completed the game completely, and so far it's good. Above all, it makes sense. Like a good 
 action movie praised for having a story. But I suppose some things could be better explained, but 
 I can't give them away without giving out parts of the game. 
  
  
  Gameplay is fun, walking a line between extremely intense or unbearably frustrating... a few levels 
 come to mind. The shooting and control is just like Freedom Fighters, maybe just a bit clumsier. 
 I had no problem with accuracy. The time you're up close and personal, a sub-machine gun works 
 quite well, and the places you need medium range, an assault rifle gets the job done. Granted, 
 it only gets the job done with nothing fancy. You wouldn't shoot an enemy just to see a helmet 
 fly off, like in Call of Duty. But with the "cinematic intensity" going on during a firefight, 
 you wouldn't really care about looking good. 
  
  
  The graphics are all right. The character's faces have much more detail than Halo's, definitely. 
 The sound is also pretty well done. The weapons could sound more powerful, but I'm not complaining. 
 I think it was raised in the forums, in the game so far, I don't believe I heard the famous twangy 
 guitar Kane and Lynch theme heard in the trailers at all. The music is no Freedom Fighters score, 
 and has no call to be. 
  
  
  Now, my only major gripe is the difficulty and the level design. On easy, the game in the later 
 stages gets very hard (taking out brutes on legendary was never this much trouble) and a lack of 
 checkpoints makes it frustrating. I played the near-beginning of the Havana level *multiple* times 
 because of the sheer volume of enemies and the annoying circling helicopter. (People have complained 
 about the dump truck, but whoever threw in the flying death machine ought to be shot) . I can also 
 chalk this up to simple (yet problematic) level design. I loved Freedom Fighters because of the 
 multiple paths I could take (as well as what areas of a level to strike... so I could take out 
 the equally annoying Red helicopter) . If there was a Red machine gun and watch-tower set up, I 
 could take it head-on chucking grenades and molotovs like no tomorrow, or I could cut through a 
 building and flank it or whatever. Kane and Lynch is much simpler and much tougher because of it. 
 
  
  
  In the Havana level, the only real places of cover were in the centre of the street. Unfortunately, 
 you were surrounded on ALL sides. And unlike FF, you couldn't just let your squad mates lie on 
 the ground while you cleared the area, because it would end the mission due to story issues. 
 
  
  
  Aside from these complaints, I'd definitely recommend a play for Kane and Lynch. If you liked Freedom 
 Fighters, this is probably the game for you... less of Hitman because of K&L's focus of gunplay 
 (unless you ran through the Hitman games slaughtering everyone you came across... like me, unfortunately) . 
 I don't think the game deserves a six, more a solid seven. 
  
  EDIT: I forgot to put in, the language is not really so bad. Of course, it might seem shocking 
 at first (depending on how often you speak/hear these things at home or at the workplace) but eventually 
 you just don't care so much anymore. Like a season of Red vs Blue (excluding season 2) , the language 
 just becomes what it is. Just don't play around small children because you'll be blamed for "influencing" 
 them. Especially *your* children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say WTF GERTSMANN!!!???!! 6.0 come on. Well let me give you my opinion of Kane and 
 Lynch.
  
  
  
  So let's start off with the story shall we? Kane is a good old pop turned into evil and Lynch is 
 a psychopath who went crazy killing people (which he says he didn't) after not being sble to beat 
 COD4's Mile High Club on expert (I dont blame him its very hard!) So after a prison van breakout 
 you and Lynch have to help this guy go around the world and do his biddings. That's all I am going 
 to give about the story because each scene is acted and shot (I'm serious this game has better 
 camera angles and shots than Children of Men) with a tiwst or turn in almost every one and get 
 can get very messy too if you know what I mean (: 
  
  
  
  Now let me tell you about the realism. This game is ugly, it's not your superhero story save the 
 world kill the bad guy thing, this is the real world. Kane and Lynch are not the handsome duo who 
 fight for justice and would never kill anybody. Oh no, you guys are ugly vicious people who might 
 just start WW III. It really sucked me in as it really showed the intense real world qhixh was 
 a nice break to get away from games like Assassins Creed where you are like the best Assassin in 
 the world blah it been done way too many times before (still a good game just very cliche) .
  
  
  So the gameplay is it good? Well it feels way more last-gen compared to the story. Here's 
 basically all you do go from point A-B and kill a LOT of people and go on to the next level but 
 the length of these levels and the amount of enemies that can appear &intensity on-screen really 
 make up for it. It feels a lot like Gears of War sometimes taking cover and firing around the corner 
 of cover but even better with aiming that feels very realistic. Like here on Gears of War you just 
 shot enemies that popped up and shot them was never felt intense to me where in Kane and Lynch 
 you go against so many enemies with Lynch and about 5 other gangmembers (which is nice because 
 in Gears of War you were always with main characters where here you get a few henchmen making orders 
 who will probably get their head shot off, hey not everybody's a main character which IO wanted 
 to prove and it was nice) with cars blowing up and bullets nearly hitting you as you hear helpless 
 citizens crying and screaming and cops yelling orders at each other and sreaming in anger as their 
 best friend on the force is laying right next to them with a bullet in their head and your fellow 
 henchmen making very black comedy and some very racist jokes every now and then.
  
  This game has a little above average length that you will probably beat in a week if you stay up 
 all night playing it. This game has a great story, not your average realism, ok if not good gameplay, 
 ok graphics, over the top language ( which a crime game could use all they want and even mades more 
 to the gritty realism) . If you are a fan of Freedom Fighters or any kind of squad based shooter 
 and wants blood and dirty language then look no further!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmafilms
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay, if you are reading this review you're probably trying to figure out if you should pick up 
 this game. I was in the same boat. I was watching and reading every review I could find because 
 I was seeing a lot of low marks for Kane and Lynch. This game was in the works for quite some time. 
 The title was always one to watch. Then, the title came out, and every website was saying "Oh, 
 what a let down." 6's and 6.5's. I don't know about any of you, but the rating that a game must 
 have for me to buy it is at least a solid 7. Anything below that, in this generation of gaming, 
 is probably not something you should drop $60 on. Even after seeing the rating Kane and Lynch was 
 getting, I still had faith in the damn thing and bought it on launch. 
  
  My reason for this was the love for the genre and Michael Mann. Not to mention my love for the 
 Hitman titles. Are there flaws in the game? Yes. Some that are even hard to believe. But, if you 
 love the genre, chances are the storytelling and intense game play will make you forgive the flaws 
 the game shows. So let's talk about those flaws. 
  
  1. The game does not look quite as pretty as you might be used to with a next-gen title. But, there 
 is a hell of a lot going on. Lots of AI that react accordingly when moments of chaos occur. This 
 is not a huge problem. There are moments in the game where you will say, "Oh that looks pretty."
 
  
  2. There is a cover system. A bad cover system. This take some getting used to, for there is no 
 button to push to make the character (Kane or Lynch) take cover. The only thing you can do is walk 
 up to what you want to duck or stand behind and maneuver the character until he takes cover. It 
 is a little frustrating at first, but you will get used to it. It will become easier.
  
  3. Weapon accuracy. There will be many times in the game where your crosshair will be on the victim's 
 face or chest and you will just plain miss your target. Some will say this is very realistic. I 
 will agree with that. You're not going to be able to pick someone off from 300 yards (like you 
 can in many shooters) all of the time. You're not going to take everybody out 100 yards away with 
 automatic fire. You will have to close in on targets and take them out with short, controlled bursts. 
 But, like I said there are some instances where you should be able to hit your target to easily 
 take them out, but it won't happen. 
  
  
  Alright, now I want to talk about some things that this game does very, very well. There's more 
 than you think. Believe me.
  
  1. The storytelling. The story, and it's characters are strong. No, they are not a typical hero 
 or even an anti-hero. These guys do some pretty sick things to good people. A lot of the reviews 
 I've seen and read say the characters have no depth and the player cannot relate to either one 
 of them. That they are just killers with no plot. This is not true. Yes, these guys are bad people. 
 No question. But the story offers a plot point so the player can justify what he's doing. Kane 
 is in a pretty sticky situation involving his family. He knows he's done wrong in the past, and 
 he's paying for it. Remember, Kane is forced into doing the things that occur in the game. There 
 is not much he can do or say to prevent things from happening. This game offers a very good story. 
 A great crime saga. You can definitely see where Michael Mann's "Collateral" and "HEAT" inspired 
 this game. Another thing that a lot of the reviewers were criticizing this game for was the dialogue. 
 Multiple sites have said the "F" word is over used in this game. That the developers use it as 
 a fall back for when they cant' think of something better for the character to say. This is not 
 true. The language used in the game is very fitting. 
  
  2. The re-filling health system. This is also good. When you are hit in any of the game's many 
 intense fire fights you will go down. You have a limited amount of time before one of your teammates 
 (Lynch or whoever you have with you) gets to you and administers an adrenaline shot. While you 
 are in the state of "bleeding out" you can hear flashback dialogue that keeps your mind on the 
 game. Keep in mind, though, if you hit too many times, you will, making you start over from the 
 nearest checkpoint.
  
  3. The amazing cinematic feel. There are times in this game where you feel like you are playing 
 the video game counterparts to "Collateral" and "HEAT". It's incredible. The club mission is well 
 done. Taking out armed bouncers with flashlights with your pistol while there are strobe lights, 
 blue lasers, and hundreds of Japanese club-goers makes for a great fun time. As does the fire fight 
 you get into in the streets of Japan. And other battles that take place on various freeways and 
 subway tunnels.
  
  I do wish, however, that the game supported online co-op and system link co-op. The only form of 
 co-op game play this title offers is local split screen. The online multiplayer amounts for some 
 great fun. Having to pull off a bank robbery with a bunch of your friends is always good. 
  
  Overall, Kane and Lynch is a really fun game that offers the player a lot of goods. Could this 
 game have taken advantage of a few more months of fine tuning? Absolutely. Nevertheless, if you 
 are a fan of shooters, and the crime genre, give this game a shot. You'll have some fun with it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics --- Nothing to gape at if you have played Bioshock or Gears even, The ragdoll effect is 
 there but just like in Hitman Blood Money, Environments could have been more detailed, but it does 
 breaks and blow up if you shoot at it, so this redeems it. 
  
  Sound: Music is well done, fits just like an action movie and plays like it too! 
  Voice acting 
 is very over the top, but be ready for alot of the curse words being thrown out there, hell the 
 characters curse probably more than we would in a lifetime. 
  
  Replay Value: Co-op is one of the main thing, the second player controls Lynch (Who is a ****ing 
 Sicko and ill in the head) and the first player gets Kane, NO ONLINE COOP! Multiplayer is fun, 
 but it's novelty will wear off if you don't get some of your friends to play with you. In short 
 a rental if you just want to try the multiplayer....
  
  Gameplay: The game focuses on 2 unlucky people, Kane and Lynch (Dead Men) The game can be played 
 by yourself or with a friend, offline only... The best part about this game (Which I love) is you 
 can command a squad of other mercs with you!! Telling them to hold this position or regroup and 
 attack. Simple but fun and easy. The weak part for the most part is Aiming and the Cover system, 
 those of you who thinks the cover system is just like Gears, close but it is auto, meaning you 
 have to walk up to a wall and wait to become stuck to be in any good cover, also the Aiming is 
 kinda weak, don't expect it like Gears' Perfectionist Aiming, The aiming gets a little getting 
 used to. The story is pretty what you would expect from a Action Flick, you got Bad Guys and Cops, 
 and some Bad Guys who want to kill the other Bad Gu [ys. 
  
  Summary: Rental at the most, but it is a very worth while game that comes from the creators of 
 Hitman and Freedom Fighters! So if you really are looking for some action game that has co-op and 
 just want to chill with a favorite friend (And over 18 just kidding) by all means Kane and Lynch 
 is sure to entertain you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zergrezz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  The first level of the game is pretty bad since there are walls covering the area that you cannot 
 see, but dont judge the rest of the game on the first, because after that everything smooths out. 
 The story is pretty good, and the dialogue is funny and it made me laugh. The two main characters 
 are perfect for this type of game. The highlight of the game for me was the Co-op on the same tv 
 screen. My brother and I played together and had a good time doing it. The online play is fun, 
 imo you should play it every now and then so it doesn't get boring quickly. The bad of the game 
 is the lack of guns, the whole shooting system is mmk but after awhile you dont even notice it.
 
  
  I reccomend you buy the game after a price drop or two for the same screen co-op, don't bother 
 with the "official" reviews on sites like GS because they probably only played the first few levels... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CR0SS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is a bit of a blessing and a curse. On the one hand it is most definitely a last 
 generation game, and some of it's principal mechanics are just archaic. Anyone whose played Gears 
 of War will look down upon this game. Also on the curse side of the line is the moral ambiguity, 
 these characters really don't care that their killing cops and innocent people all the time. But 
 if you want gritty, this is it.
  Kane and Lynch has perhaps the coolest levels of all time, an intriguing storyline featuring two 
 characters you feel you should hate but can't help empathizing with. These guys never get a break. 
 And then theres the gameplay.
  Most of the gameplay is pretty good, straight on action can be down right fun. The guns are fun 
 to shoot but difficult to master. And despite having read so much about a faulty hit-detection 
 system I saw no evidence of one. Aiming is difficult but rewarding and the weapons feel right and 
 are genuinely fun to use.
  My major gripe with the game is that the explosions within, which are plentiful, are just not very 
 satisfying. But thats okay, because when you've placed that grenade just right, you will see some 
 thrown into a wall. head first. And you will smile in spite of yourself.
  One thing to be warned about is that the medium difficultly will have you pulling your hair out, 
 it's still fun, but almost realistically hard. And thats when this game shines, when the chips 
 are down and it's you and a psychopathic mullet machine against the world.
  The cover system is not perfect, but, while I'll admit that it did get me killed once or twice, 
 once I got the hang of it, it works reasonably well.
  So while this game is far from perfect I would still urge you to pick it up, for the intriuging 
 storyline, great characters, awesome levels, and the utterly down and out feel of playing this 
 game. These guys are the underdogs of underdogs. 
  In short, while the game is flawed, and while it offers nothing in gameplay terms that Gears of 
 War didn't deliver with more polish, this game offers perhaps the most down-and-out, vicious gameplay 
 in any game.
  Oh and one last thing. I am an avid fan of the word F&$K! but in this case all of the reviewers 
 are one hundred and ten percent correct, it used as both a known, a verb and an adjective in everyline 
 in the story, and while you do get used to it, be careful that you don't start shouting with them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomwedge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  When you first start up the campaign in Kane & Lynch, you're thrust into the middle of a violent 
 escape from a prison transfer bus, on which Kane is being taken to his execution, in the middle 
 of a city surrounded by dozens of police. Caught up in the tide, Kane is swept along with violent 
 mercenaries hell-bent on his escape, and they sweep through the city carving a bloody path to a 
 doughnut shop where their pick-up awaits. For those of you expecting a stealthy-crime based shooter 
 comparable to Hitman, you might be pleasantly surprised, or utterly disappointed.
  
  Kane & Lynch is an explosively violent game, with no puzzle-solving or platforming, but straight, 
 no-nonsense firefights, most involving at least a dozen enemies in all different directions. The 
 interesting thing about the combat, though, is that it's a whole lot smarter than you'd think. 
 While the spray for automatic weapons is a tad too large, it mimics the realism of firing a real 
 rifle. The downside to this is that enemies don't seem to have this problem, tipping the scales 
 further against the partners. 
  
  Speaking of the partners, Lynch won't be much use to you unless you happen to be playing co-op, 
 were having an extra person really evens out the playing field. Otherwise he's there to go bat-%@!# 
 crazy at the right moments. Plus, when you're down to your last mag, it's a sweet sound when Lynch 
 barks out that he brought some extra, just in case. It's the little things that count, right? 
 
  
  When playing Kane & Lynch, most people kept saying to me what complete and total bastards these 
 two are. I find it quite interesting that the creators chose to make the characters of their game 
 intentionally unlikable. It was an interesting choice in that it could potentially backfire, because 
 people like the characters they're playing to have some qualities that make the player connect 
 with the character they're playing. And with the exception of the ruthless, backstabbing, foul-mouthed 
 merc out there, or the occasional shotgun toting, schizophrenic psychopathic killer, there's really 
 not much to connect with.
  
  If you're looking for a riveting story... you might want to try someplace else. While the storyline 
 does serve to drive the game forward, it really doesn't do much but assert what bastards these 
 guys really are. The story does little but set Kane and his cohorts up into the various locales 
 in which you will be doing of the shooting of hostiles. Of course, this isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing, and some of the storyline does shed light on the characters and their motivation for doing 
 what they're doing. 
  
  When talking about squad A. I., you've got to remember that even though Kane is a well-trained and 
 experienced mercenary, Lynch isn't. He's just a nutjob with a shotgun, a magnum, and a bottle that's 
 half-full of pills and a head full of crazy. When you do get others that join up with you, they'll 
 be more independent of you even though you can give them basic directions. You'll also be joined 
 by several groups of cannon fodder, whose most notable achievements are running, dying, and getting 
 in the way of your shots. Of course, you're a heartless merc, who gives a damn about friendly fire?
 
  
  I will review the cover system only briefly. It sucks.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a game that puts you in control of a killing machine, you'll find 
 it here. If you want to have shoot-outs from Tokyo to Havana, you'll find that here too. If you're 
 looking for a game that gives you a fun, violent experience that doesn't get old, you'll definitely 
 find that here, because for all of it's flaws, Kane & Lynch is a game that puts pure fun in a box 
 and sells it. And that's all we really want, isn't it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Pepper26
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about Kane & Lynch: Dead Men, but upon completing the Campaign, and a few rounds 
 of Fragile Alliance, I must say that I was very disappointed. The Campaign isn't really terrible, 
 its just not good. The first few levels are fun, especially the Bank Robbery, but the problem is 
 the gameplay never really changes. The AI is bad, and the graphics are decent. The one strong point 
 of the game is the story and the characters. The multiplayer or Fragile Alliance is just as disappointing 
 as the Campaign. The setup is clever, you and other players perform a heist and you can choose 
 to betray your team and escape with all the loot, and if you die you become an enemy and try to 
 stop the other players, but its just not executed well. Don't get me wrong, I love Crime Dramas, 
 and the game does have a "Heat" meets "Collateral" meets "Natural Born Killers" feel, but the gameplay 
 just doesn't work as well as you would hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this title. 15 minutes into the game and I wanted my money back. The 
 targeting system - Broken. The story - While an interesting idea, just lazy and poorly writen. 
 The game play - two ambiguous and filled with terrible AI that just aren't stupid enough to actually 
 be enjoyable. The difficulty - I still have no idea what to put here. I mean on easy I was filling 
 cops full of bullets and they weren't dying. Take cover? No, hump the wall is more like it. 
  
  There are a lot of little things I can trash as well about this game. For example, when in 
 doubt about how to respond... F*** is the best bet according to these two uninteresting characters. 
 But they don't say F*** like hard-ass death row inmates should say F***. They say F*** like Britney 
 Spears says f*** after testing positive for Meth. Like a couple of whiny little girls, it wouldn't 
 suprise me if these guys were first convicted of stealing cigarettes from the local Qwik-E-Mart. 
 The game just failed in too many aspects to sell me from even the start. The only reason I kept 
 playing was because the idea that I was robbing banks in the most smash and grab unrealistic way 
 was kinda funny and I couldn't help but think that the game would still be unenjoyable even with 
 a friend playing along trashing it with me... 
  
  Oh well, maybe I'm just spoiled from shooters like CoD4 and Halo3? No, this game is something you'd 
 expect for ps2... not a Nex-Gen system. Maybe I can sell it at Gamestop and get a little bit of 
 my dignity back. When does MASS EFFECT come out? 
  
  Bottomline: Kane... didn't grab me with the first word out of your mouth. The game was something 
 I put up with. Lynch... get a hair cut.
  
  p. s.- I didn't include a "REAL" difficulty rating (I put Just Right) because despite my ability 
 to beat CoD4 on Veteran, in K&L I was unable to kill a cop ten feet away after 5 bullets to the 
 head with an MP5. That guy deserves a pay raise! I'm now going to cry myself to sleep. Ugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate623
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ill start with single plyer. First the third person idea was bad from the start, second the story 
 like is ok but controls are not, third why did we expect different? this is agent 47 with a make-over. 
 And then the same probablems rollover to the multiplayer. This could have been a Great, Great online 
 game but the controls and sloopy gameplay made it an "eeh ok" game instead. Its really cool how 
 you and your crew run up in banks stealing loot and all with the whole tratior idea and all but 
 the sloppy gameplay and controls ruin this could be great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, the story is dark and gritty. The action is violent and very, blockbuster 
 you could say. Big explosions and large scale combat with walls and columns that fall apart. The 
 main short coming is the controls, you will figure them out right around the last level... There 
 is a lot to it, and you get confused. But the "boss" battles are amazing, especially the construction 
 yard. Overall though there aren't too many games out right now that are a lot better than this. 
 It is actually very good, despite reviews. If you want a game full of large scale battles, lots 
 of language, lots of violence, and lots of explosions this probably is your game, if not there 
 is a new Viva Pinata that just came out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Nerevar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw that game in a Game Informer, I looked on with hope that the unique game in front 
 of me would turn out to be the next Rainbow 6 Vegas. Yet when I finally picked it up I was disappointed. 
 The first thing that stood out as odd was at the load screen, every time it shows you a cinematic. 
 Thats not all that annoying by its self but coupled with having to skip past it every time you 
 exit a multiplayer! Wow thats just nasty. When I started up the single player, the first flaw I 
 noticed was the movement, the sluggish turning, aiming, and running make playing through this game 
 almost an impossible task. I didn't get past the second level with out giving up. Which brings 
 me to the most disappointing aspect of Kane and Lynch, the multi player. The Idea of you and your 
 team mates running through a bank shooting your way to the loads of cash is a fun idea. Then there's 
 the possible chance of a team mate betraying you and stealing all your cash! SWEET THIS IS GOING 
 TO ROCK, were my first words. That soon turned sour as the horrible controls and aiming system 
 made it almost impossible to kill with out spraying and praying. The horrible guns make it seem 
 like your shooting an airsoft gun at people, not an MP5. Yet I played on, in hopes that something 
 would spark my love for this game. At the end of my first online game, I had made $800,000! Enough 
 I thought to buy something for my char, perhaps a new shirt. To my horror I soon realised you could 
 not customise you person! Money only adds up to the leader boards. Kane and Lynch is a game with 
 a great unique idea that was just poorly pulled off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neocaleb
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The reasons for the low review score by gamespot basically as follows:
  
  *Poor AI
  *Unreliable aiming system
  *Difficult cover system
  *Unlikable characters
  *Lack of online 
 co-op
  
  I disagree with the accusation of poor AI. The enemies so far seem to be very good at finding cover. 
 In fact, in the first level, I had difficulty even taking anybody out as they found protection 
 so quickly. You know how in some games somebody will be partially exposed and not really do anything 
 about it, even as you are shooting them? In Kane and Lynch, they will actually adjust themselves 
 further behind cover when you nail them with pot shots... they find out when they're vulnerable 
 and compensate for it. Prime example is the initial bank heist... there are some bullet proof glass 
 doors that the guards take shelter behind, and you can actually see them scoot further away from 
 the edge that they're already hiding behind when you wound them. If cover in the area is low, they'll 
 rush you in groups. Even on the lowest difficulty setting, they "ain't no easy win." As for team 
 AI, I'm really happy with them... they do everything you tell them to when you tell them to. When 
 they aren't under specific orders, they're even a little more capable than the AI allies in Vegas. 
 They run to heal you right away when you're down. The squad component is my favorite part of the 
 gameplay, truthfully.
  
  Second, the aiming system... we are so used to the weapon balance presented to us in standard shooters 
 that guns hit almost exactly wherever you aim, at almost any distance. Much like Hitman tried to 
 accomplish, a standard gun in Kane and Lynch completely depends on its type for range/accuracy/damage/etc. 
 I can't vouch for the realism, but as far as game balance goes, Kane and Lynch tries to make sure 
 there isn't a single all-purpose weapon. I'm guessing the reviewer was unhappy with the aiming 
 because at a long distance, you can't hit enemies reliably with a submachine gun. But like I said, 
 there's a balance to it... at long range, the pistol is perfect for picking off enemies with head 
 shots... and why not? It's a single shot weapon that's easy to aim. Conversely, the pistol is only 
 a desperation measure at close range... the enemies are aggressive and it's a risk to fight them 
 with a low damage, low ROF weapon. That's where the high power, high rate of fire SMG comes in 
 handy... you can mop the floor with groups of enemies at close range if you use it. It's a good 
 design decision, to me.
  
  The cover system is kind of an unusual thing, but I truly believe it was set up the way it was 
 to make it easily accessible without compromising the aiming system. You can't just use any flat 
 surface for cover... you have to approach a corner or narrow object, and Kane will take cover automatically. 
 It was strange at first and there was a learning curve, but once you get used to it, it's a no-brainer 
 and doesn't present any problems. Rainbow Six Vegas has an AWESOME cover system... but you have 
 to toggle aiming with the right thumbstick while you take cover with the left trigger. Since cover 
 is automatic in Kane and Lynch, you aren't giving up the left trigger, which you can use a bit 
 more conveniently to zoom in and take aim. I'm not saying the gameplay is better than that of Vegas; 
 the developers just took a different approach to cover and aiming.
  
  I like the protagonists. I even like that schizo wife-beater Lynch. He is an incredibly honest 
 guy, but he's inexperienced, has twisted violent blackouts that he later doesn't remember, and 
 he's even a little stupid... but it's all intentional and having severe flaws makes him more real. 
 He's ashamed of his schizophrenic blackouts and that makes you realize that there is a heart in 
 there somewhere. Kane seems to take advantage of people around him and appears to be lying to protect 
 himself, but he's easy to identify with as the main character... he doesn't want bad things to 
 happen but unfortunately, he's a magnet for trouble... much like Frank Castle's life winds up hurting 
 those around him, so does Kane's. These guys are a great foundation for the story. It's not about 
 heists, it's about fleshing these two guys out. They look like responsible citizens compared to 
 much loved Tommy Vercetti. No, my mother would probably not like these characters, but the game 
 was never marketed to my mother either.
  
  Online co-op... yes, I agree completely with the general consensus. Online shooters are superior 
 to split-screen shooters. I didn't always feel this way but now that so many people play online 
 games, it's easier to find somebody to play with online than it is to find somebody nearby who 
 has time (plus you get your own screen.) This decision by IO is mind boggling. Most people who 
 have the game will probably never see co-op now, as the game often forces Kane and Lynch apart 
 and you can't just switch between controllers to beat the levels.
  
  I could also bitch about a few of the animations, as they're often generalized and one or two regular 
 ones look strange. The rear stealth attack in particular seems to be off as the knife used doesn't 
 always touch the enemy, but to me it's nitpicky and I don't notice it much.
  
  Kane and Lynch is everything I hoped for aside from online co-op... but there's the issue of breaking 
 ground, for many gamers. People who are fans of video games (the entire medium as a whole) absolutely 
 won't see this game as any kind of historical note, and won't point to it as a shining example 
 of the shooter genre. But for people who love the crime genre specifically, this game is a hell 
 of a buy. The story is on par with Max Payne and Metal Gear Solid, and you are never seperated 
 from the overall plot in any way. I'm never left wondering what will happen next, as every activity 
 has me engrossed. Despite the story obviously being the main focus, the gameplay is highly functional... 
 you just can't expect anything terribly new out of it because it is a framework for the plot.
 
  
  The crux of my anger at GS is the numerical score. Anybody who remembers the Getaway on the PS2 
 remembers that it was a deeply flawed game with sluggish controls, absolutely terrible animations, 
 and a few long game sequences that had to be repeated a half dozen times (most of us who played 
 it probably pushed through it for the story.) GS gave it a 6.9 out of 10. Considering each game 
 in the context of the year they were released, Kane and Lynch is a much more solid, much more playable 
 game... but somehow it got a lower score. This game is so much in the vein of Freedom Fighters, 
 which GS gave a 9.3. Sure, a game today needs an online mode... K&L has a unique one, even if it's 
 not a co-op version of the single player campaign. They praised FF's presentation... K&L's is awesome 
 as well, with great action set pieces, and little touches like conversations during loading screens. 
 A 3 point difference in score blows me away.
  
  To sum it up... it's a fun tactical shooter with a non-stop and in-depth story. I hope that clarifies 
 the game for anybody wondering about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerofallensk8er
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  the game is okay but the story.. kinda is weird.. i dont like either the characters cuz i played 
 co- op at my friends house... the gamplay is like a normal shooter game.. nothing differint but 
 i HATE the aiming system for some reason. The multiplayer is pretty fun thats the best part of 
 the game but when someone on ur team kills u it really ticks you off
  
  but the game is ok.. the story is interesting if they put it together better.. and its true.. every 
 word has fu** in it 
  F**k you or Get the Fu** down it 
  it gets annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earn78
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I had such high hopes for this game. Bought it yesterday along with AC. Played this first, since 
 I knew AC would be incredible. First off the controls are AWFUL!! Why couldn't they put in a lock 
 on system like Call of Duty 4? I thought I was shooting the guy in the head but for some reason 
 he wouldn't die. But I died at least 7 times within the first half an hour, and that was on regular 
 difficulty. I was constantly running out of ammo. How do they expect you to have enough ammo when 
 it takes 25 bullets to kill one guy?! But if I get shot, i'm half way dead already. Then its impossible 
 to find cover in time before they pluck you again. Y and X axis controls are either too touchy 
 or too stiff, they is no happy medium. The story is decent enough, but feels somewhat choppy, would 
 have liked to know more about the characters and/or what we are retrieving. As you can tell, I 
 feel like I wasted $60 on this game. It might not see the light of day again since AC is more than 
 I hoped it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acehardy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  The story is very adult only. The game-play has some issues mainly the cover system is hit or miss 
 at best. The AI also has issues the act more like robots then human like AI. That being said the 
 story has some characters that you enjoy hating and loving at the same time. The cut scenes work 
 in very well with the levels and I loved the varied enviroments Tokyo and more. The graphics aren't 
 bad but not the best either. There another weird issue where you can only have offline co op play 
 not on line which have truly made this game that much better. If you can over look the crappy AI 
 and spotty cover system there is a truly enjoyable game with some original online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Basicly I I have 2 Xbox's and I have 4 people all waiting for this game to boot. Every single person 
 in my house loved this game from start till we got caught up in the traffic in the tunnel. This 
 game is bringing back the co-op that games need nowadays. I loved the hit man series and this is 
 a well adaptation of the franchise moving forward. I love the whole premises of the game. The action 
 makes me feel like I'm watching a movie & playing a game at the same time. The graphics presentation 
 is not gears of war but that's all games that are not gears. I like the presentation of the style 
 of game & the graphics fit and don't do too much but don't short you either. The play mechanics' 
 could use a little tweak in the realms of how the targeting system works. Fair be said the weaker 
 the gun the more lousy it shot, so I'm guessing in later levels it will tighten up. As for the 
 sound, it did well 2 on surround I felt like I was in the action. The guns don't particularly stand 
 out as the most authentic sounding in a game (rainbow 6 Vegas) but I'm not comparing this to anything 
 but what it is, so I will say that they did a good job making this game sound like a blockbuster 
 film. Overall I understand that people don't like the Hit Man series like us diehard fans, so I 
 understand some reviews angst with this title but in my opinion this game rocks and should be checked 
 out by any gamer looking to get in the shoes of these 2 anti hero's. The multiplayer element kind 
 of upset me because I can't play more than 1 person per Xbox on live. That's the only negative 
 thing I have to say about this title. Thanks for reading and try Kane & Lynch, It's a grate game, 
 at least worth renting and trying out I bought 2 copies and I'm very well satisfied.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ostiaboricua
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game really grows in you seeing the different things you will do to get the job done.
  It not a casual game that you see in every corner or in every company of games when you start crossing 
 bullets with the cops and other npc you will want to keep that way. I wont deny that the game have 
 a little problem with the covering system cause they could probably make it more easy to use but 
 when you get a little experience playing it you will find the cover more easy cause the trick is 
 to be at the end of the corner to find it fast. I prefer something more easily like one bottom 
 cover but that's only my opinion.
  But one you start playing you will find that this game it's really amazing not with the graphics. 
 But amazing with the drama and gameplay it's a violence history that you won't forget so fast believe 
 me. The Kane and Lynch will be unforgettable for some time cause you will see unexpected things 
 and violence I dare to say like a movie hope you enjoy this title like I do cause I really like 
 games that bring different drama and viewpoints it a unforgettable thing to use some antiheroes 
 guys that doesn't care for anything.
  
  Sorry for my bad English its not my birth language.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
