-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kengo: Legend of the 9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/kengozero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice slice of Japanese history/mythology.
 Pretty level art.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monotonous missions.
 Shallow combat.
 Dimwitted enemy artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Genki
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 11, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Who knew that samurai swordfighting could ever be so dull and annoying? 

  It overstates the case a fair bit to call Kengo: Legend of the 9 a game. While this latest addition 
 to the minigenre of Japanese swordfighting comes in a retail box and is priced right up there with 
 other new releases for the Xbox 360, it feels more like a proof-of-concept demo than something 
 that developer Genki actually expects people to buy. Mindless button mashing and missions that 
 consist entirely of slaughtering mobs of mouth-breathing bad guys make you wonder if somebody shipped 
 the wrong build to the mastering lab.  

  Regardless, what made it to store shelves is barely playable, much less engaging. The only interesting 
 aspect of Legend of the 9 is its connection to Japanese history, as the nine protagonists are renowned 
 samurai from the 17th century. Anyone interested in feudal Japan will certainly recognize such 
 legendary swordsmen as Musashi Miyamoto, Jubei Yagyu, and Ito Ittosai. But none of these characters 
 is given any sort of lifelike characterization, so it's not like you're getting a tour of the more 
 colorful personalities of the samurai set. Each is really nothing more than a beefy muscled stereotype 
 that struts around spouting dialogue that would embarrass the screenwriters who penned '70s kung-fu 
 movies. At least the game's original Japanese voices are translated solely with captions, so we're 
 spared the agony of listening to hacks delivering these cheesy lines in spoken Engrish. It's just 
 too bad that somebody couldn't have similarly silenced the repetitive sword ringing and shouting 
 during battles or the bloody squelching sound used to underscore menu selections.  

           Look exciting? Well, appearances are deceiving.       

  The nine main campaigns where 
 you guide the heroes on various adventures are equally drab. Although each campaign is supposed 
 to be entirely different to represent aspects of each character's life, they're actually nearly 
 identical hack-and-slash expeditions. These consist of you mindlessly hacking down packs of thugs, 
 ninjas, and the like until you reach level bosses. All that really separates one campaign from 
 another is the identity of one of the mission bosses. These bosses represent the other eight playable 
 samurai in the game, and you don't flash the blade against yourself. The only signs of life here 
 come from the ability to customize your warrior at the end of each level by spending spirit spheres 
 or experience points to buff stats, such as health and attack power, or to pick up new sword-slinging 
 moves. Some of the mission architecture looks pretty good too. Levels generally aren't very big, 
 but they typically feature one striking theme, such as a ninja fortress in the moonlight or the 
 deck of a ship in front of a setting sun.  

  Other modes of play are more monotonous than the scenery. Mission mode collects 10 campaign maps 
 and gives them separate objectives. Unfortunately, all of Genki's creativity was expended on naming 
 these escapades. Cool-sounding titles, such as The Three Ronin Must Die! and Death at the Kira 
 Household, cover up more mechanical slaughters where you simply cut a swath from point A to point 
 B. Combat mode is a bit better, in that it features straightforward one-on-one dueling either against 
 the artificial intelligence or a buddy over Xbox Live or on a second gamepad. At least here you 
 can get the scraps over with in a just a couple of quick rounds and skip the tedious repetition 
 of the other game choices.  

  In the end, however, none of these selections are worth your time. Legend of the 9 mixes bland 
 modes of play with equally uninspired combat. Although the game purports to present an authentic 
 re-creation of swordfighting, what we've got here is really just another button-mashing beat-em-up. 
 All of the customizable fighting stances or fancy attack and defense terms, such as soku-giri, 
 kumitachi, and kuzushi, are meaningless. All you need to do to win most fights is move in close, 
 twirl the left stick a little then punch the Y and B buttons. Actually, it's tough to do much more. 
 Although you're supposed to be portraying lithe killing machines, the samurais lumber about like 
 they're wearing cement sandals, which makes it hard to react to enemy moves and leaves you open 
 for devastating counter-attacks. Only environmental kills give you a sense of purpose. It's somewhat 
 nifty to try to slay enemies by maneuvering them off docks or pinning them into walls with your 
 sword after locking them up in a kumitachi sword clinch. They're not particularly easy to pull 
 off and totally unnecessary because you can kill foes in much easier ways, although they do at 
 least reward you with bloody close-ups.  

           One-on-one battles in combat mode may not be highlight-reel material, yet they at least 
 let you skip all of the dreary carving up of thugs and ninjas in the campaign missions.      

 
  Missions are also packed with cannon fodder that you can hack through in moments. In true kung-fu-movie 
 style, the deeply dumb grunts generally engage you in one-on-one battles even when they've got 
 you totally surrounded. So you'll sail through gangs of goons paying little thought to swordsmanship, 
 stringing together combos or pretty much anything else, only waking up when a tougher guy comes 
 along (you'll know them by their coolie hats) or you stack up enough bodies to trigger the appearance 
 of the level boss. The latter opponents provide just about the only tough battles in the entire 
 game. But it's not like they outduel you or do anything skillful. They lay back and wait for your 
 attack, preferring to counter only after you do something stupid, such as force an attack due to 
 the tedium of waiting around for the other guy to move. This can often lead to instant death because 
 even though enemies seem lazy at times, they have a knack for turning your attacks into kuzushi 
 moves that leave you totally helpless in preventing a one-stroke kill.  

  A good sword-combat game is long overdue on the Xbox 360, but don't let your desperation cloud 
 your judgment when it comes to Kengo: Legend of the 9. While it's usually fun to run around playing 
 samurai, there isn't nearly enough quality slicing and dicing here to even warrant a rental. Wait 
 until the next time, when maybe that unknown future developer will actually finish its chop-'em-up 
 game before trying to sell it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  okay, i'm going to say it flat out... this game sure as hell aint perfect. it's got its share of 
 problems. that being said, i WILL say that this game is worth a look by a lot of people. people 
 who love historical accuracy, and people who just straight up love samurais (me)
  
  the premise of the game is simple. take up the sword of one of nine samurai (all of whom actually 
 existed) and kill everything that moves. you go from area to area killing ninja (there's no "s" 
 on the plural of ninja, for future reference) , samurai, bandits, and other ho-hum enemies until 
 you reach the boss of the level, who is always another playable character that you didnt' choose. 
 kill that person, and continue. the game's story is contrived and lame, but historically accurate 
 (i've read miyamoto musashi's biography, and i was surprised at how well this game captured him) 
 AND there are nine separate stories. that's pretty cool.
  
  the combat (and trust me, it's really ALL you do in the game) is underrated. the depth of the combat 
 system really takes me back to when bushido blade came out on PS1. the combat system has two buttons 
 for defense and two for offense. the system is handled very well, and the combat is good, but not 
 great. they could have done a lot more. it seems to be a mix between an action buttion layout while 
 trying to be a fighting game. it's not very complicated, but does a good job of varying the moves 
 of your character. you can also lock swords with an opponent, at which point you can run around 
 with your swords locked, throw your opponent up against a wall or crate or lantern, and press Y 
 and a cinematic execution takes place, which is always satisfying.
  
  the sound isn't perfect, but it's not marginal. the soundtrack is like that of the tenchu series. 
 it gets the job done, convincing you of the japanese theme while staying to a 4/4 rhythm and not 
 letting up. 
  
  in fact, this game reminds me of the original tenchu a LOT!
  
  graphically, the game doesn't excel, but doesn't fall flat either. the environments are well designed, 
 and the character models look pretty good. nothing to go and tell your mom to take a look at, but 
 they get the point across pretty well. 
  
  the controls are a little clunky, but it's whatever. this game cost me 16 dollars in the best buy 
 bargain bin. i'm not looking for a blockbuster hit. i was looking for a cheap game to eat up a 
 few hours. it cost me less than seeing 2 movies at the mall.
  
  all in all, i wouldn't recommend this game for EVERYone out there. a lot of people are going to 
 find it lacking. but if you have an open mind, and have the patience to learn the combat system 
 in this game, you will be rewarded with a surprisingly delightful trek though the lives of some 
 samurai, kill some ninja and whatnot, and get some historically accurate data to whip out on the 
 next bar skank who starts talking about feudal japanese history... you may even get her number. 
 think about THAT!
  
  so i give it a 7. sure as hell isn't a one-hitter-quitter, but it definately provides some thrills 
 to those who are willing to spend some time with it. 
  
  it's like the fat chick of video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sikkill
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  the very first time i played this game i was like man this game is better than what the reviews 
 gave it.
  
  i guess thats why i "so called" rate all the games a 10 i "so called" reviewed, you cant judge 
 a game by numbers, a games fun and innovation cant measured but can mostly be summed up by what 
 i and/or other people like or dislike about a game.
  
  anyway, i really like the combat in this game, it reminded me of bushido blade, where a match could 
 be over in a single strike (if you know what your doing) and geting hit by a samurai sword in a 
 3 hit combo would probally mess you up real life, like it does in this game. most people say the 
 combat is too slow, too clunky, i think its a great realistic take on how a real samurai would 
 move and swing his sword, no jumping 15 feet in the air, no 10 hit combos, just basic and realistic 
 swordsmanship.
  
  there a some content here, a story mode, a vs mode, a mission mode, online vs, and player vs cpu 
 battles, i havent played through most of storymode, but i think its a fair amountof content for 
 a game of this price (i got mine new for 13 bucks)
  
  lastly, i think this game has a nice story mode with customizable stats and moves, sure you wipe 
 out 20 thugs then a boss shows up and wipe him out but on higher difficulties the game is unbalanced 
 and punishing great for people who like challenges and/or frustration
  
  if your looking in your bargain bin and want a samurai game this is one to get, but if you buy 
 based on what reviews tell you, rent it or borrow it, give it a chance already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AetherOblivion
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Repetitive, boring, and a waste of time and money. A truly terrible game. I can truthfully say, 
 that due to the fact that I generally have a good taste in games, this is the worst game I have 
 ever played. I am writing this review to try and save your wallet from this "game". This game can 
 be beaten by pressing the same two buttons over and over again. No matter what enemy you are "fighting," 
 the only way they could possibly beat you is with a glitchy, endless combo. This game makes a mockery 
 of the potential of an ancient Asian setting. This game is not worth the 7 dollars that you should 
 find it for in the very back of the used game section, behind the Barbie's Unicorn Adventure. A 
 game like this plainly should not have been made. The makers of this game should probably give 
 up on electronics, and try being the ticket rippers at the nearest Tilt-A-Whirl. Bottom line, I 
 have never come across a form of "entertainment" this un-entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  While I agree with many of the points brought up about this game by Gamespot, I think the reviewer 
 was a little too rough on it. It's not a great game, but it certainly isn't a horrible one. In 
 fact, if one persists in playing it, they'll find that it really is, at its core, a decent hack-and-slash 
 action game. 
  
  First of all, you choose one of nine Samurai based off actual Japanese history and fight through 
 their individual campaigns. At the start, only four of the nine are available, but you will unlock 
 the rest as you progress through the game. Each mission forces you to slaughter a bunch of thugs 
 before fighting the main boss in varied areas. There's not much exploration, but the level sets 
 are fairly big for walking around in. 
  
  And it certainly isn't some mindless hack-and-slash standardfare. For one, the game lets you utilize 
 a wide array of Samurai-style fighting techniques, such as Kumitachi and quick kills. It might 
 be a little difficult to pull off quick kills, and the Kumitachi technique requires a bit of button-mashing 
 at times. 
  
  And yes, there's quite a bit of blood and loud death-throes to be had here, but no gore or limbs 
 being chopped off. Still though, the game earns its Mature label. 
  
  You can edit your individual samurai by purchasing combo attacks for each of the three stances, 
 as well as heighten his or her attributes using spheres and even change their nickname if you so 
 desire. The nickname feature is somewhat pointless since it appears in smaller letters right about 
 the Samurai's actual identity, making it almost irrelevant. And edited characters aren't simply 
 limited to just the Mission and Story modes -- throughout the Story Mode, your edited character earns 
 different AI behaviors. What does this mean, you ask? Well, it serves a purpose for the XBox Live 
 National Contests where you submit your edited character against other player-edited characters 
 all over the world, and watch them slash the beejezus out of each other. You earn points for rankings, 
 get your leaderboard props, and earn new equipment for your character. Of course, if you don't 
 want to bother with the online portion, you can always take the Solo contest which is completely 
 offline -- bear in mind you won't earn points nor get new equipment.
  
  Mission Modes and Duel Modes are pretty much standard stuff, of course -- with Mission being just 
 a bunch of missions you perform under a set amount of time to get ranked in the Leaderboards and 
 earn achievements. Duel mode lets you fight with a friend.
  
  The graphics are moderately nice, but don't necessarily push the limits of the hardware. If you 
 have an HD televsion set, they seem to stand out a little more, but not so much. You can put this 
 game on a PS2 with little trouble. Thankfully, they kept the Japanese voice acting with subtitles, 
 giving the game its authentic feel. 
  
  Overall, the game is decent. It isn't great, but it isn't horrible. I can't recommend that you 
 purchase the game without first renting it to see if it's your cup of sake. Experiences may vary, 
 as is with every other game on the market. It all depends on what yours is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_shine
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  Of course, the meat of this package is SimCity 4. As with its predecessors, it was a rewarding 
 challenge that could keep you glued to your computer monitor for hours at a time. Five years after 
 its initial release, the game is still up to that task. The early hours are admittedly slow: You 
 create residential, commercial, and industrial zones while balancing the intricate economic burdens 
 of a growing metropolis. But as your town grows, these needs require a tight balancing act that 
 involves a lot of thought and care. This installment allows for more micromanagement than do prior 
 games; you can set taxes based on social class and zone type, for example, so expect to fiddle 
 around with these options often as you search for that financial sweet spot. In turn, these elements 
 make for an involving game, and seeing impressive new buildings sprout up is an excellent reward 
 for your keen eye and thoughtful calculations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBROOK1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Kengo: Legend of the nine is truly a great game. I see how it can be rated lowly but it's not as 
 bad as you would think. In fact if you love feudal Japanese history this game is perfect for you. 
 The graphics move very fluidly and are perfectly rendered. Combat can be sometimes repetitive but 
 usually it's just plain fun to hack and slash at Ronnin, ninjas, and samurai. I absolutely love 
 feudal Japanese history and I absolutely love playing as some of the most influential people in 
 Japanese history. The story line is really the most lacking part of this game although I don't 
 think this is really the kind of game that requires a strong story such as Halo.
  To sum it up Kengo: legend of the nine has it's flaws but is still a very good game and worth buying 
 every day of the week.
  Thank you for reading my review I hope it was use full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Being an old fan of Kengo on the PS2 I eagerly snatched up this title without even thinking. Ok, 
 there's the operative word phrase... WITHOUT EVEN THINKING. I cannot begin to describe the suck 
 in this game. It's hands down the worst investment I've ever made. Even the used store won't give 
 me more than a dollar for it, and for once they are well within their rights to lowball me. Legend 
 of the Nine takes the revolutionary concept of Kengo (Assuming the role of a sword school student 
 and visiting other schools and challenging their members) and IGNORES IT. This game is in NO way 
 related to the earlier masterpiece that shares its name. While it has the revolutionary concept 
 of tracking multiplayer stats on who's the best swordsman it is HOLLOW in that this game is no 
 true sword fighter... it is a button masher, an infuriating, skilless, soulless Blanka-like incarnation 
 that any noob can pick up and mash the hell out of in order to score a lucky win. There is ZERO 
 temptation to explore the tiny levels as every single enemy will rush to you enmass and patiently 
 wait their turn to die. Attacks consist of horizontal, vertical, block, and parry and you can buy 
 new combinations with lengthy animations that serve to only get you stabbed by a novice button-masher 
 as you wait for your totally rocking, incredibly expensive, hard to execute attack to finish the 
 wind-up. 
  
  And that, my friends, is about as deep as this game gets. Sure there's a story mode to each character 
 but with gameplay that resembles Samurai Warriors retarded cousin who really cares? There is no 
 investment in this story. No training, no choice, just a linear fighter... like Double Dragon risen 
 from the dead if Double Dragon's bad guys all rushed to you without you ever having to move.
  
  Avoid this game, at all costs, because the gamestore sure won't give you anything for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montrovant1488
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been always a samurai lover, and when I heard about this game I was somehow excited, but when 
 I bought it I was utterly dissapointed, most enemies lack AI sometimes bosses can be a pain in 
 the ass however once you master the controls they won't be any pain again, Xbox live competitions 
 are really the worst thing this game can offer. Characters are controlled by the AI with some traits 
 that you gain throughout the story mode, but I believe matches are run by luck rather than by AI 
 traits, so it doesn't matter if you build your character on easy, normal or difficult mode at the 
 end it won't make any difference.
  
  Only good thing may be the mission mode in which you can select up to 13 missions which are somehow 
 more entertaining than the overall game. 
  
  Characters may change in moves but it's almost always the same moves of vertical/horizontal attacks 
 block and kumitachi moves in which almost always no one will attack you.
  
  So if you want to waste money this is the game to do so, if you are highly interested in samurai 
 stuff, rent it but you will dislike it at first glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulred21
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  For most Samurai Shodown fans out there (including myself) ,the words Musashi or Sasaki Kojiro 
 brings back some old feelings of the good old days , besides I don't get to see many samurai games 
 now days ,but as happy as I was when I bought Kengo ,after 20 minutes I felt like i just bought 
 another mindless game of hack-and-slash .
  The story isn't much just your average "I have come to face you ohh mighty samurai !!" ,but that's 
 not a really big issue (sure they could've made it really awesome like getting a job from your 
 master ,better yet have ranks .. you start out as a small ranked soldier to become one of the worlds 
 greatest swordsman but no ,that was way to much for the gaming company ) ,but one of the things 
 that bothers me most is why in the world happened to all the martial arts\sword style fighting 
 moves ,yeah you can chose form a rather small selection of moves from time to time but comone 
 it's an action game ,you could've included some cool movies :The snake's hit ,shark byte ,falling 
 leaf ,etc , not to mention they could include a weapon shop ,a small place where u can buy cloths 
 or weapons (even tho we all know that Musashi had his specific weapons same for Kojiro ,but the 
 other characters didn't ) .
  I can wine and complain all day the truth is this :the game is not ready ,it needs more work .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Import2Ner
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Kengo was coming to the 360, I was excited. When I was an owner of a PlayStation 2 
 console, I enjoyed playing the crap out of Kengo: Master of Bushido. As a result, I had no problems 
 picking up Kengo: Legend of the Nine when it was released.
  
  A bit of a mistake...
  
  Game play was pretty tough for me and while I'm not the best gamer in the world, I was getting 
 frustrated at the first level. I'm too stubborn to go on the easy setting and normal was pretty 
 tough. I've tried both button mashing tactics and more conservative tactics but have yet to find 
 a good strategy. Graphics are okay at best but nothing too spectacular for being on a next-gen 
 console. I haven't gotten too far into the storyline since I haven't played much of the game but 
 it's palatable from what I recall.
  
  So, I would recommend to whomever is interested in this game to visit your local rental store and 
 try it out from there. I don't think it's worth the money to buy unless you find it in the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Every gamer designer as I would imagine dreams of having the perfect concept. Something that could 
 appeal to the masses and actually be fun for any fan of the console controller. Its said no mere 
 amateur can think up greatness in moments, but I'll take a stab at it. Swords, ninjas, blood, finishing 
 moves, lame dialogue. That seems like enough material for a great game, but I question Kengo for 
 where it went terribly wrong.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  At the start screen you are welcomed by tons of modes such as story, battle, even online action 
 right out the box. Sadly, you quickly realize there is hardly even meat on this wee-little bone 
 to pretend a full offereing. With the story mode, you have a few characters to start off with and 
 unlock others as you progress. The part that really sucks is none of the stories vary besides simple 
 character background info that is easily over looked. When each character goes thru the standard 
 five levels and meets the final boss which is the same for everyone, you may begin to tire. Never 
 fear, theres horrid controls to enjoy. You do have minimal control over how you customize moves 
 and attacks, but nothing special beyond 2,4,6 hit combos. After treading thru the poor story, you 
 can tackle others online but don't expect heated conversation because the computer controls the 
 battle for both players. Past this crippling blow you are left with the start screen wondering 
 why you even put this game in.
  
  VISUALS
  In all honesty the game does have a decent level of detail. Character models and facial expressions 
 are good at conveying anger, which is the basic face for just about every ingame character. Female 
 fighters have some nice clothes that sport the traditional look without sneaking in some sleazy 
 garbage yet the issues that bothered me most were more in graphics. Everything looks good when 
 its still, but clothes don't bend or fold, objects poke thru the oddest places, environments offer 
 little exploration and level design is pretty lack-luster. The only real saving grace is maybe 
 the neat finishing moves that basically kill an opponent with one move. Just be careful, becasue 
 they can get you the same way which can be puzzling and down right frusterating.
  
  AUDIO
  Anyone fluent in Japanese? How about reading it? No, well prepare to get more culture 
 tossed at you than usual. For a game that stinks of western laziness you get a fair share of everything 
 that reminds me of the old kung-fu flicks and samurai slashers of yesteryear. Slash a guy in the 
 back and you get a wonderful blood curdling cry. Besides hearing the same audio expressions from 
 every baddie you mow thru, there is the occasional music track that actually feels approriate within 
 menus and ingame. Other than being a cornball for old school antics, most would become very irritated 
 with most sounds within the game so make sure to have some decent music to jam out to on yer HD.
 
  
  EXTRAS
  To highlight the story mode once again, a majority of the achievements can be gained thru completing 
 every characters story quest. Other things such as unlocking certain moves that can be applied 
 to your customized characters is cool, but that mostly depends on how profiecent you are while 
 dispatching enemies. At the start screen you'll notice a few modes that resemble gauntlet type 
 gameplay which is seriously weakened by not allowing you to control the combat. You simply choose 
 a customized character from story mode and set them loose on their fellow Ai friends. One mode 
 worth praise is the battle mode. Here you get a list of missions that range from bits within the 
 story to simple time trials. Complete these for extra cred, but don't expect them to be a walk 
 thru the park during a sunny day.
  
  OVERALL
  Games that have wonderful subject matter seem like a no brainer when thinking of how great they 
 can be. But in all respects, execution remains the achilles heal when putting together a decent 
 game. Kengo had all the pieces to make something worth while and with not many other companies 
 tackling the feudal Japan time frame, you see them clearly brick hard. The game has very little 
 replay value and the main modes that should be its main selling points go stagnant after realizing 
 its all recycled garbage. You could rent this for a good chuckle, but its hardly even worth the 
 time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game looks and plays exactly like an arcade title, except your score isn't up in the corner. 
 Choose from a group of elite warriors, some of them based on real figures from Japanese history. 
 There was a game a few years back called Ninja Assault, or something like that, and I had despaired 
 of ever finding anything like that exciting game again. This title happily steps in to fill the 
 mold. Learn the talents and blind spots of each warrior through the brutal fire of combat. The 
 only major drawback for me was the fact that your range of moves actually seems to be limited. 
 However, you can make up for this with speed and power. The AI is amazing, as your enemies have 
 a ton of endurance and will not hesitate to sneak up behind you, lock hilts, push you back and 
 do anything they have to do to tire you out. Don't let the simple setting fool you. It's actually 
 a difficult game.
  
  The graphics are fluid and gorgeous, too. I had great fun with the Missions mode. The best thing 
 is that you can pick any one to start with -- you don't have to go from # 1 all the way to the end; 
 you can skip around at will. Thank you Genki!
  
  All in all, this is a step above your usual samurai game. Have fun, and watch your step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Genki, clearly a credible game designer, really made a great, great game this time. If you've ever 
 had the desire to be a samurai, from accurate dialogue to being able to hold a sword without getting 
 arrested and sent to jail without bail, then this is the game for you. Story:
  
  The story of the game takes place in the 17th century of Japanese history. That's about it. Simple. 
 Fun. Easy to understand. Have you been to school lately? People want you to know what food FDR 
 was eating the morning of January 29th, 1942. They're getting too specific if you ask me. This 
 game works well. The story and acting would make any critically acclaimed director crap his pants, 
 and I mean it. He would crap his pants. He would sit down in a seat, grab a soda and some popcorn, 
 see this game because I would be broadcasting it in a theater 24 hours a day, and they would sit 
 there, crapping their pants as they heard the dialogue (voiced by acclaimed actor Tom Hanks) and 
 would have an excess of 55 pounds to carry as they exited the theater. It's that good.
  
  10/10
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  I've never seen a game capture the quality and movement of Japanese 
 samurai sword people before in my life. From boxey movements to terrible hit detection, I must 
 say, it's JUST like fighting in a samurai sword match. Half the time, I have no idea what I'm swinging 
 my sword at. I really don't. I've come close to lopping off my opponent's head, just because I 
 jumped ten feet in the air and screamed in slow motion for no apparent reason. The backgrounds 
 look exactly like my backyard. No lies.
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game influenced me to go outside and get a samurai sword and start swinging at random objects 
 around me. Pretty soon, I was spouting incoherent speech at random objects, such as a telephone, 
 including the mismatched English dubbing technique, a prized feature of most Japanese Samurai sword 
 movies, captured well in this faithful game. I'm overly impressed with the fact that you can do 
 around five moves total. Really, come on here people. Do you really need thousands of moves to 
 take out one guy? Shouldn't you be good enough to take him out with one simple sweep? Duck and 
 swing, that's my motto. Great gameplay. It taught me the talents of Samurai sword fighting.
  
  10/10
  
  
  Well, to sum this game up, it's a piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  As my review deck indicates, this game is just terrible. Truly, this is a game that took an amazing 
 premise, a brand new generation of console, and experience in the genre and flushed it all down 
 the toilet. Now, before someone accusses me of simply hating the Kengo/Bushido Blade series let 
 me say that I strongly disagreed with Gamespots rating of the PS2 Kengo game (Kengo: Master of 
 Bushido) . I felt that game was a fine simulator of very traditional katana training. What it did, 
 it did well and claimed to be nothing else.
  
  Kengo: Lot9 on the other hand, claims to be some kind of samurai epic, and ends of being a shallow 
 husk of a game. All of the technical aspects of movement from earlier Kengo games (which the review 
 in the gamespot article refers to as the Cement Sandals effect) is there, but the swordplay is 
 now DUMB. The shuffeling movements of a tradtional swordfighter felt RIGHT in the fights of older 
 Kengo games where positioning and fast clashes and blocks MEANT something. That same shuffling 
 and spinning paired with spastic and ridiculously easy hack and slash mechanics feels absurd.
 
  
  Now, I mentioned hack and slash, and apparantly the makers of Kengo thought that Hack and Slash 
 meant players should have two buttons. Hack. Slash. Really, the game has been reduced from a swordfigting 
 sim where basic moves are times and used to create real action, into a two move juggernaught of 
 failure. There is a surreal and sad feeling that springs up as you shuffle through hordes of generic 
 enemies, mindlessly and lifelessly hacking them to bits with the same two buttons. To be fair, 
 there ARE environmntal moves, but they are so contrived and unnnecessary to the process that they 
 do not really count as part of the gameplay scheme. It is an interesting feeling to fight through 
 your first ninja horde and mindlessly butcher a boss and realize This is it . Your natural reaction 
 will be to check the other colourfully named gameplay modes... all of which should be condensed 
 into:
  
  1.) Chop the same two or three guys to bits a hundred times the same way MODE
  
  and
  
  2.) Mindless VS Battles with NO ****ing online MODE
  
  Really, the whole experience 
 boggles the mind. When you combine this atrocious gameplay with bland previous-gen graphics and 
 some of the most soul-deadening voice acting EVER, you have a real loser. The sound is bland, the 
 graphics are bland, the gameplay is terrible, and I should really make the point that when I say 
 the voice acting is bad... it's not funny bad... it's MAKE IT STOP bad.
  
  So there you have it. The only reason I don't give this game a 1.0 is that technically it works, 
 and isn't broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eplayanime
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After playing this title, I have become a Genki fan.
  I have always enjoyed Japanese history and samurai warfare. I had previously bought Kengo 3 for 
 Playstation 2, but was unable to navigate through the game's complex menus. So I was really surprised 
 to hear this game was coming to America! It was practically unannounced.
  
  This game is centered around NINE (not six) historical samurai figures. Such greats as Miyamoto 
 Musashi, Yagyu Jubei, and Ittousai Itou. I had read about some of these figures extensively, but 
 never heard of others. I did not know Sakamoto Ryoma, or Okita Souji, etc.- I had never even heard 
 of the Shinsengumi ! So if you would like to learn about some important figures of that day, be 
 sure to check out this game.
  
  What I really bought this game for was the realistic samurai combat. Genki instills realism into 
 the attacks used by each samurai. They aren't flashy moves that might be incorporated into Way 
 of the Samurai or other samurai titles. The grappling is the best part, and when done right, gives 
 a sense of real satisfaction.
  
  Enemies are downed in one to two hits. And even bosses, when worn down, can be finished with a 
 one-hit kill. The one-hit kills often incorporate the stage environment, making the locations partly 
 interactive. This also lends to the cinematic feel of battle.
  
  The game has some fairly realistic and graphic blood spatter. Fortunately this can be turned on 
 and off. The game is not however stupidly gratuitous like Mortal Combat. You can't cut heads and 
 limbs off and s*** .
  
  The number of kills and special kills are tallied up for skill points. From this you can raise 
 your stats, and buy new moves. Each samurai has 3 seperate stances, and about 50 moves total. You 
 choose which ones you can purchase. Genki has fulfilled the wishes of those fanatical import gamers 
 out there and kept all voices in Japanese only. So there should be no complaint about losing the 
 feel of original game. The translations are all competent and well written.
  
  What I desired to have was interaction with npcs, ala Way of the Samurai or other platform games. 
 Or I was hoping to take on different missions and training exercises like in previous Kengo games. 
 Playing as each character, the stories eventually become deja vu. Same locations, different dialogue. 
 So if Genki expands on the story elements in the future, I think it would go a long way. But this 
 game focuses purely on combat.
  
  I did not buy this game for the multiplayer aspect. From what I read, you cannot control your character 
 on Xbox Live. Your character's online AI traits are pre-determined by your gameplay and stats. 
 So don't buy this for online play.
  
  I have also noticed that Normal settings are very difficult. So I often play the game in Easy mode 
 instead.
  
  Overall I definitely recomend Kengo for at least a rental. Now that I've played this game, I'm 
 going to make a second attempt at playing Kengo 3. I'm also going to buy more of their games like 
 Fuun Shinsengumi! I hope that Genki will release many more samurai titles in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorporateHammer
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  This may not be the greatest game but far exceeded my expectations. First I would like to point 
 out I am a fan of Samurai movies like Yojimbo, 3 outlaw Samurai etc.. and enjoyed Tenchu Z. The 
 battle system is made up of basics, High, Low slash, Block, and graple. There are 3 stances each 
 with a variety of 3 button combos which are upgradable and swapable. Certain combos free flow into 
 the next stance therefore stringing together combos. The game is laid out like DOA. Each character 
 has his or her own story. There are a number of other modes besides main story. The thing I found 
 most enjoyable was during story mode your fighting habits are recorded which is then playable over 
 xbox live. Basically like the VIP feature in 2k sports titles. Another persons data is downloaded 
 and pitted aginst your data and is played out for your viewing enjoyment. It would be nice to have 
 battles over xbox live but I can see how that would quickly do away with the premise of the game. 
 Meaning I doubt people over xbox live would stand and fight because it would be possible to just 
 run around hitting the slash button. It would get old quickly. All in all I really enjoy this game 
 and will stay in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I do not know where to start with this game. It is simplistic, the graphics don't look as good 
 as they should, there is very little to do.... and it is just not a worthy sequel to the previous 
 Kengo games which were excellent ( most notably Kengo 2 which went by the name Sword of the samurai 
 ) . I can not recommend this game to anyone, imagine how stripped down the first EA sports efforts 
 were on the 360 and you still don't have a proper idea of how much is missing from this. You cannot 
 make your own samurai anymore, the rpg element of the game is appallingly tacked on just to create 
 the illusion of depth. There are about 6 playable characters and no story to speak of, the fighting 
 is bad and the game is just bad......... do not bother people. Hope i helped. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
