-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/kingdomunderfirecircleofdoom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting, well-designed enemies.
 Co-op play for up to four people .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is enigmatic and completely removed from the action proper.
 Action gets incredibly repetitive.
 Terrible camera constantly gets in the way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.6, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 1,099 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Blueside
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Jan 8, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a new direction for the well-regarded series, but Circle of Doom isn't nearly as good as you 
 may have hoped. 

  The Kingdom Under Fire series experienced a renaissance with the release of the excellent Crusaders 
 on the Xbox in 2004, and Circle of Doom takes even more chances with the franchise. Unlike its 
 predecessors, though, the game eschews strategy elements in favor of a pure action role-playing 
 experience, albeit with uneven results. The action devolves into tedium, the story has no obvious 
 bearing on the gameplay proper, and a number of unnecessary hindrances break up the rhythm of the 
 gameplay. If you take things online with friends, the pace picks up, but not enough to overlook 
 some noticeable and annoying drawbacks.  

           Two's company36 is a crowd.      

  Like much of Circle of Doom, the story guns 
 for sophistication but ends up being relatively inconsequential, simply because there's no strong 
 narrative thread to tie the action together. You'll start the game controlling one of five characters 
 that fall into the usual hack-and-slash archetypes (a sixth can also be unlocked) , and each experiences 
 a slightly different story, though the manner of storytelling is the same for all of them. Within 
 dungeons, you will find idols (which also function as vendors and, occasionally, quest givers) 
 that provide a safe place for sleeping and dreaming. Once asleep, you enter a dreamworld where 
 you can talk with characters that provide quests and serve up bits of cryptic dialogue that may 
 lead fans of previous Kingdom Under Fire games to nod their heads with understanding, but will 
 confuse most anyone else. There are no cutscenes within the gameplay proper, and none of the action 
 seemingly relates to the tale that so slowly and quixotically unfolds in the reveries of sleep. 
 The resulting disconnection between the game and its fragmented parables keeps you from getting 
 engaged, because you're never quite sure why, exactly, you need to be fighting legions of skeletons 
 and lava monsters.  

  Luckily, you'll hack and slash your way through crowds of far more enticing enemies than those 
 action-RPG standards. Circle of Doom has no shortage of monsters, often tossing many dozens of 
 them at you at a given time. Many of the enemy designs are remarkably imaginative. Grunting, crawling 
 zombies called flesh men swarm around you; invisible lizardmen will attack you without warning; 
 and giant statues and their sculptors clog passageways, waiting for your sword and bow to wreak 
 havoc. When the game is running on all cylinders, slicing your way through the hordes is as compelling 
 as you would expect from the genre -- not because the game is anything special, but because the formula 
 on which it's based is a proven one.  

  In fact, the same formula that provides the majority of the game's entertaining moments is what 
 ultimately drags Circle of Doom down -- at times because the game is nothing  but  formula, and at 
 others because the basic ingredients of the familiar recipe lack depth and refinement. Even with 
 a good number of melee and ranged weaponry, the action gets incredibly repetitive, particularly 
 because to accomplish certain quests and get the most out of the magic system (more on this subject 
 later) , you'll revisit the same six dungeons over and over again. One quest that required us to 
 collect pure gold called for multiple visits to the same area, while another forced us to randomly 
 fight through dungeons until the quest giver felt enough time had elapsed. While some of the dungeon 
 aspects generate randomly, the basic elements of the dungeons rarely change, and as creative as 
 some of the monster designs are, it gets tiring to mash your button through the same ones ad nauseam. 
 To make things even more monotonous, while dungeons are broken up into multiple levels separated 
 by loading times, should you need to return to one, you have to fight your way through the entire 
 dungeon, since the game won't let you travel directly to the level you need to visit.  

  The pacing problems brought about by the vague, disengaged story and constant repetition are further 
 exacerbated by other issues that break up any forward momentum you'll begin to feel. While many 
 enemies don't seem to be trying very hard to strike you, their attacks will frequently (if not 
 usually) knock you back, stun you, or cause a confusion effect that inverts your control scheme 
 until the effect has worn off. At times, particularly in the frustratingly confined dungeon called 
 the Hall of Arrogance, these effects can string together into a horrible, infuriating cycle of 
 inescapable damage, as stone statues knock you down or stun you while drillers spew fire at you 
 and hovering spirits electrocute you. It also doesn't help that the environments, as interesting 
 as some of them look, are constricted and highly linear, which is at odds with the huge number 
 of fiendish foes that rush you. The aforementioned "damage loop" wouldn't be an issue if there 
 were room to move about, but it's relatively easy to be cornered. Additionally, if you string together 
 a number of combo attacks, your character will have to finish a long animation sequence that you 
 can't escape from. The result of these and other prevalent issues give the action a halting and 
 awkward feel that never hits the smooth, quick stride that exemplifies the best games of the genre. 

  The game's inexcusably jittery camera is also a guilty accomplice to these crimes, because it never 
 seems to know how to arrange itself. Its usual position is a little awkward, since it feels too 
 low to the ground and too close to your character, but it's workable provided there is enough room 
 to move. Alas, the cramped levels confuse the camera, causing it to get stuck behind every object 
 it can find, change angles at inopportune times, or even zoom in so close, all you can see is a 
 jumble of geometry. The camera has been an issue in the prior strategy-action games in the series, 
 so it's disheartening to see that the camera control here is actually a step backward.  

           Feeeeed meeeeeeee.      

  You can also perform special attacks, though the method 
 of earning them is certainly an interesting and unusual one. When you visit the dreamworld, you 
 can take quests that open up new skills to you when completed. Learning a new skill or spell generally 
 involves killing a certain number of particular monsters, at which point you can turn in the quest 
 and add the spell to your repertoire. The system sounds nifty, but in actuality, it's highly problematic. 
 Until you choose which spell you want to acquire, you aren't even sure what monsters you will need 
 to defeat, so you can't choose missions that fit in with your current main quest progress. In some 
 cases, it means returning to a dungeon you've already slogged through a number of times, while 
 in others, you may need to visit an area you haven't been to yet. In the end, earning new spells 
 can often be more trouble than it's worth, and many of them are so ineffective, it's not worth 
 the extra 30 minutes of repeated dungeon-crawling it takes to earn them. Furthermore, you can take 
 on only two skill quests at a time, which means you may go many hours without learning a single 
 skill at all. It simply isn't worth it, unless you have returned to the game to play on a higher 
 difficulty level. On the standard difficulty, however, you could reasonably play the entire game 
 without ever needing a single special skill at all.  

  Outside of the action proper, there are some interesting ideas at play, but again, they sound cleverer 
 on paper than they are in practice. When you level up, you can spend attribute points in one of 
 three areas: hit points, skill points, and luck. Hit points are the only straightforward aspect 
 of the three, and spending points in this area increases the size of your health bar. Skill points 
 contribute to your stamina bar, which is possibly the game's most interesting feature. In Circle 
 of Doom, just the act of swinging or firing your weapon diminishes your stamina bar, and each weapon 
 diminishes it in various degrees. It's fairly quick to fill up, but a weapon that uses a lot of 
 stamina will deplete the bar relatively quickly, which means you need to either wait for enough 
 stamina to swing again, or use a white potion to completely replenish your meter. It's another 
 aspect of the action that can often contribute to even more awkward pacing -- but it's also relatively 
 strategic, because you can't just rely on the speed and attack prowess of the weapon to determine 
 how effective it will be in battle. A relatively weak weapon that doesn't deplete your stamina 
 can actually be more effective than a stronger weapon that diminishes it quickly, because you can't 
 swing it continuously and will need to frequently wait for your stamina to recharge.  

  Luck is the third attribute on which you can spend points, though it is the vaguest of the three. 
 According to the game manual, spending points in luck increases the frequency and quality of item 
 drops, and we can certainly attest to finding better loot after spending attribute points in that 
 area. Luck also increases your chances of success at synthesis. You can enhance weapons, armor, 
 and accessories by visiting an idol and using an item and/or special ability to increase their 
 effectiveness. The result isn't always an improvement, and guaranteeing 100 percent success on 
 the synthesis attempt can be tough on your in-game wallet, but it's a perfectly reasonable method 
 of item enhancement that benefits from some trial and error.  

  Circle of Doom can be played offline, or you can join up to three other others cooperatively; and 
 like many similar games, the gameplay benefits from the addition of others. This is most apparent 
 with some of the wearisome, often torturous boss characters, which aren't all that challenging 
 but are certainly time consuming if you're on your own. Because some of them are obviously tailored 
 toward certain characters over others (the first boss, which requires a ranged weapon, is an obvious 
 example) , a well-rounded party of four can increase the entertainment value significantly. Sadly, 
 co-op play isn't available offline, so you'll need to play online via Xbox Live to use this feature. 
 We didn't any experience any major lag or other glitches, so you should expect online play to be 
 a relatively problem-free experience.  

           Oh, crap.      

  There is some occasional eye candy to check out, and Circle of Doom's art direction is consistently 
 attractive, if not exactly stupendous. This isn't as obvious in some dungeons as in others -- after 
 all, ice caverns can only be so interesting. However, some levels are nice to look at, featuring 
 colorful foliage, appropriately arid-looking deserts, and library corridors filled with bookcases 
 and wardrobes. The game engine isn't a technical powerhouse, and you'll notice plenty of pop-in 
 and a few frame rate jitters here and there. Yet slaughtering your enemies results in a nice spattering 
 of blood and some nice, subtle visual effects. The sound design is also subtle, but to a fault. 
 Many sound effects are oddly muted, while the soundtrack mixes orchestral swoons with metal grinding 
 for varied but forgettable results.  

  In short spurts, Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom can be reasonably amusing, though even the 
 most resolute hack-and-slash enthusiasts will likely grow tired of the nebulous story and monotonous 
 battles before reaching the final boss. Considering the number of character-specific quests and 
 multiple story threads, the campaign is obviously meant to benefit from multiple play-throughs. 
 The problem is that the actual act of playing it isn't very rewarding, so while there are some 
 good ideas at work, these erudite ideas are overshadowed by a good number of design flaws that 
 keep Circle of Doom from delivering any dependable sense of fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  First things first I put this as very hard because you can unlock hard modes that make the game 
 a real pain. Now onto the review...
  
  
  Now this is for old-school RP gamers, it features great RPG elements and allows you to build up 
 your inventory and upgrade your weapons making them stronger and better. An example of this can 
 be seen on my favorite character; Kendal, he is now lv 120 with weapons that do 600 damage I could 
 play medium mode and kill all bosses with 1-2-3-4-5 hits now! This is what I look for in RPG's... to 
 feel like a GOD! I've had one weapon from the start of the game that did 15 damage now due to my 
 upgrading on it it is now 170 damage with tons of magic combined into it. Now this is what I call 
 a RPG as your not only able to lv your character up but also lv there weapons up.
  
  There are six heroes each with there own magic armor and weapons and getting them all is fun as 
 is making them powerful.
  
  The world is very intresting and each has it's own creatures to fight in them.
  
  The story 
 is relatively simple (You need only play crusaders to understand it) and I can explain it now. Some 
 demon gets into another dimension and starts to kill everything (Obviously theres more detail) and 
 the world fights back and drives it back into it's dimension, however they go with it and now must 
 get out of its dimension where it's still alive along the way they find things out about themselfs/others 
 and set about to do something about whatever they heard. Kendal finds he's mutating as do all humans 
 in that dimension and he finds a way to stop it, only to find out that he will still mutate but 
 will be able to control his mind soon he learns what he must do, he must stop regnier from destroying 
 the age of light. So everything leads to the events of KUF II and will explain some of the stuff 
 in KUF II this is just a spin-off remember it's just to explain things.
  
  Now the only thing I hate about KUF CoD is that you can not block, buy a weapon of willpower and 
 you can do something that takes most of the annoyence away but I still must take 1.5 points away 
 for this.
  
  
  All in All this game was a great experience I recommend RPG players buy this as well as devoted 
 fans of KUF
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game series has been strong such as KOF heroes and crusaders and I hoped this game would be 
 an improvement, but instead puts it in 1st person and makes it a mindless button masher.... It 
 is a button masher like dynasty warriors or devil may cry in some ways and you can play as some 
 interesting characters... but the enemies and combat are repetive and the story sucks.... I wish 
 the game was better... On one positive side is that it does look beutiful with the scenery and 
 all but other than that rent it if you must if not then just play crusaders or heroes... those 
 are better anyway or wait for the new KOF 2 which will hopefully be better than all 3..... so rent 
 it if you have to and if you do not have to play this game then don't and devil may cry is better 
 than this game.... though all button masher games are repetitive.... all well lattattatatatat at 
 at t at a ta a t at at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kane_Unleashed
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  it keeps players hooked and happy no part of this game ive seen to disapoint gret stroy line and 
 the new dream world is so savage new looks for classic chars and online play is sick overall the 
 game has sick graphics and great story it always has good play thru and never gets broing. It gives 
 you extensive worlds for you and a party of friends if you so choose to run through several hundreds 
 of hours worth of ferocious gameplay with creative monsters and awesome bosses. On your quest you 
 can expand your arsenal with an array of customizable weapons via the sweet synthesization feature. 
 It has great replay value due to the fact that there are six characters with completely different 
 quests and story lines each unlocking more of the stories behind the other characters and their 
 origins. Delve deeper into the world of Kingdom Under Fire with this awesome addition to the acclaimed 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XylonEvilPrince
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily classifed as dull and boring. At least as far as the gameplay goes. The story 
 is great and I found it to be a very interesting story. I have not yet completed the game as it's 
 fairly long, and complicated. but, however, i have played it enough to classify it as another great 
 game with boring gameplay. If you enjoyed the game Ninety-Nine Nights then your going to LOVE this 
 game. however, if you didn't find N3 interesting then stay away from this game. It flat out sucks. 
 Anyways if you don't think you'll be interested in this game then please, go out and buy something 
 worthy like "Alone in the Dark" or "Rockband". For more of my reviews simply add me as a friend, 
 self-proclaimed video game reviewer, Phil. A. K. A. Xylon Evil Prince 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the action RPG genre, but this game is hopeless. I also have a deep love of games 
 in general and I'm not into game bashing. However, I feel as if I would be doing the gamer public 
 a great disservice were I not to give my opinion on this game. The gameplay is solid enough, and 
 the camera isn't as bad as some have said, but this game has no substance whatsoever. What you 
 do in the first section of the game is the same as what you'll be doing for the rest of it. The 
 instant customization with a quick scroll through a menu screen is also lacking in this attempt 
 at an RPG. You have to find sometimes easy to miss statues to upgrade and pimp out your weapons. 
 It's a very tedious process and it never changes the gameplay anyway. The game looks great and 
 plays ok initially, but there is absolutely nothing more under the surface of this extremely superficial 
 title. I apologize to the gamers who like this game, but I had to state my opinion. Bottom line, 
 I just don't think it's worth it and there are much better choices of games to play in this genre. 
 Thanks for reading, and God Bless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinmos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a game where I was able to train my character, learn spells and get armor, exactly 
 what I needed this game. Also, the achievements are fun to get, I have seen games where it takes 
 a lot of boring things to get them, the achievements in this game are great. The only little thing 
 I didn't really like was the camera, sometimes it did a bit weird, but this doesn't happen too 
 often. Somethings I really like are the different modes, normal, hard and extreme mode and the 
 characters, 6 characters with all different abilities, really nice. The story might be a bit short, 
 but the most important thing in the game is the gameplay, and I like it. On Xbox Live multi-player 
 you are also able to complete the game with up to 4 people, it's really nice to do that and it's 
 one of my favorite things to do at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkprince_78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  *shrugs* I don't know what to say.... it's just a fun game to me! Good graphics (great at times) , 
 good music, good control, lots of item collecting/synthesizing, skill unlocking, etc. It reminds 
 me ALOT of the original Phantasy Star Online (not the boooooring ass PSU game) . As you gain levels, 
 your chances in finding better gear increases (provided that you allot skill points to the luck 
 stat) . It gets addicting -- you want to keep playing to gain just oooone more level for the night... maybe 
 that one level will unlock better weapons and armor. You get the drift. 
  The story is pretty nonsensical.... I still don't know what the hell it's about, but I really don't 
 care. I just have a good time with the gameplay and building my character. After you beat the game 
 on normal, the hard mode is unlocked and so on. That way, you can continue advancing your hero 
 and finding more powerful items.
  My recommendation is to start the game with Leinheart (the pretty boy vampire) . He is nimble and 
 quick while still being decently strong (use a sword that recovers SP fast for one weapon (for 
 up close battles) and one of the sickle and chain (for distance) for the other weapon slot. The 
 other characters are either veeery slow or very weak (the elf girl really sucks in my opinion) . 
 Ok... that's about it for this one. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is just one more classic screw up in the game developing world..
  
  the good:
  -u can be a handful of different kinds of characters
  -there are a few different spells and such 
 depending on who u pick
  -the story slightly varies depending on the kind of character u pick
  -u can achieve many levels 
 for your character
  
  the bad:
  -camera camera camera
  -map map map map map!
  -the game is very short
  -little pathways u must follow... not an open environment like oblivion
 
  -when u level up, big deal add a couple stats.. nothing major there or depth.. dont even care when 
 u level up at all
  -weapon synth system is just stupid (best way to describe it)
  -just one more game that comes out with the new price tag in the 50 dollar range that should of 
 come out somewhere in the 30 dollar range
  -RENT THIS GAME FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Great enemies and allies
  - Good graphics and sound
  - 4 playable characters
  
  Negative
  - Too repetitive
  - Unimpressive storyline
  - A 
 bit disappointing
  
  Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom is the first action game in this series. The previous games 
 which are found on the XBOX are awesome. This game, less. Circle of Doom is a hack-and-slash, very 
 repetitive and enjoyable at times. If you played Kingdom under Fire Heroes or Crusaders don't expect 
 too much from this game.
  
  I'm not gonna say much since I only played the game for a few time now. There are 4 players in 
 the co-op mode. Enemies in the game are quite good and same with the graphics. Sound isn't bad 
 either. Still the game disappoints here. It's far too repetitive. Storyline is dis-joined and not 
 told well. We expected something better. 
  
  RTS fans might be disappointed by this change. Oh, well it isn't as good as the first 2 RTS installments 
 but it remains a little enjoyable game. Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom will also be released 
 for the PC, hope it will something better than this one. RTS fans, shouldn't play Circle of Doom, 
 but some action RPG fans should give this game a try. Still don't expect anything special from 
 this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: An0nymousChica
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  My personal opinion about this game (and that is the point of a user-review I presume) is that it 
 isn't perfect, but it is still pretty fun anyway. I don't have access to online play, so my review 
 only pertains to offline unpatched play. This game is really easy to just pick up and play. It 
 has some interesting elements, such as synthesizing. I have a few game play issues with the game, 
 however... It has things that are addressed by multiplayer, but are annoying in single player. 
 I don't have access (or just never found it) to the attraction ability with some characters and 
 so I miss out on drops. This can be frustrating as better gear is right where you can see it, but 
 you can't get it. This is annoying, but not a show-stopper. I like this game because it is really 
 relaxing to play. It is very simplistic and you can just spend hours leveling up and trying to 
 get potions or enchantments. Overall, I enjoy this game and I have spent many hours playing it, 
 I don't have an exact amount handy, but it is in the 60's at least. So, if you are looking for 
 a laid back game that is slightly addictive, I recommend this game. If you want a game that will 
 challenge you, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colostome-Boy
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Well i enjoy some fantasy games here and there, but most of them just dont quiet hit the spot. 
 This one looked interesting so i rented it . (i recommend doing this with all games before you buy 
 them) well i started playing this and it seemed all right. until i got into the story line. it 
 seemed to make sense with the rest of the series, but at the same time it was confusing as Heck. 
 the graphics were very good, the landscapes were beautifully rendered. but one thing that ruined 
 that was that there was one path that you had to follow, and you couldn't even move to far off 
 it. the continual hack and slash was fun, and all the enemies you could face made it show that 
 you really were a hero and that you were trying to accomplish something. I dont know if i would 
 buy this game, but i would rent it again. It is at the point were its fun, but not so fun at the 
 same time. the online capability is a nice added touch, but unless you have some friends who play 
 this game, you might not have as much fun.
  Overall its a good looking game, graphics are top notch, gameplay can seem a little repetitive 
 at times, and the story line will seem very confusing unless you play very close attention. I have 
 to say that i hope KUF III will be better. I think that this game tried to change the formula of 
 the series, but didnt do as good a job as they could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is a strange one to review, and I have had trouble making my mind up about it. I'll not dally 
 too long on though as I think the Gamespot review sums it up nicely, and I've got to get back to 
 Oblivion, after my short diversion into the lands of Dark and Light.
  
  I know nothing of the Kingdom Under Fire franchise, but thought this looked like an interesting 
 proposition as a week's rental - seemed like it could be a fun, linear melee based RPG with interesting 
 visuals and story.
  
  Haing played it for several hours as the 'Fiend' Reigner and read the Gamespot review in which 
 they state that the story is enigmatic and far removed from the action, I just have to say... what 
 story? I think it is so enigmatic and so far removed from the action as to not actually exist!
 
  
  Also non-existent is any requirement on the players part to have any kind of skill or strategy 
 in how they play the game. It is basically frenetic button mashing broken up by bits of character 
 interaction weirdness and the odd bit of trading and equipment configuring. It is RPG-ultralite, 
 and quite disappointing in that regard.
  
  However, there is something strangely compelling and addictive about this very repetitive hack'n'slash 
 dungeon crawl. I might even say satisfying, in a shallow bubblegum kind of way. I'm not sure whether 
 it's the seemingly endless array of hordes and hordes of random monsters, most of whom are somewhat 
 bizarre in their demeaner, and occasionaly quite bonkers. Perhaps it's the semi-surrealistic Dante-esque 
 scenery, or the ridiculously large swords, or the huge splurges of blood that erupt from the bad 
 guys. Whatever it is, the repetive and mindlessness of it all is somewhat Zen-like and leaves you 
 wondering where the hell the last few hours went as you trudge through area after area slicing 
 up flesh men impaled on poles, invisible lizards and lovers lost in the snow. On the whole though, 
 the overal experience is somewhat lacking, and it did start to get a bit tedious in longer sittings 
 due to lack of variety in gameplay, and I've probably not even got halfway through completing it. 
 I probably won't bother re-renting to finish it. It reminds of playing Gauntlet in the 1980's - 
 good fun in small doses but ultimately a bit repetitive without any feel of progression. Perhap's, 
 like Gauntlet, it's more fun as a co-op game.
  
  I think this is one that should be played in short bursts, and not in a few marathon gaming sessions... 
 so may be a rental might not be recommended. It's definitely not one to pay full price for, so 
 maybe wait until it's in the bargain bins, or borrow it from a patient friend and play it a few 
 hours here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZogTheIneffable
Rating: 2
Date: May 27, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom may or may not exist in a deep or plausible fantasy world. Perhaps 
 previous versions of the game made that clear. But this just throws some random fantasy names and 
 vague narrative justifications at you in a way that sounds like nonsense.
  
  It presents you with plenty of enemies to fight, but their locations on the maps are entirely random, 
 and often the pairings are so bizarre (why, exactly, are the goblinoid creatures and carnivorous 
 plants teaming up to attack the player, but not attacking each other?) , that it seems like nonsense.
 
  
  There is a story of sorts, but it's just a few characters in dream sequences who make obscure comments 
 and references that, rather than giving you a clear narrative to follow or reason to engage emotionally, 
 just sound like nonsense.
  
  So, most of the time you're just button-bashing your way through meaningless combats, where mysteriously 
 the enemy can retreat (say, behind bushes) to areas that invisible walls implausibly stop you getting 
 to, where you can see enemies being struck by your arrows but they simply aren't taking damage 
 (though the same enemy is able to shoot you perfectly well at the same range) , where monsters seem 
 to be impervious to attacks from behind (penalising you for any attempt to fight tactically) all 
 of which is nonsense.
  
  Of course, you can buy new weapons, but absurdly you buy them from statues (yup, statues  not 
 traders or stalls or shops, but statues) whose invisible inventories are full of randomly named 
 weapons, with no sense of cultural unity, whose stats seem (rather than being based on the weapon 
 type) entirely random all of which is nonsense.
  
  Do you see the theme? Yes, this game is utter, utter nonsense.
  
  Of course, that might be 
 OK if it were fun in any other way. But it isn't.
  
  There might have been some interesting ideas. Offering different quests to different player characters 
 might have been a good idea if the quests weren't all equally repetitious. The weapon/item crafting 
 system might have been interesting, if it made any sense. The semi-random generation of levels 
 might have added replayability if it made any difference to the gameplay. But none of the good 
 ideas actually work.
  
  So what you're left with is a dreadfully repetitive button-bashing combat game, without even the 
 emotional buzz or strong sense of culture that made Dynasty Warriors playable. Most of the combat 
 is pretty simple, and entirely tedious. Some of the combat is frustrating (as in later levels, 
 where unintentional "combos" of special damage effects from monsters render the player randomly 
 helpless) . But all of the combat is unsatisfying.
  
  I'd love to find something nice to say about this game. The monsters aren't just stock-fantasy 
 clichs? The graphics aren't too bad? That's as positive as I can be.
  
  I've wasted nearly 20 hours of my life on this drivel, hoping that playing different characters 
 or persevering to later levels will open up some sense of narrative, tactical interest  anything 
 to justify the money I spent of the game. But now, as well as having wasted my money, I've also 
 wasted my time. Don't make the same mistake. Avoid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iFragMuffinMan
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  First off let me mention, the other games in the series are amazing, if this is your first Kingdom 
 under fire, please do not rate the series on this one!!
  
  The combat was uninspired, and repetetive. You gain weapons with the same attack animation and 
 slightly more damage, the stamina system is almost punishingly bad. Sure you can level up, and 
 level up 3 areas of your character, and you dont even need to bother with life because you can 
 just load yourself up with life items. The lack of a town also hurts this game tremendously.
  
  The spell system is horrible, you spend 2-3 hours doing side missions to get the spell and 
 half of the time the spell sucks and you won't ever touch it again.
  
  The storyline.... sucks, The end. It's bad.
  
  Co-op is relativly lag free but the lack of split 
 screen makes this game suffer.
  
  If your looking for a dungeon crawler, i would recommend either Marvel Ultimate Alliance (You can 
 get gold edition for 30 bucks now) or Vikings battle for Asgard with it's truly epic battles. 
 
  
  Please do NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game rules; it has a **** load of Achievements and ways to get sucked into this game: It has 
 story line tht doesn't make much sense (every good game has one -thumbs up-) , a evil and good realm, 
 it also has 5 characters and one hidden one who doesn't love those guys, and even an Evil dimension 
 owner whose name is Spanish, fricken awesome!
  The game starts out with a messed up dream as you're in... well Dream World, of course. It tells 
 u something messed up, scary, or funny, as in the drunken gun slinger. You travel around in a Dimension 
 where a fat ass, boney mutha ****er, and a hot babe sell u stuff as they are idols and HAVE to 
 do w/e u ask. You'll find out tht they too are in your story line... somewhere.
  You learn magic in a very odd way: They give u a hit list of what u need to kill. Don't worry, 
 you get an Achievement once u learn all of the magic.
  The weapon/Armour system works pretty good. Instead of having defense you have Health, SP (Or Gage 
 Bar) and Luck. Every time u get a clothing u get an upgrade in Health. Most games do this, but 
 they also use a large portion of Hit Rate defense, there is no Hit Rate in this. Some weapons will 
 have alter changes, like for Shurikens or Arrows of Multi-Fire, it'll send more than just one projectile 
 at a time if u hold the X/A button... which brings me to my next coolio thing about this game. 
 You can hold the X/A button for ur weapon, it'll make ur enchantments have a larger percentage 
 of striking the enemy.
  Besides tht, the game is pretty repetitive and very confusing. Don't worry, if u like button mashing 
 games u'll LOVE this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like KUF: COD. I like hack and slash RPGs quite a reasonable amount and since 
 the days of Diablo II's greatness I've been wondering if anything can overtake it's awesomeness 
 and exhilarating gameplay. Sadly COD dosen't quite make it there, in fact on the long road to Diabloness 
 COD slips over the first rock and cracks it's head open on the ground and remains there slowly 
 drowning in a pool of it's own blood.
  
  Evidently this opening comment dosen't bode well for this review. The game quite frankly sucks. 
 You take control of one of the playable characters from the series previous games and play through 
 a number of stages to finish your "story" complete some "quests" and kill a huge amount of creatures 
 on the way. Now, the reason I place the words story and quest in inverted commas is because really 
 COD has neither, or at least no entertaining or involving ones. I myself played as Celine (not 
 because I like her but because she was the only female character) and her story involves bringing 
 her love back to this world. This plot concept sounds simple enough but Blue-Side manage to mess 
 it up by making it completely uninvolving and barely possible to follow. You recieve plot points 
 by sleeping and entering a weird dreamworld (in Celine's case this world is populated by an old 
 guy who gives you quests and skills, and your loved one sitting on the floor and talking gibberish) 
 where you recieve little story tidbits and quests. The story is so badly written it's fairly impossible 
 to tell whats going on, and couple this with the game's awful voice acting which makes things even 
 more atrocious and you haven't got a winning formula. The quests you recieve advance your story 
 as you complete them and sleep, but they themselves are a chore. One quest in Celine's story had 
 me killing gold leeches, the last one of which I needed never spawned inside about 2 hours despite 
 me constantly resetting the leech spawns. Two hours... just for more drivel of a storyline? I strongly 
 advise ignoring the plot completely.
  
  This leaves us with combat, the staple of any action RPG unfortunately COD dosen't even manage 
 to pull this off correctly. Combat has your character holding a weapon in each hand and hacking 
 away with different buttons (one for each hand) to hit enemies. This takes quite some effort on 
 your part as the hit detection is so bad and the movement of your characters so awful you often 
 catapult through enemies and carry on into nearby foliage, missing them completely. While your 
 characters finishing off their irritatingly long "lunge" animation is also the best time for the 
 monsters to hit you too adding insult to injury. Killing enemies (of the generic variety) does 
 get easier as you level up and gain/create better weapons but it still remains unforgiveable for 
 an action orientated game to have such bad hit detection.
  
  This brings us nicely to another big element of COD, the bosses. There are several big boss fights 
 in the game against huge enemies that really take a while to finish. This is personally where I've 
 come unstuck with the game due to another glaring error on developer Blue-Side's part, the bosses 
 are meant to be beaten by more than one player. Even in a single player game. Playing this game 
 one player is almost impossible due to the boss fights against superhuman creatures that require 
 you to either level up in the games dull, repetative environments days or die. Now I wouldn't have 
 an issue with this IF it was an Xbox Live only game, but it isn't so Blue-Side have no excuse for 
 this crap. I got as far as the giant fire boss guy (whos name eludes me) and after about thirty 
 goes gave up as there was no way in hell I was going to grind some more in the unenjoyable non-boss 
 areas before the fight. It wouldn't be SO bad if grinding in the game was fun, but it isn't, so 
 there is no motivation on the part of the player to move on purely due to fault with the game. 
 Of course, I could just take my game on to live, but I refuse to be forced to play a game as a 
 multiplayer game when it has a single player option purely as the single player is badly put together.
 
  
  Oh I must just say on the plus side graphically it's quite pretty and nice to look at. Everything 
 else is bad though, so it's not really much of a saving grace. COD is a game for masochists, people 
 desperate for a new action RPG and those whos idea of fun is grinding for days on end with no real 
 sense of achievment, but I figured most of those people are playing MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Good dungeon crawls should be relatively easy games to make. They have a very well established 
 formula: phat loot + gaining levels and new abilitites + varied and interesting monsters to kill, 
 with a dash of story and interesting levels = at the very least a playable Diablo clone. When all 
 of the steps are taken and done well the results are games like Champions of Norrath and Titan 
 Quest; excellent titles with a lot of replay value and fun multiplayer on top of it all. Even when 
 an ingredient or two is missing games like D&D Heroes and Bard's Tale are still enjoyable enough 
 to play through once before being forgotten. Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom (or KUFCOD, because 
 it sounds vaguely insulting) misses on every point, providing a bulleted list of how an action 
 RPG should not be made.
  
  Killing things to get better items to kill bigger things is at the core of KUFCOD, just as it is 
 at the core of every other game of this type. KUFCOD does not fail for being unoriginal, it fails 
 because the core game play is simply not interesting. Weapon combat is limited to jamming on the 
 X button and watching the same animations over and over, and as simple as this sounds, it doesn't 
 work. With a few of the six character the last two attacks of the string cannot be stopped once 
 started, sending the character flying off in one direction while the enemy has sidestepped and 
 is wondering where the hero is going in such a hurry. This is not to say that the monsters are 
 smart, they arrive in mobs, surrounding but rarely attacking, leaving that to the annoying archer 
 bastards who can somehow shoot around corners and over hills.
  
  Repetitive combat can be forgiven if weapons and the monsters being killed change often enough, 
 which is something else KUFCOD fails to do. In each of the stages there are only 4 or 5 different 
 enemy types, but even between the stages many of the monsters are just pallet swaps of each other, 
 leading to a dreadful familiarity in every encounter. When killed they drop weapons and armor, 
 but most of it looks the same when equipped and animates the same when attacking. There is an item 
 creation system, but it is poorly explained and creates nothing beyond the same weapon plus 1. 
 It is also a necessary evil: special attacks do very little to help or change the broken hacking 
 and slashing.
  
  As a character levels new abilities are not automatically gained. They are instead 'learned' by 
 choosing a new ability and killing the requisite number of monsters. This would work well if the 
 requirements followed what was actually in the levels, driving the player forward into new territory. 
 Instead many of them require backtracking, most are spread across multiple levels and there is 
 no way to know this ahead of time. Only two abilities can be in the learning queue, and if one 
 is removed to make space for another before it is finished then the killing count is reset, forcing 
 more backtracking. There is even a skill I found that required a hidden boss to be killed who wasn't 
 available for the character I was playing; truly a waste of time.
  
  Quests fair no better: all of the missions are fetch quests. There nothing inherently wrong with 
 a fetch quest as long as it is accomplished while moving forward or while on the way to do something 
 else. Fetch quests in KUFCOD are ambiguous, full of backtracking and needlessly repetitive. One 
 quest required that I play through an entire level five times to get everything I needed. After 
 two times, I gave up, surrendered, shut it off and played something else. It was Wednesday, and 
 there were new Rock Band tracks that required my attention.
  
  I put up with Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom for around 14 hours before throwing in the towel. 
 That was 14 hours of X button abuse and carpal tunnel damage, and I haven't even gotten to the 
 poor level design, below average graphics, terrible voice acting, laughable story, and multiplayer 
 that does nothing more then spread the misery around, but there is no need. The only people who 
 should play KUFCOD are developers of new hack and slash games, and then only so they know exactly 
 what not to do. No one else should bother. If you really, really need to kill things for phat loot 
 pick up Arkadian Warriors on Xbox Live Arcade: its $10 and better in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Freely admitted... this game was a filler between my next real video game fix (Mass Effect, Assassin's 
 Creed, Bio Shock, etc) so I knew going into this it wasn't exactly what I was looking for. That 
 disclaimer aside, I did have fun playing this game and was impressed with the graphics of the game, 
 but got bored fairly quickly and was ready to sell this on E-bay and move on.
  
  Graphics and gameplay mechanics, great... the ability to select which character to play as was pretty 
 cool (although I chose the old man and was regretting that... he has the lamest mini-game which 
 involves memorizing about 50 lines of cornball dialogue if you want to succeed) , the only thing 
 that really stuck out as "great" to me was the music... I thought the soundtrack was outstanding.
 
  
  Outside all the flash and packaging, what is there to the game? Sorry to say, not a lot. Run, Shoot, 
 Hit and cast a spell.... this is just a polished version of "Ghosts and Goblins" from the arcade 
 in 1984. This is a solid product and obviously produced with pride, the problem is the concept 
 behind the game is flawed and really didn't bring anything to the player other than blind button 
 mashing against a never-ending flood of enemies.
  
  The game did make me feel like I was back into the 80's again though, so I guess that was cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colnel-turtle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game because i wasn't sure if i wanted to buy it. The games visuals are extraordinary, 
 and the characters are all fun to play.
  There were a few things that weren't fantastic, but seemed to fit into the game well. The idols, 
 can be a bit frustrating when trying to complete a quest, and the characters story lines could 
 have gone a little more in depth. It was fun to hack and slash dozens of enemies and never got 
 boring for me. Online play is a good addition but i would have like to see a local co-op option. 
 i didn't see a need to waste time on buying abilities, because i was already fine with the one 
 you start out with. The boss battles were fun as well. I felt that a lot of people don't like this 
 game because it is different from the rest of the series. In my opinion this game was fun, but 
 i don't think that i will buy it yet. (Im saving my money for FFVII Crisis Core) 
  If you enjoy hack and slash games then go ahead and get this game, if you are not sure, then rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance5555
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing more than a button smasher. They are trying to sell you on the stunning graphics. 
 However that is all the game has. Again no real RGP characteristics The load times are rough and 
 the story is boring. I don't know if some of the reviewers actually played this game, but I could 
 not get into any part of it. Massive hordes of enemies attacking you while you just click buttons 
 trying to believe you have some special strategy to kill them faster. This is just like a 99 nights 
 game. Maybe some folks find it fun but I think it is a waste of money, like watching a move and 
 once and a while hitting some buttons. this game is boring and does not hit the mark, I believe 
 the developers just wanted to sell the game on the previous games and the graphics. Basically trying 
 to rip the gamers off. I would recommend renting the game to see if it is your style and save yourself 
 50 bucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimandose1422
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay- 
  When you start out with any character, you go through a very basic tutorial, though it doesn't 
 cover everything you need to know, and along with the synthesizing, it just all gets rather frustrating 
 and maybe confusing. The controls are very basic, but the camera is horrible. Even the menus are 
 basic, and are lacking a bit of inspiration.
  Limits on carried items should have been expanded, since being able carrying only 5 large potions 
 in your inventory makes it hard to survive tough fights. Though the idols' storage (where you store 
 items for later use) makes an okay place to keep more potions. It too could use some work.
  
  The minimap gets confusing on those multileveled regions, but it's not horrible. Though going 
 through regions over and over can be a pain, but it puts more into the idea of the RPG of being 
 a grinding hack 'n slash game.
  
  -Combat- 
  Some combat isn't satisfying. Mostly just button mashing, same combo over and over. Combos would 
 have been nicer if the two weapons at hand could actually mix combos together, creating cool chains 
 of moves.... but that doesn't happen. (Reigner's chain especially is a major dissapointment. Its 
 just appears only when you swing, and it doesn't look like much. How about having it hanging from 
 his arm when unused? Is it so hard for that?) Abilities are neat also. The more SP you have, the 
 more damage, or chaos you can make. Though there are some pointless abilities, such as Self-Destruct 
 or Self-Injury. But the only real annoying part of fighting is the ranged enemies, and magic enemies.... or 
 just enemies period that just somehow make you stagger in the middle of a strike. No matter how 
 little damage they may do, you still stagger. A problem with the magic is the constant, or near 
 constant, staggering of your character. This makes it so hard to get away when you're low on HP, 
 or have stumbled upon a rather overwhelming force, it makes more sense for you to stagger when 
 you're on fire, etc. But to completely stop in your track... That just makes the getaway harder, 
 or just trying to finish something off. A strange occurance is the blocking. Some how, an enemy 
 can just block an attack. Some enemies even block attacks just by position, which make for a time 
 consuming hack and slash event, just trying to find out where to hit it to cause damage. Even though 
 it is an all out hack n slash, it just makes it more difficult to grind. And when you kill enemies 
 on or over edges, you loose what loot they drop. Not so pleasing.
  
  -Leveling-
  The leveling is very basic. You are given points to place in either HP, SP (used for attacking/abilities) , 
 or Luck. The most needed area would be SP, though HP is good for staying alive longer, and Luck 
 is good for getting better drops. So the choice goes to the player's idea, or needs.
  
  -Items/Idols-
  Items change according to level. The looks change from plain, to unique. Certain 
 enchantments are in wrong items in drops, but can be placed accordingly with synthesis. That is 
 done with Idols, which are good for getting rid of useless item for the gold needed for improvement. 
 Though they also have items, the usage of Skill Points (SP) on the items are based on your level, 
 even if it's low damage. basically almost useless. Each idol sells different types of items, but 
 they aren't that different. Two Idols sell the same things, while one is completely different.
 
  
  -Scenery-
  The graphics Are still good for the most part. The environments of each region give different feelings 
 with their uniquenesses. Characters and creatures alike are great too. The details are good. The 
 names are a bit different, and some sounds that they make are a little odd... and some disturbing, 
 but they seem alright. Although each map randomizes every time you turn it on, it isn't all different. 
 There are set types, and the just come together a little different. Helps with the repetition somewhat.
 
  
  -Forest- The first region is a good way to bring the player into the game. The environment setup 
 is great. The visuals are nice too. Probably the best region.
  
  -Bad Lands- This region is alright, not missing much, and not filled with much either. It's just 
 a baren plain with ruins. 
  
  -Halls-This area was neat, though it gets very crowded. Nothing really needs to be redone here, 
 since it's already a cool region.
  
  -Frozen Valley- Not much different from any place except the valley walls and the snow and ice, 
 and occasional hot springs with frozen trees here and there and stalagmites and stalagtites. Like 
 a frozen wasteland. or atleast a frozen wasteland's valley.
  
  -Cave- A more... hot environment. Magma pits, magma falls... and magma. Though the magma could use 
 a little work, the idea is recieved. It sets up the player for the upcomming boss. It's a big cave 
 with magma monsters and scorched monsters.... that burn you... or poison you.
  
  -Road- The most random and idiotic idea.... but almost brilliant. It's called the Road of Chaos, 
 but there's nothing "chaotic" about it. It should be called Road of Torment or something similar 
 since it's a floating road of bones, blood, and flesh with a red sky in the background.
  
  -Story- 
  The storyline focuses on the Hero. Though the booklet is the only way to get a good 
 enough backstory on the heroes, the game lacks some cinematics. Why call it an RPG when it lacks 
 what really makes it one? The action is repetitive, but it's not horrible. It's just a good ol' 
 grinding game. 
  It's set up as a battle of light and dark, though every character does the same thing.
  
  -Bosses-
 
  The bosses you fight, the very few there are, should have at least an explanation behind why you 
 fight them, and at least get a cinematic after defeating them and picking up the values to see 
 how you get where you're going, instead of just appearing in the next region.. Each boss you fight 
 is very unique, though given a look into some, a few are quite annoying to fight. Each fight is 
 in a circular room or area. Each with unique features.
  
  -Forest Boss-The first is alright. Just a big monster, (the biggest) which is expected of a boss. 
 5 heads are harder than one...
  It tends to climb up every now and then and drop back down. It's not hard to kill, you just have 
 to hack it's heads off, the shoot it's belly when it climbs. A good way to introduces ranged weapons? 
 Or was it a set-up for bosses to come? Using multiple types of weapons...
  
  -Bad Lands Boss- I haven't even found it yet.... Character Kendal is needed for it.... when you progress 
 through story line, he gets a key to the door located somewhere on the map.... way later...
  
  -Halls Boss-The second was a surprise, and kind of random. the boss is your heighth, and is 
 a.... robot or a cyborg of some sort? It's still a very creative design.
  First it just goes round spinning, or charging at you, then stopping to shoot some lightning at 
 you. You have to actually break it's armor down to it's final stage with ranged weapons. It's final 
 stage is so different. It jumps up and down making noise and casts lightning EVRYWHERE. It even 
 leaves a trail of oil that seems to still hurt even after it just fades. The worst part is it becomes 
 immune to ranged, which at first it's immune to melee. It's hard enough getting close to it and 
 once you swing, you begin to stagger. Though it's all relieving once it's down.... then there's 
 it's head. That I found amusing. Just smack it, and you get an achievement. The only upside to 
 the battle besides the riches....
  
  -Frozen Hills Boss-The third was not as odd. They brought back the Ice Maidens.... as the boss. 
 They don't even seem like older ice maidens. They're bird-like, and not so much attractive.
  A strange part of the battle is when the area becomes surrounded by frozen statues of Ice Maidens 
 with random ones containing... spectres of them? When touched or Embraced, by one, you just see 
 a forest and sky for almost minutes, which is so weird. This boss is one without stages.
  
  -Cave Boss-The fourth will always at first or second be frustrating. This beast is called a balrog, 
 but doesn't look a thing like one. It has the head of a WoW troll covered with bone armor and spikes 
 down its back, and it's hands.... shoot at you... or near you.. and it's barely twice your size. The 
 design is still a great one, but the name should be changed.
  The draw back here is you're in a lava pit with little land. At certain points the lava draws back, 
 giving you a ring of land to walk on.... while the beast is climbing the walls. After shooting, 
 or slashing, the beast each arm will eventually blow up.... enraging it. This is the most annoying 
 stage I had witnessed, besides the second Boss. The beast charges you like a bull, and you haven't 
 much time to stagger it with a shot to the head. If you had good timing, you'd have the ring of 
 land to run on, if not, you'd be destroyed quickly since it can so easily follow your moves and 
 run you into the lava, staggering you. Once it goes down, the pillar of fire in the middle damages 
 you as you pick up the riches, wasting time...
  
  -Road/Dreamworld- This boss is a storyline boss, only reached by certain characters that have advanced 
 in their not-so-great-story. This knight is pretty cool, but pretty much not fun to fight since 
 it ends up regenerating by linking itself with the destroyed clocktower. It's a neat boss idea, 
 though still there isn't alot of background to it, except for what you are told by the quest giver.
 
  
  -Road [Final] Boss- This boss basically is the most random one ever. Almsot has the shape of an 
 "invisible", and has two forms. One is white, only hurt by spells. the second is black, hurt by 
 weapons of both ranged and melee. 
  The setting is a ball of gunk, which may be flesh and other organs. Though you're still on an invisible 
 platform, just floating in the air. The ball is constanly spinning, which would mess with every 
 one's head, and even make someone sick. 
  It's final stage is even more strage. The boss pulls the walls surrounding you, into a ball that 
 only surrounds him, as a shield. It's hard enough landing hits on an enemy when he's flying and 
 jumping around everywhere, throwing things at you and shooting spells all over the place, and now 
 you have to hack away at a ball? Another problem here is when you hack a chunk off the barrier, 
 a light beam spike of some sort comes out.... while it's spinning, creating a bad scenario even 
 for tank players. 
  
  All together, this game is still fun to play. What little changes it could use, the game has brought 
 back classic fun, with unique features. Multiplayer makes it all more worthwhile. Though still, 
 if you like it solo, it's a good game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejm26low
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  After update fo synthesis, It's very very hard to upgrade the weapon to play on Extreme mode. I 
 think It's not fair than before updated.
  
  I think the developer can set the max. value but not the lower down the rate of synthesis. And 
 they were lower down too much now. One more think is .... The game is released over a two months.... 
 It's not fair for the new comer. So I stongly recommend the developer to roll back the update of 
 the synthesis !!!
  
  On Hong Kong , almost all my fans on fan list does not like the new synthesis system and feel disappointed 
 and down mood on it. They don't want to continous to play it now. Some gamer hate that new synthesis 
 system.... I don't think the synthesis system need to change and It SHOULD NOT change synthesis 
 system after released over towo months. May be just change the Max. value of the weapon or HP is 
 OK but not the whole calculation of the system. They may do so on the next version of the game 
 but not to that version.
  
  I think the synthesis sytem before update is much more better than after.
  So disappointed on 
 that game. T_T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zurtch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom is not for the nit-picky. Anyone who likes RPG's should get 
 this game. I do agree that there is repetition, in the game but a ton of the RPG's that r out are 
 repetitive. I rate this game a 9.5 because i think the game is outstandingly fun and action packed. 
 The game for me really never gets boring. THe only Cons that this game has is that it is slightly 
 repetitive. And all of u peeps that rate this game a 5.0 or lower don't know what a real RPG is, 
 Never only pick out the cons only for everything. A must buy for anyone who likes any action packed 
 
 
  
 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buntman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  OK. First of all let me just say that it seems most people reviewing this game have either only 
 played the demo or not played the game long enough to fully understand what to do. That being said, 
 what more is there to understand from a pure hack & slash repetitive grindathon with a story so 
 vague it's like a fart in the wind? Well this game is all about the synthesis of items and expanding 
 that SP bar.
  
  The characters start out with only a few hit points (HP) and a small mana bar (SP) . Unlike most 
 games where your mana bar determines how often you can use magical attacks, in Circle of Doom the 
 SP bar is the basis for all of your attack abilities and you will soon discover that managing SP 
 is the single most important aspect of the game. Early on in the game you will find yourself battling 
 through hordes of enemies with a few basic weapons and a magic ability that you will never use. 
 Upon dispatching a foe they will reward you with items such as potions, weapons or armor that you 
 can use to improve your character. Certain items you find will have a positive or negative effect 
 on how quickly your SP bar recharges, and early on in the game it is important to equip items that 
 improve the recharge rate as much as possible. Most of the weapons you may not even wish to equip 
 due to their heavy consumption of your SP bar, which will only leave you frustrated when you wildly 
 tap the attack button as you are surrounded by some twenty lizard-men only to find that you have 
 just enough energy to execute a single attack and having to wait a few seconds for your SP to recharge 
 so that you can take another swing.
  
  Level up and its time to allocate those attribute points, a nice idea but you will find yourself 
 putting 99% of your points into the SP bar and the remaining 1% into luck. Putting anything into 
 HP is ultimately pointless as during the course of the game you will find armor with +HP bonuses, 
 some even to the ridiculous amount of +5000. Luck will increase the drop rate of items, supposedly 
 increase your resist chance against magic and also helps when you want to synthesize items. SP 
 is by far the most important since you won't be able to equip that +5000 armor unless you have 
 a lot of SP.
  
  As you progress through each stage, at various intervals you will be introduced to the Idols which 
 serve as a shop where you can sell unneeded items, store those which you wish to keep and also 
 purchase new weapons and armor. The area around the Idols also enables you to sleep and enter the 
 dream world whereby you can obtain simple quests to learn a new magical ability by killing a number 
 of set enemies (some of which may only be available on the harder difficulty settings) or undertaking 
 your chosen characters confusing quest line, usually a tedious process of visiting the different 
 Idols and completing tasks for each one. The different Idols appear dependant on the phase of the 
 moon at the time you enter their area. The most useful of these being the Idol of Death who can 
 provide you with extra inventory space and two extra accessory slots for the right price.
  
  Aside from their role as a vendor and quest facilitator, the Idols also offer you the ability 
 to synthesize items. Synthesizing items is not a process that will be clear to you from reading 
 the manual but is certainly a key part of game. For a few gold synthesis enables you to reduce 
 the SP consumption of high level weapons for regular use, add +HP bonuses to armor, create resist 
 gear to protect you from magical attacks and also combine the effects of two weapons to manufacture 
 a weapon of greater power. 
  For example combining a weapon with a level 1 enchant with another weapon with the same level 1 
 enchant will give you a single weapon with a level 2 enchant.
  This can be done over and over again until reaching a maximum level of 25 with the cost increasing 
 each time. A maximum of four enchants can be placed on any single weapon and correct synthesis 
 can result in some insane combinations with devastating results. Creating such items will make 
 your journey through the game a lot more enjoyable and hunting down items with the enchants you 
 need also provides you with something else to do other than smashing your way through the ample 
 supply of enemies.
  
  On the harder difficulty settings synthesized weapons and armor are necessary as the game turns 
 into a battle of resists as the enemies are ramped up with magical attacks and debuffs that will 
 turn the tables on you and make you wish you started collecting resist gear a lot sooner. Some 
 enemies become immune to melee damage and you are forced to find other means fight your way through.
 
  
  At the end of each level you are faced with a boss battle, the most impressive of these bosses 
 sadly being at the end of very the first level mostly due to its size, and all other bosses after 
 that taking a rather downwards hill slope. Not to say that they aren't original.
  
  On the whole there are many aspects of this game that need improving, the camera angles can sometimes 
 be very frustrating, you do have the ability to rotate the camera but it is painfully slow.
  
  A big selling point of the game was the introduction of randomly generated levels to increase 
 replay value isn't 100% accurate. It suggests the idea that the environment will be randomly generated 
 each time you play, when in actual fact it is more of a reconfiguration of a set number of tile 
 based sections strung together that give you the layout of that particular level. This may sound 
 complicated and hard to explain but it becomes very easy to spot after playing for 10 minutes or 
 more. If you were to quit the game and start again the result is that you may find yourself wandering 
 down the same linear path that you had in the previous session, except that this time that little 
 cliff section with all the lizard-men on wasn't there, or you approached it from a different angle, 
 the Idol may be on your left when he was on the right hand side before and so on.
  
  Multiplayer is a lot of fun although no character really stands out to have a set class as you 
 would normally get in most RPG games (warrior, mage, healer, rogue etc.) and the lack of a sense 
 of a team and relying on your teammates is definitely missing. Instead it's more of a free for 
 all. Rolling for boss loot is a welcome addition, but private games suffer from a buggy chat system 
 which I hear is soon to be fixed with an upcoming patch.
  
  The music, when you can hear it, is pleasant but during every battle it gets replaced with a very 
 monotonous little number which will soon drive you insane if it doesn't drive you to turn the music 
 off first and replace it with something more suitable from your mp3 player.
  
  Possibly the most irritating defect lies with the inconsistent frame rate which greatly suffers 
 during a hefty barrage of magic or just while simply playing through the end level. All this probably 
 due to the intricate graphical detail of all the characters, and stunning visuals in general.
 
  
  Overall if you can put up with the lack of storyline, repetitive gameplay such as you would find 
 old-school scrolling beat-em ups and the notorious Korean grinding quests then you might actually 
 enjoy this game if you give it a chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quietguy
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Leaving off where The Crusaders storyline ended, Circle of Doom begins afterwards with any corresponding 
 characters you choose out of the initial 5, stranded in the dimension of Encablossa. However, barely 
 any audible plot is depicted easily out of the box, instead you're given only hints or background 
 reference to the characters themselves that adds to the thinned main plot. A many times a player 
 will be left out to figure out the symbolical and riddled conversations with support NPCs.
  
  The trade system creates points on specific locations within an area where an equivalent of 
 vendors called Idols resides. There, players can buy or sell off loot dropped by monsters that 
 inhabits each local region that you travel through, synthesize items with abilities and stats to 
 create powerful items with high level abilities to assist the player through difficult battles, 
 and visit support NPC's in dreamworlds to acquire abilities and take on main quests to progress 
 through the shrilled plot. Each visit randomly generates an idol out of a pool of three that may 
 offer the player different equipment, support items, and potions to restore player SP or health. 
 A quip about this system schemes drops to the issue of idol generation; because of different items 
 that are sold between the 3 idols, it becomes difficult to trade with a specific vendor that has 
 the right equipment needs. Besides that, they act as excellent sources to dump useless or excess 
 loot in exchange for gold.
  
  Gameplay is a switch around from the usual hybird-RTS stance seen in the previous KUF installments. 
 Instead of commanding platoons of units, players are now left with navigating through linear levels 
 consisting of pockets of massed mobs of certain levels according to the selected difficulty scale. 
 Though random terrain generation exists within the level designs, it's nothing better than playing 
 a picture slide puzzle that only can create directional variations of the level itself. All characters 
 comes with 2 attack slots that can be filled with different weapon equips to provide combo attacks. 
 However, such combo system is ever truly utilized in this case as weapons do not compliment each 
 other, and even worse the most chains that a player pull off is at least 10 hits in succession 
 max.
  
  Attacks and abilities are depended on a variable called the SP bar, which is the equivalent of 
 a stamina bar in general. With this limitation in mind, players are forced to dictate how their 
 characters should be equipped, decide when retreating is a good option than death, and choose which 
 approach to attack is better. But in light of actual gameplay though, these only serves as unnecessary 
 limitations that the player should not be able to experience because of level scale to SP requirements. 
 Abilities themselves are numerous to learn and are plentiful enough for an entire run through the 
 whole game itself, unfortunately, that is the only positive that can be said of the special skills. 
 Inane skill types and lack of variety between characters truly make the effort to acquire them 
 at all very repetitious. Even more, they do not accurately reflect the SP requirements at all.
 
  
  A striking feature that actually stood out like a pearl among a junk yard was the revamped graphics 
 themselves. Where substance was lacked, Circle of Doom makes it up by adopting next generation 
 graphics and applying them on a wholesome scale; virtually drawing in more shine than it's previous 
 predecessors despite being more hallow.
  
  Another great feature that made this game viable and enjoyable was the smooth integration and the 
 full utilization of Xbox Live. Players bored of playing the single player feature can now go online 
 and tour through areas with three other players on any difficulty. Just as the formula remniscent 
 of Diablo, players can also trade items with each other, opening a wide avenue of acquiring or 
 comparing items against another. However, what I would like to see was also the implementation 
 of PvP action to not only test out traded items, but create some form of secondary online competition 
 that players from various regions can enjoy on the side of the constant runs against bosses. On 
 the other hand though, such multi-play will suck you in event of the game's failures.
  
  As a summary, Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom will offer most to those that appreciate generic 
 hack and slash type RPGs. It's high quality graphic state and experiment into the RPG genre gives 
 the idea that this game is a showcase of what Blueside can do rather than an immersive RPG itself. 
 But on a side note, fans of the previous Xbox original KUF series may want to overlook this due 
 to the new, hallow changes in the formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I played kingdom under fire recenlty thought it was going to be huge. i was wrong. Like being smacked 
 in the face or something.
  
  so i started of playing as the vampire, im not quite sure of the name soz, instantly im thrown 
 into confusion from the first cutscene, and then im in a forest. 
  confusing.
  After my first battle i was kind of hoping for more, i played on hoping to see if there was something 
 special, but i onestly couldent find it. enemies seem to all look the same, and they stand around 
 you in a dynasty warriors fashion.
  
  The weapon are a bit odd, i picked up the same katana with +5 on one and +8 on another, only difference 
 i could find was a slight dmg increase, and a higher SP penalty. i could not find anything with 
 a different name till a good bit later (By which then i was itching for mass effect)
  
  The sp system really bugged me, why would you need mana to attack? it seems pointles and can leave 
 you paralyzed in the middle of a troup of enemies.
  
  the skill learning system its nasty, You may have to backtrack or go ahead just to get a spell 
 that you dont know the effects of.
  
  hrm what else.
  i think thats it.
  ah if you have noticed ive being pointing out all the bad stuff well heres the good stuff
  
 
  Graphics are nice enough
  Blood effects look alright
  voice acting aint to shabby
  
  erm...
  
  sorry if ive missed any good points, this game in my own summary is a shallow , souless 
 hack and slash, all flash and no substance game
  3.5 from jivekibbles
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignore78
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  all you do is hack hack slash slash slashhhhh.. 
  
  aaah,, 
  
  one plus is , you can chose different characters at the begining.
  
  but thats it.
  
  at 
 fist ,i thought. wow , its like oblivion. it beautiful . but NO.. you cant move around as you like. 
 your stuck in a path all the time.
  
  ok, i move forward, forward, forward, i se 10-20 monsters.. i slash them.
  
  i get som items 
 from them. wow. i se a new sword. but . it looks the same to me,, no fun at all.. but, it has +5 
 instead of +4 .. hurray!
  
  BUT! . the better weapon you get , the more magic points will drain from your meter.. and you cant 
 slash as often with low meter.. 
  
  thats why your leveling up you character, to raise you magic or health meters.. but how fun is 
 that?? 
  
  i choosed the vampire guy , when i got new armor, it looked the same. just better protection.. 
 
  
  rings , necles are so boring.. you can just put one at the time on you finger.. neck.. you cant 
 use one necles and one ring at the same time.
  thats just stupid.. and you can just use one ring, not 10..
  or maby , the guy you are have just 
 one finger to put it on =)
  but, how can he use 2 swords at the same time with one finger..
  
  i mean, those who made this 
 game, arent gamers at all...
  
  i give this game 2/10 but its not worth 2.. just 2 for the graphics, it looks good, very good..
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  The Kingdom Under Fire series has tried a lot of things and genres. Circle of Doom for the Xbox360 
 is the latest attempt in the series where just about all strategy is thrown overboard and the card 
 of full hack&slash gameplay is drawn. Unfortunately it didn't end up in triumph.
  
  A first disappointment already is the storyline. Where we hoped in the preview that the immersion 
 would become bigger further in the game, the reviewcode quickly makes it clear that the game up 
 until the end remains vague, complex, and clearly made for fans of the series. We only managed 
 to remember that you can choose one of six typical characters (you know, a tough guy or a sexy 
 lady with a bow) and that you get to learn bits and pieces of the story through a by other characters 
 populated dream world that you can only enter now and then through an Idol. In this parallel world 
 you also get the necessary quests and new spells. Just to say: fight you will and all the rest 
 doesn't really matter.
  
  Luckily you have a whole armada of enemies and opponents of all kinds to get rid of. The makers 
 clearly have spent a lot of time thinking and consistently designing a varied bunch of misery (from 
 statues to zombies) to stand in your way. And you can take that literally as the challenge in the 
 end comes down to the numbers and the length of their energy bar. Intelligence is an alien subject 
 for the hostiles except for the piece of script: "See player = run towards him + attack".
  
  No bad words on the variety of hostilesAlthough making a hole in those defenses and killing 
 all those colorful enemies is quite enjoyable, the constant succession makes this game so... repetitive. 
 There too little depth and too little possibilities to keep you interested for the entire course 
 of the game. Only the most persistent lovers of repetition will have fun, spending hours and hours 
 with the same action despite the many different weapons and magic. This is even worsened since 
 there are only six dungeons present and you'll have to go through them multiple times, and the 
 fact that some quests lack quite some inspiration. The same can be said about the way you can get 
 new spells. First you have to select them and start learning, after which you need to kill a certain 
 number of opponents, and only then you'll be able to use your new trick. Stupid as that means you'll 
 often have to go looking for hostiles and get to go over the same paths once again. Result: you'll 
 quickly get fed up with acquiring new spells.
  
  If you're resistant to the combination of brainkilling repetition and a lack of story to make you 
 continue, you'll probably get discouraged by some other frustrating flaws. The camera has ADHD 
 and rather tries to play hide and seek behind all kinds of objects than to make your life easier. 
 The dungeons are often tight and limited which doesn't go well with the large hordes of opponents 
 who often succeed in stunning you or throwing you on the floor, something that can get boring after 
 thirty-two times.
  
  As so often, you friends bring rescue. If you succeed to find up to three other gamers with Circle 
 of Doom in their Xbox360, you can kill the overload of freaks together through Xbox Live. These 
 co-op possibilities are just about the life-saving feature of this game as also graphically you 
 won't be using it to show off your new HDTV. The design does deserve praise for its colorful, with 
 some beautyful and nicely filled surroundings (this is how the woods look nice) and enjoyable special 
 effects.
  
  For those that love hack&slash gameplay, Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom can be quite an enjoyable 
 game. The six characters offer different storylines and playing style which makes the replayability 
 as well as the hours of gaming rise quite high. What you buy, however, is little more than a fighting 
 engine that doesn't look bad but doesn't give much motivation to continue playing or immersion. 
 The repetition and limited amount of dungeons decrease the effect of the couple of lights like 
 the variation in enemies and a good adaptation in mana so that for the average gamer this title 
 becomes too niche and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Now, despite the Kingdom under Fire series being well-known for large-scale strategy, Circle of 
 Doom is much more of a scrolling hack-and-slash, with a few of the franchise's traditional Role-Playing 
 Game elements underlying the experience.
  
  In that respect, Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom will boast game play unfamiliar to the series' 
 followers, and beget not a few unfortunate comparisons to Capcom's imminent, not-dissimilar next-gen 
 classic.
  
  Going up in the release schedule against Dante, Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom is admittedly 
 a little out of its depth  but that doesn't make it a bad game. Taken on its own merits this is 
 still an enjoyable and lengthy scrolling brawler  and it has one big thing going for it that DMC 
 doesn't; online multiplayer.
  
  Fighting teamwork
  
  Indeed, Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom is at its best played over Xbox Live. With a steady 
 host, the other three players can drop in and drop out at will, enjoying the benefits that teamwork 
 brings to Circle of Doom's otherwise straightforward fighting action.
  
  On your tod, playing Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom is an undeniably repetitive experience. 
 Picking one of six characters, each fitting into predisposed stereotypes (weak but fast, slow but 
 strong, or average in all areas) and fighting hordes of underwhelmingly dopey lizard-men and the 
 like through six relatively linear environments, it admittedly isn't the most compelling single 
 player release you're going to find on next-gen systems.
  
  But with four players ploughing through it, Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom takes on the properties 
 that all good dungeon-based games have boasted. From Gauntlet to Guild Wars, the genre in its various 
 guises is at its best with players picking characters which compliment each other, playing to their 
 individual strengths (some with ranged attacks, some melee-centric) , and co-ordinating to attack, 
 defend and heal as a unit. The same is true of Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom.
  
  Adding depth are Idols, which aside from being a save point, serve a dual purpose in the game play 
 of Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom. They allow you to store and synthesise items, the latter 
 of which basically involves pairing two items together and paying gold to increase the chances 
 of creating a more powerful combination, adding a customisation element to the experience.
  
  Circle of Doom's Idols also throw up its most original aspect; its storytelling. They offer 
 you the chance to go to sleep, entering a dream realm where narrative is abstractly drip-fed via 
 dialogue from non-player characters and the occasional sidequest, instead of the usual custscenes 
 used by most games. It's a novel idea at putting plot into what is ostensibly a multiplayer-focused 
 title, though it ends up feeling completely removed from the main game and provides little context 
 for Circle of Doom's ongoing action.
  
  Multiplayer-focused
  
  And there is a lot of that in Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom  though it is repetitive. Adding 
 depth is the stamina gauge, dictating how long you can keep combos going. Attacking depletes it, 
 and using different weapons causes it to go down at differing rates, so you'll want the best combination 
 of weapons to allocate to the two attack buttons. 
  
  You can increase stamina by adding to Skill stats at level-up, as well as increasing your HP, which 
 lengthens health, and Luck, which increases the frequency of decent item drops  plus add special 
 and magic attacks to your repertoire by taking quests in Circle of Doom's dream world.
  
  What we have with Kingdom under Fire: Circle of Doom is a pretty competent multiplayer-focused 
 title with RPG-lite elements and a novel narrative spin which Kingdom under Fire fans will probably 
 appreciate more than franchise newcomers. It's not a must-buy, then, and it's definitely no Devil 
 May Cry, but get four online-playing action fans together and there's certainly some fun to be 
 had here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Don't get it twisted by my review deck. KUF: COD is not a bad game as you can tell by my score. 
 Its actually a fun game that has its ups and downs. The KUF series has been regarded as a respected 
 strategy/action game that has its fair share of both. Thats what their fans have grown to love, 
 however Blueside decided to take a different route this time and try something completely different. 
 Which is to have the KUF series have an offspring with Nintey Nine Nights or Dynasty Warriors. 
 Which isn't really a bad thing, but I think the series would've been better off with its original 
 roots.
  
  THE STORY doesn't quite make sense. I have played Reigner's storyline and have got to say that 
 I have a huge question mark above my head. None of the stories really add up like they did in the 
 first 2 KUF games, however I know that isn't what the game was made to be. As the producer stated 
 that this game isn't meant to be serious. So very true.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are by far the best aspect of the game. They are beautiful as with the last two installments. 
 Whatever engine they used to power it is definately an engine worth keeping. The lighting effects 
 are beautiful and really add more realism to the dark gritty environment.
  
  THE SOUND is not bad. The voice acting isn't bad. The music is pretty good. So all in all, sound 
 is pretty well done here.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is the odd one. When you first begin the game you will probably hate it off the bat 
 such as I did. But give it some time and eventually it will tend to grow on you. And if that doesn't 
 seem to work, take this puppy online and try it out with 3 other people. Reason I say this is cause 
 this is how I felt. I didn't like it at all in the beginning but then I gave it a chance and actually 
 had a blast. Leveling your character feels like an MMORPG and the custmization felt that way as 
 well. However, whats up with the alchemy? It sucks, thats what. And why not add a damn block button?
 
  
  All in all, try it out. Its not meant for everyone and I did enjoy myself playing it. But not enough 
 to the point where I give it higher than a 7.0. But now, I really cannot wait for the full fledged 
 sequel to the first KUF that goes back to the strategy elements that is due out in 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocktimusprime
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  In Kingdom Under Fire, you play as a hero, of your choice, who is going to slash his way through 
 hordes of enemies to put an end to the Circle of Doom. 
  
  You start out with choosing a character who you will then level up. There is your standard fare, 
 Elven archer, Massive guy with huge sword, Dwarf with a hammer, Crazy Japanese guy with two katanas, 
 you know the lot. Each has a different story, although truthfully, you won't really care about 
 the story. Partly because it is so slowly unveiled to you, by the time things do get interesting, 
 your attention is no longer focused on the story. You given a brief tutorial (achievement for finishing!) 
 and your off to a pretty standard start.
  
  The game play is pretty simple. Hack and Slash your way through enemies and level up. Gain new 
 items, which will make you stronger, and learn new skills. Go online and party with up to 3 other 
 people, and kill vicious beasts, huge monsters and other demons a like over XBL. Great concept, 
 now here's why it falls on it's face in most areas.
  
  The game offers a pretty standard character development for an action RPG. When you level up, you 
 can either put your points into Health, Mana or Luck. Health does what you think it does, while 
 Mana allows you to use skills and wield better weapons. Although when you swing your weapon, you 
 use mana. (WTF?) Luck does very little but can improve your chances to get better items. So the 
 player must balance between making his character a power house meat shield, or putting enough mana 
 points in so they can use better weapons. It's limiting, and it doesn't make much sense. 
  
  Combat is simple. Hit X or A until the enemies die. But that's standard for hack and slash 
 games. The problem is, there is no block button, and long combos leave you open for attack. So 
 you will find yourself tentative to unleash that 8 hit combo, because you are likely to get slash 
 in the rear. Because there is no block button, magic attacks, and other combo attacks hit you viciously, 
 as you helplessly lose life and pray you don't get hit as soon as you stand up. Fear not, you have 
 great skills of destruction to fight back though.... or do you.....?
  
  The skills in the game are pretty much useless. Because you can't lock on to targets, so you usually 
 miss, and for the most part, your better off just not using them. Getting new skills requires you 
 to kill X amount of enemies, only they don't tell you which ones when you select the skill. So 
 when you want to get that awesome new fire spell, it sucks when you find out you just hacked through 
 them all, and now have to back track.
  
  Oh back tracking. KUF: COD does offer large, expansive levels with great enemy design. But that 
 in turn creates another frustration. Well because the game is split into large levels, instead 
 of way points like other, better, more successful action RPG's like Diablo. You have to replay 
 entire levels to back track to monsters you need to kill for new skills. Weak.
  
  A promising feature in the game was the item synthesis. You take items, combine them, and make 
 more powerful items. Sounds simple and cool! So there is quite a lot of customization you can do, 
 only synthesizing the items is never really explained at all. You end up just synthesizing items 
 just to see if anything happens, and you may even ruin a weapon doing so. So what was a great feature 
 in the game, is actually, no so great because they never tell you how to use it properly.
  
  The online play is the best part of this game. Up to three other people can quest with you. 
 It is enjoyable to run around online with your friends and co-op through the story. You can join 
 higher level friends and quest together if you are a newbie. Monsters receive boosts depending 
 on how many people are in the game, and how high a level they are. There isn't much else to the 
 online aspect except you can trade items, and learn new techniques together. It is much more fun 
 to play this game online that it is to alone, so if you do buy KUF: COD, make sure you have XBL.
 
  
  All in all the game can be enjoyable. It is frustrating, but you will find yourself playing because 
 there is a good deal of fun in the hack and slash game play. The bosses are massive, and provide 
 a great deal of fun, especially online. There are armor sets to collect, super weapons, and of 
 course, achievements. The game has the draw of "it's so bad it's good," and might provide you with 
 some fun, but don't expect much more than cheap thrills.
  
  Truth is though, for $60 you a buying a game that really fails to deliver on all of it's promises 
 except for it's terrific online play. If you want a better action RPG, for a much more reasonable 
 price, I reccomend to you Arkadian Warriors. It's $8 on XBLA, and offers very much the same game 
 play.
  
  Avoid this, unless you really like action RPGs and have nothing else to play. In that case, just 
 wait for the price to drop, this should be bargain bin in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldrak
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  First, I played the first Kingdom Under Fire (KOF) for the XBOX and thought it was fun. Very characterful 
 and compelling. When I bought my Xbox 360, I thought that the latest in the series would be an 
 excellent companion for the sci-fi game I bought, Mass Effect.
  
  Wrong.
  
  I like story in my game. Any story. At all. When I booted up the game and picked the heaviest knight 
 I could (His name was Kaelen or something. I never heard it again) I got a cutscene with two old 
 men talking... one of them dying... the other declaring he would "Digest his mind... forever!" 
 Then I saw my knight put on his helmet and ask in a monotone voice "Do I have to go back?"
  
  That was it. Welcome to the forest! Here come those lizard men!!
  
  The lack of any story 
 or character development really shocked me. I didnt know anything about this universe or the game. 
 Maybe it was developed in previous KUF games, but that does not help a relative newbie to the series 
 at all. While pretty, the game was nothing special. I watched my knight swing his mace and shield 
 in long strokes against the poor lizard men while they poked at me occasionally over and over again... 
 then I met the BIG lizardmen!! Then archer lizards! Boring.
  
  The inventory was unintuitive, the synthesis system was nigh unto useless and leveling up didnt 
 make me feel any stronger.
  
  I would give this game a wide berth unless your a big Kingdom Under Fire fan... games from the 
 Gauntlet series have more story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I never had an Xbox before, this my first time to play KUF games on Xbox 360. I wonder how the 
 gameplay of the previous KUF games because this game is totally piece of crap. Firstly, the environment 
 are too dark in this game. The camera angle are so annoying and suck. The game frame rate are totally 
 low. The scenes, storyline and gameplay seem very boring from the moment you start the game until 
 you finished it. The only good thing that the game have just a great graphics and can play multiplayer 
 online with your friends to complete the stories. Other than that, make you want to throw the game 
 into the garbage bin. In conclusion, i'll suggest all users that want to try this game to rent 
 it first, and don't forget to play it multiplayer with your friends, because if you playing this 
 game alone, i guarantee you will never played it again for the next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game took all that was good about the earlier games of the series and chucked it out the window. 
 There are no more strategy elements. All the previews I read led me to believe it was an RPG which 
 it is not. The storyline is weak to the point of non existence. All the characters are under developed. 
 You get a few short dialogues about say 5 minutes and spend 15+ hours killing groups of enemies 
 that have no variety in their attack patterns. You cannot block which gets annoying at times. The 
 bosses in this game have no personality and are way to predictable. 
  
  You can level up you HP (health) SP (needed to swing your weapon) and Luck which affect item drops. 
 If you don't have enough SP you can only swing your weapon 1 once then have to wait for to attack 
 again. Finding the right mix to level up is somewhat of a pain. Potions can be used to lower the 
 SP stats on weapons however they are difficult to acquire. 
  
  To get several of the better spells you need to play on hard mode and require lots of backtracking 
 to get. Hard made doesn't open until finishing the story once with each character so what's the 
 point? As an example to learn the spell Thorn you have to beat the forest guardian 7 times which 
 means replaying the entire first level and beating its boss 7 times. It takes a good half hour 
 each time through the level at least. In solo mode certain spells aren't accessible to characters 
 yet they still show up as learnable. 
  
  The item synthesizing is broken as it relies on luck and potions. The game does not explain at 
 all how synthesis works. It can get expensive and frustrating trying to create good weapons. The 
 potions needed are very rare. Some like the ones need to increase weapon attacks aren't available 
 until you are almost halfway through the game. 95% of the weapons dropped by enemies are useless 
 or for characters other than the one you are playing with. 
  
  This game was a disappointment as it didn't do anything to move the series forward. Each character 
 plays the exact same maps with no variety. It's just a hack n slash through linear dungeons for 
 hours with no background or true story content to support it. I rented it played through one and 
 a half quests and was quite bored. 
  
  Rent it before buying and see if it's for you. If you are looking for something more than pure 
 button mashing you won't find it here. It's a shame Blueside put so little effort into this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadrikerXIV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  On the surface Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom looks like a typical hack and slash title with 
 rpg elements thrown in for a bit of depth. I came into the game without any prior exposure to the 
 other Kingdom Under Fire titles, but I felt instantly at home having been exposed to the likes 
 of Lineage II and other Korean MMOs.
  
  You'd best enjoy repetition because that's what this dungeon crawler is all about.
  
  The RPG 
 element of the game can be discarded from the genre description, considering the quests that flesh 
 out the story are completely optional. You can progress throughout the entire game without initiating 
 the primary quest objective  which is a pity, considering most of the voice work in this title 
 is rather good.
  
  With weak role-playing elements, a great deal of emphasis now falls upon the combat system.
  
 
  While the game stems from the same basic formula found in the Dynasty Warrior games there are some 
 key elements which separate them. The SP meter restricts your ability to mindlessly flail on the 
 masses of evil, with each swing of your weapon consuming your character's precious stamina. Learning 
 how to time your combos by depressing attack buttons for delayed strikes can help maximize the 
 damage you dish out. You can also catch a quick breather to regain some SP between strikes.
  
  The spell learning process should be familiar to anyone who's played MMOs like World of Warcraft 
 or Lineage II. Spells an' abilities are quested for, with your quest-giver burdening you with mundane 
 "kill this many creatures" prerequisites.
  
  Most of your time will likely be spent investing money and time in gathering for item synthesis. 
 Combining your weapons and armor with other items provides many beneficial (and detrimental) effects. 
 Experimenting with item synthesis and learning how to properly beef up your equipment is the path 
 to achieving the greater items the game has to offer. With a long list of enhancements that offer 
 a plethora of stats affects, you'll spend a great deal of time experimenting with enhancement builds 
 and trading with other players online.
  
  Online play is where the game truly shines. My experiences hold true to the game's claim of seamless 
 online gameplay, having played with friends online without any problems with lag or server complications. 
 With the ability to trade weapons, armor and items with other players  plus, with Regnier being 
 the only character able to synthesize abilities into weapons  the game sports some of the charm 
 (and hassles) found in MMORPGs.
  
  There are two major gripes I have with this title, though. The first being the camera  sluggish 
 rotation, unfortunately, hinders the action more often than not. One element that contributes to 
 this diminishing factor is the graphics. The game is absolutely gorgeous, however, at times the 
 slowdown can be horrendous! These agonizing drags can slow the action down to an unbearable, even 
 unplayable, pace.
  
  Aside from that, I enjoy the game very much. For most, the single player experience will warrant 
 little replay value; unless you find pleasure in the solitary grind to maximize the stats of your 
 equipment. As I stated before, online gaming is where this dungeon crawler truly shines.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the KuF series and this is definately a turn for the worse for the series.
 
  
  KuF: CoD reminds me of a music artist who has a great style but decides they want to change directions 
 just to be different and all that happens is the music ends up sucking and the fanbase leaves. 
 When they should have just stuck to the formulae that worked for them.
  
  This game feels claustrophobic, gone are the open plains of battle of the KuF series and replaced 
 are these tight little linear passageways. Repition can be made interesting, I found 99 nights 
 repetitive but still enjoyable, this game is just plain repetitive when you'll often find yourself 
 repeating the same dungeon
  
  The attack mechanics also feel disjointed. In previous KuF games you had your standard auto attacks 
 and they would fill up your SP bar by killing enemies and then you could unleash a super attack. 
 In this game you standard attacks are limited by your SP bar, and the stronger weapon you use the 
 faster your drain your SP. All this ends up doing is breaking up the flow and rythym of the game 
 cause you'll unleash a combo then find you can't even attack for a few seconds till your SP bar 
 regenerates. This means often you'll be better off using weaker weapons which don't drain it as 
 fast which just defeats the purpose of gearing up. Your gear and spell choices have really little 
 impact on the game and I found them generally quite unimpressive.
  
  The music is quite forgetable as well, previous KuF had a nice mix of metal and symphony. Sound 
 effects are ok. The story also is just bizaare, a newcomer will have no ide what is going on if 
 they didn't play the previous 2 KuF game.
  
  
  The only real redeeming quality of this game is that it was always just a side project and not 
 a true sequel to the KuF strategy series which they are working on called KuF- Dominion. 
  
  Hardcore KuF fans can wait till this hits the bargain bin. If you've never played the series 
 I'd recommend picking up the older xbox versions if you still can and just skipping this version 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This review is for the handful of people who have even the smallest iota of interest in Kingdom 
 Under Fire: Circle of Doom, and you know who you are: the fanatical hack 'n slash gamers, the modern 
 day knights of yore, and the tiny group of individuals who are interested in fledgling Korean gaming 
 companies like Blueside, who, if recent reviews accurately reflected gameplay, seemed to have flayed 
 this RPG sequel open and surgically removed any and all components considered "fun". But what these 
 reviewers fail to realize is that for what the game is - a mindless button mash with sexy elves 
 and floating Buddha statues that dispense armor -, Circle of Doom does a fairly solid job in delivering 
 a few dozen hours of medieval adventuring to 360 owners.
  
  Now it's been roughly two years since the last Kingdom Under Fire game was released, 2005's RTS 
 Heroes, and quite a few changes have been made to the game in that amount of time. Previous developer, 
 Phantagram, has left the series to pursue other projects, like Ninety-Nine Nights and Blueside 
 has taken that game as their model for Circle of Doom. All military units you controlled in the 
 previous installments have disappeared and uglified into Fleshmen (who deliver equal portions of 
 flab and creepy) and spitting cephalopods named Rippers, and you have been imbued with the superhuman 
 power to stab your way through thirty men droves of these things over and over and over until your 
 thumb cramps up. The controls are simple, and with most characters you can boil every encounter 
 down to a two button extravaganza: X controls one weapon, A the other. Sure, there are a variety 
 of spells to learn and plenty of them are humorous in how incredibly emo they are; weep at your 
 mentally-deficient enemies and then finish them off by slashing yourself with a self-inflicted 
 attack. Sadly, most of these spells give little payback as the game wears on and a good deal of 
 them (flesh spear, cherub statue) take too long to cast to give you any sort of advantage during 
 an enemy invasion. And while you might want to avoid using magic, you'd have a death wish if you 
 do the same for items. Red and white potions are your friends because they restore your HP and 
 SP (which is used to execute attacks) , respectively, and with how much hacking and slashing is 
 going on with both parties, you need to use these if you want to have a prayer of staying in the 
 game.
  
  Fortunately, you can also improve your HP and SP with each level gained, which given how rapidly 
 you accrue experience, happens quite a bit. But unlike other action RPGs like Untold Legend or 
 Baldur's Gate, there is little customization available to your character. Rather than controlling 
 the speed of your warrior, the vitality or the accuracy (which, as you'll find with long-range 
 weapons, is frustratingly low) , all you can modify is the aforementioned HP, SP, and luck, which 
 affects things like your item drop rate and synthesis success rate. The latter aspect works similarly 
 Oblivion's alchemy: attach items and abilities to your current weapons to raise their stats. Once 
 you discover exactly how to perform a beneficial synthesis, you might find yourself stopping by 
 the various Idols more often, since synthesizing weapons and armor is relatively painless and highly 
 useful to your mythical hero in the long run.
  
  Beneath the synthesizing and the hordes of enemies, there is a story, though it is relatively weak 
 in comparison to other aspects of the game. For example, I chose to follow Celine's journey and 
 spent five hours of the game committing genocide before I realized that the spirit crystal I was 
 supposed to find for my brain-dead lover was buried somewhere in the first section of the game. 
 There is nothing really connecting one area to the next so that you'll find yourself running across 
 a desert before taking refuge in a mansion that looks like its architectural design was stripped 
 right out of Symphony of the Night; neither gives an explanation as to why your barging your way 
 through its linear-cut path, but there you are and there are plenty of gnome-like sculptor enemies 
 who inexplicably want your head served upon a platter ala John the Baptist.
  
  Thankfully, my story had decent voice acting, which is more than can be said for some of the other 
 characters (ahem, Mr. Vampire Prince himself, Leinhart) . Outside of dreaming story events you will 
 never hear another person's voice, so that you can expect most of the game will be spent hearing 
 the grunting of enemies and a few well done musical pieces that drift through the background. Even 
 more beautifully done is the artwork, and though its splendor will never match another recently 
 released action RPG (Heavenly Sword) , and although the palette of color is sometimes dominated 
 by shades of brown, causing skeletons and archmages to blend into the background during the last 
 level, the game still shines in the art department.
  
  Circle of Doom allows you to play with a band of others online, and that very well may be the best 
 way to go. The game gives a decent hack 'n slash experience, with little else: the story is shallow, 
 the characters flat, and I have yet to provide an explanation as to why bosses like Loki want to 
 kill you aside from the fact that you're more classically attractive than that Earthworm Jim metalmonger 
 could ever hope to be. But they do, and they will look impressive while flying across the screen. 
 So while this Kingdom Under Fire installment may lose fans with its drastically different style 
 of gameplay, it still presents a decent romp through the forest, and with the recent dearth of 
 new titles out on the market, maybe that's the best the fantasy RPG obsessed can hope for until 
 February comes around. For those of you who aren't Ren Faire fans, perhaps the best course of action 
 is to dust off your Call of Duty 4 until Q1 picks up.
  
  Pros:
  - Pretty graphics are among some of the better released on the system, with a variety of backgrounds 
 and enemies ripe for the killing. Story events, however, are presented a little stiffly, with little 
 character movement and absolutely no expression in the face
  - Sound effects and music are both presented well, with a variety of background noises to better 
 show off the art design
  - Game features a multiplayer mode that can make the title a more social, and ultimately a more 
 fun experience overall
  - A variety of enemies inhabit each level; however, the endless spawning of some arachnids can 
 make wading through certain areas of the game frustrating 
  - With a variety of characters to choose from, the game's replay value is relatively high, lasting 
 well over fifty hours if played through with each of the protagonists
  
  Cons:
  - Drastic change in gameplay (from RTS to action RPG) may turn some fans away from the series
 
  - Bland storyline and protagonists that will bore all but the most hardcore Kingdom Under Fire 
 fan will appreciate, since characters from previous titles make an appearance; locations and bosses, 
 however, are rarely explained
  - Gameplay never rises above a mindless button mash with mindless enemies - if you seriously enjoy 
 hack 'n slash titles, this flaw can easily be overlooked, but for everyone else, they might get 
 bored before reaching the end of the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_aLbO_plmP
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  not the best game of the year but definitely not the worst either. if you are someone who enjoys 
 complex RPG's with a lot of depth in it, well this is not for you. KUF is a straight up hack and 
 slash, its very linear and can get very repetitive. the story line is very dull for every character 
 available. The AI is not the greatest either.
  
  on the other hand KUF is the type of game you want to play when you had a hard day at work and 
 you are in the mood to just hack & slash enemies down, and its a plus that you can sign on LIVE 
 and play it with up to three other friends or strangers (which ever you prefer) . i found it rather 
 boring playing the game on single player, because as i mentioned it earlier the game does get very 
 repetitive.
  
  i give this game a 7 just because of the online capabilities and the really fun hack and slash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Never have played a Kingdom Under Fire game before, I decided to rent KUF: Circle of Doom. The trailers 
 looked good and I played the demo. My first impression was that this game was like Dynasty warriors 
 or 99 Nights. Lots of enemies on-screen, hacking and slashing away for loot and grinding away to 
 reach that lvl 120 max cap. 
  
  Visually, the game isn't half bad. Icy ground reflects light impressed me . . .to a point. The 
 background could have been more to add to the eye candy factor. The soundtrack is kind of annoying.
 
  
  Gameplay wise, Circle of Doom seemed very simplistic. Learning different spells for a certain character 
 in which it requires you to slay certain monsters? Gimmicky at best. Storyline certainly was not 
 the main draw to cause gamers to come back, I would have to say it's the wanting to reach to the 
 next level (or obtaining achievement points) . There isn't much strategy to this game, if you are 
 playing solo, you can pretty much beat the levels based upon how many health potions you have in 
 your inventory. Camera angle can be bad and annoying at times. 
  
  Definitely rent the game or borrow it from a friend first if you have never played KUF . . .I've 
 heard that the past games was nothing like this one. I am just killing time with this game . . 
 .until Burnout Paradise is out. That and Lost Odyssey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very nice visuals and dark sence of style, tons of enemies to kill and weapons to be 
 used, interesting character development idea, very cool looking monsters and bosses to fight, four 
 player co-op is a lot of fun.
  
  The Bad: Some graphical glitches, can get repetitive, storyline isn't as well developed as it should 
 be, some minor annoyances in multiplayer6. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Kingdom Under Fire: The Crusaders attacked the Xbox, gamers were shocked at how well an RTS 
 style game could work on a console. It featured tons of epic battles ala Dynasty Warriors with 
 some stratagy elements to make one solid gaming package. Now, the series goes in a new, more RPG 
 like direction with Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom for the Xbox 360. 
  
  Many critics have claimed that this edition of the franchise is a good idea, but is not executed 
 well. I beg to differ, in fact, this is one of the first games that has gotten me hooked for some 
 dungeon crawling in quite a while.
  
  At the start, you select one of 6 playable characters. Each has their own weapon set, storyline 
 and usefulness. Some characters are speed demons who do all their hacking and slashing up close 
 and personal, while others are more about magic and ranged attacks. Each character has their own 
 uses, so choose wizely which one you want to start with.
  
  Once you start your adventuring, you'll notise the really nice looking visuals, the well done musical 
 score and the hoards of enemies that attack you as you wonder various creepy, yet soothing environments. 
 
  
  Circle of Doom does a good job of getting all of the classic dungeon crawler elements into this 
 game. You have tons of weapons, each with different elemental powers, a way to fuse to weapons 
 together to make an even better one, abilities to be learned by killing a select number of creatures 
 and you level up and earn more ability points the more creatures you kill. One interesting aspect 
 is how the story progresses. You approach idols who act as merchants and save points throughout 
 the game. At these points, you can choose to go to sleep, where you will enter a dream world where 
 your character's story will be revealed to you. It is also the place where you recieve quests and 
 learn new abilities. This is a unique way to present the storyline, but the story isn't very fleshed 
 out for any of the characters.
  
  The biggest draw to this game is the addition of 4 player online co-op. This works really well, 
 because more and harder monsters will attack the more players you have. Your teammates actually 
 help you during your quests, so if one of your friends kills a Plant King, it will count towards 
 your quest. One flaw with the co-op is that you are unable to drop items that you don't need. You 
 can only destroy them, or sell them. You are able to trade, so hopefully your teamate has something 
 you need when you trade. 
  
  The only other issues I had with the game were some very minor camera issues and the gameplay can 
 get a bit repetitive, but other than that, it's a lot of fun.
  
  Similar to the RTS style games, you are still unleashing devistating attacks on lots of enemies, 
 but it's done entirely from a third person perspective instead of overhead, then third person like 
 the earlier games. Sure, you might miss the stratagy elements, but this hopefully isn't the direction 
 that the series as a whole is going, just and offshoot before the next RTS comes. 
  
  Circle of Doom has lot's of strange and wonderful creatures to kill, most of the RPG/dungeon crawler 
 elements that you need for a successful action game and 4 player co-op, all of which make this 
 game an addicting, rewarding experience. 
  
  Don't believe the negative hype, check this game out today!
  
  Gameplay: Classic dungeon crawling 
 with wierd enemies and 4-player co-op. Works for me!
  
  Graphics: Dark, but majestic at the same time. It really works out well for the game's style.
 
  
  Sound: Decent voice acting and a really well flowing musical score.
  
  Value: It's not a short game, and playing 4-player online adds more depth to the experience.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Don't forget to protect the family jewels... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0ser81
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Yes this game isn't incredibly complex or well written. Yes it doesn't blaze new trails in the 
 RPG genre, but you know what? There's something satisfying about just button mashing and killing 
 hordes of baddies. Now if only some developer would come out with a well written, complex, co-op 
 available RPG. I don't know about you but I think the D&D franchise is just begging to get a 360 
 treatment. I mean come on there has got to be a way to allow up to 4 players and 1 DM to play campaigns 
 over LIVE. Now to mention you could make a killing on micro transactions selling new adventures 
 or campaign settings. Well I digress, but KUF shows us the what's possible in the fantasy multi-player 
 RPG genre on the 360, now someone just has to perfect it. I'll give it a solid 7 out of 10 just 
 because it's fun to beat the crap out of things sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermegalord
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I really cant believe what happened, I fell asleep playing KUF, and that never happens ever!, i 
 like and enjoy all kind of games RTS, RPG`s, FPS, racing, sports, action, puzzle, etc. i mean all 
 kind and ive been playing since the atari came up, so theres hundreds of games in my memory, 
 but few were as boring as KUF, i mean... at last 99 nights had a "decent" story, generic? repetitive? 
 yes but also fun, this... this is the most repetitive and boring game ever created since i can remember, 
 i am sorry, this is my personal point of view, i really wanted to give it a try to KUF, but at 
 the end its just disappointing and me sleeping with a 360 control in my hand and that is the first 
 time it happens, i rather prefer a new diablo or something else... the good thing was that only 
 was a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatakeKakashi08
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  My boyfriend and I are pretty big into RPG games so it was only a matter of time until we picked 
 up this one. We've never played any of the original Kingdom Under Fire games, so we honestly can't 
 compare this one to the series. We picked it up recently off of our friend and found it to be a 
 rather fun and addictive RPG game with excellent graphics, cool weapons and armour and funky looking 
 bad-guys. It most certainly may not be the most original RPG we've played regarding story, combat, 
 quests and theme, but it's still enjoyable nonetheless. We especially find it fun on the multi-player 
 option where our friend can battle through the maps with us. The cut scenes are well-done and the 
 story is enough to hold our attention. It's certainly not the best RPG on the market, but it's 
 definitly worth a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the KUF series since crusaders first debut on the Xbox.
  
  The action Rpg/strategy games were a breath of fresh air in an era saturated with FPS titles.
 
  
  Now, I realise that this game was not meant to be a continuation of this. The Developer team decided 
 they wanted to try something new. Ok, thats cool I am a fan of the Action RPG Hack and Slash and 
 loot gameplay. So I have been waiting for this game with baited breath. This review will not lament 
 on the fact that it is no longer a strategy/Action RPG but on the fact that to my horror it is 
 just a terrible game....
  
  First lets get the good out of the way.
  
  Nice selection of characters? Check.
  Excellent presentation and character design? Check.
  
 Online co-op? Check.
  Scores of opponents to kill? Check
  Gore? Check.
  Innovative skill and upgrade system? Check
  lots of loot? Check
  Random generated levels? Check
 
  
  These things made to give my first impression of the game to be a positive one. But unfortunately 
 it doesnt take to long to see that this game is a boring reptetive Hack and slasher with some very 
 flawed design decisions.
  
  For almost every good quality this game has there is an an equally bad quality that negates anything 
 positive that can be said.
  
  It does have a sophisticated and in depth story. But the vehicle of its delivery is so bad you 
 can go through the entire game without having any idea of what is going on.
  
  Although the character designs are nice, there is very little to customise your look. Most weapons 
 and and armor rehash the same old graphics, meaning if you play on line be ready to see the "clone 
 wars" in action. This applies to your opponents as well as your friends.
  
  The Online co-op is well done, but there is no PVP option. So whats the point of hacking and slashing 
 through mutilple play throughs of the same boring gameplay in three difficulty levels when you 
 cant even pit your creations against your firends?
  
  The skill system, while being a nice idea is a bit pointless. most of the skills are practically 
 useless and and extremely tedious to aquire.
  
  The SP meter used to power all attacks is a nice idea but it just doesnt seem to work very well 
 especially in regard to the abilities which you need to pump a full sp meter into to have any decent 
 effect. There are potions to help you here but it just is tedious....
  
  The synthesis idea is a nice one and works ok, provided you know what your doing. I suggest using 
 the internet if you want to play this game to optimise your experience with other people's tips 
 on synthesis.
  
  The game has mutiple different quests paths for each character but these quests require you to 
 visit the same boring locations some times mutiple times sometimes over and over again! Why Blueside? 
 WHY?
  
  There are random elements to the levels, but you will be hard pressed to notice them.
  
  For, 
 myself however the real dissapoinment comes from the combat itself. Each character can equip two 
 weapons which can be used to string combo attacks together. Each weapon supposedly has its own 
 fighting style sounds good on paper but in reality. (providing you have been wise with synthesis 
 and have a adequate SP bar) you will see the same combo over and over and over again.
  
  Come on, even Heroes and crusaders had a deeper combat system than this....
  
  The final nail 
 in the coffin is blueside actually claim on their website that anything you see can be destroyed. 
 I assume they are talking about the environment? This is plain false advertising.
  
  I was going to give this a 6.5 but after I have written the review I'm going to have to score it 
 a bit lower.
  
  I pray this is not a sign of all future games in the franchise, and if so it is a sad day for gaming.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grey52876
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  i am actually enjoying this title. my expectations were not high, so maybe it is easier to enjoy. 
 I like the graphics and design of the characters, they seem to teeter on the line of cool & cooky. 
 The enviroments/regions are fun even though it shows how linear the game is. the regions are suppossed 
 to be randomly generated, though i have seen patterns too quickly in the regions already after 
 10-15 hours. The weapon customizing is good and the hack and slash aspect is slightly heightened 
 by SP bar which helps give you the actaul cool combos of each weapon in either of your toons hands, 
 by being selective on the weapon for it stats will help make the game feel a bit more gentle on 
 the fingers. it is a bit repetitious, but with a buddy or two i believe it might cause me a few 
 late nights. No, the game is not a classic by any stretch of the mind, if you can see it for what 
 it is, there should be some enjoyment out of your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glaukus
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Even though it's all the review says it is and isn't it definitely deserves a 7-7.5 just because 
 it certainly has to be checked out, even as a demo or a rental.
  
  It's fun to watch and play, and for the first 4-5 hours you're not yet bored it's REALLY good fun. 
 Eye candy in graphics, animation, fighting, enemies coming toward you. Just treat like an action 
 or an fps without a story, and try to tolerate the spanish accent of the Vampire prince and his 
 father :P
  
  Makes you wonder if ENcamblossa is Iberic after all...
  
  And to be honest I played this more than I've played the previous KUF for XBoX which was strategic 
 too, felt that handling those soldiers and archers was somewhat boring and taking time from the 
 real action. 
  
  Only REALLY bad thing which sinks it (by no means is it the lack of a good compelling story something 
 to duel over) , is the linear feel it has through most of it and when I say linear I mean the pretty 
 narrow linear way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom is a new gender compared to the 2 others Kingdom Under Fire, It's 
 a action-RPG.
  
  The best thing I loved in this game is the multiplayer (Xbox Live) , it's just amazing, more we are 
 more the pleasure is big. You can play 7 Characters with a beautifull design, the graphics are awesome, but 
 the story is a little bitbehind" everything in the game, that's dissapointing it's true. The gameplay 
 isn't revolutinary but I think it's ok. You can synthetise weapons or armor (but it's a little bit 
 complicated) . The envirronement is good and the monster are a little bit repetitive but they are 
 ok. Boss are very cool.
  
  This game disappoint many people but, some people said this game is just to awesome (I'm one of 
 those people ^^) . The game let a lot of opinion different, you should rent it first because some 
 people said; It's Awesome Dude!!!! and others said: It's a waste of time at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  the series is so great and this game is one of them; it is great too, but i await for greatest one; unfortunately 
 it is great but not so;
  unlike the gamespot, you find the story based on good elements and line are designed so well; the 
 power of the story is the good sub-stories; they are so attractive and force you to play the game 
 and follow the main story; but the way that game narrate them ,is not so strong; the details are 
 so many and you miss alot of them, and this fact can strike the game bad but the power of the main 
 story and the help of the remain details of sub-stories reduce the strike so perfect; you can count 
 on the story;
  the graphic is high; the edges are so smooth, the water effects and the grass are so real, trees is 
 like real one in the jungle but the wind can not move them like this (the movement of trees in pressure 
 of wind are sometimes rookie) ; sun's lightes are so beautiful and the levels are well-designed; the 
 weapons acting so well and show many ways for smash a foe; and their strength are fit to power of 
 the enemies; the elements of a high graphical game are use in this game on-place; the levels have 
 many details and contain variety things; the physic of the game is not as the same of the graphic 
 but it is good too; it shows sometimes strange things but it is normal in average; characters movements 
 are so real and detailes of them are so many; the animations are captured so pro;
  gameplay is smooth and handy; you can perform more than 50 combos in raw, but sometimes it leave 
 you alone in the see of the enemies; the bottomes replay so fast and make you to smash them intime; the 
 walking and guarding are so well-designed and the attacking moves are useful but modern moves like 
 DMC series are not allowed;
  AI is good ,some foes are so talent and the rest have good IQ; but the bosses are so-so; one is like 
 "master chief" so smart and the other is like nazies in "HOV";
  the game suffers from several bad things but the fast and smooth gameplay, sharp graphic, great story 
 and the end the value of the game can make everyone to play it; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillyEaglesOwn
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I saw a few things about this game and thought that maybe it would be a good game to rent so I 
 went out to blockbuster and rented the game today. Probably the worst game I have ever rented that 
 game gets boring after just an hour of play. Your doing the same thing over and over with pointless 
 quests no story line and severly uncreative maps. The game could have probably been a decent game 
 but it just sucks. Since there was no story to the game it really doesnt keep you wanting to play, 
 the leveling up isnt even fun either you level up and all you get to do is to either raise your 
 health or raise or SP. This game does not deserve to be on Xbox 360 the most i would say is maybe 
 on addictinggames. com. This game is suppose to be like a hack and slash game but it even failts 
 at that too because all the attacks hardly look cool. The coolest thing is the spells but the only 
 problem with that is that you have to do a pointless quest just to even be able to use the ability. 
 In my opinion, dont touch the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odins_Fury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Playing solo it got a little boring and repetitive, but if you throw some fun people into the mix 
 over xbox live you've got a great game here. Hacking and slashing for 5 or 6 hours suddenly becomes 
 fun. Finding and synthesizing loot, unlocking the games crazy achievements, and completing quests 
 really starts to grow on you. I don't know if I'll ever seriously play the game solo, but there's 
 plenty of people you can join up with to play. 
  
  There's a few other flaws in the game I should mention. Some people are more sensitive to tearing 
 in games, but this game does have some horizontal tearing issues. The game does have some bugs 
 that weren't worked out. Once a boss got stuck on the ceiling and we couldn't beat it and another 
 time I bought an expansion slot for my character, the game took the gold but I didn't get the slot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMurphy28
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  KUF: COD is a decent game to rent that will amuse you for a week or two, but is a complete waste 
 of $60, which I learned through personal experience. I played this game for about 2 hours and can 
 sum up the whole game. You run through a forest and kill hordes of enemies, sell your loot, gain 
 a new skill, advance in your characters lame story and than move on to another forest. I'm hoping 
 that I can get a $40 trade in at eb games but I doubt it.... 
  
  Decent looking but not amazing, boring gameplay but if you are not a hardcore gamer, just a casual 
 gamer that plays for an hour or 2 a week and enjoy these games than check your bargain bin in a 
 few weeks. I know EB Games will have at least one used copy.
  
  I've never played the KUF series before but I'm hoping that this is the worst of the bunch because 
 of it's not, this series is clearly a joke.... even more over-rated than Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  its all about the type of games that people like to play, in an overall gaming world this game 
 is not so good. but i love these types of games, so for me all of the critic scores mean nothing
 
  
  if you like this kind of game youll love it, if you dont, you wont, that simple
  
  also, if you have a great tv and the new xbox, this game looks and works amazingly well, it just 
 looks o so very pretty. then there is the story, i followed the story since crusaders and have 
 loved it ever since, ive been waiting for this game for a while and now that its finally out its 
 getting bashed by all of these **** critics that are gonna make it do worse in the market. i think 
 it is a good game for what they said it was gonna be, they didnt make any big promises so i think 
 that this game should get at least a 7 from anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arydholm04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that the newest installment of Kingdom under fire was more hack n' slash and RPG than 
 RTS I was a lot more interested. However, the biggest problem with the game is the skill points. 
 Instead of being able to swing or chop away until I widdle away their health, I had to stop every 
 couple of swings to allow my SP to recharge. Beyond that very crippling piece of gameplay, it was 
 very satisfying for a hack n' slash game. 
  Their aren't very many characters, but each of the six have a good story and great character development. 
 The main problem I saw is the lack of talent in voice acting. Most of them sounded like monotone 
 dead beats than actors. Celine's voice wasn't too bad, but still not where is should have been.
 
  The graphics in the game are about where Ninety Nine Nights were. They aren't jaw droppingly beautiful, 
 but they are at least nice to look at. 
  So to rap it up, this game is a definite rental for hack n' slash or RPG fans. It has just enough 
 to make it worth playing, but not worth the $60 it costs to purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyteams
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I thought Kingdom under fire was great! anyone who likes RPG's will love this game but I like button 
 mashing because its actiony and intense and also the items and equips are fresh so you don't get 
 bored at all the characters are also fun to play with but kinda wish there were more and the battle 
 gamplay was great because there are just thousands of enimies to kill the graphics were good but 
 the voice acting mmm... was okay I think it matters about the gameplay I rate this game a 9 because 
 it was amazing. but about the characters like i said i wish there was more but the characters are 
 still good so I say still get the game even if there are six characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vzobel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  KUF has been a very good game series, with a great story and decent graphics, but maybe the jump 
 to the next-gen console was to risky without knowing what the fans wanted. If you like some RPGs 
 and like to kick some ass, well this game is a very good way to kill some time until they fix what 
 some people didnt like, KUF: CoD its a ban step on te series, but more shall come so dont start 
 screaming and saying that this game is a crap, the co-op gives the game a very good point, its 
 fun and easy, maybe with a little more effort this could be a best of year.
  
  Well maybe next time they'll think about change the formula twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  the good: cool looking graphic, great playable characters, variety of spells 
  the bad: linear repetitive game-play, little or none explanation about quests, poor storyline, emphasis 
 on on-line co-op
  
  I have to admit I was rather disappointed after all the announcements, but, as stated, the game 
 gets you. you will be fighting your way trough the entire game and it will consume all of your 
 abilities to adapt to situations. Opponents are wast in numbers and some are invisible so you will 
 be slicing air hoping to hit them unless you equip some enchanted item and there are a lot of those 
 dropped during fights. you can also synthesize your own items making them stronger so pay attention 
 to potions in all their colors. when leveling up you can distribute points to your health HP, magic 
 SP or luck boss fights are also not consistent, some are hard, some easy and confusing. storyline 
 is mostly going on in the dream realm where you get your quest and learn all the different spells, 
 and all of those demand a certain sacrifice ( you have to kill this many of those) . you will also 
 be dealing with three demons of love, greed and death each of those offering a different selection 
 of goods for you to choose. some parts of the story can for certain characters can be played trough 
 only in co-op mode and that sucks big time since there is only on line co-op. that's about it enjoy 
 the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  KUF designers made an unforgivable mistake taking out the strategic part of the previous games. 
 This version is nothing more than a (somehow) graphically improved version of N3... I'm completely 
 dessapointed. I was a fan of the series since the old days (XBOX) ... I'll return this one to the 
 store if I could.
  In addition, missions are VERY repetitive in nature. At some points is ridiculous how many enemies 
 you need to defeat to continue your way... Defeating them is not hard at all... but is time consuming 
 and there is absolutely no thrill in doing so.
  My advice: If you could rent it first... do it... Give it a try and decide if you really want to 
 spend 100 hours doing the same button smashing on your control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom is yet another attractive but ultimately hollow click-fest action-RPG. 
 
  
  The good:
  * Very good looking visuals
  * Nice, constant flow of goodies -- lots of variation in weapons/armor/etc. to keep you clicking 
 for more/better gear.
  * Not many (intentionally) dull moments
  * Decent enemy AI -- enemies won't all charge at once (very Bruce Lee-esque) , magi will run from 
 your attacks, more powerful enemies will strike when they are behind you but let the weaker horde 
 take the brunt of your weapon strikes in front.
  
  The bad:
  * Very repetitive and non-strategic combat -- a series of nearly-random clicks will get you through 
 the battles with countless hordes of baddies that make up for being weak by coming at you in large 
 numbers.
  * Poor enemy animation makes the hordes look like an army of very stiff clones
  * Sometimes good, sometimes horrid voice acting in cutscenes
  * VERY narrow game paths that basically 
 make you follow a single tight line through a level to fight each group of carefully placed baddies.
 
  * When your character is hit, they go through a very lengthy "ugh" animation. When playing an 
 action RPG, the player wants fluidity most of all. Even if I'm being annihilated, I don't want 
 to feel like I'm just standing and watching my beating. 
  * Little to no sound effects and very forgettable music throughout. Sometimes the game is confused 
 about whether you're at peace or in combat, and plays both themes at the same time in discord.
 
  
  Overall, give it a miss until it hits the $19.99 price point... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_pazz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off it must be said the KUF: CoD is one fine looking game.... the character models 
 are all excellent and the environments are well detailed, if a little dark at times. The randomly 
 generated areas don't seem to work all that well cause it sorta all feels the same anyway but the 
 variety of enemies that u are constantly fighting makes up for it slightly I just wish they had 
 have made more than one animation for each model. It looks entirely stupid dozens of enemies moving, 
 attacking, and dying in exactly the same manner, somewhat disturbing and annoying and stinks of 
 laziness in my opinion.
  Otherwise it's a fairly mindless hack n slash affair, there is a fairly weak story coupled with 
 some bad voice acting... but on the other hand you can pull off some great combos and the fighting 
 can intense at times with dozens upon dozens of enemies on screen at once, each character specializes 
 in five different weapons so each character has a number of different fighting styles which keeps 
 things a bit fresher. 
  
  Overall a fairly decent hack n slash, with a few small annoyances, as long as that's all you expect 
 from it you can have a bit of fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarric3
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The good: Excellent graphics, no noticeable lag in big battles
  
  The Bad: Too easy for most gamers, The story is almost non existent, Enemies all look like clones
 
  
  I would not recommend buying this game unless you get it very very cheaply or are a very patient 
 person. Story what story, I played as Leinhart and all I got was a few conversations here and there 
 with his father in the dreamworld thats it, I have been playing now for about 2-3 hours and I feel 
 like I am running around killing hordes of enemies for no reason, where am I going? what I am doing? 
 I have no idea. A game without direction is like a train without a driver and it will end up like 
 a trainwreck of a game like this. Perhaps with other characters it is different but my experience 
 with this game has certainly put me off the whole game. I rented it from the video store earlier 
 today with high hopes for it, I have been anticipating this game for a while seeing the updates 
 on gamespot every so often thinking if it was good I would be down EB later today to go buy it, 
 it was not to be. If you can get past the lack of story and you can live with just the pretty graphics 
 and the hacking and slashing this game may be for you, but for people hungry for a story, one with 
 depth like in a Final Fantasy game or an Elders Scrolls game, this isnt for you.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 5
  Gameplay: 7
  Story: 2
  Overall 5.5
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
