-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kung Fu Panda
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/kungfupanda/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great dialogue.
 Visuals really capture the look and feel of the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short single-player campaign.
 Inconsistent voice acting.
 Limited character development.
 Repetitive gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 493 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Luxoflux
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This shallow and repetitive beat-'em-up is fun for a while, but doesn't last much longer than the 
 movie that it's based on. 

  Kung Fu Panda on the Xbox 360 brilliantly captures the look and feel of the movie that it's based 
 on; the problem is that it's shallow, repetitive, and only slightly longer than the source material. 
 The game is intended primarily for those who have seen the film and want to live out Po's adventure 
 as both the bumbling fool and unlikely Dragon Warrior saviour. For this reason, those who pick 
 up Kung Fu Panda on a whim may find the character introductions are a little thin and that their 
 experience suffers as a result.  

  While not impossible to follow, the story can certainly be a little confusing, especially in regards 
 to intercharacter relationships. If you haven't seen the movie the game comes across as slightly 
 disjointed, and while it can be played as you would any off-the-shelf beat-'em-up, don't be surprised 
 if you find yourself struggling to make connections at times.  

           Even Po the Dragon Warrior needs to learn the basics. Hit the training room to brush up 
 on your awesome skills.      

  In the game you'll take on the croc, boar, and ninja cat gangs of Peace Valley as they vie to capitalise 
 on bad guy Tai Lung's return. It's no real surprise that you'll play Kung Fu Panda mostly as main 
 character Po, but during the game's 13 short chapters you'll also assume the role of his sensei 
 Master Shifu as well as Furious Five members Tigress, Monkey, Mantis, Crane, and Viper. Each has 
 a unique skill set, with Shifu capable of skull-hopping between groups of foes, and Monkey lashing 
 out and striking foes with his tail. You should be able to rip through the single-player campaign 
 in around four hours, even less if you complete only the minimum requirement objectives rather 
 than taking the time to do advanced tasks, explore, and find rare items. For the most part, collectibles 
 take the form of jade coins that unlock the game's multiplayer modes and selectable characters. 
 Finding hidden figurines of the Furious Five and Po scattered throughout levels rewards you with 
 short video montages of them in action taken directly from the film. Some of these are only a few 
 seconds long, so they hardly justify replaying stages if you missed finding them the first time 
 around.  

  Like other games in the brawler genre, you'll use the left analog stick to move your character 
 around. There are two attack buttons, and holding one of them down will charge a more powerful 
 attack and use Po's Chi, the game's form of energy for special attacks. Defeated foes drop orbs 
 that when collected restore Chi, while smashing and consuming the contents of dumpling baskets 
 restores health. Gold coins can be collected and used in the game's store to upgrade Po's health, 
 Chi bars, melee damage dealt, and the power of his special attacks. Unfortunately, the relatively 
 small amount of Chi used for specials at the easier difficulty levels and plentiful refills mean 
 the best approach is to pump all your coins into maxing out your Panda Quake ability, luring and 
 corralling groups of targets and body-slamming them into oblivion. It's an effective but incredibly 
 repetitious way to finish the game, and it's usable all the way to the end with the exception of 
 the boss battles, which require quick-action button-press events. These battles become more and 
 more frequent as you progress, with the number of button combos you'll need to press getting higher 
 toward the end of the game. In line with the title's gentle learning curve, failure to perform 
 them simply starts over at the beginning until you get it right without penalty.  

           All the major characters from the film make an appearance in the console version of Kung 
 Fu Panda.      

  Kung Fu Panda's multiplayer mode only supports offline play, and while it's available straightaway, 
 you'll only have around half of the minigames available out of the box, with the remainder requiring 
 you to find items in the single-player mode to unlock them. Depending on the minigame you're playing, 
 you'll be able to battle alongside up to three friends across games such as a shameless Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl clone; cooperative team survival mode against hordes of enemies and a timer; tile-flipping 
 picture matching; and Hong Kong, a competitive, Bejewelled-esque icon-matching column game complete 
 with levelling system.  

  Outdoor environments appear lush and verdant, while indoor zones feature great details, such as 
 the Dragon Scroll dojo's polished floors and towering ornate pillars. The game captures the look 
 and feel of the film very well, all the way down to the furry-looking tufts on Po's character model. 
 Audio in Kung Fu Panda is one of its strong points, and helps deliver the title's snappy quips 
 with great success. While the game doesn't have the same all-star cast as the film, the Jack Black 
 impersonator who narrates the game's story is believable enough. However, the same can't be said 
 for Jackie Chan's character, Monkey, who comes across as wooden.  

  Kung Fu Panda is an admirable attempt to bring the fun, humour, and look of the film to the Xbox 
 360, and in these areas it succeeds. Unfortunately, a measly four hours of repetitive gameplay 
 and inconsistent voice acting makes it a hard sell at full price for all but the most hardcore 
 fans of endangered-species martial arts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: geoxionGS
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I havent seen the movie yet, but i have enough only with the game. I got it with my xbox, and 
 it was the only game that i had to play. So i finished it. 
  
  Well, lets begin with the gameplay. Its all a hit and run game. The enemies are way too easy to 
 beat, even in the Dragon warrior dfficulty. The game has a little bit of RPG, but its very easy 
 to raise the powers of the panda. Just finishing the game (very short by the way) you get all the 
 upgrades. 
  
  The hardest thing to do in this game is to find all f the secret coins, which unlocks secret things 
 like new multiplayer levels, concept art and some videos of the characters. 
  
  The multiplayer games are just fine. Its like Smash bros. style, just hitting whoever jou see. 
 Its fun at the beggining, but due to his lack of movements, scenarios and characters, eventually 
 it becomes repetitive. It isnt really worth playing. 
  
  It also hasnt xbox live gameplay. It would have been good a cooperative live campaign.
  
  
 But even all these, i really didnt got bored while finishing it. If you wanna play it, just rent 
 it and play it on the dragon warrior difficulty, With some luck, you will get 870 gamerpoints in 
 only a couple of hours. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let's get this straight. This game isn't good enough or anticipated enough to deserve a full 
 review with super attention-to-detail. So, I'm just gonna make it short and sweet.
  The gameplay is simple button mashing. There are different fighting combos to use, but there are 
 hardly any and some are far too powerful in comparison to others. So, most of the time you'll be 
 pressing the same button combinations to attack. There are also some sequences in which you must 
 tap and press contextual buttons, but they are in no way unique to any of the other fifty thousand 
 games that have button-timing mini-games. There are several boss battles in the game, but none 
 of them are particularly interesting. The graphics in the game are shiny, and alright during gameplay. 
 But in the cutscenes they appear much better, especially in the facial animations of the characters. 
 The comedy in the cutscenes is great and matches the feel of the film. The characters from the 
 movie all have the same voice actors that voiced the film characters, and they all do a great job. 
 It's also great to hear Jack Black voicing Po and saying little narrative monologues in between 
 each level. So, I don't really recommend renting this. Just look for a friend who got their Xbox 
 near Christmastime and borrow it from them, because they got it for free. That way you'll be sure 
 to get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korino55
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  
  I started Kung Fu Panda with low expectations. It was one of two free games included in a X-Box 
 360 bundle, and is based off of a children's movie. When I popped it in for the sake of trying 
 it, I was instantly surprised with what the game had to offer. The controls are simple yet functional, 
 the scenery is great, and the game play itself serves as an entertaining fighter.
  
  The game starts with Po the Panda dreaming about being a kung fu master. He is snapped out of his 
 dreaming when his father calls him to help clean their store. Po soon hears about a fighting tournament 
 nearby, and travels to the stadium. He arrives just as they are closing the doors and doesn't make 
 it in. Instead of returning home, he tries to find an alternate way in. He gets an idea to strap 
 a bundle of firecrackers to a chair and blast himself in. While searching for the firecrackers, 
 you are put through a warrior training obstacle course with swinging hammers and crushing hands. 
 You also have a quest to rescue bunnies from the thugs pushing them around. When you save a bunny, 
 an amusing mini game crucial to your progression is unlocked. When you finally reach the chair, 
 you're blast into the sky. You land in the middle of the stadium where you are (accidentally) chosen 
 to be the Dragon Warrior by a retiring turtle. 
  As you delve deeper into the game, you learn how to execute new moves. The moves stick to the basic 
 controls, which initially isn't a bad thing. Each level is packed full of obstacles and baddies, 
 side quests, and exciting boss battles. When you defeat the boss the level ends, giving you a rating 
 and a chance to upgrade your stats (which you can also conveniently do throughout the game) . 
 
  
  Although this game has a lot of good things going for it, it also has some disappointing drawbacks 
 that prevent it from getting a higher score. The game gets repetitive quickly, especially when 
 you stop learning new things and max out your stats. The game also froze on me every forty-five 
 minutes to an hour and provided only an auto save, forcing me to fight the boss I had almost defeated 
 again or relocate the eggs for the side quest. Installing it onto your hard drive isn't a bad idea. 
 
  Kung Fu Panda surprised me, but I wouldn't buy it if I didn't get it free. This game is definitely 
 one to rent when your younger cousin is coming to visit or when you just want a more relaxed fighter.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-reviews
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I firstly will say I completely disagree with GameSpot on this one. I will start with the positives, 
 the gameplay is fun for the majority of the game mostly during combat because it amused me so much 
 watching a fat Panda belly bouncing a Cheetah. The graphics were very impressive although at some 
 points the cut scenes could be slightly glitchy. The plot of the whole game followed most of the 
 movie but obviously there had to be differences in the game.
  
  The negatives now, the game after a while started to become repetitive. It often had the same enemies, 
 and at that the enemies you fought didn't really appear in the movie what so ever.
  
  I like the stuff you could buy the outfits were really funny especially the dragon warrior one 
 because the moves changed slightly to match the outfit's.
  
  All in all the game I feel deserves an 8 because it did give me a lot of joy, although it only 
 took 1 hour and 10 minutes to finished the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Kung Fu Queerbait, *ahem* i mean Panda is surprisingly good game. U wouldn't think this would be 
 that good. I never even seen the movie and it's still a good game. There is all good things tho. 
 Bad is in the panda's fatness. Lol. Let me explain...
  
  First of all the graphics are very well made. The character's look good. Like Po the Panda, u can 
 actually see his fur! It looks good. And the background looks good. And the environment is good 
 lookin as well.
  
  The sound is also a good part. U can hear the character's cleary but the sounds are more for little 
 kids i guess. The game is too but it came with my 360 as with lego indy so i played it and got 
 every achievement so yeah.
  
  The good parts besides the sound and graphics are:
  
  1. The cutscenes- the cutscenes tend to come up a lot but with Jack Black as the voice of Po and 
 humorous encounters makes this one of the key points of Kung Fu Queerbait *ahem* i mean Panda.
 
  
  2. The gameplay- the gameplay is right-on-the-mark fun. U can do lots of combos and all and kill 
 lots of enemies.
  
  3. Upgrades- one unique feature is the upgrades, u collect coins to buy upgrades, like costumes 
 which cost too much, and different combos and attacks.
  
  4. The controls- the controls are i guess the last good thing about this game. U would think that 
 a movie-based games controls are OUT OF CONTROL! lol. but they are actually easy to use.
  
  The bad.
  
  1. Repetitive- the game sure does get repetitive after a while. Nuff said.
  
 
  2. Too-much button mashing- i mean jeez! So many buttons to press! This is another bad topic. 
 And another thing, they have some encounters when u gotta press a x b or y at some point to move 
 on in the story mode. Kinda annoying.
  
  3. No multiplayer- WTF MAN! WTF! no freakin multiplayer, well its for little kids and i think its 
 a slightly gay game so i probly wouldnt play it anyway...
  
  4. Just plain gets on ur nerves- most of the time, some of the missions and rare coins for unlockables 
 just get on ur damn nerves! If u can handle it, go 4 it.
  
  Well i guess thats about it for my review, this was the other game that came with the 360 and i 
 guess im done with it. I give this Queerbait i mean Panda a 7 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0crian
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  For a game that you can find in any bargain bin these days, this title is defiantly worth a look.
 
  
  It's aimed for kids and casual gamers or perhaps people who love pandas. The story line is very 
 much a 'Disney' sort of product; with cute characters, bumbling plot line and of course, kung fu.
 
  
  The controls are very easy to get to grips with, a 10 year old would have no problems figuring 
 things out.
  
  The game is rated 10+ probably due to the fact there are depictions of cartoon violence due to 
 you being a kung fu master in the game, but the monsters just explode into sparks so the game is 
 safe for an even younger crowd.
  
  Even if you don't have young kids I recommend you pick this title up. It's fund and zany humour 
 will keep anyone entertained for hours.
  
  What is neat is the fact they get someone who sounds exactly like Jack Black to do the voice over 
 for the bear, which really adds to the game I feel.
  
  As you progress through the game, the levels do get harder; with many different aspects thrown 
 in to change things up, so it's not a constant battle. Overall it's a easy game, no one will have 
 too much difficulty.
  
  It also has multi-player support for up to four people, which plays out as a sort of beat-each-other-up 
 free for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero_libra
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  This game does what it is supposed to do, which is to make game for the fans of the movie so since 
 the movie is a run of the mill children's movie well guess what audience the game is aimed at.
 
  this game is not a bad one at any stretch as its not a broken glitch filled game i've had worse, 
 the good about this game is that it's not too challenging so the best way to desrcribe this game 
 would be to call it my first hack and slash and the graphics are pretty but nothing too amazing.
 
  The thing i find which kills a game is frustrating controls and this is no such game, but this 
 may get repetitive and depth is lacking but people who would buy and play this game would be satified 
 by this game. A perfect childs gift nothing more.
  i wouldn't recommend it to gamers i wouldn't steer them away from it and also has 4 player co op 
 so it only gains extra points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinceKazama
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Kung Fu Panda... where to start.. I got this with my xbox 360 (with Lego Indiana Jones) this was 
 the first game I played on my xbox 360
  And I played this for about 4 hrs and got to level 7.. but before I go any futher I got lost half 
 the time jumping on lily pads I mean its
  so darn hard to know where you are going sure there are these lanterns that turn off to let you 
 know if you have been there...
  So what? the makers of the game could of atleast put some sort of marker or.. a mini map?? SOMETHING 
 to let you know where the heck your going! ..
  Ok im done with that bit. This game looks amazing.. but sadly when it comes down to it, it does 
 not have the gameplay.. and sometimes
  I end up getting stuck in the most idiotic places.. sometimes climbing can be a chalange.. but 
 as i said this game has the looks..
  And what the heck is with these monsters... i dont remember seeing any Crocs in the movie?? STEALING 
 A BABY TURTLE! and why are these
  bores out to get you? arnt they ment to be at the jail keeping the place safe? why are they starting 
 fights with towns people?
  or kidnapping them.., im only up to level 7 and im hardly impressed...
  This is a game for renting 
 only!
  
  My review~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  Ok so this game may not be the next GoW, and thankfully its not trying to be. I haven't played 
 it myself, but my 8yr old son has. So its definitely not an adult game and shouldn't be judged 
 as one.
  
  The main point is that my son enjoyed the game and beat it, with very little help - very little! 
 I've played may games over the yrs that have missed the most important element - fun. And that's 
 where Kung Fu Panda is great for all kids, maybe some childish adults too.
  
  Overall the game looks ok, though nothing special, and this go on throughout the whole presentation, 
 from graphics to sound. But then again its not trying to be the best looking game on the 360.
 
  
  At the end of the day this game is way better than any blue hedgehog will ever and could ever be, 
 plus its a lot more fun. You could buy your kids far worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind666
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  Omg i cant believe it kung fu panda sucks in movie and game, first let me talk about the movie. 
 a panda... no wait a kung fu panda... with jack blacks voice... Okay that is not what i was expecting 
 then on top of that you know what there way of saying sorry for making a **** movie. we will make 
 you a **** game for you to **** get pissed of about and write crappy reviews like this, grrrr.
 
  
  Game play 0/10
  you have to be kidding me like i said its just punch, punch, punch, and then the kick then another 
 punch all day long punching red pigs
  like come on what were they thinking. i don't even think a jack black himself would buy this 
 
  
  graphics 8/10
  only thing they did not screw up... much
  
  voice 1/10
  oh for god sake i don't want to hear jack black talking all the way through the game shouting out 
 stuff like eye of the panda or my pants make me look fat. NO!~~~!
  
  achievement 5/10
  all the same beat the game on warrior difficulty .etc but then there are the few odd ones
  
 
  bottom line: DONT BYE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHomind
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Kung-Fu Panda is a 3D beat-em up. It's very repetitive and dosen't do any thing for the already 
 lackluster genre ,but it's good for any five to seven year old who wants to play as thier favorite 
 butt-kicking panda named Po. However, the single-player campaign is basically pressing 2 buttons 
 over and over. The game is very short and can easily be beat in one day. If your looking for a 
 solid kids action game go for something like Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts. I'd recommend this game 
 for little kids who only want to mash buttons or as a rental for one day and returning it the next 
 day for 4 bucks. If you want to press X and Y over and over this is right up your alley ,but this 
 is purely kid-oriented. Like I said it's good for a movie game ,but there are many games that are 
 cheaper that you should buy instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh. the Valley of Peace, it's just so.. uhhh. peaceful, who would of thunk it. You play as a 
 kung fu loving panda named Po who has been selected as the Dragon Warrior, the chosen one who will 
 bring peace to the Valley of Peace (awkward) . The village gets attacked by a psycho snow leopard 
 named Tai Lung who wants nothing but to become the Dragon Warrior. As the true Dragon Warrior it's 
 up to you to stop him from destroying the village and fulfill your destiny. If you watched the 
 movie Kung Fu Panda then you already know what to expect story wise, if not, then well, that's 
 why I'm here.
  
  Movie based games tend tohow can I put this lightly.. be incredibly, and terrifyingly crappy. 
 Believe or not, Kung Fu Panda breaks this trend, for the most part. You will spend most of your 
 time jumping from platform to platform, while showing off your awesome kung fu skills against numerous 
 enemies. The in-game combat is very simple and only requires two buttons to pull off combos. Simplicity 
 is what makes this game great, but it's also this game's downfall. Boredom quickly overwhelmed 
 me after I witnessed the same freakin' combo for the 100th time, and the platforming sections, 
 which were well done, were just not that exciting. Kung Fu Panda recycles what you love about action 
 adventure games and tries to make it its own, but after you've played other platformers like Ratchet 
 and Clank, and Jak and Daxter this game just isn't that exciting. 
  
  The in-game graphics wereaverage. Nothing caught my eye, but nothing caused it to bleed either, 
 hahahaha, I crack myself up. The level design was well done, and it was very easy to navigate my 
 way through areas. There was a moderate attention to detail within the levels, but you'll hardly 
 notice it. The character designs were also superb just like in the film. 
  
  The sound design was spectacular in the game, well most of the time. Jack Black narrates the in-game 
 story and plays the voice of Po, and he does a really good job. Maybe he should consider being 
 a voice actor for video games. (Brutal Legend perhaps hehehehe) The rest of the in-game voice 
 actors also do a great job; Jackie Chan, Lucy Liu, etc. I can't say the same thing about the third 
 party characters like the townsfolk in the game. All of them had the same voice actor, and their 
 lines were very repetitive and annoying. The in-game music suited the levels well and had a flare 
 to them, I can't really explain it. The sound effects on the other hand sounded dull, worn out, 
 and muted. I'm not sure if it was my T. V. or the game or me, but something just did not sound right 
 about the sound effects.
  
  Overall: Kung Fu Panda breaks the trend that videogame based movies are destined to be bad. It 
 doesn't do anything new as a platformer, or as an action adventure title, but it's still a pretty 
 solid videogame. If you're looking for something to play, and don't expect too much from games, 
 then you should give Kung Fu Panda a shot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Good fat, lovable dummy panda on grand adventure to stop mean evil leopard from wreaking havoc 
 upon all.
  
  Games simultaneously released with their movie versions have had a pretty bad wrap for some time 
 now, probably because they tend to be a rush-job meant for cashing in on potential film-hype and 
 aura. Only a few bright spots have come as of late but this one, Kung Fu Panda, helps shatter that 
 age ol' gamer myth again. 
  
  First off, the graphics are gorgeous. The game looks fantastically vibrant, with lucid flowing 
 colors and artistic lighting. Not the lighting and dramatic shadows one can find in Gears of War 
 or Crysis, not even the highly detailed textures from such games. Character models are a beauty, 
 and capture the look of their movie originals. Kung Fu Panda does well on its own and looks far 
 better than I would expect from a movie game. I was expecting a poor polish of an appearance but 
 this one satisfied me thoroughly.
  
  Gameplay is adequate. Again, I'm stressing this isn't a game I would buy for 59.99 USD. The numerous 
 cinematic style survival events (pressing corresponding keys) were a nice touch (and somewhat frustrating 
 w/ trial + error) , and variations on the usual ninja-style button mashing with nice moves are a 
 joy to play. However, older gamers will find it more geared towards excited younger audiences of 
 the film. In addition, the short 4-6 hour length of the game isn't quite amusing. Multiplayer consists 
 of several mini-games along with a few-ones with more depth than others.
  
  In all, fans of the actual will be pleased with the 360 version of the game. I got this from a 
 holiday bundle, so it wouldn't have been a game I would buy alone. Kung Fu Panda movie fans should 
 get this in a bargain bin, or a quick rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  I am so sick of games based on kids movies. They're mostly just awful. Kids are tricked into buying 
 them, and then feel disappointed when playing the damn thing. Not so this time around, Kung Fu 
 Panda: The Game is a pleasant surprise among the cesspool of movie licensed games. You may have 
 seen the movie already, which I think is Dreamwork's best. If you liked it, you will probably like 
 the game as well. But there's a catch, it's mostly strictly for kids. 
  
  You see, there's absolutely no challenge here whatsoever for older gamers. But that's okay really, 
 kids must be able to beat the game right? What's worse is the length of the game. It's simply way 
 too short. Unless you're a hardcore fan of the movie, or a kid, then you probably shouldn't purchase 
 this game. However, it makes for a great rental. As for the score I gave it, yeah it might be a 
 bit too generous. But keep in mind, movie licensed games tend to suck. And this is easily one of 
 the best in that category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I have seen the movie of this game and it was very good, but the game is not so good as the movie...
 
  first of all the story is not the orignal story and that makes it kinda weird, there are some missions 
 that doesnt exist in the movie like:
  finding those eggs, flying with one of the masters, and things like those...
  
  the graphics 
 are not so good too it was sapuse to be better than that.
  
  the gaming control is good but the way they fight is not intresting and they cant be improved.
 
  
  One of the most important thing that the game lacks is vidoes, ass all of us knows it is so creepy 
 when there is no vidoes in a game its like to go around with no purpse.
  there is no good sound efects in the game wether in the fights or in main menus or at the time 
 it loads the game
  
  the game is in some ways boring and have no new stuff that a game should have...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I went into playing this game not expecting very much at all. And I was very pleasantly surprised. 
 I have actually had a lot of fun with this game. The combo system works very well, and the fighting 
 is very fluid and well done. The levels are very well designed and they look great. I enjoyed the 
 movie and some of the humor in the game is taken right from the big screen, so that is pretty cool, 
 if you like that kind of thing. The game lets you play as several different characters that have 
 different attributes, so the game has a very varied design to it. Some of the levels are spent 
 on foot as the panda, some are spent as the tiger and some are even flying levels. The one bad 
 thing I will say is that the voiceover work for the game is atrocious. It is absolutely horrible. 
 Especially having seen the movie and knowing what the characters are supposed to sound like. Not 
 one of the stars from the movie appears on the video game to do a voice, but if you can get past 
 that, the game is actually pretty fun and enjoyable. I would recommend it to anyone into the movie 
 and definitely kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised when I downloaded the playable demo of Kung-fu Panda. I wasn't expecting 
 much, just another movie game, for better or worse. I really just wanted to see if Jack Black did 
 the voice acting for the game. Yet low and behold I found one of the few actually very good movie 
 tie in games. From the graphics to the gameplay, to the voice acting, to the Kung-Fu awesomeness, 
 it's all good.
  
  Graphics: Simply beautiful. From the bright colorful land scapes to the sparkling water. From the 
 furry cast to the particle effects it all looks wonderful. From the first level to the last the 
 graphics never stop impressing. The characters facial expressions are great and the animations 
 in general are strong and solid. 
  
  Sound: The music is of good quality and fits as it should. The character and combat sound effects 
 work nicely, but it's the voice acting that really shines through here. Jack Black does just as 
 good a job voice acting for this game as he did for the movie, if not better, and the rest of the 
 team does a great job as well. There actually is a lot of dialog in this game and it's all a pleasure 
 to listen to. The audio here is set to the same high standards as the graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Totally awesome! As Po might say. The Kung-Fu combat is solid from start to finish, with 
 each of the characters you get to play as. It's worth noting that you get to play as several characters 
 from the movie and each of them controls differently and equally well. Something that impressed 
 me was the fact that they actually took the time to create a system where you level up Po as you 
 go along. So as you play and collect coins and complete mini-missions you get to make Po better 
 and better. Thus this actually gives the player the feeling of accomplishment and growth that the 
 movies main story line evolves largely around. When you start out Po will actually just swat at 
 guys with his big bear arms and not look all that impressive, but by the end he will have transformed 
 into a kung-fu master. The running jumping and platforming is all top notch here. There are no 
 hard puzzles, but also no areas were you'll be stuck wondering what to do. Each of the levels has 
 a good size and at the end of each you will get to see how much of the level you completed with 
 a percentage. So if your like me this will have you going back trying to get 100% for each. It's 
 straight forward but good level design. You'll be jumping, climbing, flying, balancing, kung-fu 
 fighting and rolling your way through the game, having fun the whole time.
  
  The story: Your thinking, well duh, it's the movie's story right? Well, actually yes, but theres 
 more. For instance if you've played the Iron-Man game you know that not all games based from movies 
 follow their counter parts very closely. They will kinda follow the movie but go their own way. 
 Well Kung-Fu Panda manages to follow the story of the movie very well and yet it has more to offer. 
 In the game you will play through and get to experience most of the best scenes of the movie and 
 then go beyond that and experience many great scenes and meet many great characters that are not 
 in the movie. I actually played the game before I saw the movie and so while enjoying the movie 
 I was rather dissappointed that some of the places and characters from the game were no where to 
 be seen, because they were in fact so well portrayed in the game. However I'll say this it's great 
 that these characters, that didn't make the movie, at least got to shine in the game. 
  
  Conclusion: The game is just a lot of fun from star to finish. It's not difficult and it's not 
 that long but it does have multi-player elements to make up for the main stories length. The 360 
 achievements are smart and spread out nicely in this game, so if your into that, you should have 
 fun. Graphics, combat, level design, sound, it's all good. If every movie tie in game had a team 
 that put this much time, effort, and heart into their product movie tie in games wouldn't have 
 such a bad rap. If you enjoyed the movie, enjoy kung-fu, or are just looking for a good action 
 platformer you shouldn't miss this game, it's totally legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  The combo is amazing approve the graphics but the one thing is not really good is the voices. Kung 
 fu panda is post to be the game off the official movie kung fu panda its really fun for kids with 
 great cartoon humor combos and fightging bosses the bosses are alittle weak. The worst part of 
 the game is voices some level difficulties and the story didnt really fit the plot the story is 
 ok this game may have to rent it first before you buy it im saying again this game is ok good combo 
 and graphics but the story is really fitting in the game that really well. THis is a renting game 
 but i wouldnt spend the money cause the game is kind of bad sence it is off of the movie. Overall 
 all that the game is fun for little kids the combo and i recodmended to get it for the xbox 360 
 The other thing is you only can be the tiger and the panda: ( 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
