-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Left 4 Dead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/left4dead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dynamic enemy placement make each play-through different.
 Tight controls and well-tuned guns.
 Stiff challenge makes survival difficult and thrilling.
 Versus mode expertly turns the tables.
 Killing survivors is as fun as killing zombies (if not more so).
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is less fun when played alone.
 Only four campaign maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 4,497 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Certain Affinity
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Left 4 Dead makes both sides of the zombie apocalypse a thrill to experience, as long as you're 
 not alone. 

  The zombie apocalypse. Be honest: You've thought about it. When most humans have been turned into 
 shambling, flesh-hungry monsters, how will you fare? Whether you fancy yourself an intrepid survivor 
 or an infected savage, Left 4 Dead is the game for you. Battling your way through the grim, desolate 
 world is always tense and challenging, thanks to the unpredictable, relentless enemies. It's equally 
 thrilling to play as one of the zombies (aka the infected) , coordinating deadly ambushes as you 
 try to kill the survivors. Nevertheless, Left 4 Dead's well-crafted gameplay simply must be experienced 
 in multiplayer. Human teammates (or enemies) make each play-through dynamic, mitigating the game's 
 two hang-ups: limited map selection and uninspired friendly AI. Despite these hitches, Left 4 Dead 
 is a remarkably fun, excitingly tense game that will make you want to revisit the apocalypse again 
 and again.            For the last time, zombie doctor, you can NOT take my temperature!     

 
  There are four campaigns in Left 4 Dead, each spanning five levels. The first four levels end 
 in safe houses (places to heal and rearm free of the zombie menace) , and the final level ends in 
 a desperate stand as you wait for your rescue vehicle to arrive. You'll travel through urban, suburban, 
 and rural areas, each one grim, desolate, and littered with evidence of the apocalyptic event. 
 You never learn exactly what happened, but the rich environments and thoughtful graffiti set the 
 stage expertly. One campaign on normal difficulty (the second of four tiers) takes about an hour 
 to complete, so you'll soon become familiar with each set of maps. Although the limited selection 
 and grim, overcast color palette can sometimes feel a bit repetitious, the dynamic enemies, varying 
 weapon and ammo spawns, and ever-changing human factor combine to make each play-through feel surprisingly 
 unique.  

  Left 4 Dead stars four charismatic survivors whose appearances and personalities add an immersive 
 element to the game. They each banter in appropriate, often amusing ways when healthy, and they 
 become more subdued and anxious when injured. The character models are top-notch, and there's nothing 
 quite like looking at the macho biker when he is injured and seeing fear creep across his face 
 as he begins to doubt that he'll survive. Seeing the relief on his face when you heal him is almost 
 as satisfying as the relief you'll feel when your AI allies heal you. Their team spirit doesn't 
 stop there: they'll shout out when the find ammo or health, and, crucially, will pick you up when 
 you've been incapacitated by an enemy.  

  For all of their good qualities, you'll definitely appreciate your fellow survivors more when there's 
 human controlling them. AI teammates are definitely competent when it comes to killing the infected, 
 rescuing you from the enemy's clutches, and reviving you when you're down. However, they aren't 
 particularly keen on using explosives or defending strategically, so while you choose to camp out 
 on an elevated platform to better defend against the horde, they generally won't be inclined to 
 join you. Though you can certainly end up with equally uncooperative human teammates, you can at 
 least communicate your strategy to them or, in a pinch, call an on-the-fly vote to boot them from 
 the game.            They've got Francis!!     

  When you play with one or more competent teammates, Left 4 Dead is an absolute blast. Even if you've 
 played every level many times, you'll still find the infected are distributed in different, unpredictable 
 patterns. They may be milling around in a parking lot, half-oblivious to your passing, or they 
 may come screaming at you from around a corner or over a building. They look nasty, run fast, scream 
 hideously, claw viciously, and, best of all, they die in a wide variety of superbly animated ways 
 (often with explosive decapitations or flying limbs) . You might get jumped in a hallway, stairwell, 
 both, or neither. Each area of the level becomes a potential battleground, so you have to be constantly 
 vigilant, ready to make a defensive stand or rescue a teammate at a moment's notice.  

  The difficulty changes as you play. The game throws tougher, more numerous foes at dominant survivors 
 and offers periods of respite or more frequent resupply to beleaguered teams. You carry one primary 
 weapon, like a shotgun or assault rifle, as well as one (or two) pistols with unlimited ammunition. 
 You can also pick up pipe bombs and molotov cocktails, which are each fantastically deadly in their 
 own unique ways. These powerful explosives, along with primary weapon ammo and health boosts, are 
 vital to your survival. However, supplies are often hidden in rooms that are slightly off the beaten 
 path, and slowing down to explore more areas will put you at higher risk for a zombie attack. This 
 risk-reward element adds another strategic consideration, which further ramps up the tension. There 
 are so many ways that your journey could go awry, from human error to strategic miscalculation 
 to flat-out zombie inundation, that you'll have to be constantly on your toes to adapt if you hope 
 to survive. It is this tension that keeps each campaign uniquely challenging and makes survival 
 so fantastically rewarding.  

  Of course, your goal isn't always survival. When you play Versus mode, it is often the exact opposite. 
 Two teams of up to four players each compete for points in this mode. Survivors earn points by 
 progressing through the campaigns, though only two of the four are playable in this mode. The infected 
 earn points by damaging and killing survivors, and the teams switch sides at the end of each level. 
 Furthermore, the infected players spawn as zombies with special powers. Boomers vomit on survivors, 
 marking them as targets for the ravenous horde of normal zombies; smokers lasso survivors with 
 a long, froglike tongue; hunters pounce and viciously tear survivors apart; and the rare tank just 
 smashes everyone with his massive bulk. It's frightening enough to encounter these uniquely deadly 
 enemies in the campaign mode, dealing with their disgusting sounds and vicious attacks that seem 
 to come at the worst times. It's a whole different level of horror when you know it's your friend 
 who has pinned you down and is clawing out your guts.  

           Aaaaaand... pounce!      

  For survivors, Versus mode is a faster-paced game because 
 the longer you take, the more opportunities the infected have to ambush you. For the infected, 
 it's a whole different Left 4 Dead experience. Instead of fighting your way through an endless, 
 nebulous enemy force as you drive toward your objective, you have to plan and execute targeted 
 strikes on a small, mobile group. The areas you once plotted to defend now become grounds for ambush. 
 There are even certain walls that the infected can climb or break through, creating entirely new 
 routes for moving through each level. Zombie players have to be careful because they are much weaker 
 than survivors and can easily fall victim to bullets from any of the game's well-tuned weapons. 
 However, they will continue to spawn until the survivors die or reach safety, so they have multiple 
 opportunities to spring attacks throughout the level. It's very satisfying to vomit on your survivor 
 friends, summoning the horde to devour them. It's a whole different level of awesomeness to drag 
 them out of the resulting chaos and slowly choke them to death as they desperately call for help. 

  Between the tense campaign and the frenetic Versus mode, Left 4 Dead offers two distinct flavors 
 of multiplayer action that are equally delicious when enjoyed with friends. The single-player experience 
 (and the marginally better but somewhat sluggish split-screen mode) isn't as tasty, simply because 
 the friendly AI can't compare to a human teammate. Between play sessions, you may find yourself 
 craving more maps, but once you're in the game, you'll be so consumed by your quest to survive 
 that you'll likely be grateful for your knowledge of the terrain. It's a tricky proposition for 
 a game to serve up such seemingly meager variety, but Left 4 Dead does so with panache, and gamers 
 will likely be enjoying this recipe for a long time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (376 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BoondockSaint66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the newest game from Valve, the team behind the Half-Life series and other FPS goodness. 
 The game is a bit of a departure for them though, revolving more around teamwork than anything, 
 which is a GOOD thing-don't let anybody tell you differently. The game puts players in control 
 of one of four characters: Francis, the hard-ass of the group, decked out in tats and always wanting 
 to just go out and kill stuff. Bill, the war-vet, who must pick up weapons yet again to just come 
 out alive. Zoey, the only playable female character, who dropped out of school and is psyched to 
 be in a real horror movie. Lastly, Louis, a skinny black dude decked out in a business suit that 
 was once an IT systems analyst, is now a full time zombie slayer.
  
  Now the premise is simple: Pick a survivor, grab a weapon and a health pack, and get your ass to 
 the safe room. The problem: the planet is overrun with zombies. Not your standard, stand-and-moan 
 zombie. These bastards run like rabbid animals... and attack in groups. Now your SPECIAL infected... those 
 are even worse. You have the WITCH, a crying woman with intensely sharp claws that will incapacitate 
 your team members with one swipe, or kill you. SMOKERS, heard by their distinct coughing and will 
 primarily attack by lashing their tongue out from afar, pulling you in, and mauling you. BOOMERS, 
 obese infected that sound bloated from afar and will attack by vomitting on you and your group, 
 alerting the hoarde, a massive group of standard zombies that will try to maul you to death. HUNTERS, 
 fast and agile infected that lurk on rooftops and darkness and pounce the survivors, clawing at 
 them until they are dead or a fellow teammate knocks them off and/or kills them. They can be heard 
 by a loud and shrill scream while they leap. Lastly, and perhaps most dangerous is the TANK, a 
 massive infected with great strength that will pummel the hell out of you. They must be dealt with 
 quickly and intelligently or you WILL die.
  
  You're weapons are fairly standard, yet effective and genius in their simplicity. In earlier levels, 
 you can select a standard uzi or shotgun. Each survivor ALWAYS has a pistol, and another can be 
 found for dual wielding awesomeness. As you progress, weapon upgrades can be found: an assault 
 rife, an automatic shotgun, and a sniper rifle. Although there is not a gigantic selection of weapons, 
 they are more than adequate enough to appeal to the different playing styles that FPS players are 
 accustomed to.
  
  Each map consists of playing through 5 sections, the first four being standard ( head for the saferoom) , 
 the finale being a bit different ( contact outside source and await evacuation) . After contact, 
 the survivors must simply fight the infected until the transport arrives. These fights usually 
 consist of an onslaught of infected and special infected, and USUALLY, two tanks at separate intervals.
 
  
  This game is two player split screen or can be taken online for four player, co-op games, or up 
 to eight player versus games. Versus consists of four people playing as the survivors and four 
 people playing as infected. The survivors are awarded points for distance traveled and, upon completion 
 of a round, health of the group. The infected are faced with the task of stopping the survivors, 
 playing as all of the special infected listed above EXCEPT the witch. Online is very fun and extremely 
 addictive, but glitches and exploits are present. This isn't game-breaking- every game has it's 
 exploits, so potential buyers: approach with discretion. It's just a fact of life, don't let complaints 
 in forums prevent you from a rental or purchase. 
  
  The game is not very frightening, but does have blood in it so if you are a parent, you're smart 
 enough to make decisions as to what is appropriate for you're child. All around, it's a great game... greater 
 than I can put into words. It should be played or seen to be truly appreciated. It may not be everybody's 
 cup of tea, but it's the best FPS I've played in a long time and the one I've invested the most 
 time in enjoying. If you have any questions about anything not in the review or any in general, 
 just send me a message and I'll try to help out with whatever. Enjoy! 
  
  9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FayeB
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of zombie games before, ones that have more solving puzzles than shooting and 
 game play. Left 4 Dead is like a horror movie, with straight up action, surprise scares and heart 
 pounding excitement. I hope they will make a left 4 dead 2 and so on. The other popular zombie 
 games that I use to have was okay but not enough action, that's why I like Left 4 Dead. If they 
 ever make a new Left 4 Dead 2, I hope they will have interesting people to play like they have 
 on part one. Francis, Louis, Zoey and Bill are some interesting characters. Francis - the trouble 
 maker. Louis - the accountant. Zoey - the college student, horror movie fan. Bill - the ex vietnam 
 veteran. My first zombie game I played was "Zombie Ate My Neighbors". If you played Left 4 Dead 
 you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13KemrajN
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely one of the best games ever. Period. The AI Director in this game makes it crazy insane 
 in some parts, and in others, plays the ominous scary movie music and has almost no zombies around, 
 making you wonder if you are about to be mauled or something. There is truly no other game like 
 it, and there probably will never be another one just like it. The other great element of this 
 game is the multiplayer. You can mow down zombies with your friends or jump right into the action 
 of a random game. Also, if you are worried about the game only having 4 chapters with 5 levels 
 in each one, don't be. The AI Director ensures that no game is the same, and even though the setting 
 is the same, you'll feel as though you are playing a totally different game every time. You'd be 
 crazy to pass up this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clover38
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is a great game with some really fun multiplayer and super fun to play with friends 
 and just mess around. 4 creative levels ( You can only play multiplayer on 2 but new download able 
 content will change that and it will add a new sorta horde mode which will make playing with friends 
 a whole lot more fun to play with) .
  Characters and when they remind you to do things can be pretty helpful and also really annoying. 
 The characters seem to come from different backgrounds like Zoey is like a college student or something 
 like that but then theirs Bill who is a Vietnam vet.
  also there is the bad ass biker guy Francis and finally the office man Louis. Then there's the 
 zombies which range from playable and non playable. The non playable are the regular horde zombies 
 that you more than likely don't want to be anyway and then theirs the witch that's way strong and 
 somebody you really want to be. Then theirs the playable zombies:
  Smoker: Has long tongue that drags survivors away from the group.
  Hunter: Pounces on survivors 
 and deals a lot of damage.
  Boomer: Pukes on survivors which attracts the horde.
  Tank: Big pain in the a** and can pretty much destroy anything.
  
  The 4 very creative levels 
 include:
  No Mercy: a downtown/hospital area.
  Death Toll: a small town map with a lot of forest sections.
  Dead Air: a abandon airport with 
 a lot of close quarters.
  Blood Harvest: back-country farmland taken over by the military to get survivors to safety once 
 and for all. 
  
  Also theirs a lot of fun and some impossible achievements their is to get.
  Overall this is a 
 great game and a must buy if you haven't got it yet! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimbopotamuz1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  
  To tell you the truth I was a little hesitant to play this game at first. I was scared I wouldn't 
 be able to sleep because of it, but once I started playing it was scary at all.
  
  Good Side: As usual I started out playing the campaign, so I could get a feel of controls. After 
 playing ten minutes, I was hooked. Left 4 Dead has the feel of a zombie movie, except not as cheesy. 
 You can have the option of either being a zombie or a survivor on on-line play, which is a huge 
 plus. The controls are easy to get a handle of, so you don't have to take time to get use to the 
 game. You could play this game for hours on end.
  
  
  Bad Side: Although both the campaign and on-line play was awesome, the campaign was just way too 
 short. Hopefully valve will be making some expansion campaigns. On-line play is fun for a month 
 or two, but sometimes you just get bored of the same game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEviler
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  I love being stranded on top of a roof, or inside a house, fighting random hordes of zombies and 
 other infected. This game never gets old and could keep you playing for hours. The four great campaigns 
 will leave you speechless. This game allows you to get achievements while helping out your team, 
 like healing them, giving them pain pills, or even hitting a hunter off of them before their health 
 goes down. At the end of a campaign you must escape on several vehicles, such as a boat or a helicopter. 
 But don't let the fun stop there! In versus mode, you can play as the special infected. But you 
 cannot play as the witch, because who wants to sit and wait until somebody startles them? You can 
 play as the smoker, hunter, boomer, and even the tank. You can also choose from these weapons:
 
  
  -Pistol (Unlimited Ammo)
  -Duel-Wielding Pistols (Unlimited Ammo)
  
  Low Quality Weapons:
  -Shotgun
  -Small Machine-Gun
  
  High Quality Weapons:
  -Automatic 
 Shotgun
  -M16 Assault Rifle
  -Scoped Hunting Rifle
  
  Special Weapons:
  -Molotov
  -Pipe Bomb
  
  Originally, a special infected wearing a straight jacket called the screamer 
 was going to be put in. You would see the screamer, and would have barely seconds to chase him 
 down before he startled the horde. This got annoying because it was hard to tell him from other 
 zombies. The boomer originally, would just be a hazard if he was shot too close. Instead they made 
 him have the boomer bile attack and he would throw up on you, startling the horde. This fit perfectly, 
 with his large, obese body structure.
  
  To sum it all up, Left 4 Dead is an amazing game and I would recommend it to anybody.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidisbest
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  The first thing that should be noted about Left 4 Dead is not the below average graphics, lack 
 of any story, or sparsity of voice acting. The most important thing about Left 4 Dead is that is 
 accomplishes what games are supposed to do and that is: Left 4 Dead is FUN!
  This game is a blast with a friend locally.
  So the game is fun, but it is also incredibly (almost 
 criminally) short, hopefully some DLC soon will help with that. The game is incredibly replayable 
 with the amazingness that is the "director" that keeps the game intense the entire way through.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead is fun, replayable, and again really fun. But it is terribly short, not terribly aesthetically 
 pleasing and has no story whatsoever.
  All of my complaints with the game are definitely forgivable. If the graphics have to be dumbed 
 down to allow for more zombies, so be it. There is not real need for a story, but a little more 
 would have been nice. The replayability really allows for the shortness of the game as well. Overall 
 this game is a winner, but I cannot see how someone could give it a GOTY award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Woah this game at first sounds kind of tacky, but seriously just the preveiw in the begginning 
 of the game is intense. That sounds like something a noob would say but im not joking its insane. 
 If you have never played this before but have played Nazi Zombies, this is the same but times 40. 
 Its crazym first of all the people look kind of realistic and there all insane at running they 
 go like 40 miles per hour each and its just, i dont even know how to explain it. But i do know 
 that the zombies are friggen insane. They come at you like some pothead with a couple shots of 
 red bull, expresso and have there arms and legs all bloody and torn up. Its awesome. So i deffinetley 
 recommend to anyone who is reading this, its insane. After you play you'll see what i mean, so 
 thanks for reading my review and hope you buy this game.
  
  
  -seannyboy357 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  I just flew in from Mercy hospital, and boy, my arms are tired.
  (sorry)
  In all seriousness, Left 4 Dead is one of those games that absolutely must be played by everyone 
 who has called themselves a "gamer". Even if you don't particularly like horror games, Left 4 Dead 
 is action-packed enough if played right to cover the scariness. If you don't like First-Person 
 shooters, the game's controls are accessible enough for anyone to pick up and play. The four campaigns 
 can be played through with TRUE drop-in, drop-out co-op. There's little loading to break up the 
 experience at key moments, and the flow of the game is fast and nasty. The AI Director makes sure 
 everything is fair and fun, and playing against your friends as evil zombies never, ever gets old. 
 With the promise of Downloadable Content, I can see many players keeping at this game for years 
 to come.
  I know, because I'll be one.
  Be one too.
  Buy the game.
  Then buy another, give it to your friend, and they'll love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3emondav3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  You are one of four people stranded in the city after a horrible virus is released- that happens 
 to turn people into zombies- and now you must escape alive. 
  
  Story:............ Um, there is not a story to be seen. However, you will find notes scribbled 
 across walls that are humorous, while others are disturbing. This game is just plain fun, and really 
 doesn't need a story.
  
  
  Gameplay: Basically, there are four campaigns, done in the style of a movie, and 5 chapters in 
 each campaign. You must get from point A (Safehouse 1) to point B (Safehouse 2) . After you have 
 reached all of the safehouses, you will have to contact a rescue vehicle. This is very hectic and 
 fun. At the start of the campaign, you get either an Uzi or a pump-action Shotgun, and one pistol 
 (an M1911 if you wanted to know) . As you progress, you will find an Auto shotty, an Assault rifle 
 (M16) , a hunting rifle and a second pistol. There is plenty of ammo, but also plenty of zombies. 
 You also get to have a medkit and a Molotov/ Pipe bomb. 
  Now onto enemies! There are 6 types of zombies you must fight throughout the campaigns: Smokers, 
 Hunters, Boomers, Tanks, Withches and the Horde. Smokers grab you with their toungues, Hunters 
 leap on you and rip out your intestines, Boomers vomit on you and attract the Horde, Witches kill 
 you in a few hits (don't piss them off!) and the Horde are just the average joes who are big in 
 numbers but not in power. 
  Finally, the game modes. There are Single Player, where you play with A. I. teammates, Versus, where 
 you fight with others online, and Campaign Mode, wjhere you play with live teammates Online.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a little dated, but they generally look nice. The style in which 
 they are done is basically a mix of realistic and cartoony. The characters look real, but also 
 have a bit of a comic air to them. The environments however, are quite well done. Fire also looks 
 good, along with blood that splatters on the wall. 
  
  
  Sound: The guns are loud, which is nice, the infected sound like screaming zombies ready to tear 
 your flesh, and the background music helps build the atmosphere very nicely. Each time a boss infected 
 (Smoker, Hunter, Tank etc.) appears, a special music score plays, alerting you that one of them 
 is near.
  
  So, although some people will not agree with my high rating, this game just does everything so 
 well. if you like zombies and multiplayer, get this game!!!
  I really hope this review helped whoever read it, and I will see you online!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedx13x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  A good point to start with this game is that the trailer seems terrifying - note to players. It 
 is not. I would class this as an action game, because of the quick pace, and the fact that even 
 when you always seem to be shooting from the waist, you can hit them wherever pleases you. 
  
  You can definately tell where the creators of Left 4 Dead have taken their inspiration from 
 - Resident Evil & 28 Days & Weeks Later were the first two that definately struck me. It's a vast 
 contrast to a game such as Silent Hill, where it's all about suspense and lack of actual control. 
 Whereas here, if a horde of zombies decide you look like a nice meal, it takes a couple of bullets 
 and your fine. However, it does plunge you straight into the gaming experience, which can only 
 be a good if your not really a suspense fan.
  
  However, this isn't suprising - Valve, the makers of the game have a reputation for quick paced 
 action games, such as Team Fortress 2 and Half Life 2. So this is a welcome addition to their collection 
 I suppose.
  
  The weapons were pretty good, personally I'm a fan of the machine gun. But I think that's just 
 down to general preferance. However, I must admit, the sniper rifle is growing on me, it's comforting 
 to know that even when there are a mass of zombies surrounding, you can shoot something a fair 
 bit away. The graphics are not a dissapointment either and the controls are easy to manouvre too, 
 definately one for the novices.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game. It's a satisfying action game, but beyond any doubt it was 
 built for xbox live, as playing it by yourself just doesn't do it justice. It's quick, to the point 
 and (most importantly) fun. I just wouldn't recommend it if you wanted it for the actual scares. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Labrom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun and has holds many hours of gameplay. This game is highly replayable 
 beacause of its unique "AI director" that spawns items and enemys at random spots and measures 
 your "Stress Level" judging if you are doing well and deserve to fight a Tank "A insainly hard 
 boss once you turn the difficulty up to Expert." Or if you ant doing very well and will ease up. 
 This game has a fiew slight problems. Such as the AI for your fellow survivors, ie. Healing you 
 when a tank is chasing you, wasting health kits and pills, not saving you if you are pinned by 
 a special infected, will try and revive you while being attacked, dropping you once your just about 
 fully revived to run off to save the other AI survivors leaving you to die and usualy end up getting 
 killed themselves, taking horrible weapons and not knowing how to use them, and often charging 
 off to death. On a positive note this game has amazing co-op gameplay and is very immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  
  Left 4 Dead: 
  
  
  Game play: outstanding, the detail is awesome and the levels are a challenge especially the various 
 zombies you face throughout the levels. The only difficulty is the horde when you activate car 
 alarms or get puked on by the Boomer. The controls are easy to figure out pretty much self explanatory 
 unless of course your the kind that needs to pause the game every 5 seconds to look at the control 
 settings menu for hints. But anyways, the game play is outstanding and very detailed and I think 
 there definetly should be a sequel to this game. 
  
  Weapons: the m-16 rifle is awesome especially when you encounter a horde coming at you just get 
 head shots to take the zombies down you gain more points that way. 
  
  Automatic Shotgun: Oh man this gun is sweet, constant rounds but slow to load. mainly used as a 
 close range weapon but really effective on head shots. 
  
  The Dual Pistols: Effective but isn't fast, quick loading and does enough to kill the zombies. 
 
  
  Sniper Rifle: Now we're talking here, get on a building a bus and become a zombie sniper and take 
 them down with head shots and precision. 
  
  There are so many various weapons in this game that are great to use and I will be on here all 
 night and i don't want to be. lol 
  
  But, over all this game is awesome to play and the levels are challenging but it's all in good 
 fun and you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandOfHonor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead was one of the 4 games I had been anticipating since summer (Fallout 3, Gears 2, Fable 
 2) , and for the wait, I really don't think it was worth the price. 
  
  The concept behind the game is pretty new to the zombie genre, the whole both sides thing is really 
 interesting, but can only be done in multi player... No, let me rephrase that; A lot of things about 
 the game are good, but most can only be done in multi player. Aside from campaign (If you can call 
 it that) the game is restricted to multi player, and not only that, there's many things you can't 
 do-Not only without a friend-But without X-box Live! This really limits the playability unless 
 you have a good amount of friends to play with. The only other thing that got me down was the graphics, 
 they aren't terrible, but I really think with so many other simplicities made, they could have 
 spent a bit more time on how it looks.
  
  Now, on to the good.
  Left 4 dead's multi player system is by far one of the most fun I have ever played, it's just so 
 diverse, and games are different every time. There is always a large amount of people playing online (Valve 
 games seem to do that part well) , and the way things happen in game make trash talking all the 
 better. Take being a boomer for example, what could be more fun in a zombie game than running in 
 on a group of people, vomiting on them, and having literally 100 zombies rush in and kill them. 
 The battle's are straight to the point, and usually happen incredibly fast (Ok not COD4 fast, but 
 you know.) making them plenty of fun.
  
  The bottom line is that Left 4 dead can be a lot of fun, but you shouldn't spend your money on 
 it unless you have or plan on having X box Live.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintmatty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  Picked this up for 40 at christmas.
  Overall it's a good, fun orginal, solid game.
  
  Pros:
  : They don't make many good local co op games any more (which is a shame) , this makes up 
 for that.
  : Endless fun when you are playing with a friend
  : If playing online with other ransom people is your thing, you will love this game as it requires 
 lots of teamwork when working on the higher difficulty levels
  : Versus mode is a great "extra"
  :Great full of detail enviroments
  : Great campaigns
  : 
 Funny at times
  : Great sounds
  : There is a new free survival mode dlc coming out which will have loads of maps and you have to 
 survive for as long as possible. Also they will be adding all 4 campaign scenarios to the versus 
 mde, which add even more replayability.
  : Interesting characters with loads of detailed dialogue
  : Great visuals
  
  Cons :
  : 
 Can get boring if you are playing alone
  : Not many guns
  : There are only 4 campaigns with 5 levels each, this may put people off, it didn't for me.
  
 : Nothing else
  
  This is a MUST buy if you have friends around or you enjoy playing online.
  
  I will be copy/pasting 
 my review on Ign under the account "FreeBird0102".
  Thanks and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  The first thing you may notice about the graphics is that texture look great from a distance, but 
 up close most every thing in this game looks terrible, more then once I saw windows that were little 
 more then drawn on, on top of that some of the scenery is too sharp or too blurry. Then there are 
 the fire effects, once again good from a distance, but close up it just looks like a layered 2D 
 effect, It's spreading is also very inorganic. Honestly I wouldn't care I would care that much 
 abot the graphics in a game like this but it can lead to problems trying to judge what's safe to 
 stand on or where you need to go next. For example in the second area there's a broken bridge that 
 seems to now form a ramp to the river below, but if you try to get down to the river using it you'll 
 take falling damage, despite sliding down a modest slope and not plummeting from a roof top. Another 
 example is in the sewer area that you can get into by dropping down a man hole, not that it worked 
 the first time. I slowly walked over to it so I wouldn't run over it, but I didn't go down. I spun 
 around and I was standing on air, turns out I need to be slightly to the side of the hole to drop 
 down. There are actually a lot of instances when you find your self standing in thin air or facing 
 the wrong way on a ladder.
  
  Still if it was just the map's features that pose graphical problems it might be excusable, but 
 unfortunately zombie bits seem to be MIA as well. When you use a pipe bomb or blow a zombie apart 
 with a shot gun said disembodied parts will just liquefy into a blood splatter. You do get the 
 occasional leg or arm, but, when you throw a pipe bomb the subsequent explosion doesn't chunkify 
 the hoard they just turn to a blood fountain, which then seems to evaporate.
  
  I guess because the game's so dark and the combat so hectic most of these graphic problems will 
 go unnoticed and I can't deduct major points for this one point. Ultimately the graphics aren't 
 bad, but there was really no technical reason to put this game on a next gen system, it's nothing 
 the X-Box couldn't handle.
  
  Sound
  
  Not much to say here. The sound effects are fine, the mesh up pretty well with zombie genocide. 
 There are also sounds that warn you of special enemies, including the other survivors saying they 
 hear something. The voice acting is equally fine, when I could actually hear them over the slaughter. 
 I guess the music isn't very memorable, seriously I just played it an hour ago and I can't recall 
 a note. It does get menacing when danger is near, but you spend more time swimming in the hoard 
 then not, so the musical cues are is pretty irrelevant for most of the game. An epic score can 
 be important, but I doubt it would be that noticeable in this game
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game is pretty much what you'd expect: you and up to three friends select a character and a 
 mission and play through several levels of sprinting zombies. At its core a Left 4 Dead modernized 
 Arcade game. Despite the lack of FPS games at your local Arcade (if your lucky enough to still 
 have one) it truly feels like I should be playing it with a plastic gun or joystick, hoping some 
 one else will put in a quarter and give me a hand. This is not all good as the ability to alter 
 the control scheme simply does not exist beyond sensitivity and inverting, combine that with the 
 unorthodox button set up and many are probably going to wonder: Who at "VALVE" (makers of international 
 award wining games Haft-Life and Portal) thought it was a good idea to not add control adjustments?!
 
  
  Speaking of "Valve" (i. e. the gaming physics guys) the physics are a hair unpolished. The rag doll 
 effects can be very unrealistic, the collision detection is way off and sprites/objects will clip 
 together, you WILL get hit by attacks that landed no where near you, but it matters little as flying 
 zombies are funny as heck. Still the funniest physics defying moment has to be the Hoping Heal. 
 If some one is down and you tap the healing button (as apposed to holding it down like your suppose 
 to) the downed ally leaps two feet in the air like they've just been molly woped with a cattle 
 prod.
  
  One thing that can wear on your nerves is how hard team work gets shoved down your throat. Every 
 time something grabs, pounces, pukes or dances (yes dances) on you, you NEED your buddies, the 
 option to help your self doesn't exist. Unless you shoot the beast dead within a second of it getting 
 a hold of you, it's got you. You know I never thought I'd miss quick time events, the ability to 
 remove your self from one of the games many scrapes would defiantly be nice. You get five types 
 of team work enforcing beasties and most of them are just not fun to fight. The puking is just 
 a pain, when (not if, WHEN) you get puked on you can't see jack, but every zombie and they're mum 
 loves this stuff so they will attack you and only you, making it a great time to be blind. There's 
 also these tentacle tonguethings. These will grab you out of no where, it may scare you the first 
 time, but by the third level they'll just be ticking you off. You can only release a captured friend 
 by shooting the bloody Hentai critter, but there usually using said friend as a meat shield and 
 may even be out of site and/or shooting range. But by far the worst are the Witches, Yes you're 
 supposed to avoid these things, but frequently they're in your way or you stubble into them or 
 far more likely you set them off because a battle spilled over into the witch's area. When this 
 happens the poor shmuck who ired it will get bum rushed and will likely insta-die. At this point 
 the Witch will dance on they're downed butt and every one else has to pump the zombie lady with 
 lead before reviving you. The Witches are bent over, haft hiding and the sound cue to their location 
 just isn't enough, it's almost impossible to avoid them, heck avoiding every one in an area is 
 actually an Achievement. Now every special attack can be avoided, but you need to see the monsters 
 before they see you, because if they've seen you they've already started their attack run.
  
  Still not counting the team work BS the enemies are actually very clever, they seem to come 
 from every direction and it's genuinely scary in places, they can even bust through scenery or 
 come out of something you thought was inaccessible, creating a lot of immersion when a massive 
 armada is barring down, because northing and I mean nothing short of splattering their brains on 
 the pavement will stop them.
  
  Yet all these problems and up sides are dwarfed by the games major flaw, the allied A. I. is a nightmare.
 
  
  First off your brain dead compatriots will take the hard to find healing pills or first aid kits 
 faster then the human brain can process "press the X button to pick up". Some times they use it 
 on you if you're in bad shape, but they never give you the pills. It's not even necessary for them 
 to having healing items, then never go in anywhere first and as such never get hit by the nigh 
 undodgeable BS attacks described above, plus if they die "permanently" they just respawn a few 
 minuets latter in a closet some where. Yes, you heard me right the penalty for death in this game 
 is that you respawn inside a closet. Yet in a single player if you die, that's it, no closet time 
 for you, you have to restart the mission from the last safe room. What's weird is that you have 
 to let them out of the closet, they're listed as unknown survivors, despite some George Romero-esk 
 he/she/the old guy is dead lines. The game tries to play it off as them being new survivors and 
 yet still the same guy/girl, it just doesn't mesh.
  
  Second the A. I. doesn't know a pipe bomb from a letter opener, they won't even bother with explosives 
 and since you can only carry one your survival poetical is further limited for each A. I ally you 
 rely on.
  
  Third your computerized cohorts LOVE to leap in front of your firing barrel, back of the head first 
 and then yell and moan about friendly fire. This is exacerbated massively by the game brimming 
 over with narrow corridors and hallways, but even in wide open areas they some how mange to sponge 
 up rounds. Thankful bullets seem to be as damaging as wads of paper to the non-infected.
  
  Four, you have no control over them, but they will follow you. This is a problem because the guy/girl 
 taking the lead will almost always get hit by the special attacks, so your heath is constantly 
 low and the again the game only ends when you die. I just can't get them to be the bait for once.
 
  
  Final, and this is the biggy, they hate you and they what you to die! I can't figure out any other 
 explanation for they're lack of interest in team work; in a game that seems to exist exclusively 
 to force team work morals on would be zombie slayers. When you go down they ether try to revive 
 you instantly with the horded killing them as there trying to patch you up or wait until ever last 
 zombie is deadwhich is usually too late. The times when you need them the most, say a Hunter is 
 gutting you alive; they may or may not help you. It's about a 50-50 shot. This is inexcusably bad 
 programming, when a special enemy comes around the whole team should rise up and take it down, 
 but some time their just not on board.
  
  . There just so frustrating, I swear the most fun I had in this game was blowing my digital friends 
 apart, especial when they took a heath pack and used it on them self. Playing this game alone is 
 just too hard and for all the wrong reasons
  
  There are still more irritating features your vision goes black and white when your on your on 
 your last life, heath packs, pills and explosives are reasonably sparse, but ammo piles never empty 
 out and nether do your pistols or the mounted guns. The melee attacks are way, way, WAY too effective 
 and the one liners, as always get old fast, but (sigh) it completely faithful to the zombie movie 
 formula, each of the four areas are like a different zombie movie, even though the characters remain 
 the same. Which is a pity, but they're fun characters.
  
  Story
  
  If you were hoping for a zombie epic like "Dead Rising" your going to be seriously disappointed, 
 what little narrative there is told by writings on walls, usually in the safe rooms. It really 
 doesn't explain any thing, so in that way it's faithful to George Romero's work, but I've seen 
 more interesting writing in bathroom stalls.
  
  Conclusion
  
  So yeah the graphics are second rate and the sound is a right off the generic truck, but it can 
 be a really fun party gamejust don't buy it. Yes, once you get use to all these things the game 
 is thoroughly enjoyable to play. It's very standard RPS fair and it's fun to play with friends 
 (even if you're just poking fun at some of the lamer features) . But it's to short, the story (or 
 lack their of) is a joke and it gets easy fast, too easy as long as your playing with other human 
 beings. I just can't emphasize this enough, play it with three friends or not at all.
  There are way better shooters and zombie games to spend your cash on and at $60 I just can't recommend 
 a buy. Rent it for a party, but keep something else handy.
  
  Reviewer's Score: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chunky_Tomster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:43 am PT
Review:  When I first put in the disk for l4d i was really xcited, i thought that shooting zombies in the 
 goriest fashion possible would be fun, well........ sorta. This is a game that can get either really 
 addictive or really boring. Unfortuently for me I found it boring. I played thru it once and than 
 put it down. Bearing in mind i went online (where u will have the most fun) this is a game to be 
 played with friends. SIngleplayer is okay but the AI though being mostly consistent can take 4ever 
 to heal u when ur low on health and can just be generally stupid. It depends what sort of gamer 
 u r. If ur into Co-Op and if ur into Any 80's Zombie movie than this game is for u.
  
  I did enjoy it while it lasted but afterwards i felt really underwhelmed.
  
  Its good that 
 the AI director is present and i did notice it but i think this feature will be more popular than 
 the overall gameplay
  
  If u had my Dilemma where u couldnt decide between Orange box or L4D, do urself an uber favour 
 and pick up the orange box.
  
  This game lacks depth and thats why i wasnt interested but it is definetly a keeper for one a bloodthirsty 
 gamer needs to shoot some zombies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is strictly just multiplayer. You CAN play alone, but it is much more fun with others. 
 With that said here we go. 
  
  Left 4 Dead is made by the geniouses that made Half-Life, Counter-Strike, and Portal. This game 
 is meant to be strictly multiplayer by using a very simple formula. The formula is; trust your 
 teamates to help you defend against and endless amount of zombies. The game takes you along four 
 different levels with four stages, ending with your group being rescued. The game is simple; get 
 from the beginning to the end of each level to a safe house. Along the way there are various weapons, 
 health packs and baddies of course. 
  
  For the weapons they are straight forward. You start off with a pistol. You can decide to move 
 on, or grab a weapon in front of you. An uzi, a shotgun, or a rifle. They are all well balanced 
 and can be used to a great advantage. Some people like the uzi as it shoots fast and can take out 
 many at once, but ammo runs out quickly. The shotgun is a great zombie slayer, one-shot-one-kill 
 for the most part, but if you miss it takes a while to reload and some zombies are actually bad 
 to kill at a close range, which I will explain later. The rifle (which I personally only used to 
 see how it works, which was one run through) is a long range weapon, also one-shot-one-kill, but 
 since its a bolt action, a pump inbetween can be tough in large groups of zombies. Of course there 
 has to be weapons of mass destruction, so Valve throws three other weapons into the mix. Two of 
 these weapons can be carried, but if you have one of the two you can't hold the other, and you 
 can only hold one of whatever you are holding. These weapons are the Molotov and Pipe Bomb. The 
 Molotov creates a barrier of fire which a zombie will still run through, it can deal a ton of damage 
 with big groups. The Pipe Bomb is a personal favorite of mine, it has a slight amount of humour 
 behind it. The Pipe Bomb is a single explosion weapon, but it beeps and flashes drawing the attention 
 of any nearby zombies and having them circling the bomb only to explode. The last and final weapon 
 is just there for any shooter. A massive no ammo fueled mounted machine gun. I'm pretty sure that 
 needs no explanation.
  
  Health is hard to come by in the game. Each person has a a health bar and each person can have 
 a health pack. A person can use a health pack on themselves or another to heal them. This will 
 give them enough health to survive just a little bit longer. The health packs are hard to come 
 by and can be found at some checkpoints and in safehouses. There is also one item that can be used 
 for a momentary burst of energy. The health you gain from the pills will only last for a while, 
 and it will slowly diminish as time goes on.
  
  There are special zombies much more powerful and dangerous then others. There is the Boomer a large 
 zombie that waddles around to vomit on you. If this does sadly happen, the bile attracts tons of 
 the smaller variety of zombies. Another terrible thing that these creatures do, is if you kill 
 one, they explode in a wave of bile. These are simple one shot kills, but bad when low on health 
 as the bile covers the screen. Another zombie is the Hunter. These creatures can climb on walls 
 and leap across rooms in a single bound. They are fast and crouch as they run. They have a special 
 ability in which if they attack someone they pin them to the ground. If this happens other players 
 have a short amount of time to save you before you die. The Smoker is another zombie, this zombie 
 coughs as he enters. He can also climb on walls, but he attacks from afar. He has a long tongue 
 which can pull people into his claws so he can attack. He has a small ability as well when he dies. 
 He explodes in a puff of smoke blinding people around them. Another zombie is the Tank, a super 
 powerful zombie which will kill you in one to three hits. It takes tons of punishments and there 
 is no such thing as a one-shot-kill or even a ten-shot-kill. The final special zombie is the Witch, 
 this female zombie, sits in a corner and tries to lure you by crying. If you get close or shine 
 your flashlight on you she springs upon you. If she strikes you once you die. She can be killed 
 in one shot though. 
  
  The game has some interesting mechanics that make it special. There is the ability to turn 180 
 degrees with the push of a button, which makes it easy to turn to kill zombies. There is a down 
 system, where if you die, you can be brought back with the help of a comrade, but if it takes to 
 long you die until a safehouse. The most interesting mechanic is that of difficulty. You can choose 
 easy to show off your skills, but if you do too well, the game compensates. It will take health 
 packs away, add more zombies, take away ammo. It makes the game harder. A great mechanic and the 
 better you get the more challenging the game becomes. 
  
  Overall the game is very well done great for Valve, another brilliant game. With a few downsides 
 with game finding issues. A glitch or two. And the lack of more levels it can be annoying, but 
 over time Valve is releasing patches to fix the first two and updates for the last. 
  
  The game isn't a must buy, but it deffinetly was and is a must play. It is a tad expensive for 
 the lack of content, but it can be well worth it if plenty of your friends have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  When left 4 dead came out I watched some gameplay and I was dissapointed. The graphics were pretty 
 bad. But now a couple months after the game has came out, some of my friends were getting it so 
 I thought what the hell i'll give it a try. Now I know why everyone loves it so much. it's just 
 zombie blasting fun. But listen to me DONT GET THIS GAME UNLESS AT LEAST ONE OF YOUR FRIENDS HAVE 
 IT! Because have the fun is shooting a hunter of your friend or shooting the tongue off the smoker 
 who has your friend. And double teaming the tank to take him down. Although this game is pretty 
 short and lacks a storyline it makes up for it with the online versus. You can play as the zombies 
 which is very fun. Valve has definaetly added to their gaming masterpieces with Left 4 Dead. i 
 hope in a new dlc they add 1 or 2 more chapters, and maybe some new guns. If your friends are begging 
 you to buy left 4 dead and your saying no no it looks bad, well all games arent suppossed to have 
 great graphics, their just suppossed to be fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  Well first off if Valve's other title the Orange Box is 5 games in one then Left4Dead is more like 
 3/4 of a game. But that doesn't mean it isn't still a hell of a lot of fun to play.
  
  L4D is broke into 4 campaigns with 5 sub chapters in each. Each campaign can be finished in 1 to 
 2 hours meaning you can finish the entire game in about 5 hours. So if you have no friends or don't 
 play online L4D is just a rental. You choose from one of four characters each time you play. All 
 four are cliched but still seem to have there own personality. The good thing is each campaign 
 plays out different because the special infected appear at different spots in the map. The game 
 plays out like the typical zombie movie. The game is constant action with zombies coming at you 
 in bunches. Eventually at the end of each level the goal is to get out on the escape vehicle. There 
 are five different kinds of special infected. The Boomer which is a big fat guy who vomits on you. 
 The Smoker who lashes out his tongue and grabs you when your least expecting it. The Hunter who 
 pounces like a cat on you. The Tank which is well a big tank like creature whom all 4 players better 
 shoot if you want to bring him down. Then finally there is the witch that you can sneak past but 
 if you don't she will take down whomever she targets with one hit. Luckily the heroes have a good 
 arsenal at there disposal as well as the ability to revive downed teammates. There is a detailed 
 stats page at the end of each campaign and plenty of interesting achievements to be had. The AI 
 is good and will kill zombies with almost too much proficiency at times making some achievements 
 hard to get unless you are playing with real people.
  
  That covers what the game is about but to have fun in this setting you need 3 more buddies and 
 then the teamwork comes together. Playing with friends most players will have fun going through 
 each campaign numerous times. Saving your buddies from the special infected requires teamwork and 
 makes it feel like if you don't all make it out then none of you will. Also you can turn the tides 
 and play mp against the humans. Playing as the special infected is fun but doesn't have a whole 
 lot of lasting appeal. So if your looking for a competitive mp then look elsewhere.
  
  There are some issues I have that make this game feel a little dated. The graphics are not on par 
 with high quality titles. The inability to aim down your sights or have any kind of zoom other 
 than the sniper rifle also detracts from the overall feel. Like I said before the length is very 
 short and there is no kind of story.
  
  Overall though if you are looking for pure zombie action with friends then L4D will definitely 
 satisfy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel29
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:41 am PT
Review:  Really fun and exciting... at first.. Online is amazing.. with descent teamates. Content = lacking. 
 this are the things that make this game an 8 instead of an amazing multiplayer experience worthy 
 of a 9.5.
  It is a great game and i would recommend buying it if for nothing else the multiplayer experience. 
 Playing coop with a friend sitting beside u isnt something quite as fun as it seemed to be in days 
 of past playing side scrollers together and such. So if you have someone else in your household 
 that enjoys gaming then get this game and play with them. Or they can tag along as a guest on xbox 
 live if they dont have their own xbox live gold account.
  Online play is actually where the game really shines.. and frustrates. When playing with normal 
 people just wanting to have fun this is a great experience because it provides a great challenge 
 for both teams... surviving against the zombie horde is difficult if your teammates arent really 
 helpful and concerned with your well being. Playing as the zombie's is a blast and the most fun 
 ive had in this game.. strategically positioning yourself to get ahold of a straggler and destroying 
 them before their teammates can help is very satisfying. the side effect of being a zombie - you 
 die easy, but hey... you do respawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tote_Gott
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is phenomenal to say the least. The varying difficulty levels can actually lead to the 
 game being virtually impossible. Coming from Valve, I'm not surprised at any of this.
  
  The only complaint that I can think of is that the game is over far too quickly. Providing that 
 it takes an hour to an hour and a half, as a worst case scenario, to plow through each of the four 
 sections, the game runs a maximum of 6 hours. Sure, it's still approximately the same duration 
 as sitting through 3 or 4 movies, but I personally prefer even my FPS games to clock a running 
 time of at least 8 to 10 hours.
  
  Of course, there's the online play, which is actually reasonably well-crafted, and the possibility 
 of playing a variety of the "special" undead, but even that requires that you play through the 
 same locations that you've likely already played multiple times.
  
  When the much-needed expansion comes out, it'll be a very good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:13 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Some of the best Team Based action around.
  * Versus mode is a good way to mix things up when you've played the campaign to bits.
  * It's 
 good at making you jump.
  
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Only four maps which on Normal at least can be done within an hour or so each, so the games "director" 
 aside replayability comes from playing it on harder difficulties, basically.
  
  
  This'll be a short review.
  The games great.
  There just isn't a whole lot too it.
  
  Theres 
 four survivors you play as.
  Nervous office worker lookin' guy.
  Horror movie geekette.
  Badass Biker guy.
  And Vietnam War Vet.
  
  ZOMBIE APOCAYLPSE HAPPENS.
  And that's basically 
 the story in a nutshell.
  There isn't a tonne of narrative, the focus is pretty much soley on the action and I think this 
 works to the games benifit. Don't bog us down with story, bog us down with hordes of Zombies to 
 slaughter and it does that.
  
  Aside from the basic, shambling, shuffling horde of Zombies.. Well.. They don't really shuffle 
 so much as run at you in large groups as fast inhumanly possible.. You get the idea. Aside from 
 the basic Zombie there are also a few special Zombies. All except the Witch are playable in multiplayer 
 versus.
  
  Theres the Tank who smashes stuff up and can deal a tonne of damage. He can also tear concrete 
 out from the ground and chuck it for a ranged attack. It generally takes a combined effort from 
 the survivors to get this fellow down and even then it can be difficult to do without at least 
 one survivor taking a massive amount of damage. Thus far I've only played on Normal so I've never 
 encountered more then one at a time, but I've heard that on harder difficulities there are points 
 where there can be four of them, which just sounds absolutely insane to me.
  
  Theres the Smoker. He grabs dudes with his tounge from several feet away and drags them off.
 
  If he manages to drag them to him he can do some damage but I don't think the survivors get hurt 
 unless this happens. And as the survivors more often then not get caught on a wall or something 
 whilst getting carried away more often then not the Smoker is just a minor annoyance. Annoyance 
 though it might be, the getting dragged off thing can be kind of freaky.
  
  Theres the Hunter. He pounces on surivors and tears them to shreds if the surivors teammates don't 
 get em off... Just.. Yeah. They can be pretty freaky, especially if you're being dumb and hanging 
 back for some stupid reason and your friends aren't around to get him off.
  
  And the Boomer. He pukes on folk.
  This blinds them, which is annoying in itself.
  But it also 
 attracts the horde. And THATS what makes it freaky.
  It brings in a bunch of enemies that for a moment or two you can't see.
  If there are other specials 
 in the area at the time, this can be most painful.
  
  And the Witch. As mentioned you can't play as her.
  She can do a lot of damage, but you can also 
 sneak past her as she just sits there quietly sobbing unless you shine your light on her or disturb 
 her in some other fashion.
  Disturb her and she'll make a run for whoever did the disturbing. And tear them to shreds.
  They 
 are a pain to kill. Not quite so painful as the tank, but more difficult then the average Zombie. 
 Usually after they've taken down whoever disturbed them they'll run off though.
  
  So yeah. You kill these Zombies with a small, though adequet assortment of weapons.
  
  A campaign 
 generally starts with someone in the opening saying they to get to this extraction point! And then 
 they head off, slaughtering undead along the way.
  It's pretty straight forward. Every so often you'll hit a safe house where you can get more ammo, 
 health and then continue.
  
  In the last chapter of a campaign you'll call in for extraction and make a final stand against 
 the Zombies whilst you wait for a vehicle to show up or in the case of one scenario the plane next 
 to you to fill up with fuel. These provide for some of the most intence sequences in the game.
 
  
  And unlike other sections of the game if you die, you won't be found later on banging on a closet 
 door wanting to be let out so you can rejoin your teammates. Your dead.
  And on the closing screen it'll put up an "in memory of" and then it lists the dead survivors players, 
 which is a nice touch. And the "credit screen" shows off the end game stats. Like how many headshots 
 you scored or the total undead you killed which is a nice touch.
  
  
  
  I'll wrap up.
  The game is great.
  It does a good job of capturing Zombie movie atmosphere 
 and despite being relatively simple both in concept and execution it still somehow manages to grab 
 hold and not really want to let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulclaimerGS
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  Man. The reason I bought this game is because of the good rating (8.5) , zombie-fest ( like dead 
 rising, RE) , and also the hype that everyone is talking about. 
  
  The intro is ok. The gameplay is so-so. Not fun, but more like I wanna playthrough it just to finish 
 the game, see the story and get some achievements. Oh boy, how am I wrong. This game got no ending, 
 unless you count the lame-a$$ rescue truck, nocutscenes, no story and no boss fights. The zombies 
 keep on respawning. It would be alright if I leave the area and come back, but no. It respawn even 
 if I was just standing there. Crap.
  
  I got no objective since there's no cutscene. I just wandered around aimlessly, killing or letting 
 allies killing blindlessly, getting lost and then yawning endlessly. It got no freaking map. No 
 objective, no cutscenes, and no map, what am I aiming for?
  
  Conclusion, rent it if you're really boring. Otherwise, the title really says it all. This game 
 should be "left 4 dead". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  There was a naive time when people spoke of video games, platformers and adventure titles being 
 the majority. Simply jumping around on screen and collecting objects seemed like enough to keep 
 even the most hardcore gamers docile. Now, fast forward to the future of gaming and take a look 
 around. What genre now holds the industry by a thread of indestructible steel  shooters.
  In no way is this a terrible occurrence, because I've happily converted over the years, and since 
 become a huge fan of this very genre and every attempt within it. The reality gut-check is, not 
 every company that approaches something popular is destined for success. With that in mind, there 
 is the occasional joy of actually playing a well-made shooter, polished from head to toe with very 
 little flaws. Coupled with online gaming being the dominant norm in just about every genre, especially 
 shooters, the battle of consistency takes center stage. Most companies are still learning a great 
 deal in this area, others are struggling; while a select few such as Valve, continues to pummel 
 the competition and gamers alike with top shelf experiences. Their most recent addition being, 
 Left 4 Dead.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The whole premise of L4D is bottlenecked by the common joy most gamers share in disposing of zombies. 
 With an entire city over-run by the undead, you take control of one of four cast members all the 
 while surviving endless waves of freakishly fast ghouls, desperately trying to reach safe houses 
 alive and in one piece.
  Being only 4 characters to choose from, all which are varying by looks and not skills, you can 
 tackle this citywide survival course with friends online or even shoulder-to-shoulder on the same 
 TV. If you prefer the solo approach, the computer who controls your partners is very capable when 
 handling weapons, using items, and mostly staying out of danger. 
  The most apparent weakness of L4D seems to be the lack of selection and variety, which surprisingly 
 serves as its strongest foundation. With weapons, you have a modest arsenal that consists of pistols 
 (capable of dual wielding) , shotguns (pump and auto) , a machine gun (the standard Uzi) , an assault 
 rifle (military M16) , and a hunting rifle (retro model) . Limited, but all very reliable tools in 
 the heat of battle, especially if used wisely in conjunction with group tactics. To help further 
 strategy, items such as health packs can be used selfishly or on wounded group members, which in 
 turn leads to open vulnerability and much needed protection from comrades during healing.
  
  Other items more fitted for the demolition kids like Molotov cocktails, which section off areas 
 with burning flames scorching anything that nears it, and pipe bombs that attract hordes of zombies 
 compliment the gear very nicely  especially during a tight bind.
  
  Once you're familiar and comfortable with the equipment, the learning curve basically rides on 
 the standard of head shots, mobility, and ammo management. You can use health packs on partners 
 during the campaign and online potions, but sharing ammo and other items is not possible. Which 
 becomes a major nuisance if someone on the team is being wasteful and negligent.
  Speaking of the campaign, there is none to speak of. Story is non-existent mostly because everything 
 is broken down into "scenarios". No Mercy is the starting point; where you mostly traffic through 
 barren city streets, warehouses, subways, and a hospital. Blood Harvest is the scenic route where 
 you explore farmland and dirt roads. Death Toll consists of train yards, buildings on the seashore, 
 and factories. And then there is Dead Air, a broken and tattered airport left in shambles. Each 
 main location is further broken into 5 chapters apiece, offering check points, weapon upgrades, 
 ammo replenishment, health packs, and the occasional stand off against "special infected".
  These nasty creeps are a few grades above the regular zombies, being able to attack in various 
 fashions. Pouncing from the shadows and pinning targets, the Hunter is all about mobility. Stimulating 
 the zombie hordes, the disgusting Boomer pukes up bile that temporarily distorts vision and defines 
 targets. Scaling ledges and catwalks, the Smoker extends its tongue from a distance and chokes 
 unaware victims. The Witch is like a proximity bomb on legs that is difficult to rid of once focused 
 on her prey. And finally the Tank, who serves as the zombie Terminator, smashing everything and 
 everyone in its path with immense strength.
  
  Since L4D makes it clear that multiplayer is where its priorities rest, its best to approach this 
 game as a fan of online interaction or NOT approach it at all. The 4 scenarios play out nicely, 
 offering decent variety in level design that is usually focused in a straight line. Enjoying the 
 game alone with the computer players is short lived; co-op adds a few more thrills, but the real 
 nitty-gritty is found in the Humans VS Infected (online only) mode.
  L4D remains the same overall, except now actual people control each human and infected (except 
 the Witch or individual zombies) divided into teams of 4 on 4. You still sprint from one safe house 
 to the next, all the while keeping teammates alive and safe. As for the monster squad, you coordinate 
 to the best of your ghoulish abilities in routing such a noble cause. These games of cat and mouse 
 can become extremely tiresome if teams on either end fumble on tactics and continue to die recklessly, 
 especially since the infected can respawn and the humans cannot. 
  The balancing act of controlling powerful monsters with weak health and vulnerability to fire is 
 tough, and such difficulty is even more present when facing off against skilled human players. 
 Mowing down zombies is undeniably entertaining; but when you are the zombie, and the surrounding 
 gunmen are zeroing in with deadly accuracy and heavy firepower, the challenge can be somewhat overwhelming. 
 Another area of question is the secondary attacks. Each monster has their main attack based on 
 their character, while the secondary is a simple slash attack. This is usually enough to drain 
 health of the opposition before laying on the hurt, which in most cases totally immobilizes said 
 target. The humans have weapons as their main attacks which rely on ammo, and a shoving maneuver 
 as their secondary. This shove causes no actual damage, but it does prop up charging zombies for 
 easy kills and shortly stuns infected players. Both squads have the ability to repeatedly use the 
 secondary attack, yet some argue that constant use of such moves without exerting any energy can 
 lead to lop-sided bouts, usually in favor of the human players. Either way you cut it the game 
 is about team focused objectives, and its never fun failing alone.
  
  VISUALS
  For anyone familiar with Half-Life 2, another good title from Valve, it's a sure bet you'll see 
 the strong similarities in level and character design. Besides L4D being a world populated by zombies, 
 the human characters are immensely detailed with: facial hair, tattoos, dangling accessories, and 
 amazing facial expressions.
  A lot can be said for a developer who encourages gamers to interact with the surrounding cast as 
 close as possible. It's maybe not wise to do so with the infected bunch, but if you ever play on 
 either team, the subtleties in everything from lip-syncing to eye expressions is flawless. As the 
 infected, you get to see some of the best animations in gaming; humans being attacked convey great 
 fear in their expressions and their animations really help compliment the despair. The infected 
 on the other hand are disgusting to look at which is believable, but their morbid movements don't 
 really help extend the performance, unless you are a fan of the dramatics.
  
  AUDIO
  There are two areas of L4D that merit much respect  superb voice work done by the humans and the 
 infected cast, and a wonderful sense of attention to detail when building a world with 5.1 surround 
 sound. You could manage well enough with a regular audio setup, especially when listening for infected 
 foes trying to jump you around every dark corner. While playing as the infected, your vision allows 
 you to see targets through walls as color auras. This may seem like a ridiculous advantage for 
 them, but the humans are keen enough to listen for villainous activity when it's near them; such 
 as the Hunter, who growls before launching his main attack. 
  
  EXTRAS
  Left 4 Dead is a special case when it comes to achievements and replay ability. The game is best 
 enjoyed online with friends or competent players, within versus or the 4 scenarios that serve as 
 separate campaigns. Doling out 10 to 30 gamer points depending on the task, about 400 to 500 points 
 can easily be gained simply playing all scenarios thoroughly. Everything from completing a campaign 
 without healing, using only pistols, saving teammates, and causing no friendly fire serve as decent 
 rewards for solid gaming. If you desire more challenging goals; killing over 53 thousand zombies, 
 playing as the individual infected, icing the Witch with a single head shot, and finishing all 
 scenarios on expert will have your palms a bit sweaty.
  Out of the box, L4D is lacking. The 4 campaigns that all basically play about the same way are 
 only available to humans versus computers. If you prefer the competitive edge, you can rejoice 
 in the humans versus infected mode all you like, but only 2 maps are available; word on when more 
 content will be available as of this writing is limited at best, but the general consensus is grim 
 unless more weapons, levels, and characters become playable in the near future. 
  
  OVERALL
  When I first heard about what L4D could offer, I was stoked! It's hard to deny the immense 
 amount of fun that was had demolishing zombies and terrorizing humans with friends and strangers 
 online. Even the split-screen experience works without much hassle. Truth is, the fun dwindles 
 in due time, and unlike most shooters that burn out simply because they don't have enough worth 
 sticking around for L4D shoots itself in the foot by not expanding on its present potential.
 
  As I post this, L4D has nearly no DLC to speak of which is a batch of mixed feelings when considering 
 the track record for Valve. Some games, like Counter-Strike and Half-Life have received a bevy 
 of updates since their original releases. Others, such as Team Fortress and now Left 4 Dead  titles 
 dependent on updates  have hardly anything to show for besides a clamoring audience. No doubt, 
 there will be more content, which takes time and care to produce. Unfortunately, L4D builds an 
 entire game with no real concrete story and major emphasis on speed and diligence within the most 
 intense gaming genre available. To ask fans and shooter fanatics to be patient is never a stretch, 
 but it does blemish this wonderful experience with extreme redundancy; leaving some gamers bitterly 
 exploring elsewhere, L4D could be so much more if the zombie infested world was really cracked 
 open. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pounder60JD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:20 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game, the singler player is alright, kinda welf after awhile, since the most fun 
 is playing with 3 others online. the best part about playing online is that once youve gotten all 
 your achievments, you can screw with everyone the whole time and ruin it for them. because theyve 
 probably already done that to you whilst you try and get your gamerpoints. and if you manage to 
 get a good group, ie: teamwork; communication; actual working brains, you will most likely lose 
 connection and not be able to rejoin. but all the little things aside, its a great game. couple 
 downfalls being the length is short (heard that before) , and if you are playing online with a group 
 of special olympians, it will be very hard due to the lack of organization, and the infected easily 
 taking you apart. dlc will add a new online mode, as well as 2 more of the 4 singler player levels 
 for VS mode, which should make the game last a little longer. so if you have patience for many 
 braindeads who play online, i highly recommend buying this game. the story consists of 4 campaigns, 
 with 5 lvls in each. and by story i mean there is go from point A to point B and fight zombies. 
 so if you couldnt give 2 shakes about a story then get it. i personally didnt care, just cuz it 
 was so fun, and me having to rely on total strangers to help me made it better, cuz some were useless 
 and others were surprisingly good. well i dono what else to say but go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videowiz186
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a thrilling FPS with a solid story. Multiplayer is impressive for it's thrilling 
 and intensive experience. You can't go run and gun by yourself in this game unless you want to 
 be zombie chow. You have to cooperate with your teammates, which is a relief from regular FPS. 
 While the story doesn't offer much, the game makes up for it with it's different ending campaigns. 
 You can also play as four different characters. The weapon variety in this game, however, is not 
 that great. You have a three choices of what weapon you want to begin with, and later on, you only 
 get another three choices to choose from again. You only have one sidearm, which you can double 
 in the game. And you only have two choices for explosives. While this game is far from being the 
 being the greatest FPS ever, it's still worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude_The_Man
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying this game is not bad. In fact, I would say it is slightly above average 
 with an emphasis on "slightly" as far as the current state of games lately. I ran into no glitches, 
 no slowdown, no pop-in, no sound hiccups etc. Given that the game played flawlessly (for me anyway) 
 it's a real shame that they didn't do more with it. They copy-pasted the generic FPS, threw in 
 zombie enemies and.., nothing. Thats pretty much it. If it had a claim to fame it would be the 
 fact that you can play on the zombie team as one of the very few special zombies. This turned out 
 to be quite bland which could be the one word to describe Left 4 Dead if that's what you needed, 
 one word.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay portion works fine ,but is severely stripped down w/ no frills of any kind. 
 There are four campaigns which you can and will blaze through that all look different while playing 
 exactly the same. There are four characters that are identical and might as well be carbon copies 
 other then the one-liners they spout endlessly. There are a bunch of standard FPS guns like pistols, 
 shotguns, SMGs etc.. Every single thing you've seen a million times and then some. The vast majority 
 of the enemies and I do mean vast are exactly the same. That being the standard movie inspired 
 zombies that stand around until they get a whiff of your presence and then run at you till your 
 dead, their dead, or they can't reach you anymore. Easily 99% of the game is spent fighting this 
 exact same enemy in waves that vary in number. But, but, the game sent more generic zombie #1 at 
 you then you can handle? No problem my friend. Find a corner, put your back up against it and spam 
 the melee button until it's just you and a lot of redead undead. Yes, sadly it is that effective. 
 In fact you could call it an "I win" button for nearly all purposes, and it is used heavily in 
 online for that very reason. Your third option other than your gun and melee is to use a Molotov/pipe 
 bomb (i. e. a grenade) . The Molotov lights things on fire, while the pipe bomb attracts the enemies 
 to it and then blows up. That would be the entirety of Left 4 Dead's gameplay in a nutshell.
  
  You have the option of playing the story mode online w/ up to three other people and then there's 
 the aforementioned playing the zombies mode which allows four people on each team. There are only 
 four unique zombies throughout Left 4 Dead and you take turns playing three of these zombies until 
 eventually, once per round, one of you gets to play the "Tank". Each of these special zombies has 
 one special attack and a generic melee swipe. The special attacks are a bile vomit attack that 
 blurs the "good guys" vision, a pounce attack that does continual damage until they die or you're 
 knocked off of them and a tongue grab attack that works the same as the pounce except in reverse. 
 Playing these special zombies devolves into getting a player in your sights, pressing the button 
 to do the pounce/tongue grab/vomit and then watching them take damage. You will either kill them 
 or their friends will instantly kill you. At which point you wait your turn to do it again. Yes 
 my friends, it's so much less than it's cracked up to be... The fourth special zombie is called 
 the Tank and takes the place of other games bosses by being the boss for every single level in 
 the entire game. You will see him at least once a level and you will use the same strategy every 
 time. You light him on fire and then run, stop, shoot, till he goes down. The mere fact that they 
 reuse the same boss throughout the entire game would put most people off right from the start as 
 a massive, glowing, question mark. Apparently most reviewers decided to overlook this minor detail. 
 In fact the entire gameplay is been there, done that w/ zombies thrown in, thousands of the exact 
 same zombies. In fact we will call them the army of Jango' corpse, as these are in reality a clone 
 army you are facing that disguise themselves as the undead...
  
  Graphics: The graphics are most definitely not next gen quality. Considering this game does not 
 put as much on screen as many, many other recent games there's no justification for this. The characters, 
 items, enemies, environments, everything that has a texture of any kind; all of it looks dated. 
 There are a very few destructible objects such as doors and windows but everything else just grows 
 bullet hole decals when shot. Blood splatter makes a nice showing as it does realistically fly 
 all over everything, but it's too little, too late. Where are the next gen zombie games where the 
 bullets actually take them apart leaving gaping holes and bones jutting out everywhere? As it is 
 the graphics are subpar and nothing special in the slightest.
  
  Sound: The sound design is one of the high notes as the zombies may grunt and moan as always ,but 
 if you look at the source material they do it extremely well. The best part is when they do that, 
 pig like squeal as they attack. Especially if you didn't already know they were there. The guns 
 sound appropriate and environmental sounds get the job done great. The soundtrack is limited and 
 looped quite a bit. However it works for the subject matter adding a creepy vibe or a note of desperation 
 when needed.
  
  Value: Value to me means... The game is long enough to be worth buying and not renting. The game 
 has some measure of difficulty. And lastly the game is of enough general quality for me to fork 
 over the dough to purchase it. Left 4 Dead is most certainly not long. In fact you will have seen 
 everything in a couple of days played. You will have experienced the entirety of its gameplay the 
 very first level you complete. The difficulty can be adjusted quite a bit but this is negated completely 
 by the cheapness of the melee move and how easily it is to abuse. As for the overall quality it 
 is just plain lacking in nearly every department. To put it blunt this game lacks value in every 
 way.
  
  Tilt: Tilt and/or fun factor could have been this games only saving grace. Sadly, as it is, any 
 fun to be had wore off after I played the exact same level, every level, of every campaign, w/ 
 a new name and locale tacked on. If there is any fun to be had it wears thin far too quickly.
 
  
  Overall: Having covered Left 4 dead and found it functional, if not wanting in every aspect, you 
 could ask why I gave it a five. Why not give it a four or maybe less? Well there is something to 
 be said about a game that works. At its core it does what it is meant to. It might not be entertaining, 
 but as glitches and slowdown are running rampant as of late functionality has become quite important 
 to me. Not once did I run into a single technical issue and maybe it was luck or maybe it was just 
 good game design who knows. Regardless its good enough for the moment and good enough for a solid 
 five.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a game in which you play as a human survivor of a zombie apocalypse. You, along 
 with three human- or CPU-controlled teammates, must cooperate to escape the zombie-infested land 
 and reach a rescue vehicle in four different campaigns. The campaigns each have their own delightfully 
 cheesy title, tagline and poster in a homage to horror films from the pre-80's era. Each campaign 
 contains five levels.
  So, the game only has 20 levels that run for ten minutes or less each. The game itself is short. 
 So I certainly wouldn't recommend buying this game unless you at least have someone to play with 
 (or, better yet, you should have Live, so that you can play with three other people) . The achievements 
 are fun little challenges that you can shoot for and they do add some decent value. Every time 
 you play the game, it will be modified by the randomly-generated enemies, or by the AI-System called 
 'The Director' that can change the difficulty, the music, or the effects, just to name a few.
 
  If your team isn't working together in the game, you aren't likely to last very long. You have 
 to work cooperatively and strategically to ensure that you make it to the end of the campaign alive.
 
  The original fun of the game is likely to float your boat, but buying this with the notion of 
 playing it alone will definitely sink it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever looked at a building and mentally planned the optimal escape route? Furnished a room 
 so that it could be set up as a barricade? Or picked up an item at your local mall to see if it 
 could, in a pinch, crush a skull? If you answered 'yes' to any or all of the above questions, congratulations, 
 you are Zombie Aware. But there's one last thing you need to properly plan for the upcoming zombocalypse 
 - a copy of Valve's Left4Dead, a game that captures the feeling of being a survivor like no other.
 
  
  You're not given much setup with Left4Dead; all you know is that you're one of four survivors, 
 fighting off hordes of the undead. Really, do you need to know anything else? At a glance Left4Dead 
 is a very simple first-person shooter. There are only a couple of weapons to master, no quick-time 
 events to worry about, and virtually no moves or commands other than 'move', 'aim' and 'shoot'. 
 While Left4Dead isn't as deep as most of the other shooters available, it is a lot more fun. It 
 harkens back to the days of games like Doom, when that's what shooters were really about.
  
  Left4Dead has four separate campaigns, consisting of five maps each. Each map is a pretty linear 
 affair - you'll be going down one clear path to get to a safe house (though don't be fooled - in 
 the real thing, there will be no safe, only safer) . You'll probably get through the game in four 
 hours or so, but there's a ton of reasons to go back and play it again. The first, and most apparent, 
 is a feature called the AI Director. The Director will control where and when enemies will spawn, 
 and how many will come. If players are doing poorly the Director will only place a couple zombies 
 in obvious areas. If players are doing well, he'll set up some really large, cool attacks - maybe 
 a group will bust out of the walls? It's different every time you play, which will always keep 
 you on your toes. Thankfully, the Director does a good job keeping things balanced, so it will 
 never feel cheap.
  
  The other thing that makes Left4Dead delightfully unpredictable is the human element. Though you 
 can play the game with human friendly AI, it's a whole different game with three people over XBOX 
 Live - preferably, three perfect strangers. Make sure you wear your headset, though. Discussing 
 strategies and tactics with your teammates is often the key to survival. The on-the-fly planning 
 really makes you feel like part of a real group of zombie survivors - only, you know, without all 
 the pain and suffering.
  
  But if you're new to the gaming world, don't feel threatened by playing Left4Dead online. It's 
 probably the friendliest game available for the system. If you accidentally shoot a teammate, waste 
 supplies, get yourself killed, or otherwise mess up your team you aren't going to get b! tched at 
 - at least, not as often as you would playing other games. With Left4Dead, Valve has created a 
 surprisingly tight online community. I guess there's something about undead massacre that brings 
 people together. We can only hope when the real zombie apocalypse comes, the survivors will be 
 half this sympathetic.
  
  Teamwork is an important part of surviving Left4Dead's campaign, but it takes on a whole new meaning 
 playing Versus mode. Versus is a contest of survival between two teams of four. One team, playing 
 as the survivors, tries to get as far as possible in a campaign map while the others, playing as 
 the zombies, try to stop them by any means necessary. Once the survivors either make it across 
 or get killed, the teams switch. It's really fun setting elaborate traps for the other team, but 
 of course zombies aren't the sturdiest creatures in the world. As you can be killed by only a few 
 shots, you and your team really have to think your plans through. Unfortunately, once you die you 
 have to wait an agonizing 20+ seconds to respawn. While Versus is currently only available on two 
 campaign maps, the new piece of DLC will make it playable on all four.
  
  Valve's Source engine is finally starting to show its age. Left4Dead definitely isn't the most 
 impressive-looking shooter on the market. However, the sheer number of enemies the engine can handle 
 without any slowdown is staggering. Valve is home to some serious horror fans, and it shows. The 
 art design is great, resembling some of the old horror movies you probably grew up with. Actually 
 defending yourself from zombies in the house from Night of the Living Dead is like playing through 
 one of your childhood nightmares. The sound also resembles these movies; a short, tense bar of 
 strings play when the Horde approaches, and every character has an intentionally clichd, overdone 
 voice.
  
  Left4Dead is riddled with cool stylish touches. I'm a huge fan of the fake movie posters that appear 
 over the load screens. The 'cast' consists of the game's current players - if you get stuck playing 
 as Zoey, for example, the poster will read [your gamertag] as Zoey. Every campaign is wrapped up 
 by a pseudo set of credits, which tell all the players how they did. If one player didn't make 
 it to the end, the credits will be dedicated in their memories. All the little things like this 
 make it apparent that Valve cares way more about their game than the average developer would.
 
  
  Valve has done it again - Left4Dead is without a doubt the best shooter of 2008. Though it may 
 seem a little thin on content, it's infinitely replayable and definitely justifies its sixty dollar 
 asking price. Buy it, and spread the word - the zombies are coming, and humanity has to be prepared. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabooki2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is one of those games that u just can't leave for anything! I ended up keeping my rented 
 copy after playing the first level! If you're looking for some laughs and thrills while practicing 
 head shots and mob melee, this is the game to do it with! love the choice of characters with 3 
 guys all with different attitudes, and one sweet chick (luv ya Zoey!) all out running for their 
 lives protecting each other as they make their way from safehouse to safehouse ultimately leading 
 to a rescue vehicle. 
  Your challenge is to fight off all sorts of zombies, some with lizard tongues right out of a Marvel 
 comic gone bad, some with a bad stomach virus sharing their contents with you! Hulk zombies, smart 
 zombies, dumb zombies and then the witches... Dare to do it alone or with 3 other friends whatever 
 the choice you won't be disappointed, dismembered but never disappointed! Multiplayer is great, 
 the mood is awesome (noises everywhere) and the graphics are pretty descent too. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead, the story of four survivors trying to escape zombies who have overrun their world. 
 It definitely sounds good for a game or maybe even a movie, but the game did trip and fall on several 
 small stones that could very well decide whether you keep this game or not.
  
  The Good
  1. Multiplayer: The ability to play with four other people in the story, or with 8 other people 
 (4 survivors, 4 zombies) certainly makes this game worth picking up. Who wouldn't want to try and 
 shoot zombies in the head with friends?
  2. Interesting Enemies: Of course you have the original zombies, then you have 5 other types of 
 enemies to deal with, and you never know when you'll encounter any of these guys.
  3. Randomized: You can't memorize where things are in this game. All the weapons and enemies will 
 be shifted around the different areas of the different levels. You could have all the ammo in the 
 world to take on an army one time, but other times you may have to rely on your pistol.
  
  The Bad
  1. Not Much Content: I know Valve is making some DLC to make the game more interesting, 
 but with just the 4 levels and 4 characters you start out with, it doesn't really make things interesting 
 and makes things old rather fast.
  2. Not Really Survival Horror: If you're looking for a scare in this game, you might be disappointed. 
 There's not much that's really scary in the game, other than the fact that zombies can come from 
 anywhere may keep you on your toes. I would like to see lesser ammo for your guns, since you start 
 with almost 350 rounds with a rifle/UZI.
  
  Left 4 Dead is excellent for a mutliplayer game, but if you're going to be playing this by yourself 
 (which I can't imagine why) , then don't really pick up this game, because you will get bored with 
 it and quickly. And for the ones who don't have Left 4 Dead, but are planning to get it AND going 
 to play it with others, a friendly word of advice: Wait For The DLC To Come In. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erazuraz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  As a fan of zombies - in whatever medium they're present in, I dig it - I was incredibly hyped 
 to see a survival horror game that focused solely on one thing: surviving a horde of zombies. Although 
 we've seen a great games come out of the survival horror genre in the past, such as Resident Evil 
 or Silent Hill series, there have been few games in this category that have really served as a 
 good Hack n' Slash. Well, Left 4 Dead changed all that. Set around several chapters all independent 
 from one another, the game sets you off right into the action. You must immediately begin running 
 for your life in order avoid a massive zombie attack in search for sanctuary or a means to escape 
 a fate worse than death - although having your brains eaten by the living dead is a satisfying 
 way to go out. Each chapter is relatively short, being able to be completed in about an hour or 
 so (at least for me) , and while that allows from some great rampaging... it unfortunately grew 
 old on me after some short game play. I'm well aware that the A. I. opponents in the game are extremely 
 intelligent and offer every experience in a level to be new and exciting, but that didn't do it 
 for me. After completing every level, I found the game had little replay value; definitely something 
 worth renting to get the taste, but no long term value. I'll admit it, I had high expectations 
 for the game. I mean, the title was voted Best Game at E3 according to Game Informer (over Fallout 
 3?) , so I expected something significant, but I what I received was something no more impressive 
 than a fancy arcade game - I wanted something more Goddammit!
  
  I want epic, I want legendary, I want a **** masterpiece. And what was this? Just something to 
 make the time pass by. OK, it's not as though the game is poor; it delivers what it promises: blood 
 and gore. So I can't help but feel guilty that perhaps I just had high expectations of wanting 
 some large-scale, immersive RPG that just had the character battling off hordes of zombies on some 
 sort quest to find salvation. *Sigh* Well, there's always next year to hope for that. In the meantime, 
 unless you like pointless dribble drench in organs and blood, have fun. But if you're like me and 
 look for some sort of suspenseful horror masterpiece, you may only enjoy this game as a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The story is you and 3 other people are well left for dead. It is your classic zombie movie but 
 your in it. Remember when you watched a zombie movie yelling at the screen. "Don't go in there!" 
 or "Well shoot the damn thing!" and "Don't leave that guy behind". Well now it's your chance to 
 change it all, like you were there because you are. You are part of a small group of people stuck 
 in a city, forest or farmland crawling with the undead and some other not so fun mutations. Pretty 
 simple plan start here go there but it is easier said the done. You want things to shoot well you 
 got it. Zombies, fast moving hunters zombies, blotted corpses and something with a really long 
 tongue called a smoker and a monster called a tank, it is fitting. You will have a choice of some 
 small arms but as the game progresses you get bigger guns. You will have a health bar so keep an 
 eye on yours and your teams. Get the guns shoot your way out but stay as a team. In the multi it 
 holds even more true. As you get to check points in the multi you will switch sides and you can 
 be the monsters. Your mission is just as easy with a catch kill the survivors and stop then from 
 reaching the check point. It is a simple game but very fun stay together or you will be left for 
 dead. And with people that are not team players it will happen a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rg29
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  left 4 dead is the greatest multiplayer game of all time i never played a multiplayer zombie game 
 it has to be said you will want to play it and experience the horde of zombie's running at you. this 
 game is great at realism from the way the charecters react to shooting off a head its real as. 
 it can scare you at some points i was playing it with a mate we were stuck in a bathroom over run 
 by zombie freaks. the special zombies are a good touch from the fat and ugly boomer to the mutated 
 tank you will not want to go near him you'll know why. there are downsides first weapons there 
 should be more like a flamethrower that would be cool or a minigun for the rising horde. other 
 downsides are the speech sometimes they'll say stupid stuff like "ITS BEHIND YOU" even though theres 
 nothing there, they should tell you where a car with an alarm is as well just for a little pointer. 
 
  overall this game has to be the 1 for the best, it is the best zombie flick ever if you don't have 
 it GET IT!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huan0602
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The game was really fun but what I didnt like about it is all the characters are the same they 
 could have made some customization if you play with different characters but whatever. Also WAYYYY 
 to short and I didnt like how it was like movies, what is that? just have it as a play through 
 like your trying to survive and you keep walking through each level until you get to like a safe 
 community like in I am legend or something. Idk I borrowed it from a friend, I was gonna buy it 
 but I am so glad I didnt because I beat it with my gf on the hardest it is and we still beat it 
 all in like 4 hours and she is not video game inclined if that says anything about the hardness 
 of the game... but if they make a second one they should make more to it. The BEST thing about this 
 game is that it was so easy I could beat it with my gf which is great because she only likes the 
 little kiddie games like the ones made after disney movies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous sound and visuals, great characters, realistic looking zombies, powerful weapons, 
 addictive online multiplayer, a true zombie simulator
  
  The Bad: Lacks content, very short, not so fun offline, not much story except the intro movie
 
  
  Once again Valve brings us another great game using their Source engine that brings all the elements 
 of Left 4 Dead to life (or death???) The first thing you'll notice (mainly Valve fans) is that 
 the Source engine has had a next-gen upgrade (even more so than Portal) and everything looks amazing. 
 While HL2 fans will notice some sounds and elements of the engine from those games it doesn't really 
 bother you. The game looks stunning with excellent lighting effects, awesome AI (enemy and friendly) , 
 great character models, hi-res textures, and just everything you'd expect out of the Source engine. 
 L4D, however, isn't really a single player only experience; in fact you won't even see the full 
 potential of this four player game unless you play online.
  
  The game is comprised of four campaigns and each campaign has five levels. Each level gets longer 
 and more and more difficult with a final level where you have to face off hundreds of zombies until 
 your rescue transport arrives. At the start of each campaign you get to choose of the four characters 
 (each character just starts out with a different weapon) . Speaking of weapons I was disappointed 
 in the small selection that there was (just pistols, shotguns, machine guns, and a sniper rifle 
 along with bombs and molotovs) . The basic idea is these four characters have to cover each others' 
 butts through these levels while you face off massive hordes of zombies. The whole idea is a bit 
 more in depth with some gameplay elements thrown in there. For example zombies are attracted to 
 noise and light, so if you keep your flashlight on near zombies they'll charge after you. Shoot 
 a car that has it's headlights on and you'll have to face off dozens of zombies charging at you 
 because you set off the car alarm. Killing these zombies is fairly easy since a few shots will 
 bring them down, but its sheer numbers that makes up for this.
  
  There are over 150 different zombie types, but there are a few "special" zombies that are harder 
 to take down. These are the Tanks (massive zombies that will take all four people to bring down) , 
 Smokers (these guys have super long tongues that snatch you up) , Boomers (no not like in Gears 
 of War if these guys vomit on you they attract more zombies and same if you blow them up if they're 
 too close to you) , Witches (you hear them cry through levels and if you disturb them they'll take 
 you down and you are down until someone revives you) , Hunters (which are super fast moving zombies 
 that pounce on you and eat you until someone saves you) . This changes gameplay up along with certain 
 sections require you to do something such as hit this switch to move this and while this is happening 
 you have to fend off hordes of zombies. The game is probably the only "zombie simulator" out there 
 because they just act and look so real and you really do feel helpless in the middle of nowhere 
 with hundreds of zombies around you.
  
  Of course you'll blow through the four campaigns in about 3-4 hours, but it's the great online 
 play that extends the replay value. The way levels are played out are very original as well since 
 you have to get everyone into a "safe room" at the end of the level (look for the red door) and 
 close it thus the next level loads and you get to restock on health and ammo. Throughout levels 
 you may find rare ammo stocks, pipe bombs etc. It's the final levels that really are hard since 
 you have to fend off so many zombies and this can be hard in single player since the AI won't go 
 anywhere unless you do. When your transport arrive you MUST start heading towards it before it 
 gets to you because if you're surrounded by dozens of zombies you're dead. If your team mates die 
 they tend to respawn in closets or behind closed doors. Once you run out of health you can be healed 
 by other team mates or take pills to temporarily fill your health. L4D is a wonderful game, but 
 it's tight on content and lacks more maps that we need (Valve sucks when it comes to DLC) . I highly 
 recommend this game for a great online multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Allright left 4 dead is a good game. It gets pretty hard on the harder difficulty levels but there's 
 only 4 levels altogether. You can have computer controlled bots to fill in the 4 player slots but 
 still, there's only 4 levels. There's only 2 player split screen which is extremely weird because 
 with a game like this why would you not have 4 player split screen. 
  
  Yes you can be an infected but it's disappointing. The computer controlled bots seem to have eyes 
 in the back and sides of their heads. So even if you're sneaking from whoever they will see you. 
 If you're playing locally, you can't ever be infected unless at least one person is a survivor. 
 So if you were looking forward to have you and your bro/sis be zombies together.. to bad!
  
  Overall I would NOT recommend buying the game. It is a good game when it presents itself but 
 it's not worth $60. Maybe $30 at the most, but no more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juvenal123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Well when I bought the game; I'm always intrigued what the storyline is going to be but it didn't 
 have any. Except just live basically as a team. The game is set up into four different scenario; 
 which ever you want to start first. When I first began playing; i like to waste no time and kill 
 zombies fast but when the game says to stick as a team, you better stick as a team. Or else you 
 lose. A swarm of zombies come after you like no stop. Work as a team and you can do it; or.... maybe 
 not. Multiplayer is fun as hell especially online with all the swearing and all stuff. A good game 
 to play with friends in the dark with the sound all the way up! Take my advice for it, its a good 
 game to have in your collection. Oh the bad thing about the game that got me mad is the part where 
 they pwn you and you can't do anything unless someone shoots the zombie away from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:58 am PT
Review:  Valve's masterful creation - Left 4 Dead is one of the best games of the year. It's a zombie FPS, 
 which involves you, and 3 other people (bots, your XBL buddies or random Koreans) shooting them 
 in the face, and other body parts. For a cooperative shooter - it's very good. The coop works well, 
 and the game's pretty atmospheric. There is practicly no storyline, and there are only 4 zombie-filled 
 campaigns to play though (each about 1hr long on Normal) . It is kind of short, but since there's 
 Versus mode, which lets you play as a zombie, it is a pretty good package. And since there's DLC 
 coming this spring - you'll have a blast if you choose to play Left 4 Dead. It's cooperative zombie 
 killing funtime, and you shouldn't regret buying it!
  
  Pros
  
  Fun and addicting gameplay.
  Good co-op play.
  Versus mode, which lets you play as a zombie.
 
  
  Cons
  
  Short.
  No real storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rakshee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game takes zombie survival to the next level. While yes, its very short, its just that type 
 of game that is fun to play through over and over again. The campaign is never the same, no matter 
 how many times you play through it. The story (as far as you making a movie of this) could be better, 
 but aside from that the game is just out-right awesome. I heard about it at the beginning of 08, 
 but found that it was well worth the wait for it. The game had almost all the right things a zombie 
 shooter should have. The game sets its own difficulty for you depending on whether or not you are 
 doing well. Their "versus" mode was a great move, too. What more would someone like to do other 
 than get on live with some friends and own the main characters of the game as zombies? The infected's 
 specials were a great add to the mix. So instead of most games where you'd play as just a normal 
 zombie, this game doesn't give you that choice. Each time you respawn, you play as a special infected, 
 depending on certain other things. However, the designers could have made the infected just a little 
 bit stronger. I find it too easy to kill the special infected, too hard to kill the survivors, 
 and too easy to die. But aside from the versus, the game makes you stick around the other players 
 or NPC's more than most other games, due to the fact that if you don't, you might just run into 
 a tank and die. The game really lived up to the hype. Even for those who don't have live, strap 
 a friend to the couch, play a couple campaigns. Its well worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bizzaro_Shake
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  For the makers of such games as Half Life and the Orange Box, Valve software cranks out another 
 instant favorite amoung its fans. Left 4 Dead has a very recognizable relation to other games that 
 Valve has made before, the most prevelent to mind is Counter Strike. The game is both single and 
 multiplayer based, the real reason anyone will buy this game is for the intense online play that 
 can be shared from 4 to 8 players.
  
  Left 4 Dead's online multiplayer consists of two game types. The first being multiplayer campaign 
 mode, where you and 3 other human or bot players battle your way from saferoom to saferoom. Each 
 of the 4 levels contains 5 sections, where players must battle zombies, kill special infected, 
 complete various challenges, all while covering and healing allies in order to make it safely to 
 the next saferoom. So what if I die along the way because no had time to save me, do I have to 
 wait for the next round to start? NO! You will respawn in a closet or room where other players 
 can open to release you, and your instantly back in the fight.
  
  The other multiplayer componet is the versus mode. This mode allows 4 players to be special infected 
 to prey upon the 4 human players. The special infected include the hunter, a primary melee character, 
 the boomer, a large walking time bomb, and the smoker, a long range opponent who constricts humans 
 with his tongue. However, a down side to this game, there are only two playable levels, or 10 total 
 sections that can be used in versus mode. After each round, the teams switch, allowing everyone 
 to be a special infected at least 5 times through each level.
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead is a game that make you play it so much that you'll be quoting for the first 
 couple of days. You will constantly play it and try to beat the campaigns on the hardest difficulty 
 to get those achievements. Then you'll goof around with your friends and screw around every match. 
 Then you'll realilize that this game is very limited. It was great for the first week, but I have 
 done everything already. Since the game has no downloadable content seen in the near future, the 
 fun has to stop sometime. It is wrth the money though to have that imense fun that first couple 
 of weeks, and who knows, you may just pick it up again and become as addicted to it as you were 
 when you first played it. Theres always people online this game, so you'll never be alone in any 
 campaign! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algaeisgreat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  Oh, it's creepy. 
  
  You are one of 4 survivors in the midst of a zombie apocalypse. The concept is very straightforward 
 - 4 people, fight off zobie hordes, get to rescue point. Simple. Or not.....
  
  The game is split into 4 campaigns posing as 'movies', each completely independent of each other 
 and can be played in any order, on any difficulty, which is great news for seasoned zombie hunters 
 and newbies alike. There are no training modes, and no easing in gently - you are dropped straight 
 in and left to get on with it. This IS the best way - controls are intuitive and the right bumper 
 particularly effective as a 'spin round' button.
  
  Weapon choices are quite good, and depending on which difficulty you play, ammo stashes are well-placed. 
 You are given a pistol as a basic weapon, and another gun of your choosing at various points. You 
 are able to swap your 'big gun' on several occasions throughout the campaigns if you get fed up 
 or fancy a change. In addition, if you run out of ammo your pistol is infinite ammo which can come 
 in handy.
  
  This game comes into its own as an online co-op - you can team up with 3 other players and work 
 your way through as opposed to having AI characters. This is most definitely a teamwork game, as 
 if you don't stick together, you will be annihilated. End of. Healing, covering rescuing and protecting 
 each other are the names of the game and also during combat it is essential in the disposing of 
 the Special Infected (But I'm not going to give too much of that away :) ) And this experience 
 really does bring you and your teammates closer together.
  
  There is also a multiplayer versus mode where you can play as zombies or humans, which adds a nice 
 twist to the gameplay.
  
  
  The creeping sense of dread you get when you hear a zombie crying is something you won't forget 
 in a hurry, and the atmosphere of the game is very intense.
  
  I would highly recommend this game for anyone who enjoys online multiplayer, and/or has a penchant 
 for destroying zombies. Excellent effort, Valve, more please!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourMonk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  It has many things you would expect from a Zombie game, but in some miraculous way it adds more 
 to the experience. With diverse multiplayer action where you play through the campaign but your 
 opponents are now other live players playing as the special infected. This puts a new twist on 
 the whole experience and can leave you sitting on your sofa for hours not taking a break for anything 
 not even a hotpocket. Now the actual campaign is very team based so never go out alone. The AI 
 is usually okay in protecting you, but you can't you always count on them to protect you from the 
 deadly witch. So overall this is an addicting and different game that can leave you gazing at the 
 TV for hours and occasionally screaming at the witch that ripped you to shreds while your AI friends 
 sit and laugh. My advice though, (if it matters) if you love zombie games and are looking for a great 
 multiplayer and single player game, then buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a unique take on FPS gaming, While some games tend to toss coop into the game as 
 a after thought team play is obviously the fore front for this game. In every level through out 
 the game you and three companions that can be human controlled or computer controlled traverse 
 one of four campaigns to make it to a safe spot and escape a massive unending horde of zombies.
 
  While the mindless blasting and blowing up of zombies may be fun at first, very quickly you realize 
 that while the scenery changes nothing else does. Playing the game with the commentary on only 
 makes this problem of repetition more confusing. Hearing the developers talk about how hard they 
 worked to make everything as expansive as possible so things wouldn't get old, yet one of the MAIN 
 parts of the game (guns) is the first thing they didn't vary at all. Still this doesn't end Left 
 4 Dead's fun factor but it does do a lot of damage to it.
  
  Graphics - For what it going on in the game on screen they are actually quite good. While zombies 
 on their own are well detailed and modeled there is just something about having a hundred of those 
 zombies flood through a doorway that just looks cool. While it doesn't boast the most advanced 
 lighting features or highest resolution textures it is without a doubt a good looking game.
  
  Mechanics - The way the game plays is actually quite simple, never requiring puzzle solving 
 or adding new mechanics later in the game. This could be because the four campaigns in the game 
 are actually all treated as individual stories and are not linked in anyway, this may have caused 
 the developers to make every campaign play as if it's your first time, every time. Some nice ideas 
 are in here though, gas cans that can be shot to create a fire wall, propane tanks that explode 
 when shot and pipe bombs that cause zombies to horde to it before it explodes. While the mechanics 
 are not numerous they are well executed.
  
  Story - Well this ones a hard one since in all reality there isn't a story except for what you 
 can derive from the commercials or demo. You and three other survivors are attempting to escape 
 a onslaught of zombies. Why they exist no body knows and how it all started is your best guess. 
 Besides the lack of a deep story, separate chapters have a decent progression but again no real 
 story per say just a progression of atmosphere. Those of you looking for a game that requires no 
 attention paid to dialogue, this is what you've been looking for.
  
  Multiplayer - Yes I'm putting this section in mainly because this game is ALWAYS in multiplayer 
 mode even if you have no humans to play with. Playing coop with a friend is always great fun but 
 sadly it seems that the computer players are far more useful than any human. Boasting higher accuracy, 
 faster response times and never leaving you behind to die makes them much more dependable and useful 
 than most humans players. If you're just looking to have some fun with your friends that's fine 
 this will be a blast, but if you're looking to actually beat the game you should play alone.
  
  Overall Left 4 Dead is a very good game, but some major design flaws hold it back from being 
 truly great. The fact that only five weapons (not including your sidearm pistol) exist in the entire 
 games four campaigns is worth a -1.0 to the games score to start. Past that the fact that the game 
 has four campaigns instead of one whole game is rather sad especially after hearing the games commentary 
 and hearing what the original design was, so that's a good -0.5. Finally comes the games limited 
 mechanics, a game like this really felt like vehicles would have been a blast. Also the limited 
 variety of weapons brings further focus to the games lack of options, basically every level can 
 be beaten with the auto shotgun and at no point is the 'sniper' rifle even worth looking at. There 
 is no need to set traps and with only poorly positioned mini guns to play with as environmental 
 weapons you just feel very very limited to your choices and actions and that's the final -1.0. 
 What this game does it does quite well, sadly it just doesn't do much. A Very limited weapons list, 
 extremely short gameplay (you can beat the whole game, all four campaigns in under five hours pretty 
 easily) and add to that levels that always play out the same every time with only one single route 
 to the end of the level and all major sequences always happening in the same place. While the developers 
 commentary says they were aiming for variety and re-playability it seems they scrapped both of 
 those ideas and went for mindless repeating zombie shooter. Don't get me wrong it's great fun, 
 at first. While I recommend adding this to your collection if you're an FPS fan, be aware that 
 after about 20 hours of playing it this title will most likely end up collecting dust on your shelf 
 unless a big expansion with more levels and guns comes out. For the first few hours you play this 
 game you'll think it's the best game ever made, but after a week of owning it you'll wonder all 
 the content is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL4CKFL4M3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game gives nothing more that it was made for, it is by far a great multiplayer and creates 
 dramatic atmosphere with music and sounds. Sure, it isn't that long, but some downloadable content 
 will eventually come. They have already released more multiplayer maps, but I think that people 
 are waiting for other playing modes like horde or even survival. Put each person in a house and 
 see who can withstand and out battle the zombie waves. So this could be both a multi player and 
 a single player game mode. (more guns and maps are always good too)
  
  Best part is, and what I recommend to everyone, after playing it with friends, try it on Expert. 
 You will find a true challenge, sometimes even unreal and the achievements, although hard, are 
 really rewarding. You don't have to go out of your way to get all of them, you just have to play 
 the game and get to try it in different ways.
  I even think that it's missing achievements for the guns, and how many kills you get with them.
 
  
  I hope that everyone that buys this enjoys it, always fun to play, hope more things come for it 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenium1516
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty cool. the bad parts are nothing really. Just mostly play the game, beat it 
 and then play with others on live. This game is just how all the other regular games should be. 
 Left for dead is all about killing zombies witch is really cool. It is fast simple and easy to 
 play. all you basically do is run and shoot zombies trying to get away from zombies and deadly 
 monsters. that is were all the suspense is at though just killing zombies witch is awsome especially 
 all the gore it has when you kill the monsters. The graphics are good but not great. you still 
 have the people walking through other people bodies, but in this game that is the good thing because 
 most of the time you are crowded in a tunnel or tight building and it comes in handy if you would 
 want to kill the zombie. All you have to do is just walk right through. This is a cool game buy 
 it if you didnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael-Redd-22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't heard a lot about Left 4 Dead prior to its release. Many people were anticipating this 
 title, and for good reason. Alone, this game is pretty average, but with friends, it's an experience 
 that you cannot miss. 
  
  Graphically, Left 4 Dead is a pretty nice looking game. While it definitely isn't the most beautiful 
 title in the 360 library, the art direction is fantastic, and the blood and gore is as awesome 
 as you'd like it to be. The textures aren't always the best, and some of the environments are pretty 
 average, but it's still a game that you definitely won't have a problem looking at. 
  
  I'm actually a pretty big fan of the audio in this game. It fits the feel of L4D very well. I especially 
 like the audio ques for the special types of zombies. There really isn't a ton in terms of music 
 in L4D, so there isn't a lot for me to comment on. Overall, it's not bad.
  
  Story-wise, it's pretty simple: four survivors get together to fight off zombies, get to safety 
 rooms, and eventually leave the area. The story is basically there just to give you an incentive 
 to play: there really isn't a whole lot to it. Still, it works, and honestly, for a game like Left 
 4 Dead, you don't want to hear the story; you just want to get back to the action. 
  
  Case in point: the game play in this game doesn't revolutionize the FPS genre in any way, but it's 
 still incredibly addicting. Everything works as it should, and has never caused any problems for 
 me whatsoever. For the survivors, the game is simple: grab guns, shoot the hell outta people. It's 
 when you start playing as the zombies that things start getting interesting. 
  
  There are 4 different types of zombies you can play as: the Smoker, the Hunter, the Boomer, and 
 the Tank. The Smoker uses its tongue to snatch onto an enemy, drag it towards itself, the proceeding 
 to ripping the crap out of them. The Hunter pounces on the survivors, holding them to the ground 
 and ripping them to shreds. The Boomer basically pukes all over the survivors, causing a horde 
 of zombies to go after them. However, the most interesting (and most powerful by far) is the Tank. 
 The Tank randomly spawns at some point during a level, at which time one player takes control of 
 it. In order to use it, you MUST be attacking something, or else you'll "lose control". It takes 
 a lot to kill a tank, and it does a lot of damage, so it's definitely something to fight against 
 with friends. 
  
  In terms of game modes, there's your single player and multiplayer. Single player is what you'd 
 expect, but once you start going online with friends, that's where it's at. 
  
  There are two different types of multiplayer: Multiplayer Campaign, and Versus Mode. Multiplayer 
 Campaign is just the single player, but with friends. Simple, but very fun. Versus Mode is easily 
 the reason to purchase this game. 
  
  Versus Mode has eight people (four survivors, four zombies) going against each other. It's basically 
 the campaign mode, but with human players using the zombies. The reason it's so addicting is because 
 it requires an incredible amount of team work in order to win. Try to go somewhere alone, and you're 
 sure to get yourself killed. As the zombies, the idea is to try and figure out a way to get the 
 survivors by themselves so you can take them out before they get to the next save room. You go 
 through the entire course of one of the four campaigns: whoever has the most points at the end 
 wins. It's a very simple idea, but it's honestly one of the best multiplayer modes I've ever played. 
 
  
  All told, Left 4 Dead is a game that has to be experienced with friends in order to be truly appreciated. 
 It doesn't revolutionize FPS's, but Versus Mode is just so incredible that it still separates itself 
 from the rest of the pack. 360 owners owe it to themselves to pick this game up; don't miss out 
 any longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godan200
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Its all that the title says to tell you the truth. This is one of the BEST shooters i have EVER 
 had put into anyone of my systems.
  
  The campaign (i know i spelt that wrong) is just right on normal difficulty but on Expert it is 
 close to impossible. The zombies pop out form no where and they try to maul you. In one level one 
 of my friends was running down a hallway and we look at him and say "dude... turn around". So he 
 does and he sees about 200+ zombies chasing after him.
  
  The online feature is great and they really did a GREAT job in making you be able to use the zombies. 
 The only bad thing is you don't get to be the Witch, but i completely understand why! If you played 
 the game you would too.
  
  Trust me if you like zombie shooters that are very hectic and fast paced than this is the game 
 for you. i got it the week it came out and STILL have not stopped playing it. I also cannot wait 
 for the DLC that will add even MORE to the FANTASTIC game. SO trust me plz go out and buy it or 
 at least rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrExplosives
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the incomprable Left 4 Dead. Just when you thought there couldn't be anything new from the 
 horror genre, Valve releases this gem of multiplayer geinus and shakes everything up.
  
  For starters, Left 4 Dead takes most everything you know about the survival horror genre and twists 
 it to make something new. For starters, it's not really scary in the "OMG, i'm all alone and theres 
 probably a zombie horde around the next corner to kick my hindquarters all over the map", but more 
 like "OMG, it's a friggin tank in the office building! RUN!".
  
  
  To clarify, it is a buddy game. that much is obvious. Everywhere you go, you have a squad of 3 
 buddies backing you up, unless you really blew it and most everyone died. In order to survive in 
 the zombie apocolapes, you have to band together to survive in the akwardly limited 4 campaigns 
 that ship out with the box. While DLC dictates that more appears to be on the way, it is a little 
 daunting to release with so limited level variety. However, the AI director makes EVERY SINGLE 
 PLAY diffrent form the last and the one following it.
  
  I'm not going to go into the critically acclaimed versus mode, but let me just say that it is fun 
 to go there for a change and work to KILL the survivors instead of protect them. 
  
  Moving on, the graphics are decent, but not mind-blowing, and are very remnicient of valve's Half-Life 
 2. The guns are fun to use, but left me wishing for a little more variety. The characters are amusing 
 in their banter, and the sound effects are terriffic. the game is extremely absorbing, and i must 
 admit i obsesses over getting the elusive zombie genocider achievement.
  
  To make a long story longer, let me just say that if you dont have xbox live or a working computer, 
 this game is probably not for you. If you enjoy cooperative/coomperative (cooperative/competitive) , 
 then you'd better eat some brains, and then go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  
  In theory, Left 4 Dead may seem like an almost ridiculous gamble to take. The formula: take two 
 of the most tired genres in popular culture (zombies and first person shooters) , combine them to 
 make something both fresh and fun, and through the combination remove anything that resembles a 
 story or character development. Not only does it sound like a gamble of long odds, it sounds as 
 though it could never, ever work. But if any studio could pull it off, it would be Valve, and they 
 have succeeded admirably.
  
  "Zed's Dead, Baby"
  
  As far as storytelling goes, Left 4 Dead is about as bare bones as you can get without falling 
 back into the Atari generation of gaming. The basic idea is that a disease has broken out, and 
 all that who become infected transform into a shambling mess of rotting skin and guttural rage. 
 Those that manage to somehow dodge the disease find themselves faced with an impossible situation: 
 finding safety in order to continue breathing.
  
  That's where you come in. As a Survivor, you fill the shoes of one of four playable characters. 
 Your objective: attempt to safely navigate each level so that you and your teammates can be evacuated. 
 This process (go from point A to point B) occurs over four different chapters, each with five sub-levels, 
 and each sub-level finds its end in the form of a safe room (the one place survivors can safely 
 take a breather, and restock on much needed health and ammo) .
  
  This can be done either via the single player campaign, where you and three bots attempt the journey 
 together, or through online co-op. Up to four can play at once, which of course ratchets up the 
 fun significantly.
  
  Though the process of moving from one place to another may sound simple, players will find that 
 is anything but. Standing in between you and salvation is a very angry group of zombies.
  
  "Not Your Father's Zombies"
  
  You'll be putting a lot of bullets into once-warm bodies over 
 the course of the game. In a given chapter, expect to kill upwards of a thousand undead if you're 
 going it solo. And though the idea of wading your way through that many corpses may sound like 
 an exercise in tedium, Left 4 Dead is anything but an interactive version of "Night of the Living 
 Dead."
  
  For a game that focuses on a single type of enemy, you will find a surprising amount of variety. 
 All told, there are six different variations of zombie, each with its own method of stopping your 
 pulse.
  
  First, you have the Horde. Comprised of literally dozens of your standard issue walking corpse, 
 the Horde can pop up at any time, and is never happy to see you or your team. These suckers are 
 fast, mean, and more than capable of tearing you to shreds if you're not paying attention. As far 
 as abilities go, they can vault over fences, smash down doors, and generally make you very, very 
 dead.
  
  Moving on from there, you will find a number of divergent, or "special," infected. Five different 
 classes ranging from the Smoker (a seven foot tall hacking freak that can pull and crush Survivors 
 with it's tongue) , to the Tank (think of the Incredible Hulk chalked full of PCP) , these guys will 
 not make your life easy.
  
  The baddest of the baddies, however, is the Witch. A one-hit-killer with a penchant for weeping, 
 she needs a sign that reads "Do Not Disturb."
  
  As a little bonus, Valve has included an online competitive element in which you can run rampant 
 as any of the special infected save for the Witch. Your goal: kill off the players who have taken 
 on the role of the Survivors, or, if you spawn as a survivor, simply make it to safety. The game 
 takes on a whole new flavor online, and is mostly enjoyable. 
  
  
  "Atmospheric Disturbance"
  
  Survival Horror is a tough genre to pull off. The player has to 
 feel overwhelmed, that whatever may be lurking around the next corner will most likely kill them 
 in some horrid fashion. And though it looks like a shooter, sounds like a shooter, and talks like 
 a shooter, at its heart L4D is survival horror at its finest.
  
  As far as your playground goes, Valve has done a remarkable job conveying the sense that something 
 has gone horribly wrong. Piles of rotting bodies, partially destroyed apartments, and a general 
 sense of disarray can be found in each and every chapter. Evidence that you were not the first 
 to attempt escape can be found as well, as each level is littered with makeshift walkways and hastily 
 scribbled notes on walls.
  
  The sound play is excellent as well. Ambient noises such as distant gunfire and the anguished wailing 
 of the undead help fully immerse the player in the world that they are now a part of. The music, 
 used heavily to announce the arrival of a special infected or the coming of the Horde, is nothing 
 short of spot on, with each track fitting each situation perfectly.
  
  Combine these two elements (the setting and the music) , and you have a world where nothing feels 
 safe. Valve, in all of its sadistic glory, does nothing but abuse the gamer from start to finish. 
 Even something as simple as opening a door will make you think twice, and making it to the safe 
 room, though it does offer a brief moment of relief, will simply punctuate the fact that you still 
 have a long way to go before evac.
  
  Of course, this sense of dread isn't as intense on the easier difficulties, but ramping things 
 up to advanced or expert will most likely scare the crap out of you. Odds are, you're not going 
 to make it. At least not until you get really, really proficient at killing.
  
  "Downside of Being Dead"
  
  In spite of its many strengths, Left 4 Dead does have a few weaknesses. 
 Though many players may find a few minor issues here or there, nothing in the game can be considered 
 a deal breaker.
  
  Yes, the environments are wonderfully detailed, but the Source engine is beginning to show its 
 age. Textures can run a little on the bland side, and zombie limbs occasionally to poke through 
 solid walls. Those expecting Gears quality graphics from every single game they play might be a 
 little disappointed, but again, this game excels in all the right areas so the graphical geriatrics 
 should be forgiven by more reasonable players.
  
  Left 4 Dead is also a little light on the content side of things. Though twenty chapters (four 
 main chapters with five sub-chapters each) may sound like a lot, it really isn't. Your average 
 play time will run anywhere from an hour to an hour and a half, though that will be subject to 
 change depending on the difficulty setting. Bottom line, you'll see everything the game has to 
 offer in a handful of hours.
  
  A final area of potential disappointment lays in the weapons department. Those of us spoiled by 
 having thirty seven guns to choose from may find the meager supply here a little on the skimpy 
 side. Two shotguns, two automatics, one pistol (that you can duel-wield) , and a hunting rifle are 
 pretty much all you get. Toss in a couple of chuckable grenade types, and that's all she wrote. 
 Again, this is a very small issue, and should be counted as a very minor ding against the game.
 
  
  Its so much fun, and the re-playability so high, that this short length and lack of weapons are 
 very small issues, especially given Valve's track record with post-release support. Gamers can 
 rest assured that this lack of levels (and hopefully arms) will be remedied in due time.
  
  Overall
  
  One phrase that could be easily attached to Left 4 Dead would be "Plain and Simple." 
 The concept, the gameplay, and especially the story are all as cut and dry as gaming gets. Given 
 the general attitude that all gamers want is "bigger, better, and more bigger better," it's refreshing 
 to see that Valve has taken the philosophy "plain and simple" and applied it to where it counts 
 most: the game is fun, plain and simple.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead has received rave reviews and rightfully so, it is a high quality game that is just 
 plain fun. It is one of the best multiplayer games there is right now and it is almost guaranteed 
 fun to play with your friends.
  
  There isn't really a story-it's a team of 4 survivors against a horde of infected "zombie like" 
 former humans. They are fast, relentless and brutal. Your goal is to fight through 4 levels and 
 one finale in which you call for rescue and fight off the horde until you can bail out. It seems 
 formulaic, but it is so much fun.
  
  Much of the success of this game comes from the AI director which places enemies, hordes, and weapons 
 and various locations. It is the same map, but never the same conditions. This idea works extremely 
 well with this game and keeps it fresh time in and time out.
  
  The enemy variety is slim. You get the common infected which are your regular rabid zombies, smokers 
 which can snare you with a long tongue, boomers which are disgusting bile-spewing monsters that 
 can attract other infected with their puke, hunters are quick moving and pounce you, and the tank-gigantic 
 beasts without a lower jaw that hurl rocks and pummel you into paste. There is also the Witch, 
 a crying infected female who if disturbed will kill you in one shot. Though the variety is slim, 
 it doesn't get tiresome because of the random locations and awesome enemy AI. These enemies keep 
 you on your toes at all times and are a threat. 
  
  Weapon variety is also slim. You always have a pistol with infinite ammo and can find another pistol 
 to dual-wield. You can choose from the start an Uzi or a 12 gauge pump shotgun. Later on you can 
 upgrade to an M16 Assault Rifle, an Auto shotgun, and a hunting rifle. The upgraded weapons make 
 a huge difference and become crucial later on. In addition to guns you can carry 1 molotov cocktail 
 which spreads a wall of flame or a pipe-bomb which attracts infected away with a beeper and a light 
 (fire and forget) . Despite the lack of variety it leads to massive strategy and well... extra weapons 
 would be a waste. There really isn't a need for 5 types of assault rifles and shotguns, several 
 types of grenades, melee weapons, or a rocket launcher. By keeping it simple it works well.
  
  Health packs are limited, usually you only get 1 per level. You can find pain pills that temporarily 
 upgrade your health. This also adds to the strategy and makes you try to press on without healing.
 
  
  The control is tight and simple. Your characters move quickly, can melee or shoot on the fly, and 
 can only carry 2 weapons, one health pack, one bottle of pills, a throwable weapon, and a flashlight. 
 The aiming is quick and crisp and the weapons handle realistically.
  
  The game revolves around teamwork, if you don't watch your team, you are as good as dead. Attempts 
 to pull a "Leeroy Jenkins" are met with utter disaster. This point is made evident int he single 
 player campaign in which your AI will kill anything that moves but not cover you or heal you much. 
 This is also illustrated in multiplayer where you must communicate and work in conjunction or else 
 suffer failure after failure. Teammates can be revived 3 times without being healed up, when down 
 to your last you see only in black and white. If you are healed with a medi-kit, you go back to 
 normal and can be droppped 3 more times. If you do go down in a level (multiplayer only) you can 
 be rescued but at the loss of your gear.
  
  The single player game would get a 7.5/10-it is almost unplayable. The AI is only helpful part 
 of the time and the lack of story hurts it. The game comes alive when played on multiplayer. It 
 demands you work together and manage resources. You have to stick by one another and help your 
 team out whenver possible. Not being a team player is punished and cooperation is rewarded. This 
 game pretty much is stricly multiplayer and it is designed to be. Because of this the multiplayer 
 component works EXTREMELY well and is a great example of how to do it right. 
  
  Part of this is the VS mode which pits infected against survivors. It is a great way to see how 
 the other half lives. The infected team is randomly assigned a smoker, boomer, hunter, and sometimes 
 a tank. They can climb surfaces and have the powers of the in-game enemies-the survivors are no 
 different. This mode is very fun and requires great strategy on both sides though the infected 
 side is incredibly difficult to play as. They can take far less damage and suffer from bad reload 
 times for special attacks, and a punishing respawn time. It is very difficult for the infected 
 to win. For example, the survivors can take way more damage and deal more damage with their weapons. 
 If you are given a hunter, it is almost a suicide dive into the pack.
  
  Overall this game is top notch, not the best but how multiplayer should be done. The graphics and 
 voice acting aren't utterly mind-blowing but they do not have to be. The game is built around a 
 fun mulitplayer experience and this part works out greatly. Left 4 Dead may not be for everyone, 
 but fans of the FPS genre will not be disappointed. The single player campaign is probably not 
 worth it, but if you love multiplayer, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da-Ruler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 1:41 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say........... Except that this game is amazing.
  
  The way that the zombies just come from nowhere after alerting them by shooting and alarmed car 
 or opening an alarmed do is just incredible. The way that Smokers, Boomer's and Hunters just come 
 at you regardless of what the hell is happening... Also theres the factor of the witch... The witch 
 is like a little baby, fine when left alone but as soon as you get too close there onto you like 
 flie's around s h i t Pardon my laungage. Also theres the TANK for anyone who has tried to kill 
 this Bastard (Once again pardon my laungage) on his own you surely have found out that he is one 
 tough cookie.
  
  The weapon choice is ok could be better but with the DLC coming out there is a rumour that there 
 will be an added Flamethrower to the mix which i am sure will stir up some havik on the online 
 game play, when you accidentally set your partners on fire.....
  
  The way that when your on the precipice of death that your survivor friend's just come and revive 
 you while your getting kicked the crap out of by zombies. After all this game is just a must play.. 
 However it isnt very long, and isnt hard to complete, it took me 4 hours to complete all 4 levels. 
 But there is some sanctuary within all of this High violenced and Low leveled game, and thats the 
 extreme difficulty you can get, which when i did it i got abosolutly massacred.
  
  BTW Precipice means "The brink of a dangerous or disastrous situation" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is probaly the game i have played most on Xbox Live.
  This game is probaly the game i have played most without Xbox Live
  If you have Live, it is 1000 
 times better
  If you dont, who cares, this game still is AWESOME
  (my mom accidently sold it though HAHA)
  
  Pros-
  OFFLINE
  *4 Maps with Zombies that will 
 pop up anywhere and randomize every time you play it
  *Intense Special Zombies that switch up the gameplay and make you want to stick with your team 
 if you need help
  *Characters that really dont have a story behind them, but who needs one when your fighting zombies
 
  *There arent that many weapon choices, but all of them are fun to use and are effective
  *There is unlimited pistol ammo, which really helps
  *There is offline multiplayer, which is 
 reallyy fun
  *There is finale at the end of each act which is exciting and fun.
  *WITCHES ARE FUN TO KILL
  ONLINE
  *There is the online people to play with, which is less scarier 
 and more fun to play with than being with computers
  *They help out more than the other computers
  *You can tell them where to go for a stradegy, 
 which you cant with a computer
  *YOU CAN PLAY AS THE ZOMBIES
  *YOU CAN PLAY AS THE SURVIVORS KILLING THE ONLINE ZOMBIES
  
  Achievements-
  this is probaly 
 the best game i have so far that has the best achievements ever. Every single one is fun to get, 
 and if you dont get it, your still okay with it because its fun to go back and do it. ALL the achievements 
 are fun, like beating a campaign with only pistols, or kill a brute by yourself, or headshot a 
 hunter in the air, or set a witch on fire. Most are easy and fun.
  
  This game you can play the same act over and over (which i do sometimes) and it will never be boring, 
 if you Have XBOX LIVE this is a must have.
  The Game is great , and DLC is on the way for more maps
  I never give games 10. and this one 
 deserves one
  wh00t wh00t for Left 4 Dead!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboy224
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  We all remember Resident evil to be, I believe, the first Zombie introduced game, and the survival 
 horror Genre. But Valve had a perfect idea. why not make a multilayer game with great mechanics? 
 You got Left 4 Dead.
  
  As first announced the trailer, it changed from what it was suppose to look like originally. As 
 Left 4 Dead is told, you are 4 survivors from a infection. Every campaign you do, you must survive 
 5 levels to that campaign. leading up to a grand finale to be rescue. What Valve has done, is great 
 the best coop multilayer I have ever seen. Most Coop games you either A) get an idiot who steals 
 all heath and ammo or B) you steal all heath and ammo. and usually your teammates run off going 
 "I can work alone" till they die. but L4D You have to work as a team.
  
  There are 4 Campaigns and 2 game modes for online. Regular coop mode and versus mode. Versus mode 
 I thought to be great for tournaments. The reason is cause you play one campaign and each level 
 you play as infected or survivor. mission for infected? Kill the survivors. Boomer, Smoker, and 
 Hunter are playable and the Tank at random times. For Survivors you got Bill the Veteran, Francis 
 the Biker, Zoey the college girl, and Louis the Business man. So it fits out a good way.
  
  Now for 4 campaigns and 5 levels each might get repetitive in some peoples case. Valve knew how 
 to fix that with there little friend AI Director. depending on how you play depends on if there 
 are medkits, pills, guns, or ammo. as well as when Witch and tanks response and incoming attacks.
 
  
  Now for the bad. There isn't much to say other then that you need good teamwork if your planning 
 on playing on Advance or Expert, and making sure your friends don't shoot you. That is one major 
 thing I had hard times dealing with. Friendly fire is on, meaning you can damage your teammates. 
 but its not a major thing to not get the game.
  
  Overall, 50 dollars if well worth it and Valve did say there working on a few new modes and maps 
 for the game, so don't think 4 campaigns suck. Its great to play and anything can happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupid4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Pros - awesome graphics, great sound effects, just a fun game to play, not too hard not too easy
 
  
  Cons - not a lot of weapon variety, not much of a story, multiplayer can be frustrating, very repetitive
 
  
  When I first purchased Left 4 Dead I was very happy with the game. The graphics and sound were 
 great and the game was very fun. However after a couple of hours I started to get bored of the 
 game. After completing all of the levels there is not that much more you can do. There aren't very 
 many weapons to choose from. All the multiplayer is, is replaying through the single player campaign 
 mode with real people instead of bots as your teammates. The game has been a lot of fun but I regret 
 spending 60 bucks on it. I think that the game is worth a rent as it is great, but it can get boring 
 very quickly since there isn't a lot of replay value. However if you have friends that own the 
 game the experience can be much better. In my case multiplayer isn't any fun because all the strangers 
 do is ignore you and try to fend for themselves. When playing with friends I assume the experience 
 would be better (but all of my friends play Gears of War 2, so booo) . For now I say Left 4 Dead 
 gets a 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memberthirteen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is an increasingly good game, since it contains everything a zombie game needs, and 
 you know its good since Valve created it. Over the course of the 4 months I've played this, it 
 gets better every day. The achievements have the right amount of gamer score for the appropriate 
 difficulty. There is about 5 really hard ones, that just blow your mind but those are for real 
 players *cough cough* and right now, I'm at 910/1000. the graphics can be considered average, but 
 when you have a game that uses the flashlight the whole time, the shadowing effects cant be missed. 
 the weapons could be improved, but during a zombie apocolypse, do you have much choice? even though 
 the game isnt very realistic, the fact that it puts you in the feeling of a real survivor is priceless. 
 the multiplayer is real good, and creative. so with that being said, BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harley89bo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is the only real notable shooter to come out in 2008. Everything that matters most is in this 
 game! You have the option to play as 4 different survivors, to kill a variety of zombies. And kill 
 them by the hundreds you do, I mean thousands, or tens of thousands.. The game is simple and to 
 the point. No story or emotional drama to take away from a quick-play experience. And the added 
 fact that you can play as a zombie and kill the survivors is great if you are a zombie lover, which 
 I am not!! The only real draw back of the game is that there just isn't enough. Not enough levels, 
 campaigns, and actually not enough zombies; if that is possible. But everything Valve does is right. 
 I recommend this classic new-age zombie blood bath to any hardcore gamer, new virgins gamers, zombie 
 lovers, and all us zombie killers in the world. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igg72
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Before I start reviewing, do not get angry because you think I am about to bag on Left 4 Dead. 
 Its not that this is a bad game, its just that I freaking hate Steam.
  
  I have played the counter-strike games, which are generally fun. The only thing I do not like about 
 the counter-strike games, and Left 4 Dead, is the effort that steam put into it.
  
  Now I know how hard it is to create a game, but Steam could have been a bit more creative. We are 
 plunged into a game that has barely a story-line holding it together. We uncover nothing, except 
 for the fact that the world is overrun by zombies that dont like noise, and there are 4 survivors. 
 Some black guy on steroids, an old bag, some hot chick, and an iinsignificant other. Why are they 
 still alive? How did these zombies appear? How did we amass this armada of weaponry? Nope. Nothing.
 
  
  Another thing that ticks me off in this game, is the fact that they were lazy enough to use the 
 same engine, from a completely different game. Theres a reason why counter-strike and Left 4 Dead 
 are similar, and thats because ITS THE SAME ENGINE! The only thing Steam decided to change, was 
 the graphics. And they barely improved that. For all the hype this game was getting, they really 
 didnt deliver what I expected. All they did is took counter-strike, changed some skins, added some 
 maps, updated the textures, threw some poorly depicted blood in, and called it a game.
  
  I do admit that it is fun to blow zombies away for hours, but thats really all you do. It is fun 
 to do some co-op, the online is interesting, and lighting things on fire is always interesting.
 
  
  Its not that this is a bad game, I just do not enjoy it for what it was supposed to live up to. 
 I would play this game on a casual basis, but never seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game is great it had alot of cool stuff in it. The only reason i didnt give this a 10 is because 
 it didnt have a story its kinda like you make your on outcome it never explains what happens or 
 how it ends. If they had of included a story i would have given this a 10 but all in all this is 
 a great horror game it has everything a zombie game should. Me and my friends played this game hours 
 at a time, and it also delivers a pretty good scary thrill. You can choose from these 4 survivors 
 in a zombie apocalypse and you play through 4 short campains which are not really short but they 
 dont last that long, the good thing about this game is you can play through again and again and 
 it changes up on you for example if you go through the hospital one time there may not be any tanks 
 there but the next time you play through a tank could be there. You can use a few types of guns 
 including Pump Shotgun, Pistol, Automatic Shotgun, Sniper Rifle, Assault Rifle, Uzi. So as you can see 
 its a pretty good selection of weapons i mean i agree there could have been a few more weapons 
 but still the ones you have will get the job done. This game is all about sticking together if you 
 wonder off something will most likely get you either a Smoker or a Hunter, and when no one is around 
 to help you these 2 can cause a huge problem. All in all i recommend this to anybody that likes 
 shooters and to anybody that likes survival horror 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead was a good game I thought when I first picked it up. Killing endless number of zombies, 
 hundreds at times, fighting creatures known as tanks that are seriously like a tank, and even occasionally 
 if you got bored shooting your team mates for guilty pleasure. I thought this game was going to 
 have it all, but I was wrong.
  
  I learned different after playing the four campaigns and beating them all in maybe 6 hours there 
 wasn't much left to do. I did replay them a few times however just because it was fun at first. 
 But after another day or so of this it just grew boring. I mean seriously the game only offers 
 you four levels of play to it, and only expert mode is the one that any fun really, but only if 
 your fellow survivors aren't suffering from severe retardation like most of them seem to do. The 
 levels are at least interesting, and the zombies are sadly not suffering from retardation like 
 most of your online team mates. The zombies (The special infected ones) will seriously at times 
 lay out your entire group in a matter of seconds when they want to work together like they commonly 
 do. If you and your other survivors aren't playing as a team your just asking for trouble.
  
  Online Vs mode in this game, now this is where I thought the beauty of the game really was. 
 It breaks down into two teams of four who take turns alternating between playing the survivors 
 of each campaign/chapter as the other ones get to control the special infected. The game gets a 
 lot more interesting at times when the zombies trying to kill you have human brains working for 
 them (Though sometimes you laugh after killing the stupid ones over and over) . However this mode 
 was made even terribly worse in terms of length when you only get to play two of the four campaigns.... 
 Certainly worse if your like me and the other two you don't get to play were your favorites by 
 far over No Mercy, and Blood Harvest. 
  
  Besides those issues I had with the game and the substantial amount of glitchs/flaws it has, it 
 is more of a rental then a buy I would say. I wouldn't be surprised a good chunk of people won't 
 get tired of this game after only a few days or a week. The game play is fun, the team play it 
 requires is good, and the zombies are fun to kill, but at the end of the day whats there left calling 
 you back? Your just doing the same exact thing you had done yesterday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerMatt
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this with my brother for about a week now and I have also played it online, 
 this is one of ultimate multiplayer experiences to be had 1. because CPU AI is pretty dumb (Bill 
 backing off into a witch kinda sums it up) 2. Because the CPU tries to heal you when your below 
 50% health and trying 'Unbreakable achievement' 3. Because its bloody great fun on campaign 4P 
 or versus.
  
  Controls for the game are a bit awkward at first (B to reload hmmmm) but after getting used to 
 it it becomes very instinctive.
  
  Enemy AI ranges, normal horde are really dumb mainly becuase they have no brains, they just run 
 at hoping to slap you once or twice before decapitation. However, special infected (witches are 
 designed to sit there and attack so ae exempted) are very smart, the Director Engine keeps you 
 guessing whats coming next, one moment you hear 'Boomer' (A Vomit Filled Bomb of a fatman) from 
 a fellow survivor the next you've been pinned by a Hunter (A creepy Crawler who leaps at you tearing 
 you to pieces) or constricted by a Smokers extendable tongue and being dangled on the side of a 
 building. But the battles against Tanks are epic you hear the distinctive music and immediately 
 prepare but before you know you been punted 1 mile and are either prey to another SI or incapacitated.
 
  
  Graphics and atmosphere suit the game perfect with the movie like campaigns make the game feel 
 surreal but when you're playing it you feel like you're part of the movie.
  
  One final note if you don't LOL at the message of the amount of zombies harmed in the making of 
 this film you have NO sense of humour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  [I am not the type of person who gives games good reviews just because I'm a fan, I take pride 
 In that. This Review is a list of Pro's and Con's. I will use numbers to rate the pro's vs. cons 
 using 0-10 scale. The reason for this is to show how much the pro's add to the game, and the con's 
 take away from it. There is no tally, just showing how signfigant each is.]
  
  Pro's:
  
  CO-Op: Vital, and extremely fun to be able to play with serveral friends. Which is nessary 
 if you are willing to challenge your self by playing on higher difficulties. The use of health, 
 reviving is effects strategy for both take a long time. {9/10}
  
  Varouis Difficulties: Allows for players of varouis skills to enjoy this game, with the co-op it 
 is one of those few games that is difficult and enjoyable at the same time. {9/10}
  
  Levels/Campaigns: There are essentially 4 campaigns, with sets of check points or "levels". Each 
 one is unique offering its own challenges and intense moments. Valve also introduced a random enemy 
 generation system, each level has permanent triggers summoning the Horde (zombies) , but there are 
 also randomly generated one's that change each time you play to offer replay ablity. The types 
 of Bosses, or main high level zombies ( there are five) , also change with each play. {10/10}
  
  
  Varouis Enemies: Along with the traditional, 28 days later style of zombies that roam in 
 packs, their are also hereo zombies. The HUNTER (Pouncing, Melee attacking zombie) , WITCH (An extemely 
 powerful trip wire type enemy that will pummel you if trigger'd) , Smoker ( A zombie with a large 
 chameleon like tounge that reels humans in and strangles them) , BOOMER (A massively obiece bile 
 spewing monster that yaks a steam of vomit onto enemies to attrack a horde of zombies) , and the 
 TANK (a hulking mass of muscle that throws chucks of the envirment and requires team work to stop) . 
 {9/10}
  
  Weapons; Their are two stages of primary weapons, first (Uzi, Pump-Shotgun) , second... essentially 
 an uprade from prevouis set (M16, Semi Auto shotgun, Sniper Rifle) . And secondary weapons, single 
 or double handguns, always with unlimited ammo. These sets of weapons are unique in the sense they 
 better in certian situations than others, and are harder to master but more effective. There are 
 also throwable explosive, Moltov (Creates a barrier between horde and downs unique zombies effectivly) , 
 Pipe bomb (has beeping light which attracts large amount of zombies, great for diverting the horde) , 
 also plantable weapons such as explodable gas tanks, propane tanks, and acetalyne tanks that can 
 be used to hinder zombie horde. {7/10} 
  
  Audio: The sound effects of the zombies is incredible and terrifying, especailly the for the speceial 
 or hero zombies. The sounds allow you to identify whats coming and will stil give you the shivers 
 everytime you hear them. The Audio for the guns effectivly transfers that feeling of hammering 
 down on weapon. The music in the backround, although minimal, gives the nessary ambeince to set 
 the mood and tension for varouis situations. {9/10}
  
  Online: Is unique, you can either be survivors, trying to get to the safehouse. Or hero zombies 
 who spawn and try and stop them. {7/10}
  
  Cons:
  
  Story: Although intended, and a story for such a game is diffuclt withouth diluting the gameplay. 
 It would have been nice, to see more great cutscenes like the intro. Be nice to see charecter developement 
 {3/10}
  
  Weapons; Although the weapons are unique and each has their place in the game, their are only essentially 
 8 guns (including hand guns) , and 2 types of gernades. It would be nice to have varouis handguns, 
 assualt rifles, smg's, shotguns, even melee weapons would be nice. And you cannot zoom in with 
 weapons other than sniper rifle. {5/10}
  
  Graphics: Although their are solid, they are not great, they could be better but that isn't the 
 intention of the game. The concentration is mainly on the gameplay. {2/10}
  
  Matchmaking: The system just throws you into a game, even if it is not full so you will have AI 
 on your team if you are survivors. {3/10}
  
  Length: Campaigns are short, about 1 hour each on normal difficulty. But still has alot of replayability. 
 {1/10}
  
  *This is my take on L4D, It is a must play, extemely fun. Just check it out, I though it was gonna 
 be alright, but was really suprised about the game.*
  
  -sorry about the spelling errors- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerTowner
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead brings out the best of the experience that online gaming can afford the average gamer. 
 This game forces teamwork, and you better have a mic if you want to stay alive very long. If you 
 feel alone while playing this game then you aren't playing it right. Makes for an extremely fun 
 time when playing with friends, and nothing beats ripping your buddy's face off as a hunter. The 
 one downside to the game is that a few glitches exist that can ruin the opportunity for the survivors 
 to score, but as long as you enforce the rules in the lobby before the game starts then you shouldn't 
 have a problem later on.
  The game provides a number of game types to play, with the "versus mode" style being the most fun 
 and the most competitive. However, online characteristics aside, this game supports a great AI 
 enemy, and the general game play will make the casual gamer who is just looking for a good zombie 
 game that much happier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Since I was a kid, I've always had a fascination with zombies and video games, but never before 
 has a zombie video game been exactly how I'd make a zombie game. Until now. I've always said that 
 the perfect zombie game would be pitched like this; "Here's a bunch of zombies. Don't die." That's 
 what you get here. There's no big back story, no bullcrap missions. You have 3 other people with 
 you, and you have to get to the safe houses alive. Perfect in it's simplicity.
  The graphics are not the best I've seen on the 360, but the pacing of the game is such that I honestly 
 didn't notice that until I was watching someone else play. Nothing is ugly, but there are some 
 issues with infected partly coming through walls, you can walk through your teammates and trees 
 and things like that, but for the most part, it's not a big deal and like I said, there's a good 
 chance you won't really notice it because of the frantic pace of the game.
  Obviously this game is more fun with friends (not random people online, as usual hardcore gamer 
 guy sucks the fun out of everything) , but I've heard things going as far as to say that the game 
 sucks by yourself. This is just not true. The AI of your teammates is the best I've seen in a game 
 by a mile. They help you and others when they need it, they're more than capable of taking out 
 their share of enemies, and they always have your back. If only they were capable of not disturbing 
 the witch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessVenus
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype this game got I was really hopping for something a bit more entertaining. Ten 
 minutes into this one I was board already. 
  Single player story mode is very short and really had no real story line.
  multi player is a 
 bit better but it really depends on the people your playing with.
  Theres very few weapons to chose from, about five guns and a couple of bombs, and only one gune 
 has any kind of zoom. Nothing fun like flame throwers or lasers.
  The zombies lack and real imagination. 
  
  Game lacked any re play value so don't buy this 
 one.. Rent or better yet recycle, borrow from a friend that was sucked in to the hype of the game.. 
 They will only need about ten minutes before they will get board anyways.
  
  
  If you want a good zombie game with real replay value buy Dead Rising instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wayward_Cow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Just what we need... Another zombie apocalypse! Left 4 Dead might be lacking in the graphics department, 
 but it sure is a lot of fun. I had mixed opinions about Left 4 Dead when I first played it, I was 
 expecting better graphics and more weapons, but you don't always get what you wanted. This game 
 does have a lot of good aspects about it too, such as the intense, fast paced action, or the countless 
 numbers of zombie hordes to be slaughtered. What I like about this game is that you can be the 
 zombies, or the survivors, mixing things up a little, and letting you experience the game from 
 both perspectives. It isn't a very complicated game, with one main objective, to kill as many zombies 
 as you can and not die. Overall it's a fun game, that isn't overly detailed, but it it a great 
 game for people who like a bloody, gory, zombie apocalypse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm sorry that I'm well a little late with this review I just been playing left for dead 
 to much. What am I saying I could never get to much of it. Left for dead is Valve's Amazing new 
 zombie survival game. Now it's not like any other survival game Left 4 Dead has some interesting 
 features that will make the game an endless classic and re-playable for years. The idea survive 
 hordes of zombies and I mean hordes not like in other zombie games were a constant stream of five 
 or six zombies attack you I mean 20 to 30 at once there for hordes, so as you move through the 
 hordes blocking your path you eventually want to reach the safe house at the end of each level 
 segment. Each campaign is cut up into five sections separated by a safe house were you can heal 
 and get ready for the next segment of the level until you reach the finaly were you must fend of 
 waves of zombies until help comes. Now there are only four campaign, but two are coming in a D. L. C 
 soon but I well get to the D. L. C later. You might be saying only four I'll beat that in two days 
 or two hours if I have no life well don't worry because you will play the same levels over and 
 over again and never get tiered of playing them. The levels have more than one way to reach the 
 safe house whether you chose to go through the building up ahead or just take the open street it's 
 your decision. Ya you know that don't you well mister smarty pant how about this zombies are random 
 spawn that means one time through the level there may be a horde in the street and the next it's 
 a ghosts town providing new thrills each time you play; also med kits and pills randomly spawn 
 in different areas each time to finding some pain pills in the corner is awesome because they might 
 just save your life. It doesn't matter how many times you play the game just how you play it. The 
 weapons in the game are limited that made me a little peeved in the begging , but I soon got over 
 it, for you arsenal at the start is a pump action shot gun (slow re-lode) and one fast but weak 
 Uzi (quick re-lode) . Later through the level you will come across more powerful and devastating 
 weapons, the semi-automatic shotgun can fire ten clips before re-lode, next is the assault-rifle 
 is the advanced Uzi much more powerful, and finally if the hunting rifle yes every game needs a 
 sniper I know what is a sniper going to do for me if a zombie is right on top of me well a lot 
 it's a one short kill on regular zombie and the fastest re-lode weapon in the game. The game also 
 provides two bombs but you can only hold one at a time Pipe bombs have a nice blinky light that 
 zombies seam to be very attracted to and will huddle around it and KA-BLOOY fun ya the next one 
 though can be extremely useful like the Molotov a nice flammable drink that can light your enemy 
 on fire but careful it can light your team mate on fire too. The music and voice acting I Left 
 4 Dead is top notch from the Corney liners like eat lead zombie to the change in music to tell 
 you a tank or horde is coming will keep you entertained and on edge through out the game. Now I 
 should tell you this before I forget and you hate me forever, this is a co-op game sure it's fun 
 to play by your self for a little while, but without Xbox live your just punishing your self. Also 
 on line there is a cool versus mode were and brace you self were you can play and elite zombie, 
 not like a death match but while playing the campaign, for when you go through it if your a surviver 
 survive and a zombie dose what eats brains hell ya. I have told you about as much as I can about 
 Left 4 Dead I said I tell you about the Left 4 Dead D. L. C well Valve has said that they are going 
 to ad two more campaigns ya thats right more to play and that Dead air and Death toll ( two old 
 campaigns) are going to be playable in versus also vale has hinted at a flamethrower to be added 
 ya the ultimate zombie killing machine, but also the horrified team killing machine. That's it 
 for this review thank you for staying with me and reading this whole this and if you didn't and 
 just skipped down that wow just wow, so if your just want to play for fun or killing zombies on 
 expert left 4 Dead is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  left 4 dead is for the the only zombie game that it's worth paying. i mean, i haven't play any 
 of the new ones but at least i can say this for the games before this one. the graphics of the 
 game are good, they aren't that amazing but i can live with it. the zombie... well they are zombie 
 dumb as always but this time... GOD HOW MANY ?! they just keep coming, that is one of my favorite 
 parts of course. there are moments were you just shoot anywhere because you know you are going 
 to hit something and it's simply impossible miss. there are not many games were you just can shoot 
 as it was the last day of life ( at least with a clear purpose) . the teamwork is a very interesting 
 part of the game and in my opinion is what made it original and innovative. the only bad part about 
 the teamwork is the single player campaign where the "bots" that play as your teammates are a little 
 bit dumb. the are never going to take the lead which means the smoker will always take you and 
 that the whitch is going to be after you very often; altough this may only happen when you begin 
 playing after a couple of hours you get used to it and you learn how to dodge them and hoe to kill 
 them easily. the weapons are the same always a little improvement would be very nice. well this 
 game is really worth playing and if you like the undead ( or you are one) you must definitely have 
 this in your whishlist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieTerror028
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is tons of fun and you can play it time and time again. Most people whine about it not 
 having a story and how the single player campaign sucks... well it does have a story, you are a 
 group of survivors and you have to get to the extraction point at the end of each campaign, and 
 each campaign is supposed to be kind of like a movie. Also if you really think the single player 
 campaign sucks, well then the problem is that you need to play it 4 player co-op with some friends 
 on the expert difficulty, believe me it is extremely fun then and you will probably be playing 
 it for a very long time. One thing i do agree on is that there should be more weapons yes, but 
 for now it is just fine, and you can have a lot of fun playing it.
  
  Hopefully though too in the future they will have some more campaigns available as DLC because 
 that would add even more fun to the game, and Im sure they will because valve is good at updating 
 there products on the P. C. atleast, so lets hope the do the same for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterRight2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is very much one of the best games I have ever played for the Xbox360. However, I must 
 caution you, if you do not have friends to play the game with, don't buy it. If I played this game 
 alone I would be bored out of my mind. However, playing this game with friends is amazingly fun, 
 and the Versus mode online is great, especially since you can use the guest feature. This is a 
 great game to just relax and have a good time doing stupid stuff. If you take this game seriously 
 and get mad if you don't win, you may not have as much fun with this game. If everyone there is 
 just there to try and ditch their friends in the middle of a pit of zombies and laugh at them as 
 they are eaten alive, then it is fun as hell. I would definitely recommend this game to everybody 
 who likes to just play to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey_man_20
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  the levels need to be longer and biger eariers and more zombies that are harder to kill because 
 cmon they are way to weak and need to be stronger and another thing howcome they have such little 
 amount of wepons weres the rpg and a minigun i would put a ak rpg smg assualt rifle desert eagle 
 sniper rifle and much much more and especialy a chainsaw. and maybe they should put a main zombie 
 at the end that has a gun and that to make it a heap harder and some more explosives in the game 
 and they should put 400 zombies in each horde becaus the hordes are to easy to kill u just stand 
 in the corner and hit them till they all die so that is wat i think of this game there is alot 
 of room for inprovment so maybe thats wat they should do for the next 1 if they make another 1 
 cause if they do i will be looking forward to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I love Zombies. You love Zombies. WE ALL LOVE ZOMBIES!!! LEt's face it, zombies rock, but very 
 rarely do you find a zombie game that stands out quite like Left 4 Dead. This game was made for 
 multiplayer, and can be seen quickly when playing alone.... it just doesn't cut it.
  The Campaign mode is extremely fun, giving you four maps to play through. Each time you play, the 
 items, zombies, and obstacles are randomized, providing a fairly unique experience each time you 
 play through it. Campaign was made for co-op. Play it once with AI then get a real group and retry 
 it, you'll see the drastic change. The difficulty of Campaign is always just right if you cooperate 
 with your team. It is designed for 4 people, if one person dies, you will feel the pressure quickly. 
 
  Versus mode is extremely fun. You play as the Infected and you try to kill the survivors. This 
 for most people is very fun. For the select few who don't believe in coordination, it is hell. 
 Versus mode stresses the importance of teamwork, if one player on your team isn't cooperating, 
 you will loose easily.
  Sadly, there is a large number of people who don't understand teamwork as being the key to survival. 
 I factored them out when rating this game. Left 4 Dead is a solid, fun, zombie-killing bloodbath 
 of an FPS that is mainly enjoyed with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty straight forward. Keep moving shoot and stick together. No major strategy or 
 aiming is required... Which makes single player a bit boring... HOWEVER, if you go online and get 
 with a good group you could have a blast. Specially if everyone in your team has a mic. Which host, 
 usually prefer.. By the way.. What its up with many ppl opening matches and walking away from the 
 console? Thanks for wasting my time... 
  
  I can definitely see this game open to downloadable content because there are only a few missions 
 and they are not that long. Which could get kinda old fast.
  
  Achievements are pretty easy for a easy 300 pts... Other than that it might require some work.
 
  
  
  Finally AI's that stick together, heal you and can actually shoot. (most of the times...)
  
 
  Single player... Meh.. It's okay but it doesn't compare to a good multiplayer...
  
  PS. Stick together, help each other and beware the witch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAceOfSkulls
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  For those of you who actually know me and read my Halo 3 review, put away the pitchforks and torches 
 and listen before you call me a hypocrite. This is a multiplayer game and it proudly announces 
 it so I'm not going to condemn it for that. Halo I bought for closure on the series and it left 
 me empty inside. It decided I needed to be Left 4 Dead (ok that was the one terrible pun of this 
 review so we can move on now) .
  Left 4 Dead is about making a zombie movie. Well its more like a snuff film given that the director 
 is trying to kill you, but I digress. I know it says above that I've been playing for 10 hours 
 or less but truely this is a game you will know if its good or not in the first few minutes because 
 thats how long it takes to throw almost everything its got at you. The story is basically about 
 one of 4 movies the AI Director (an bipolar entity that will throw you health and ammo if he feels 
 particularly benevolent or a hoard of zombies at you if you wait in one place too long boring him 
 and perhaps an audience if Valve ever decides to put a theater option in) is making. You have your 
 escape the city routine, your trail through the countryside fiasco, your office buildings/airport... um... party 
 (?) , and of course the farmlands fight complete with trains, bridges, and the US govt. Each are 
 unique and feel really well designed. You choose between 4 cliche horror movie survivors (see a 
 pattern here?) : the biker, the office worker (aka the black guy, but doesn't die as quickly as 
 the rascists down in Hollywood would have you to believe) , the Vietnam war veteran, and the college 
 girl (luckily for her, she doesn't scream) . You are sent through each level through hordes of zombies 
 reach 4 safe houses (ah! 4 again!) and a finale (well there goes that pattern...) . You choose between 
 4 difficulty levels at the start of each mission (here it is again!) . Easy: the action level! You 
 take on all zombies, even the tank and witch (atleast my idoit friend did) . Normal: the action 
 survival horror (read Dead Space) ! You fight through as much as you can and probably avoid some 
 unnecessary conflict. Hard: the survival horror genre! You will blaze a trail through as you run 
 as fast as possible to safety, trying desperately to avoid both of the two mentioned above. Expert: 
 you're a masocist! You fight through a real Zombie apocolypse trying your hardest to make it out 
 alive with the 3 other survivors.
  Now time to go into the multiplayer. Yes I know there is a bit more left in the single player, 
 but, really, it is easy to figure out. This is a game that depends on survival in numbers, so if 
 you don't have a death wish, you stick together and communicate. Here is the survivors part: You 
 need to learn when to heal and when you need to conserve those health packs. Sometimes, not every 
 person will make it but you want them to. You'll find yourself reviving people who have completely 
 screwed things up for numbers sake. You see 4 people are necessary because thats normally the amount 
 of doors and windows at any given place before the Infected make their own. You truely need teammates 
 for this game as you'll soon discover. So this game falls prey to the problem all multiplayer games 
 have, if you don't have good teammates, you lose.
  Now for the Infected. Yes, you probably know about this already, but you can play as those loveable 
 superzombies that were ripping your organs out as survivors. Here's the thing: the whole stick 
 together, communicate, and plan thing applies here too. A hunter (white trash with a hoodie and 
 claws) can pounce on a survivor and rip him apart if he's alone, but he'll soon be shotguned to 
 death if he goes it alone. A smoker (a zombie with a long tongue whose name was changed to deny 
 that valve was looking at capcom when making him) can use their ridiculously long tongue to pull 
 a survivor off to their almost certain doom (unless your teammate who is a tank decides to "help" 
 by killing you and freeing them) but their friends can easily shoot the tongue off and finish you. 
 A boomer (a sick fat man who always wanted to be a terrorist in charge of chemical weapons and 
 blowing himself up) can blind the suvivors with his vomit and call the horde to attack them if 
 he blows up next to them will be taken out quickly due to his low health. The tank (think Arnold 
 Schwarzenegger after 5 lethal dosages of steroids) can rip through the survivors easily but if 
 caught in the middle of them will fall to a humilating end. However working together, you could 
 possible get a scenario like this: smoker grabs survivor, hunter takes out the one trying to save 
 him, boomer blinds another, and tank distracts and possibly kills the last one. See? Working together. 
 So remember your headsets.
  Overall you have a great game (great weapons choices in terms of what one could expect from a zombie 
 game, good level design, zombie creation turned out great, a bit of horror thrown in at proper 
 times, enemy placement is randomized each time, a true feeling of being alone except for the other 
 3 people with you, and proper amounts of need for said other 3) . Why the 9? Simple. The flaws.
 
  1. Super Zombies take too long to respawn given how quickly they die.
  2. Fun of the game depends on how good your friends are (trust me)
  3. Valve decide it would 
 be funny to allow the witch to sometimes spawn in an unavoidable way.
  4. Health packs take way too long to apply risking the wrath of the AI director
  Really though, 
 I liked it. Grab your friends online and learn which of them you can depend on when the zombies 
 decide your flesh is too tasty to resist. TAOS reminds you: always make sure your zombie plan is 
 up to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I was really disappointed with how this game turned out. When i first read about this game i was 
 so excited to play it especially the multiplayer action. When i first played it i thought that 
 it was really fun but 10 min later i was already bored with it. The game has no story and no motivation 
 really. The weapon choices are extremely limited with only 5 types of weapons and i sucks because 
 the game just screaming for flamethrowers and rocket launchers and even a car to run over the undead. 
 The fast paced zombies are scary at first but after a while you lose all suspense. It is really 
 fun to play as the elite zombies and it actually takes longer to get bored playing as the zombies 
 than it does to play as the humans who have no back story. Now this game has a lot of potential 
 and i am sure that a sequel is in store for the future and they can really beef this game up by 
 giving it more weapons and a story and a lot more hours of game play because this game is just 
 way to short and i am really praying for a sequel and that it will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  *** LEFT 4 DEAD ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Excellent multiplayer/versus mode
  -Superb team builder
  -Smooth controls
  -Enemies generated randomly ensures a unique experience 
 every time
  -Changing difficulty based on skill keeps things exciting
  -Good graphics and sound
  -Cool weapons
  
  THE BAD
  -Single player is uneventful
  -Too 
 short
  
  OVERVIEW
  Everyone loves a good old zombie apocalypse game, right? Now a days it seems like games in the 
 genre are a dime a dozen a bunch of games out there that are just awful. Left 4 Dead is an exception 
 with its exciting game play that is different every time. The maps may be the same but the enemies 
 are randomly generated throughout the entire game which ensures that you have a unique experience. 
 Left 4 Dead takes place in various locations two weeks after a huge zombie outbreak occurs. The 
 game consists of four survivors from all different backgrounds trying to work together in order 
 to escape. Francis is a cocky biker with most of his arms covered in tattoos. Louis is an anxious 
 analyst working in the IT department for his company. Zoey is a free spirited college student. 
 And lastly, Bill is an orderly soldier that served in the Vietnam War. There really isn't too much 
 of a story in Left 4 Dead and even your objective is simple; survive. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Now even though there isn't much of a story doesn't mean this game isn't worth playing. On the 
 contrary, Left 4 Dead is a great game filled with fast paced action. There are two different modes 
 to play; campaign and versus. Each game variant is slightly different but the same overall objectives 
 apply. The campaign mode can be played by yourself or with three other friends. If you don't have 
 enough to fill the entire team, computer aided bots will assume the empty roles. Left 4 Dead was 
 really intended to be played with other people. Playing the single player campaign can really be 
 quite a drag. The bots will follow you around and shoot at other infected enemies but it really 
 ends up being a very dull experience. On the other hand, this game can seem like "night and day" 
 with the multiplayer campaign. When you are playing with your friends you'll be able to talk and 
 strategize together. You'll also be able to help your friends out and have a really good time playing. 
 Left 4 Dead is a great team building game and trust me teamwork is a must here because it is almost 
 next to impossible to play through this game with one player.
  
  Left 4 Dead's campaign consists of four acts each with five chapters each. The first act, No Mercy, 
 takes our ill-fated heroes through apartment buildings, a subway, and sewers en route to reaching 
 the top of Mercy hospital for evacuation via a helicopter. The second act, Death Toll, will take 
 you though a rural town. The third act, Dead Air, involves an escape through an airport terminal. 
 And lastly the fourth act, Blood Harvest, takes you through a train station in search for an immediate 
 escape at a farmhouse. Each act whether it's campaign or versus mode have environments that never 
 change. This is sort of disappointing because the entire game feels too short. Each act, on a normal 
 difficulty, should take you about an hour. Now the pathways are the same but enemies and weapons 
 are generated randomly every time. This is a huge plus for the game because you'll always have 
 a different experience every time. Also, the game's "enemy engine" is always thinking and learning 
 from the way you play. So, if you're party is just cruising along having no problem laying waste 
 to the infected zombies, the game might switch things up on you and try to flank you and your teammates. 
 This adds a noteworthy challenge to Left 4 Dead and greatly increases the replay value.
  
  The versus mode is fantastic. The reason the versus option is so great is because it combines the 
 campaign mode with even more intelligent enemies because they are controlled by real people! Here 
 two, four player teams will square off against each other each taking turns playing as the humans 
 and infected. The goal for the humans remains the same; survive. But now your objective as a special 
 infected is to hunt down and kill the survivors. Again just like in the campaign mode if you don't 
 work together on the infected side your team won't win. Each player on the infected side will keep 
 respawning as a special infected player which includes Boomers (bile filled blogs) , Smokers (coughing 
 infected with an abnormally long togue) , Hunters (nimble hooded zombies) and Tanks (a hulking mass) . 
 Now the regular infected zombies will still appear at random, just like the campaign, but you'll 
 be able to control when and where you want to respawn your special infected character. At the end 
 of each chapter, whether the humans make it to the safe room or the infected kill their prey; scores 
 will be posted for each team. The score is based on how far the humans progress through the level, 
 how much total damage was done to them and how many humans survived (this is a hefty multiplier) . 
 
  
  The controls are far superior to other first person shooters. The ease of maneuverability is very 
 much appreciated in order to keep up with the fast game play. Taking aim and shooting is also very 
 easy to do and the rest of the actions are mapped to intuitive places on the controller. Along 
 with the controls, the weapons are fun to use and make it gratifying when you mow down 20 or 30 
 zombies with one clip. There are two tiers of primary weapons and other accessories to pick up 
 in the game. The first tier weapons includes a pistol (which doesn't run out of ammo and can be 
 dual wielded) , a pump shotgun and a sub machine gun. The second tier weapons can really dish out 
 some massive damage and they include an auto-shotgun, hunting rifle and a standard machine gun. 
 Other than your primary weapon there are a variety of accessories to use against your enemies like 
 a Molotov, various gas cans, and pipe bombs. These accessories will appear along with restorative 
 items (medical pack and pain pills) randomly though out the level so a little extra exploration 
 will pay off. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals paint very eerie scenes that really make the game feel terrifying. The level design 
 will put you in situations just like in the movies. I particularly enjoy the dark close corridors 
 inside of buildings because it is just you and your flashlight. The tunnel vision created will 
 surely make you jump because it'll seem like the zombies are appearing out of nowhere. Other then 
 that the character details are very good too.
  
  SOUND
  Whether it's a shotgun blast or a hunter tearing the flesh off a human, you'll really enjoy the 
 audio. The sound effects, just like the graphics, will stand the hair up on the back of your neck. 
 One of the more notable audio features is when you get into close proximity to a witch (another 
 special infected) because the music is extremely creepy.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Left 4 Dead is a very exciting zombie shooter. The fast paced combat which is different every time 
 you play makes this game worth playing. The only draw back is that it is a little too short and 
 will most likely having you wanting more. Hopefully some free downloadable content will become 
 available in the future. If you are a fan of shooters, teamwork and/or zombie type games then you 
 really need to pick this game up. Until then when the time comes, will you be ready to work together 
 in order to survive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightDragon45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I must admit when I heard another zombie game was coming out I was skeptical. Popped LEFT 4 DEAD 
 in my XBOX 360 and freaking was thrown in the midst of 4 survivors trapped in a city full of zombies. 
 Like most games in it's class it's dark and scary whoo but in this game you have to constantly 
 keep moving or else hoards and hoards of zombie will continue to sprint toward your direction and 
 watch your field or fire on the streets any stray bullets that connect with a car will trigger 
 the car alarm which is a sheer give away of your position. Among standard sprinting creepy zombies 
 you have special zombies that you need to watch out for... They strike without warning and if you 
 haven't played or have... Watch out for the Witch.... over all one of the best games I've played 
 and totally recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bu-ku
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any zombie enthusiest.... or i guess people who just love mass killing 
 people. There are many features of this game that makes it one of the best action/shooter games 
 of the year, but the most stunning feature of L4D is the re-playability of this game. It doesnt 
 matter how many times you play a level, every single time it will be different. Zombies in different 
 places, Tanks, Boomers, Witches, Hunters, and Smokers will pop out of different places everytime 
 you play. Everything is unexpected, absolutely NO repetitive game play (other than the maps looking 
 the same) , game can be played over and over. This game has very good graphics which is supprising 
 because there are so many objects and people in the game. You can choose from 8 different weapons 
 including colt 1911 (x2) , M3 pump shotgun, Uzi, M16, M14 sniper rifle, auto shotty, molitovs, and 
 pipe bombs. Aside from the weapons you are provided (or have to search for) , there are also objects 
 that can be shot or thrown to be used as a weapon such as propane tanks, gasoline cans, etc. The 
 maps are very interactive, maps are completely open so you can search where ever you wish, any 
 doors will open, stairs, holes, ladders, buildings are all explorable and interactive so there 
 are plenty of routes to take throughout a level. Another great feature of the game is the multiplayer. 
 Become the most L337 zombie killing crew with all of your buddies online and complete the missions 
 with your friends instead of traveling alone. You can also do split screen co-op or try to survive 
 on your own with the other 3 computer characters to assist you. Suprisingly, the computer characters 
 are acutally pretty smart and concient of the situations thats going on, plus they can heal you 
 and you can heal them. This game is a great shooter game that will keep you entertained for hours, 
 or days, fighting off the horde and staying alive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putty121
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I must say, this one blind-sided me. I always figured it would be fun because it's made by Valve, 
 but I had my doubts. Four campaigns? Reusing the Source engine? Adaptive difficulty (bad experience 
 with FarCry 1) ? But, wow. This is hands down, one of the most entertaining multiplayer games out 
 there, let alone the best cooperative experience. The four campaigns play out differently every 
 single time and still manages to surprise me every few levels with something absurd... Like a hunter, 
 a smoker, and a tank spawning inside my safe house on expert. Scared the bejesus out of me. The 
 gameplay is just insanely satisfying. Super violent (great headshots) , massive numbers of enemies 
 (accompanied by a good framerate due to a clever corpse density system) , and the idea that you 
 really cannot go at it alone really add to the experience. 
  Graphics: Engine is starting to show it's age but it performs fantastically, and provides a great 
 atmosphere for the environments. 
  Gameplay: Already went over this, but anyway, utterly enjoyable. The "AI Director" is devilishly 
 awesome. He knows right when you're having issues and then exploits you until your whole team is 
 on their backs getting their nipples ripped off by hunters. 
  Audio: Well... this is the first game I can remember in which you are actually at a huge disadvantage 
 gameplay-wise if you aren't paying attention to the audio. There are cues for just about every 
 event. Dozens of them. Fantastic. 
  Longevity: Great. Only four campaigns, but they are all greatly replayable. There is DLC on the 
 way, but Valve has a tendancy to take their time. Survivor mode sounds awesome and Versus is great 
 with an orchestrated team. 
  a must buy for any fans of coop, zombie media, or just great action games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  When this game was in development stages, I was hyping this game very heavily. After the game came 
 out I read the reviews and they were great, so I bought the game. I played a little single player 
 and was dissapointed. Then I played multiplayer and it was awesome. Here's my opinions:
  
  
  Gameplay: Average for the most part. Single-player sucks. Co-op is pretty good, but if I want 
 to play a fantastic co-op game then i'll play Gears of War 2 Horde mode. Multiplayer is great and 
 ripping enemies to peices with your bare hands has never been more fun. Multiplayer is definately 
 the shining star of this game.
  
  Graphics: Enviroments look great. Character models are average, but there are probably hundreds 
 of zombie models.
  
  Sound: Great sound effects. These zombies sound real! Surround sound in this game is an upgrade 
 worth the cash.
  
  Story: There is no story.
  
  
  This game is great for multiplayer, but lay off the single-player! I'm giving this game an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AwgersBane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, Left 4 dead is a really good game, although the campaign is not too good. It gets 
 repetitve, and only having the option of 5 guns is not really good, but the A. I. doesn't act too 
 stupid, unlike other games. A great feature to is having the "Take a break" option. I don't really 
 get into the storyline, i have no interest honestly. I think the campaign is so-so.
  
  
  Now for the multiplayer, i think its great. Its fun going against eachother. Being the zombies 
 is really fun, with the features that they have, also being the tank is really fun smashing everyone 
 around. It was a really good idea to have this type of multiplayer. For the humans, its always 
 fun blowing up a boomer, or save a pinned down teamate, or simply just unloading on the zombies.
 
  
  They've could of put more effort in the campaign, then i would be completly satified. The multiplayer 
 is thumbs up for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugsrbadmkay16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead (Xbox 360)
  
  Storyline: B+
  The storyline in this game is, well, non-existent. To be honest, there really is no major storyline. 
 But that doesn't necessarily mean that the game's concept is bad. In this case, it is not. Here's 
 how the game works: It's mainly a multiplayer game. You play as one of four survivors of a deadly 
 plague that swept an entire city. While punching zombies and saving each other from the 'special' 
 zombies, you have to make your way to a destination where you will then be rescued by a faraway 
 survival group. There are four different campaigns, meaning four different 'missions' where you 
 have to work together as a team/group to survive and figure out where exactly you're supposed to 
 be headed (so it's essentially 4 games in one, like the 'Orange Box' also made by the same company, 
 Valve) . You are actually supposed to be actors in a movie, and based on the eventual outcomes of 
 the mission, it shapes the movie into a specific way. It's a very unique way of creating a game's 
 storyline, and definitely a first of its kind. It works well, and hopefully it will be used again 
 by Valve in the future. The only problem I have with the idea is that I like a little bit of suspense 
 and a bit more horror in a title that sounds as creepy as it does. Regardless, it works well, and 
 it is quite an addicting game. Also, if you get bored of being one of the survivors, you can play 
 as one of the 'special' infected zombies that have certain powers that make them unique and different. 
 When put in this position, you get to instead kill the survivors. Both ways are fun and are great/easy 
 for getting some sweet achievements that make you feel pretty damn cool.
  
  Graphics: A-
  The graphics in this game are nearly identical to those of the 'Orange Box'. That's not necessarily 
 a bad thing, but it's definitely a bit outdated. The 'Orange Box' was created almost two years 
 ago, and portions of it (Half Life 2) have been in production for four years. At the time, the 
 graphics were praised and considered to be next generation. But with games on the shelves now such 
 as 'Grand Theft Auto IV', or 'Bioshock', or 'The Darkness', it suffers a bit. However, the maps 
 on the game are phenomenally crafted, and the zombies are very detailed. So in that sense, they 
 are very good. Also, there aren't too many glitches crowding the game, and I think that's an important 
 aspect in illustration. The one thing I really liked about how Valve made the game look was how 
 they simply didn't make it their #1 priority. They focused on other aspects of the game before 
 it, and it really made up for the average graphics. They know that their games are so good that 
 even lousy graphics wouldn't turn the game in the wrong direction.
  
  Entertainment: A+
  This is [without a doubt] the most entertaining game of 2008 (yes, even over GTA IV) . There is 
 just so many things you can do, and in so many different ways. There are hundreds of ways to approach 
 all the situations your character is put in during the game, and it just never gets old. Also, 
 the achievements are probably the most entertaining achievements to get in any game ever. That's 
 because of what they are, simply. Trust me, you will have a lot of trouble putting down your controller 
 once you picked it up. Also, the game's difficulties are absolutely perfect. There are four different 
 difficulties: easy, normal, advanced, and expert. They all are very different from each other, 
 and no matter who you are, you should fit into at least one of them. They were just beautifully 
 designed. Just think in terms of 'Guitar Hero' on the aspect of difficulty. They are similarly 
 made.
  
  Recommendations: A
  I am happy to recommend this game to the following people:
  -First person shooter lovers
  -Horror 
 game lovers
  -Survival game lovers
  -Zombie slaying lovers
  -Sci-Fi weirdos
  -Anybody who wants to make a bunch of friends online
  -Anyone who likes working together to play
 
  
  Overall: A-/A
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesome_Ad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Well Left 4 Dead, is a brilliant game, it gave all gamers a very good first impression. There are 
 not an entire lot to the game, its the features what you do that you enjoy. I think its a game 
 for quite alot of people, as some gamers may think, zombies, er not for me, but this zmobie shooter 
 is not any ordinary shooter, you fast, ultimate and just plain exciting killing these zombies, 
 it is quite realistic, but the different type of zombies do different things. like a smoker tangles 
 you with his tounge, and a boomer which disgustingly vommits on you, which attracts a horde (big 
 group of zombies) . So this is a game to get play, but not to keep, as when you complete i think 
 thats it to the game, except online, but can be repetitive. The only improvement i would suggest, 
 is for the game to be longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillon_o4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  so i seen this game decided it was definitely worth the rent, after renting it 4 times and costing 
 me about 15 bucks or more, i decided i needed to buy it and i can honestly say its one of the best 
 horror, survivor, team work game ever. 
  
  ok so whats good pretty much everything: graphics, sounds, game play, controls, the fact you can 
 walk through the same level like a hundred times and it will still be different, and still get 
 ur heart beating
  
  so whats the bad: most of all the bad is your teammates (npc's) AI sometimes it does get pretty 
 bad also the game after played frequently and many times you'll want more just like all games, 
 you'll end up wanting more levels
  
  in the end what really impresses me is the difficulty. You can play easy of course and go through 
 blast them all no problem. You can play expert and with out being very good with great team members 
 you'll never make it. It really amazes me how simple the game is how simple the controls are and 
 yet how complex you can make it or think about it. And it goes both ways for the survivors and 
 the infected really its an amazing game, well time 2 go play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMTHEJOKER88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 3:53 am PT
Review:  First Off, this is truly meant to be an online game, this was never intended for a real thrill 
 as a single player experience. Offline does include 4 campaigns each consisting of 4 maps and can 
 be played via split-screen. Online includes two campaigns ,again, with 4 maps each which can also 
 be played via split-screen.
  
  Left 4 Dead strongly pushes the idea of team work to the limit, any experienced player on Left 
 4 Dead would know that it is almost impossible to survive alone, due to the fact that the player 
 faces well over 60 zombies on each map, either in groups or wandering hallways, there is also the 
 the 4 'boss' zombies consisting of the smoker, which uses its very long tongue to grapple and drag 
 its opponents, the hunter, which pounces on its foes for surprise attacks, the boomer, which can 
 vomit on survivors to draw well over thirty zombies, most normally in order to suppress the survivors 
 whilst the other 'boss' zombies get into position. There is also the 'Tank' which is more rarely 
 seen, and quite literally is a tank. It is recommended that all survivors focus their attack on 
 the tank simply because it so powerful. Its attacks send survivors and cars alike flying. Then 
 there is the unplayable 'Witch' which is more powerful than she looks, being able to take down 
 a survivor with about one hit.
  
  There are several weapons one can utilize throughout the game, an Uzi, two variants of the shotgun, 
 an assault rifle and a sniper rifle, as well as a pistol which one can dual wield. However after 
 several hours of playing i felt as though there was a lack of variety and maybe not enough of weaponry. 
 Also to be used in great effectiveness against the hordes of zombies one would be facing are the 
 pipe bomb grenades, Molotovs, fuel canisters and the ability to knock back one's opponents with 
 the left trigger.
  
  The AI is indeed excellent, having an 'AI Director which determines when to send hordes of zombies 
 at you and when to give the survivors a short break is truly class, and normally makes each individual 
 play-through of the campaigns unique in their own ways. And even offline, one is presented with 
 a difficult challenge against the AI boss opponents.
  
  The Graphics are substantial, whilst maybe certain textures may lack depth like buildings and inside 
 buildings for example it certainly makes up for in the detailed designs of the zombies and their 
 boss counter-parts. However, just wondering through a dark tunnel with a flashlight that flashes 
 over dead corpses is enough to satisfy anyone and so for the graphics i would give it a solid 8/10.
 
  
  Overall the combination of teamwork and fast intense zombie-killing action makes this game a blast 
 and a lot of fun to play with minor flaws and about a good 5 hours offline game-play with well 
 over 13 hours online. This is a brilliantly made Multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBestDro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  February 4, 2009 - "Curing the infection... One bullet at a time." - As Valve Corporation's cooperative 
 first person zombie-apocalypse shooter "Left 4 Dead" bravely states on the loading screen for its 
 first, bloody scenario: "No Mercy" is certainly not a misleading statement...
  
  Left 4 Dead is one of those games where the developers have said: "Ok, let's just have some with 
 this one." And as you can see from the very detailed animations used on each individual object 
 to the way the characters communicate with each other during a fight, that's exactly what Valve 
 did.
  
  In fact, Left 4 Dead definitely is a game that will stand out from all the rest of the pack of 
 grey, monotonous first person shooters that are hitting the gaming markets all around the world.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead is set across four different scenarios, each filled with spooky locales, thousands 
 of ravenous, mindless, flesh-eating zombies all ready to feast upon your surviving soul and event-triggering 
 obstacles to traverse across. Each scenario has one common goal in common with its counterparts, 
 and that is: To get yourself and your fellow survivors to safety. One entertaining aspect of the 
 game is that you get to pick your which character you would like to take on the Horde with. There 
 is four (Get it? Left "4" Dead?) stereotypical survivors to choose from. The aging war veteran, 
 the working-class office employee, the leather-clad, armageddon-junkie biker and, of course, the 
 young college student, that's surprisingly experienced with a pistol.
  
  This typical band of survivors goes hand in hand with the setting of the game, and it works all 
 too well. Each scenario starts off with a with a movie poster shown on-screen as a loading screen. 
 For example, The scenario "No Mercy" (which entails the band of survivors trying to get to 'Mercy 
 Hospital') shows the survivors in a movie-like pose with smoking gun in-hand with the words "Curing 
 the infection... One bullet at a time." shown across the top as a tagline. Also, whenever you complete 
 a scenario credits will roll down the screen with statistics detailing what feats you have pulled 
 off throughout the gaming session. The very last words on screen are "XXXX Zombies were harmed 
 in the making of this film." According to how many undead you have slain, the number will be larger 
 or smaller. Valve has done a great job at inserting little points of tongue-in-cheek humour all 
 throughout the game that you could classify the genre of this game as "Black Humour."
  
  Left 4 Dead is motivated almost entirely by co-op teamwork play. Of course, you can play by yourself 
 with the three other characters as bots, but it adds that special 'human-touch' when you are blasting 
 your way through masses of gory, undead flesh with a couple of chums by your side (or over Xbox 
 Live) . However, if you happen to have no friends around to play L4D with you, the bot team play 
 is definitely not a less-entertaining, less-effective way to play through the game.
  
  The Director. The secret weapon that drives the replayability of this game. Valve has created "The 
 Director" especially for this video game. The somewhat omnipotent Director is a special AI mechanism 
 that monitors the players actions and inserts carefully placed hordes of zombies, special zombies, 
 health packs and ammo cache's, etc. into the scenario in relation to how easily you are progressing 
 through the game. If you are blazing through streets and sewers like you're taking a light jog 
 in the park, the Director will shove in some well-placed packs of zombies to overrun you. And the 
 same applies for the reverse: If you are out of ammo, and low on health the Director will kick 
 in and place some ammo, and/or health around the corner. This mechanic adds a whole new meaning 
 to 'replayability' as every time you play through a scenario you will always encounter something 
 different.
  
  Replayability is a very big factor in this game. Valve could have inserted a few more scenarios 
 to lengthen the game a bit. On my first playthrough, I was playing with a friend, splitscreen, 
 and it took us a total of 2-3 hours. Now, of course we did play over the scenarios again and again 
 because it was so much fun, but it wouldn't kill Valve to come up with a few more scenarios. However, 
 if I did have to choose between a version of L4D with more scenarios, but no Director bot and the 
 normal version, I would find myself picking the latter without hesitation. And, I'm sure Valve 
 is considering Downloadable Content for PC and Xbox 360 versions for release sometime in the future?
 
  
  The multiplayer modes on L4D are offline 2 player, splitscreen co-op campaign mode, a 4 player 
 online co-op campaign mode and a 16 player online multiplayer mode. All of these modes run very 
 smoothly over Xbox Live and PC.
  
  Graphics, Sound and Lighting throughout this game are all top-notch horror-grade and all contribute 
 to giving the overall atmosphere of the game a mix between eerie, spooky and scary at times to 
 outright blood, gore, and special effects-heaven. The game runs on an updated version of the Source 
 Engine which will appeal to a large variety of players, (especially fans of the Half Life franchise) 
 and never feels clunky or glitchy throughout an intense playthough of each scenario. There is no 
 noticeable slow down time, and the Xbox Live matches feel very smooth and lag-free.
  
  
  All in all, Left 4 Dead by the Valve Corporation will have you glued to the screen for hours on 
 end, with its perfect visuals, atmosphere and gameplay. If you don't own this game already, it 
 is highly recommended that if you are a fan of zombie apocalypse genres, you go out to buy this 
 game as soon as possible, and don't forget to "Run and shoot!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix32623
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Kids these days have no respect for cooperative games, they play their Metal Gear Solids and Gears 
 of Wars and though some of these games have cooperative, they do not immerse the player enough 
 for them to realize the consequences of not following the rules. Left 4 Dead is a rare game, it 
 can show you not only that less is more, but it teaches the improtance of working together.
  
  Left 4 Dead sports the old Source engine (i am not calling it old in a literal manner) but 
 still manages to look fantastic, play intensely and immerse the player. The "AI Director" that 
 is used in this game, is used to randomly generate the infected in amounts and areas specific to 
 how the player is progressing (what speed, what health, ... etc) it is quite revolutionary as it 
 allows for there to be little to no chance of playing the same game twice. though it only sports 
 4 mini campaigns, Left 4 Dead uses these "horror movies" various lighting and geographical properties 
 to create a varying game that will always satisfy you.
  
  Left for Dead has been gifted with the grail of versus. 4 players take on the helm of the survivors 
 whilst 4 players try to mutilate them as the special infected, each type has a special ability 
 used to incapacitate the survivors. Boomers use their vomit to blind those covered with it, while 
 attracting the horde, smokers use their tongues to constrict survivors and drag them away, hunters 
 pounce on survivors to incapacitate them and do large amounts of damage, and tanks straight up 
 tear survivors down with brute force.
  
  Left 4 Dead is an amazing addition to the survival-horror franchise and the upcoming DLC will only 
 sweeten the deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  We all have played games with the undead, from resident evil to dead rising.... to half life to 
 even nightmare creatures haha old school!
  
  Anyway back to the review, valve being the perfectionists in the gaming industry decided a while 
 back probably from the awesome Counter strike source mod to create a zombie game based solely on 
 team work, well thats not a fact but thats when left 4 dead came onto my radar.
  
  
  Anyway onto the key points:
  
  STORY:
  
  the story is very 28 days later idea and inspired 
 with a little resident evil sprinkled on top, there are zombies, A LOT and you and 3 other random 
 survivors which are all very stereotyped characters which we will all know and recognize, from 
 the ex military guy, the tough as nails biker, the hot girl who watches too many horror movies 
 and of course THE TOKEN BLACK GUY!
  
  So the game is split into 4 common "zombie" situations involving the same means of escape we all 
 have come to know, the last survivors meeting up with the military/other survivors/other people 
 blah blah blah simple? well anyway a zombie virus got out and is mutating the infection and basically 
 you are in like I said earlier 28 days later meets resident evil.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics run off a enhanced version of the source engine that we saw in half life 2 episode 
 2. So it is a solid looking game and the gore, is plentiful. The lighting effects are solid with 
 the flash light being the key at times being sometimes the hallways want to get dark and the AMOUNT 
 of zombies that will come onto the screen at once and not nooch the framerate is honestly downright 
 amazing. Being the focus each of the characters is very nicely detailed with what you expect from 
 each of the characters, and the zombies well you won't take the time to get to notice them because 
 their brains will be missing but each of the mutated freaks are just downright nasty looking and 
 will meet their end with LOTS OF BULLETS
  
  overall as my point of reference, the locals and detail of each of the different situation is great, 
 it honestly never feels like a recycled area, it feels new and different each time! BUT WHERE IS 
 MY SECRET LAB MISSION! UGH!
  
  
  SOUND:
  
  Ok I am going to be honest here, the real sound helper comes from the people on the other end of 
 your mic because if you don't have team mates kiss yourself good bye! But the game sound is pretty 
 much drowned out in the sound of bullets upon bullets upon bullets! But IF you are playing with 
 AI characters and not real people you will hear the characters yell and help out as much as they 
 can. 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay is what I would expect from a running zombie game, with a huge structure built on 
 teamwork, it is fast, it is crazy and hopefully you actually get a good team mate which is where 
 I fall short of on the xbox because I mean if you buy a 360 happy meal it comes with a MIC but 
 for some reason I always had to resort to setting up my own server and kicking anyone that didn't 
 have a mic because frankly it pissed me off and having to VOTE the player that decided to be a 
 punk and go rambo can really kill the experience because it was built on teamwork this game IS 
 TEAMWORK! get the idea! 
  
  
  OVERALL:
  
  ok lets get this straight if you don't have online DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! but if you got friends 
 with a zombie fetish and can play the same 4 missions over and over again and will wait for the 
 DLC then by all means buy this game. Honestly when EVERYTHING FALLS INTO PLACE, this game is fun 
 and addicting, its simple but yet hard at the same time. I honestly have never had so much fun 
 with my friends online! This is a 4 player co op with a great gameplay and even if it is kind of 
 mixed but if you enjoy team games get this you will enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kower007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I am a fan of the half-lifer series but this game still feels like the old 
 half-life engine tidied up with slightly better graphics. Its way way behind games like Gears of 
 War 2 and Fallout 3 which have come out around the same time as this.
  
  The concept is ok - but they implementation of the idea is dreadful - poor environments with no 
 interaction, basic selection of weapons and no aiming system, only about 5 different types of enemies 
 which are poorly designed and easy to kill.
  
  I can't think of anything good to say about the game - even the multiplayer is below average. so 
 much so that i find myself padding out this review to meet the limit of 800 words.
  
  this is probably the most regretted game I have ever bought.
  
  take it from me, this is not 
 a good game - its below average in every way - if the last console you have played is a sega mega 
 drive then you will find the game ..... acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Bacon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Where to start. Left 4 Dead although maybe not the most fantasticly animated games, makes up for 
 what it lacks in graphics it with its spectacular gameplay. With possably the most unique multiplayer 
 I have ever seen it goes beyond the usual shoot em up. Instead of simply seeing who gets the most 
 kills, you heavily rely on teammates to help you up, watch your back, and save you from the ravenous 
 infected that want to eat you brains. instead of just suggesting that people work together like 
 Halo and CoD, you are forced to work together to achieve victory. So all you sour little do it 
 yourselfers will not have a very ejoyable experience. Also it's not a matter of how many kills 
 a person or team gets, it's all about survival. The Survivors must make it to the safehouse at 
 the end of the level before the Special Infected tear their guts out. This is the first multiplayerr 
 I've seen like this in a game and it is absolutly extraordinary. But then their's the darker side, 
 when you actually play as the zombies. Test your skills at pouncing, tongue grabbing, and... vomiting 
 all in the same game. I like to think of Left 4 Dead as an RTS (real time strategy) game meeting 
 a first person shooter. Unlike most shooters where the players are more likely to wing it, Left 
 4 dead truly makes people think their next move throught. Without strategy and teamwork you can't 
 possably succeed. So go out and play, whether as the Survivors or Infected this game won't dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bennexcellent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Before i start I'm going to say a lot of this is going to be said about online play =3
  
  Well i have to say honestly, i have played Left 4 Dead a lot, and it is amazingly good fun, as 
 far as i know this is one of the only games of its kind to allow the player to control a zombie 
 attacking the humans.
  
  
  The online play is just amazing. I never get tired of that satisfy pop up on the screen telling 
 me I'm about to become the tank. Watching the people playing as the humans squirm and run in circles 
 trying to avoid you, only to get pounced by a hunter or snatched by a smoker.
  
  The only problems with the game is the glitches, and the players. As usual you get the people who 
 just DO NOT know how to play as a team. and there are various glitches that can ENTIRELY destroy 
 the survivors chances of winning a round, at which point the game turns into a battle to see who 
 can reach the glitch point first to prevent it from happening. Bins, generators and fork lifts 
 can be glitched in front of doors or pathways.
  
  As with the players, its all about gaining points to become the tank, or "rushing" because you 
 think you can "make it" You can encounter a few of these people but with the handy vote to kick 
 system you can quickly acquire a good team.
  
  The various different special zombies have very different ways of killing the survivors, but nearly 
 all of them can be over powered by the Hunter, for example if a smoker has grabbed a survivor, 
 a hunter can easily jump on them stealing the kill from the smoker, which is a seriously stupid 
 idea, because that survivor is already dieing... so why not go after the survivor coming BACK TO 
 SAVE the one the smoker had, because now the smokers tongue is on cool down and your dead.
  
  Boomers are hardly a stealth class so it takes some thinking to ambush a whole team of players, 
 because of there constant sickly sounds they make.
  
  Well that's it for online play, offline play review time :)
  
  The AI is relatively intelligent 
 they know that to kill something they gotta shoot it rather then watch you try. They also excel 
 in saving you from getting your intestines ripped out by hunters or being strangled by smokers, 
 and are very quick to come to your aid.
  
  However when i come across a Witch it seems to ALWAYS escape Louis that shes dangerous, and he 
 will shoot her without a second thought. then he will get downed and we will have to save him.
 
  
  The 4 different campaigns are very fun and unique in the way they are played which is good because 
 in a game you don't want to do the same thing every time you play it. The only thing i would actually 
 like to see is some new guns, and definitely more multilayer maps. The "10" weapons they claim 
 are actually just 6 weapons. 
  You have the shotgun then the better shotgun, and the Uzi type thing and then an assault rifle, 
 and believe it or not using a single pistol and duel wielding pistols is claimed to be two different 
 weapons. and of course the rifle pipe bomb and Molotov.
  
  
  
  Either way that's all i have to say. 
  
  This game is just incredible. It is without a doubt 
 a brilliant addition to any ones game collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a simple first person shooter that takes co-op gaming to a whole new level. Absolute 
 best with friends, but absolute crap with random people or AI controlled bots.
  
  Story of Left 4 Dead is kept to a minimum. You take the role of one of four survivors in a city 
 infected with a deadly virus that turns people into running zombies. Your only goal is to reach 
 the transport point and get rescued. In order to succeed you need to do some serious co-op with 
 your friends. Look and feel of the game has been done in a way that it reminds those classical 
 zombie movies from the late 70's and 80's. All of this means that Left 4 Dead takes away all the 
 unnecessary aspects and focuses on what it's all about: killing zombies with a bunch of friends.
 
  
  Game's structure is simple, because it consists of four separate campaigns or "movies", each of 
 them has four sections in them and the fifth one is Finale. There's no possibility to save anywhere, 
 but since you get a checkpoint after each section that's not a problem in any way. It takes around 
 30 minutes all the way to 180 minutes to complete one campaign depending on your team's skill level 
 and of course the difficulty level (Easy, Normal, Advanced and Expert) .
  
  Left 4 Dead uses that same Source Engine that Half-Life 2 did and in some ways it's starting to 
 show its age. There are not that many details, but at the same time the physics are top notch and 
 there can be SOO much stuff flying on screen at once and still the frame rate stays solid all the 
 time. This trade-off has been worth it: I'll take a solid and smooth action over beautiful graphics 
 any day. Each campaign has its own theme in terms of environments and lighting effects, so even 
 if there's only four of them it still gives a nice variety in that otherwise VERY straight forward 
 shooting action. Sound design is also great: zombies growl and howl in a way you want them and 
 firing a gun feels like you're really firing a gun. Music on the other hand is not that memorable, 
 but it doesn't hurt the package either.
  
  Controls are simple: you can shoot, crouch, reload and melee with your weapon in hand, but that's 
 about it. Your character moves smoothly and the animation is fantastically executed. Important 
 thing is that you can give items to your team mate and also revive and heal him/her with your own 
 med kit. Guns are only the basic stuff, but they'll do the job: shotgun, automatic rifle, pistol, 
 pipe bomb, Molotov cocktail and so on.
  
  Left 4 Dead has obviously been made for co-op game and it really shows: playing alone is boring 
 and playing with an unco-operative friend will make things difficult for you. Choosing your partners 
 is especially important, because friendly fire is always on. Action is always intense, because 
 if you want to grab something to eat you can always "take a break" and the AI controlled bot will 
 seamlessly take over until you return to play the game. Game can be played via 2-player split-creen 
 or system link or through Xbox Live with up to three friends. Great addition is that you can choose 
 to play with a split-screen and then invite two other players from Xbox Live to join you in that 
 same game.
  
  Enemy AI is different from other shooters of this type: the game makes things different, because 
 one time the zombies will come from behind and other time from side. Sometimes those extra guns 
 are placed here, but sometimes they are placed there. These random elements make each playthrough 
 a very different and unique experience, which is a great feature adding more gameplay time to this 
 otherwise very short game.
  
  Army of Two was supposed to be the ultimate co-op game, but it wasn't. Fear not, because Left 4 
 Dead is that game. Best with friends and a total crap with random people or AI controlled bots. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Damn, Damn, Damn, Finally DAMN BROTHER! Finally a fricken game that delivers with zombie killing. 
 No cheap puzzles to leave you stuck for hours. No running through this door to get the key to do 
 this. No cheap crap. A straight up blow there head off action, horror game with no catches nor 
 strings attacthed. No perv not g strings, Strings as in catches. Geeze get your mind out of the 
 gutter.... Phew, some people.
  
  Anyways, before i was so rudely interrupted by my imaginary friend. This game delivers on all cylinders. 
 First thing you notice when it comes to a game is visuals. This game had visuals like a little 
 boy at a strip club. This game was more bloody then a little boy at a micheal jackson concert. 
 This game..... Okay you get the point. 
  
  Imagine a game, where you go from point A in the level, Trying to survive goint to point B. Sounds 
 a little boring. Well guess what loudmoth, its not. This game truly is a dose of hell that kicks 
 pure ass. The graphics are top notch and brings out the best of the xbox. Another great thing is 
 it will literally offer you a hundred hours of gameplay trying to unlock all the achievements. 
 So you definitely get your 60 dollars worth witch is very very important considering the ass known 
 as bush just left office. THE X PRESIDENT NOT THE PORN SITE. OH BOY HERE WE GO AGAIN! 
  
  Back to the review, The game is truly meant for online multiplayer not just allowing you to play 
 with friends to beat a level. This game is so cool it will let you play as a blood sucking, tounge 
 licking, smoking ugly looking zombie with burnt flesh. You could play as shamu as a zombie and 
 its just pure mayhem. The game has the shock factor like AAAHHH DAMN! DIDNT EXPECT THAT POOP TO 
 COME FROM THAT CORNER! (poop was subjugated from the other literal term...... thankyou) . 
  
  The game in my personal opinion is the best game of the year on xbox for 2008. The game is 
 brilliant and valve is amazing for developing a game like this. We have waited for so damn long, 
 games have come close but havent delivered like this one. Each game has 5 chapters per level. You 
 can choose any level. The game has a total of 4 levels. Its pretty much a house of the dead game 
 on steroids and punches harder then mike tyson and tina turner in a cock fight.
  
  The only reason why this game did not get a perfect score is because if you dont have xbox live. 
 Dont get this game. The games story mode on single player is very fun but gets old quick. If you 
 have xbox live then this game is the best game you can buy for your console. Much better then any 
 other crap that came out,
  
  Hope you enjoyed your sunday school episode of reviews of games that came from my ass. Now go buy 
 it you, you, you, you, homosapien. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this was the first 360 game I've ever played. I've gotta say this game is very fun 
 playing online, alone, or with your buddy, I like how you have to use very strategic, cooperative 
 play. There are four campaigns, No Mercy, Death Toll, Dead Air, and Blood Harvest. All of them 
 have 5 missions and can be beaten within 35 minutes to an hour, making the experience very short. 
 For the online mdes there are versus, and Coop Campaign. Versus mode is very fun as you play as 
 the infected and try to kill the survivors. And campaign coop, is very fun to play as well, because 
 you have to watch your teammates and guard everyone making the experience realistic. The only downfall 
 is, Versus mode comes with 2 maps. As for the flaws, the graphics really look like a PS2 game, 
 infact, it could of been released last-gen. Even on my 1080p tv, it still looks like crap. The 
 glitches are really frustratig, when you walk, you walk through your partner, and the AI can lag 
 sometimes, and the AI is really poor when you're playing on expert difficulty. Overall:
  
  Graphics- 6.8/10
  Gameplay-8.8/10
  Multiplayer-9.3/10
  Campaigns-8.5/10
  
  Overall- 9.0/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead provides one of Xbox's greatest multiplayer experiences along with extremely fun zombie 
 action. The style of the game is highly memorable, and separates Left 4 Dead from all other games. 
 Left 4 Dead reminds me of Counter Strike, and for good reason, because both are going to be remembered 
 as instant classics.
  
  It is quite notable to mention that every single mode in Left 4 Dead can be player locally and 
 online. Communication in this game is very important and thus, there is nothing better than playing 
 with a group of friends. Although there are only four settings in the game, the gameplay varies 
 for every playthrough. In other words, you will never find the weapons, health kits, enemies in 
 the same spot. This feature greatly varies the game and makes it fun to replay levels.
  
  The characters and enemies in this game are some of the most memorable I have seen in a long time. 
 The level design is also highly creative and memorable as well.
  
  The real surprise comes with the Versus play. I can say that this mode is a great addition to the 
 game, as its accessible gameplay provides some nice 4v4 gameplay. In this mode, one team controls 
 the humans and the other team plays as the special infected. The teams switch every round. Overall, 
 Versus is a great way to tie an already great game together,
  
  I should also mention the achievements. Left 4 Dead has in my opinion, the best list of achievements. 
 The achievements range from extremely easy to nearly impossible, with some time consuming achievements 
 and some that require luck. There is an achievement tracker in the game which does exactly what 
 it should. If anything, give L4D a rent just for the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drama_313
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  When the only bad that can be said about a game is it's no fun when playing solo, you cant go wrong 
 with it. Left 4 Dead takes FPS to new heights and delivers on all fronts. The game may not look 
 as polished as games like Gears Of War or Call Of Duty 4, but you hardly notice once you are sucked 
 into Left 4 Deads addictive gameplay.
  
  Left 4 Dead is best enjoyed with friends online, sure you can play by yourself but you would be 
 missing something, playing Left 4 Dead solo would be like playing a game of One on One in your driveway 
 by yourself, not very enjoyable.
  
  But Left Dead is amazing gaming experience that's never the same thing twice, no matter how well 
 you know a level or how well you know your teammates the game throws new stuff at you every time 
 you play, so what worked the first time probably wont work the next time around. Example: What was 
 once a safe zombie free alley may turn into a death trap next time you go down it. 
  
  Bottom line is Left 4 Dead is what Multiplayer games are all about, Left 4 Dead shows you don't 
 need stats, ranks, leaderboards etc. for a game to be enjoyable, all you need is to make a intense, 
 in your face, fresh gaming experience for players and they'll keep coming back for more.
  
  
  Alot of games should follow suit, and do what Left 4 Dead has done. I personally can't wait 
 to see what the future holds for the Left 4 Dead franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guardcaptainsid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I first heard of this game in a game informer and it looked awesome. I bought yesterday and im 
 almost done with the first campaign. The game is fun because its like a real zombie invasion. some 
 games like resident evil (which i think is really cool) has about five zombies at the beginning 
 but in left 4 dead when you get into the streets theirs so many zombies you cant see past them, 
 hundreds and im not overreacting, HUNDREDS! Plus you can set off car alarms which can attract zombies 
 attention. its the only zombie game in first person ive ever played so its creepy thinking of whats 
 behind you. Witches are creepy because you hear crying, then when you open a door you see red eyes 
 looking at you and BAM! you get attacked. Fortunately if you keep your flash light off and sneak 
 by and wont have to face such a monster. Other monsters besides zombies attack you like boomers 
 who puke on you and you cant see and all the zombies go after you. Smokers have giant tongues (like 
 lickers in resident evil) that grab you and attack you, when killed they let off smoke and make 
 the survivors cough. Theirs others to like tanks and hunters. It also lets you choose your survivor 
 and you can play online. If you have enough money buy this game! and if you dont then save up because 
 you must have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a fun game, but with only four campaigns, each of which usually lasts less than 
 an hour, co-op gets boring after a few play throughs (and single player isn't really fun, the game 
 was meant to be played in co-op) Leaving the player to try versus mode, which is also a lot of 
 fun, but gets old relatively soon as well, since you can only play two of the four campaigns offered 
 to co-op games. The infected characters are fun to play, though simplistic and annoying at times. 
 But after playing and getting bored with co-op and versus, there isn't anything left to do with 
 the game. The game does have good graphics/visual effects, and voice acting, but the lack of weapons 
 and game modes, and length of the campaigns, the average player will be left with nothing to do 
 after a week (it only took a few days for myself to run out of things to do in this game) Thankfully 
 I rented the game, and would suggest those who want to play the game rent it first as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKriegerx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Left 4 Dead is Sci-Fi First-Person Shooter that releases on November 17, 2008. Created by Valve, 
 L4D is in my top 10 games list. 
  Ok.
  The world's been infected by a mysterious zombie disease that has infectes the whole world except 
 for a handfull of survivors. Here's 4 that you can be.
  Bill, a Vietnam war veteran that hasn't had any enemies to shoot since the Vietnam war, and wants 
 to shoot some new enemies.
  Francis, someone who spends all of his time at bars and drinking until the infection began. Now 
 he pretends the chaos of the world is the world's biggest bar fight.
  Zoey, a college student that got a lot of bad grades. Instead of studying for school projects, 
 she just watched horror zombie movies all day long. Looks like she was studying the right subject 
 after all.
  And Louis, a business person who was a hard working employee. But now, he stands up to the fight 
 like they all took away his Manager premotion.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There's 4 campaigns, each with 5 chapters to it.
  1. No Mercy 
  2. Death Toll
  3. Dead Air
  4. Blood Harvest
  Each campaign takes about an hour to beat. Meaning that each 
 chapter takes around 15 minutes. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The singleplayer to this game is good, but multiplayer is the best way to go. 
  You can play multiplayer campaign online or offline, and you can play Versus Mode. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There are 6 kinds of zombies.
  1. The Horde, which are normal zombies but in a horde.
  2. The Hunter, he pounces at survivors with a heart-stopping sceatch.
  3. The Smoker, he has 
 an extended tounge and reals in survivors, then attackes them when he's got you at his feet.
  4. Boomer, a fat and fragile zombie. If you get too close to it, he will barf bile on you that 
 attracts the Horde to attack you. 
  5. The Witch, an old woman who enjoys a long and enjoyable cry. And if you wake her from that cry, 
 you're in trouble.
  6. The Tank, which is a overly-large zombie that was mutated during infection. It has a gigantic 
 body, but a tiny head. He's really ugly.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Each individual zombie is a very fragile being, if you barely shoot them, they almost die... but 
 if they're in a horde, it takes quite a while to eliminate them all. This game is around $50 now 
 and is totally worth the travel and money. I don't know why, but it's really addictive. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  'For achievement junkies, this game is for you.'
  The achievements on this game are very easy and fun to get. For example, one achievement you have 
 to shove a Boomer before he biles on you, and kill him without him exploding on you. I know it 
 sounds hard, but it's pretty easy. Plus they're a lot of gamerscore.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I promise you that once you get off this computer, go to the nearest game retail store, get this 
 game, play it for an hour, you will put this awesome on you top 10 favorite games list. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I really hope this review helped you decide to get this game. "'All, Serious, Gamers, Should, 
 Have, Left 4 Dead!"' (Like on Life-Alert LOL) =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  storyline:
  four survivors, lots of guns and a shed-load of zombies. you get the picture.
  
  Gameplay:
  the objective of all the stages is to get to the other end without being raped 
 up the jacksie by lots of zombies. basic but hilariously good fun. there are also special infected 
 like the boomer and smoker which balence out the zombies nicely.
  the survivors have limited types of weapons but it seems like theres enough variation without making 
 over-powerful weapons (like rocket launchers or flamethrowers) but to be honest, the auto-shotgun 
 and dual pistols seem to be the only thing used now these days.
  
  graphics:
  very good but what isnt now these days. and its based off of the half-life 2 source engine so cant 
 say nothing to the phsyics.
  
  online:
  seriously rubbish. the gameplay online is alot of fun. in theory.
  the problem is the players 
 and the laughable amount of bugs.
  super-melee, indestructable infected, infected ability to block exits with moveable objects.... 
 the list could go on for a while.
  this will be fixed in time but this brings me onto the next negative point. there is no support 
 from the developers on the 360 version.
  i have both the PC and 360 version and the amount of patches for the PC that are PC only is incredible. 
 they've already got fixes for most glitches and also have some gameplay balences as well (like 
 the tank now takes damage from fire over time and not just given a timer before it collapses) but 
 the 360 has got none of these. there is another thin related to dev support but it needs explaining 
 in the summary
  
  summary:
  that thing i was talking about is the fact that even though the game is enjoyable, there isnt enough 
 content to call it a 'full' game.
  there are four campaigns, two of which are used in multiplayer and thats it. it can be enjoyable 
 for about a week but after that you want to play something else. the dev support problem to go 
 with this is that although they have promised DLC content, it wont be out until august/september 
 (from what ive heard so dont take that as definite) which is unacceptable considering i have already 
 paid 40 for a clearly unfinished game.
  my advice, dont buy it until closer to the DLC release date. and buy the PC version if you want 
 to have dev support that isnt laughable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Heyz, well im always a fan for zombie games and co-op games so this game was extremely fun, but 
 only if your playing with other people.
  
  Story
  Yea, there is no story. 4 unrelated levels.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is the extremely fun 
 if your playing with others. You'll be shooting hordes of zombies that charge at you and try to 
 kill you and your friends, but thats just to easy so to add more co-op to the game you'll meet 
 "special infected" which require you and your team mates to work with each other to kill them. 
 
  
  The 5 types of special infected you meet all serve their purpose and adds more tension and if you 
 dont keep your cool and work as a team the special infected will have you dead in seconds. The 
 2 special infected called the Hunter and Smoker will require teammates to save each other otherwise 
 they player caught will die. The boomer adds chaos by throwing up on you and attracting large hordes 
 so your'll need to cover the person who has just been sicked on. The Tank is a huge monster which 
 looks like a steriod junkie, you and your team mates need to pump as much ammo into this thing 
 as possible as its nearly impossible to take it down single handed on a harder difficulty. Then 
 you have the Witch, which your'll be best to avoid because if someone startles her your'll basically 
 be another player down unless you manage to trap her somehow.
  
  When you run out of health your'll be knocked to the floor and be forced to use your pistols until 
 a team mate comes and revives you, and if you get killed while on the floor then you'll have to 
 wait for your team mates to find a hero closet further ahead for you to come back to life.
  
  When you get to the end of a campaign your'll need to radio for some form of transport to pick 
 you up. This is the bit where you can actully plan out your defences. After you call for evac you 
 will face a massive onslaughter of zombies that will charge you will special infected try and pick 
 you off so lots of team work is needed.
  
  
  The maps are all different. City ones, ones in woods, airports, little towns and sewers all sorts 
 of places that have a unique feel to each.
  
  The game has 4 campaigns and each one takes about an hour to complete. Its about a 4 hour game 
 but because of the AI Director every play through will be different and zombies, weapons and medical 
 supplys will be in different places which makes the game ever better because you'll always be please 
 to see new weapons or health packs. Also because this game is a really fun game (come on what beats 
 swarms of zombies and co-op) you'll most likely play through it a ton of times.
  
  There are only a couple of weapons but thats not a bad thing. They all a good feel and your'll 
 find yourself swapping usally. The graphics are ok nothing special but the fun makes up for it.
 
  
  Overall
  Left 4 Dead is easily one of the best zombie games and one of the best co-op games ever made. Pure 
 fun and nothing quiet like it, although its only really fun when playing with mates so its best 
 to do your first run through with some mates for the best gameplay experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  L4D is a good game but it's highly repitive and it graphics are bad and there is no story it's 
 got 4 campaigns to keep you busy for at least 4 hours or maybe 5. i'm not really sure how it got 
 best shooter it's a good game im not saying it's bad it's just a tad overrated. It's cool how zombies 
 just keep coming and they all look different there isn't much variety between enemies though it's 
 just boomer, witch, tank, hunter and the original zombie there really should've been different 
 enemies in each campaign and the graphics and game were rushed. But it's still alot of fun with 
 friends. also there's only 4 weapons... and the sniper is pointless. 
  
  Despite all the stuff it's just plain fun slaying onslaughts of zombies that don't stop though 
 this can be annoying if your lost and your losing ammo from it. i never played the multiplayer 
 but i hear from other reviews it's really good thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximchuk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is one of those games that you go out and buy hoping it will be the best zombie game 
 ever. That's what I thought when I went and got it. I was hoping for the best because I am such 
 a big fan of every Valve game. But I feel this one falls short. 
  
  The graphics are alright. nothing next generation about it though. There are lots of texture problems. 
 When you get attacked by a hunter or grabbed by a smoker the camera goes third person and it just 
 looks ugly. The animations aren't very well done either.
  
  The sound design however is one of the best things about this game. It really makes you feel like 
 you are immersed in this zombie infested world. The sound the witches make really sends a chill 
 down your spine. However, the voice overs could have been much better.
  
  And finally, the gameplay. This is really where the game falls short. 
  You pick this game up 
 and you figure it is going to be a mindless zombie shooter, and it is. That's ALL it is. There 
 is no real story telling, there is no character development between the characters. You are just 
 put in the shoes of one of the 4 protagonists, and you go off blasting the infected. If you like 
 the sound of killing zombies, this might be your cup of tea. But as for me, I like a good story 
 line to keep me playing the game. I like killing zombies too, but when that's all you do in the 
 game it gets really repetitive and annoying. But the best thing about this game would have to be 
 the 4 player co-op over Xbox Live. It's really fun. But as for the single player stuff, don't waste 
 your time.
  You really disappointed me Valve. Now go, get to work on Half Life 3.
  
  7.5 / 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_King
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I have rarely played a first person shooter that had co-op around you with THIS much excitement. 
 This game is like God, Jesus, or Adam for zombies everywhere. It is hard to get bored of with maps 
 that take hours to beat. (Depending on difficulty that you set.) The fear that you get when you 
 see your first witch and probably go "Zombie!" *Bang* About five seconds later, your either dead, 
 or wiser. This game drags you in, kicking and screaming. (In a good way.) The first minute you 
 play a level for the first time, you know that you need to stick with your group. Live together, 
 die alone. Please understand that I am not calling this perfect, there are some glitches, there 
 are some things that are too hard. But, I call this the (For now.) best zombie game I have played. 
 Don't doubt that this is one of the best horror games to play although don't play offline... Boring 
 if you play online ever.... Yeah.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAGONslayer5p9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is so sweet. its nonstop action. zombie never stop comeing, so its nonstop hords of zombies. 
 the only 2 bad things are not that many weapons, and the game is to short. now for the good things. 
 the game is fun to play over again. the online play is sweet, when your zombies thats pretty sweet. 
 acheivement are not impossable, and there are alot of cool glitches. there are a good variety of 
 charactors. one of the best things is that its its own game, its not a remake, or sequil. its easy 
 to control after you get used to it, and it has good grafics. the game was greatly made. they could 
 have added some thing so that you can pick what zombie you want to be insted of being what ever 
 they want you to be, but its still very awsome. this game deserves a 9.5, and a 9.8 if that was 
 a choice. the reason for the extra .3 is because the multiplayer makes u for the short storyline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot. It has great battles. Almost epic. The action is constant, alarming, sometimes 
 overwhelming. It was hard! But the good kind of hard. Multiplayer is awesome. Single campaign is 
 a bit disappointing. The AI characters are just such a let down after playing with buddies, although 
 they did seem to have more personalities than a lot of AI sidekicks. They definitely were a lot 
 more useful. They healed me many times and protected my "six" more times than I can count. The 
 weapons kinda rock in the game. They are easy to use and plentiful enough to change styles on the 
 fly. Normally I would complain about not having a map at this point but shockingly I did not even 
 notice it's absence in this game. The game is classic FPS at it's best. Fun, kids, fun. The environment 
 is dark and dynamic and suitably apocalyptic. The zombies are relentless and startlingly everywhere. 
 Pipe bombs are a hoot, thought I will not spoil the surprise for you by telling you why. If you 
 have online, this game is must play. If you don't, rent it. It is still sorta fun. Make sure you 
 play the Single Campaign before the Multiplayer because otherwise it pales in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daengen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  simply put i was skeptical about this game at first, but hands down the most exciting multi-player 
 game out right now. dont wait to go and buy it i advise to you who do not have this game drop whatever 
 it is you are doing walk away from ur computer and get to your nearest retailer to get this game 
 asap! words can not describe the excitement you get the first time a horde of zombies rushes toward 
 you. or the first time a special infected grabs you! nothing i can say can fill you in on when 
 its your turn to be a hunter, smoker, boomer or even the TANK!!!!! now i suggest you go take $60and 
 buy this. if you do not have $60 steal it! the money that is not the game! take it from your parents 
 or sibling, aunt uncle cousin i dont care this is a must own for anyone who has a 360 whether online 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwishx2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  +Positives+
  
  + 4 Player Co-op.
  
  + 2 Player Split-Screen.
  
  + 4 Campaigns in total.
  
  + 20 Levels Of Zombie Massacre.
  
  + Versus. (Play as the humans 
 or special infected / 8 Players)
  
  + Lots of explosives.
  
  + Small But Good Variety Of Guns (Sniper, Assault Rifle, Shot Gun, Uzi, Auto Shotgun, Pistols, 
 Dual Pistols)
  
  + Fun Achievements. (First 30-40 can be easily achieved just by playing the game / 50 in total 
 / 1000 G in total)
  
  + Hunters keep your heart beating (Special Infected / A good thrill when you pounce someone who 
 got left behind in versus :D)
  
  + The witch still scares me after playing this for endless hours (Special infected)
  
  + Smoker 
 is fun to play on versus. Its always great to tear apart teams or get the dude that was left behind 
 (Special Infected)
  
  + Boomer is a great way to just massacre a team if you set it up right and manage to puke on all 
 four survivors. After you've puked on them be prepared to run back and watch the mayhem as the 
 survivors are attacked by a horde. Or just run in and suicide bomb the hell outta them :D (Special 
 Infected)
  
  + The tank requires a team effort to take down and always creates a funny or memorable moment. 
 Also a great experience while playing versus. If you become a tank run at the survivors and massacre 
 them. Or stay back and smash cars at them its a one hit kill :D (Special Infected / Boss)
  
  + Characters feel real. Over 1500 different sayings a character can say depending on your status 
 and point in the game.
  
  + Music changes to fit your current status and differs for player to player. (Music Director)
 
  
  + No map is ever the same. Zombies, Special Infected, Items, Guns and Explosives never spawn in 
 the same spot.
  
  
  - Negatives -
  
  - Only 4 campaigns.
  
  - Only 2 campaigns on versus.
  
  - Must work well as a team to survive.
  
  - Good variety 
 of guns but the game just needs more of them.
  
  - Smoker gets annoying fast. It will always try to separate your team making it a key factor to 
 work well together. (Special Infected)
  
  - The boomer is a one hit kill but if you kill him too close he'll explode and cover your team 
 in vomit which attracts the horde and can get very annoying if your in a bad spot making you want 
 to turn off the game. (Special infected)
  
  - If your left behind hunters can easily pounce on you. Leaving your fate to your fellow survivors. 
 (Special Infected)
  
  - Don't startle the witch. She will run at you and one hit from her huge claws will incapacitate 
 you. (Special Infected)
  
  - The tank. Only a negative on expert really unless your team doesn't work on any other of the 
 modes.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  I personally love this game. New content will be out soon. New campaign maps. All 4 original maps 
 will be added to versus. I recommend buying this game unless you already own it. Its an amazing 
 multiplayer game and the achievements are pretty easy to get. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The idea of game based upon 4 levels kept me away from this game for a long time , and I regret 
 every second of it ! .
  
  After being overwhelmed by the many awards the game got , i was pushed into giving it a rent so 
 I went ahead and did it .
  
  When you start the game the opening cinematic will give you an idea about the game , there are 
 four survivors which have to reach a rescue in an area filled with zombies . To give a better idea 
 about the game I'm gonna say it like this :-
  
  Gameplay :- The first true perfect Co-op (cooperative) feeling in which every player has to stick 
 with the team and help each other to survive , using pistols , machine guns , shotguns and bombs 
 .
  
  Sound :- creepy to the last bit , the music gives you a great environment and the guns sound very 
 satisfying . 
  
  Graphics :- Very modern with amazing character details , and the flash light gives a very real 
 effect for your surroundings 
  
  Lifespan (how long you will play the game) :- It's not just four levels ! its unlimited levels ! 
 because everytime you will play the game it's going to be a different experience depending on the 
 difficulty , the people your playing with and the how the game spreads the zombies and bosses around 
 the map ! 
  
  In conclusion this game is really worth the rent , you will realize how good it is and you will 
 really want to buy it after that !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one wierd game. The campaign is broken into four diffrent maps. Each take about an hour 
 to beat. Each has five check points. Only five. If you are playing by yourself this game is a 6 
 to me. Multi player is about an 8. Average em out. Hence the 7. Oh yeah, why no bosses! The zombies 
 or "infected" that have special abilities are "special infected". These have truley unique and 
 creative abilities. They can barf, leap, and grab you with their tounge. So why not make a creative 
 and awsome boss? I dont know. Also there is no story. None at all. It is always we are here, we 
 need to get here for evac. They leave everything unanswered. How did the zombies get here. Unanswered. 
 How do you become a special infected? Unanswered. Here is the worst one, they dont even tell you 
 how you can get infected! Bites? Blood? Virus? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a bit of a bizarre departure for valve; creators of the half-life series. Four-player 
 cooperative mission-based games are a rare sight these days and Left 4 Dead thankfully is a phenomenal 
 game.
  
  The game is split into two fields, single player and multiplayer, yet both are eerily similar. 
 The single player portion of the game throws you into one of four scenarios, and your objective 
 is simply to get from point A to point B without your brains being eaten by wave after wave of 
 zombies. Each scenario takes place within a distinct locale, be it an outdoor cornfield or a suburban 
 street setting, and each level is dissected into typically four smaller sections with checkpoints, 
 or safehouses, breaking them apart. At these safehouses your group can re-stock on ammo, supplies, 
 equip new and better weaponry and health packs.
  
  Once you leave the safehouse however your group is in for a rough ride depending on which difficulty 
 you have chosen to set the game to. There are four difficulties modes, easy, normal, advanced, 
 and expert, and the latter two will undoubtedly give your squad a run for their money. Aside from 
 the typical zombie you will frequently run across special infected. Hunters, smokers, boomers, 
 witches, and tanks each have their own unique sounds, attacks, and patterns and vary the gameplay 
 extremely well. Hunters pounce on you, smokers entangle you with a lasso-esque tongue from a distance, 
 boomers vomit to attract the horde which is an extremely large and fearsome group of regular zombies, 
 witches, if startled, are a single hit kill to you, and tanks are essentially a mix between the 
 hulk and the thing.
  
  A team incapable of cooperating with one another will surely be shredded to pieces by the special 
 zombies in no time, whereas a team working together stands a solid fighting chance. The A. I. director, 
 who determines when and where you will be attacked, does a great job at varying each playthrough. 
 If it weren't for the A. I. director, Left 4 Dead would undoubtedly become boring after your second 
 time through the campaign, and Left 4 Dead relies heavily on the fact that you, the gamer, will 
 replay the same four scenarios over and over again. If the A. I. director didn't do such a great 
 job, if there wasn't a perfect balance in difficulty, and if the gameplay wasn't so rock solid, 
 Left 4 Dead would have failed as a game, but it succeeds on all fronts and is known by many as 
 videogame crack.
  
  Five hours is approximately the amount of time it will take you to finish the campaigns by yourself, 
 and the friendly artificial intelligence does an adequate job of killing zombies, but they still 
 have yet to truly replicate a human player. The greatest aspect of Left 4 Dead lies in the last 
 section of each chapter where you summon a rescue vehicle to bale you out of the mess you've been 
 stranded in. After calling for rescue, you must hold out for what seems like forever against horde 
 after horde and special zombie after special zombie in an intensely climactic battle for your survival. 
 Often times, having merely one survivor make it out alive is an accomplishment, yet everyone still 
 had a blast.
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead's campaign mode is a sheer blast when played with a group of intelligent teammates 
 willing to cooperate. The intensity, chaos, dismay, challenge, cooperation, and sense of accomplishment 
 you receive while playing truly make Left 4 Dead a game worth playing.
  
  Multiplayer is esssentially two of the single player maps that pit four human survivors against 
 four infected special zombies. It's fairly self-explanatory how this works as it's virtually the 
 exact same as single player except human players are controlling hunters, smokers, boomers, and 
 tanks and are taking turns dueling it out against other human players. Multiplayer is especially 
 fun when you're playing with people you know and can have fun with, without getting too competitive. 
 It's a nice addition to an already great game, but unfortunately merely two levels are available 
 to play on as of right now instead of the full four, but what is there is definitely a blast to 
 play.
  
  Left 4 Dead does what every videogame should do; videogames are a form of entertainment and Left 
 4 Dead is entertaining every time you play it. With more content Left 4 Dead could have been a 
 perfect game. Surely, in the future valve will release extra maps, but until then I'm still thoroughly 
 satisfied and enjoying the missions I have as is. A solid 9 out of 10 for Left 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante2710
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a survival horror first person shooter. It has around 4 different campaigns with each 
 campaign having around 5 chapters. Each campaign takes around one to two hours on easy or normal, 
 anything above will definitely consume a lot of your free time. You get to chose from four different 
 characters and around 6 different power weapons, and some other hefty things you can carry around 
 to make your life easier. The game is set in apocalyptic zombie outbreak, and your survival chance 
 is based heavily on teamwork, with either the AI or online friends. This game shines beautifully 
 as a co-op based game. The horde of zombies and infected makes your the thrill of the hunt better 
 than anything out in the market. There are 4 special infected who are worth mentioning (not counting 
 the zombies) : the first one is called the Hunter, quick, deadly and loves to jump on anyone at 
 his sight, what makes it very deadly is its agility and speed, while he isnt easy to spot, you 
 will grow use to the sounds he makes, specially when close; the second one is called the boomer, 
 while extremely weak and slow, it has the ability to vomit on you which will attract a stampede 
 of zombies; the third one is the smoker, he has quite a long tongue which can grab a human from 
 100 feet away, not fast, but very sneaky and can be deadly if you find yourself alone with nobody 
 to help you, can get a bit tricky when trying to spot him, but he has a screen of smoke surrounding 
 his body, and this usually gives away his positions to the experience players; and the forth one 
 is called the tank, the name suits him, he relies on cheer power and ability to throw u far away 
 from your teammates, leaving you immobile for a few seconds, he has the ability to punch certain 
 objects will will take quite a chunk away from your health. The game throws different objects between 
 point A and point B, no puzzles or anything is involved. This game has little to a non existent 
 story, if you are expecting a deep story, then you are going to be very disappointment. Another 
 con within this game is the online community, they love to kick players out of the game if you 
 make one or two mistakes, dont take it personally, you will most likely find enjoyable games more 
 than 80% of the time, specially when playing with friends. This game has no game breaking glitches 
 and its pretty much flawless as much games can get. While there are certain things to need to be 
 fixed, it wont stop you from enjoying the game as a whole. Some pros worth mentioning: sweet co-op, 
 great art direction, thrilling music and sound, dedicated servers, detailed character models, addicting 
 single player and multiplayer, plenty of reply value with 4 different difficulties, unique enemies 
 and great game performance. This is one of the very few games that has managed to capture cooperative 
 work perfectly. You will get your moneys worth and will have a blast every second of it. If you 
 are looking for a sweet co-op game to enjoy with friends or family, or for some competitive multiplayer, 
 i assure you cant go wrong with Left 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after the holiday season. I have to say, I am amazed how much fun I have playing 
 it. I bought it 2 weeks ago, I played through the 4 episodes with the AI team. I have to admit 
 my initial response after playing, Far Cry 2 for over 80 hours. Let me say, I welcomed and totally 
 enjoyed the fast gameplay from the start! This game has a total, "WOW!" factor. The horde attacks 
 are, at times, overwhelming and incredible. If I die from the attack, I get charged up to go at 
 it again! F-U-N!
  
  The real beauty of this game is experienced in the on-line play. The game really, "shines" when 
 you play with other gamers. Working together is a MUST! LFD, insists on team-work gamplay. You 
 can't play this game with an, "I" mentality. If you enjoy an intense, action packed, crazy experience 
 this game delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilenceWolf1338
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The funny thing is that I'm not into these kinds of games, zombies or any horror games. A few of 
 my friends talk about this game a lot and I even check out the preview on X Box live and I thought 
 it look really interesting to play. Plus I wanted to play something different from my game collections. 
 I went ahead and bought it. It was worth it!
  
  First off the storyline is very simple, four survivors are stuck in the city with infected people 
 (zombie like) and the main goal is to get the hell out.
  
  The only downside to this game is there only four campaigns in the game and each has five acts. 
 Plus all four are already unlock.
  
  The infected are pretty cool and none of them are boring. There are just group of infected that 
 will just come running at you from all over the place. The special infected like Hunter and Smoker 
 will just come at you when you least expected. The Boomer can really screw you up if you don't 
 kill it before it gets you. The witch is a just a crying emo but if bother, she can get piss and 
 not easy to avoid. The last is kind of a "boss" and that Tank, who pretty much a version of the 
 Hulk except not green.
  
  I've not try playing this game online but I've heard it pretty good. You can either be the survivor 
 or play as one of the infected (Hunter, Smoker, Boomer, or the Tank) . On the other part there co-op 
 campaigns. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 3:21 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead isn't a very complicated game. There are only 6 weapons and only 4 campaigns. 
  
  But with the AI always changing for every playthrough no two missions will ever be the same. 
 This means you always have to be on your toes going around every dark corner. 
  
  Where L4D really shines is co op. YOu really need to work as a team to beat the harder difficulties 
 and hearing team mates panic as a horde of zombies comes running towards them is timeless.
  
  Versus multiplayer is great too, putting 4 people as survivors and 4 as infected. the infected 
 respawn and try to stop the survivors reaching the end. It sounds simple but it is very well balanced, 
 there isn't a point where the survivors never get past. There are only 2 donwsides to versus, 1: you 
 can only play it on 2 of the 4 campaigns and 2: If there is an AI player on the survivors side 
 they can see through trees and will pick off the infected very easily. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FMunro3251
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  There have been a good number of games created about the zombie apocalypse, but none of them compare 
 with Left 4 Dead. Unlike other games such as Resident Evil and Dead Rising, Left 4 Dead just throws 
 you into the chaos and doesn't give any long winded explanation as to why certain events are taking 
 place. The only knowledge that you have is that there are zombies and they need to be killed, which 
 is pretty much what makes the game as much fun as it is.
  
  Left 4 Dead opens with a cinematic that shows a group of four survivors as they make their way 
 through a city infested with zombies, only giving the player the information that it has been two 
 weeks since the outbreak occurred. Here you meet the characters of Left 4 Dead, Bill, Louis, Zoey, 
 and Francis. Each character has their own unique personality that is shown throughout each of the 
 game's four scenarios. Bill is a grizzled Vietnam veteran, Louis was a store manager before the 
 outbreak, Zoey is a young woman who looks like she has never held a gun in her life, and Francis 
 is a tough biker. All of these survivors play the same, but they offer their own dialogue along 
 the way.
  
  Along with the four survivors, there are some interesting infected in the game. These infected, 
 known as boss zombies, have special abilities that make them different from the typical zombie 
 that just chases after you. The Boomer is an overweight zombie that will throw up vile on the survivors 
 that will alert a horde of zombies to your group. Hunters will leap at you from long distances 
 and bring you to the ground as they try to tear you apart. Smokers are tall wheezing zombies who 
 will use their long toungue to latch onto survivors and drag them from a distance. One of the game's 
 deadliest infected is the Witch. Don't let this creatures appearance fool you, it may look like 
 a small zombie that could not hurt anyone, but it will down anyone with one hit. Last, but certainly 
 not least is the Tank. The Tank is similar to the Hulk, as in it will destroy anything in it's 
 path and will put a hold on your plans as every player must work as a team to take it down.
  
  The effects of the infection can be seen everywhere
  There are four different scenarios in 
 Left 4 Dead that all make fighting through the zombie apocalypse quite enjoyable. No Mercy is the 
 typical zombie situation in which the survivors must make it to a hospital where evacuation is 
 supposedly awaiting them. Dead Air has the group moving towards an air port where planes are dropping 
 from the skies. Blood Harvest is a more grimmer scenario where the survivors must hold out in a 
 farm house while waiting for support to come. Lastly, Death Toll puts you in a small town environment 
 where the group must fight for their lives at a dock house where a boat awaits them. Each scenario 
 can last anywhere between 45 minutes to a few hour depending on the difficulty settings. The last 
 level is where the action really happens, also known as the finale. Players must wait for rescue 
 to come as they fend off the infected for around ten minutes. Now none of these scenarios are related 
 story wise, but they all offer their own spin on the zombie outbreak.
  
  The thing that sets Left 4 Dead apart from the pack is the ability to play the entire game cooperatively, 
 even when playing alone you have the help of bots that will take the place of actual players. The 
 AI allies work well most of the time and will help you along the way, but sometimes they will act 
 strange at some points. For example when two survivors are downed a bot sometimes runs between 
 the two, not reviving either. Adding even more fun to the notion of killing zombies is actually 
 pretty simple, add three of your friends. Playing cooperatively has never been so much fun as it 
 is in Left 4 Dead. Team work is essential as you traverse through each of the scenarios, especially 
 when you hear the dreaded sound of a tank heading right towards you. Players are able to revive 
 downed comrades and can share items such as pain pills and med packs to restore health. 
  
  In addition to the superb cooperative play, Left 4 Dead offers a very different versus mode. In 
 versus two teams of four rotate between playing as the survivors and the infected. While one team 
 tries to make it to the safe house the other tries to stop them at all costs. Every special infected 
 is playable in this mode, except for the Witch. Players can throw up on unknowing victims as the 
 Boomer and can pick of a stray survivor as the Hunter. Each team is scored based on how many survivors 
 make it to the end of the level and how long it took them to make it there, among other factors 
 such as how much health is remaining for everyone. Players take turns playing as the infected every 
 level to try and get a higher score than their opponents. The only negative thing about this game 
 mode is that only the No Mercy and Blood Harvest scenarios are available for play. This does seem 
 odd that all of the levels are not playable, but versus does not suffer too much as a result.
 
  
  The finales are always exciting
  Left 4 Dead's AI Director changes the game with every play through, making players' lives frustrating 
 and exciting enjoyable at the same time. Weapons, items, and enemies will always spawn at different 
 locations in the scenario based on how the player is doing in the game. Fly through the first level? 
 Well don't expect the second level to be as simple. Hordes of zombies will swarm the survivors 
 if they remain in the same location for too long and sometimes the better weapons such as the Assault 
 Rifle, Hunting Rifle, and Automatic Shotgun will not even spawn in a level. This keeps the game 
 fresh and offers much replay ability for a game with only four scenarios.
  
  The only thing that stops Left 4 Dead from being a perfect game is the lack of in game content. 
 The four scenarios do offer much game play, but more certainly would have been better. Never has 
 a game been so much fun playing cooperatively with friends. The scenarios all offer their own unique 
 take on the zombie apocalypse and are layed out very well. Left 4 Dead will certainly keep players 
 busy for a long time, hopefully new content will help the only flaw with the game in the near future.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwhite88
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  I rented this game from BoomerangRentals. com so i was'nt wasting money. Its very heart-pulsing 
 exciting with just playing on adrenaline. I love the co-op offline multiplayer its very enjoyable. 
 The game reminds me of the old arcade game House Of The Dead but revamped. I'm dissapointed i couldnt 
 play versus offline but i suppose thats where the multiplayer gaming of the future is now but still 
 disapointing. After i watched the opening video i was expecting more story in the campaigns but 
 not to be. But being positive its very enjoyable just plain out blast-em up which is great for 
 abit of fun for about a week but thats about it.
  
  xx x x xx xxx x xx xxxx xx xx xxx xxx xxx xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx 
 xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx x xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is co-op centric, zombie apocalypse survival-horror game from the guys that brought 
 the world Half-Life 2, Counter Strike, and Team Fortress. And it's a simple game of simple pleasures... 
 well, if you take pleasure in using an automatic shotgun to decapitate and delimb horde upon horde 
 of the swarming undead. You can jump, duck, melee, and shoot. You can heal yourself and/or your 
 teammates. You have a flashlight, which you can turn on and off. Get after it!
  
  When I say Left 4 Dead is "co-op centric," I mean it. If you don't have XBox Live Gold, don't get 
 this game. If you don't have friends on XBL, don't get this game. What you need to do is get XBL 
 Gold, get some friends with XBL Gold, and then purchase Left 4 Dead. This is a game worth getting 
 XBL Gold for. It's not a game you'll want to play alone... for long.
  
  And that's really the biggest problem with L4D. This game was built from the ground up to be played 
 an unlimited number of times with your friends, which means there's no real cutscenes or type of 
 play-halting, plot advancement techniques. So if you're looking for an in-depth story mode with 
 a satisfying arc and conclusion, please move along. No two playthroughs are the same, as the much-touted 
 AI Director will randomly generate health/weapon/ammo dumps and enemy placement, which takes into 
 account your team's performance, difficulty setting, etc. 
  
  You start as a team of 4 Survivors at the beginning of one of 4 maps, or Scenarios, and make your 
 way to the end, or the Finale. In between you'll find 4 (you can really see why this is called 
 Left 4 Dead...) , well spaced safehouses which serve as Chapter checkpoints. Here you'll stock up 
 on weapons (pistols, SMGs, rifles, shotguns, etc.) , ammo, health packs, and the occasional molotov 
 or pipe bomb before continuing your escape. On your way, you will encounter and massacre thousands 
 of zombies, or Infected. Most of these are of the "common infected" variety. They are fast, they 
 are mean, and they are many in number. Think more along the lines of 28 Days Later than Dawn of 
 the Dead. Luckily, they don't take more than a couple of rounds each to put down. 
  
  What makes things interesting are the five "special infected." These guys will sporadically attack 
 your team, often in tandem, with their very cool and very effective abilities, ranging from a long-distance 
 tongue snare/strangulation, to projectile vomit which instantly summons a zombie horde, to a giant 
 tank of creature (reasonably labeled "the Tank") who simply crushes you beneath giant fists, thrown 
 chunks of concrete, or hurled vehicles. Each of these special enemies requires a good bit of team 
 work to successfully defeat, as teammates will be required to actively rescue you when you find 
 yourself pinned to the ground and eviscerated by a Hunter's razor claws or dangling, helpless, 
 from a second story window with a Smoker's tongue around your neck, choking your life away.
  
  Unfortunately, while AI controlled teammates are relatively good at saving your tail and avoiding 
 potentially fatal friendly-fire, they're not so good at keeping themselves out of trouble. They 
 consistently fall behind, make you take the lead in every situation, never use explosives, and 
 take terrible defensive positions at the most inopportune times. I'm not going to spend any more 
 time belaboring this point. Just bring your friends.
  
  And how easy it is to bring your friends along. The co-op campaign mode is a seamless drop-in/drop-out 
 affair. You can even choose to "take a break," and let the AI take control of your character while 
 you use the john or make some food. There are few games which can provide the level of tension, 
 the precipitous falls from the highs of surviving one brutal encounter to the dark depths of being 
 slaughtered mere moments later, the absolute relief felt when leaping into that rescue vehicle 
 after the quarter-hour long finale when the AI Director throws the kitchen sink's worth of zombie 
 mayhem at you as you make your desparate last stand in an abandoned farm house, dock, hospital 
 roof, or airport tarmac that L4D provides. The fact that it does so on a flawlessly paced, almost 
 continual basis is even more astounding.
  
  As fun and infinitely replayable as the co-op campaign is, the versus mode is surprisingly even 
 better. Two teams of four take turns running through one of the scenarios, currently only two of 
 which are available for this mode) , with one team playing as the Survivors and one team playing 
 as the Infected. The teams switch after each chapter, point totals are awarded, and the team with 
 the highest score after the Finale chapter wins. There's absolutely nothing like it I've ever played, 
 and when you've got teams of relatively equally skilled and communicative players, it blows every 
 other XBL MP title completely out of the water.
  
  When playing as the infected, players will generally spawn as one of three special infected: Hunter, 
 Smoker, and Boomer. On certain, rather rare occasions, one player will be afforded control of the 
 aforementioned Tank and let loose to pound as many survivors as possible. Even more than the campaign, 
 teamwork here is 100% essential for both sides. Individually, the infected can be picked off one 
 by one... but so can the survivors. And there is absolutely nothing more enjoyable than well-coordinated 
 attacks as you and your friends stomp another team out in a synchronized maelstrom of madness.
 
  
  Right now, there is a huge problem with this mode: glitches/exploits. This is quite unfortunate, 
 as my score would easily be a 9.0 or better if this weren't an issue. I'm not going to get into 
 specifics, but these glitches/exploits are potentially game-breaking, and if you play with strangers 
 you are very likely to encounter them sooner rather than later. The PC version has already had 
 most of these problems patched into non-existence, and a 360 patch is on the way. Until that happens, 
 beware of the d-bags. Valve has also promised continual DLC support to be released simultaneously 
 on PC and 360, which should add, among other things, new maps for both campaign and vs. mode. I 
 will edit my score appropriately (not that you care) .
  
  If you're looking for a co-operative, competitive, online MP experience, look no further than Left 
 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Earthmonkey0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  I just got this game and am surprised by how quickly i have fallen in love with it. First thing 
 i did was went onto CoOp on Live and found a wide verity of choice of weapons and strategy awaiting 
 me. I love these "Movies" and found each to hold its own against the others. This a must try and 
 once you try it you'll own a copy and plan on buying a couple more for friends.
  
  One cool feature and I do not think its that big of a deal but I like it how your weapons and health 
 carry over from level to level ensuing a feeling of connectivness with the game that you do not 
 usually get.
  
  The sound quality in this game is on par with the best. i love hearing a witch crying in the back 
 as hoards of the undead charge at me gives a faint chill down whats left of your spine.
  
  I cannot recommend enough got get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brehndan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is a game that puts you into an apocalyptic time for the world. You and 4 other everyday 
 people have a job SURVIVE! the zombie armys. This game has great graphics and intense amounts of 
 action that keep pulling you back in every time you take it out. The campain is pretty basic and 
 allows you to play online with people all over there are 4 levels and 20 maps. the 4 levels are 
 death toll, blood harvest, dead air and no mercy and each time you play is diffrent. The vs. mode 
 allows you to play as zombies or survivors to test you against other people in the game. So the 
 gameplay is great. There are basic weopons and power weopons and you carry up to 2 weopons one 
 of wich is the pistol with unlimited ammo. The weopons in the game are the assault rifle the pistol 
 the smg the shotgun the auto shotgun and the rifle wich is great for the stronger zombies. The 
 rest of the game is for you to find out so JUST BUY THIS GAME ITS WORTH IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  With everyone focused on the multiplayer barfing-on-your-target mayhem of Left for Dead, there 
 are two elements of the single-player game many reviewers have failed to mention that I'll enumerate 
 here. Also, let me raise one important question about the quality of cooperation in L4D for everyone 
 to think about. br / 
  
  First: Have you actually listened closely to the characters? The voice acting in the game is really 
 superb. I don't think this is because any of the voice actors are particularly noteworthy. But, 
 smartly, Valve kept the dialogue to short, machine-gun bursts of words, and this is why it works 
 so well. Short phrases here and there the characters lob at each other like grenades (Francis to 
 Bill: "You better heal up old man." Bill to Francis: "What the hell are you doing?!" Zoey to herself: 
 "We're almost there, almost there!" Louis to everyone: "I have a real good feeling about this guys!") . 
 These work incredibly well. Interestingly, though this stuttering dialogue is practically monosyllabic, 
 you nevertheless get a better sense of character-and especially the relationship between the characters-than 
 you do in some games where the protagonists spew verbage ad infinitum.
  
  Second: In lots of games we get some standard settings-office buildings under construction, empty 
 schoolhouses, dark warehouses, abandoned streets and playgrounds. But in L4D, look around-Valve 
 does setting like no other game can. I'm not talking textures or color or HDR lighting. I'm talking 
 about the abandoned aircraft hangar which has been converted into a greenhouse by someone which 
 has now been overrun by the infected. Come on! Not only is that sort of setting unique, it is also 
 so incredibly realistic. You can imagine that one of the developers lives in a house where someone 
 has converted a nearby old hangar into a greenhouse-and voila! It appears in the game. Or how about 
 the airport itself. There very well may have been one or two other games in recent memory offering 
 up an airport as a battlefield-but in the Valve version of this setting, you get to duck behind 
 ticket counters, jog up and down luggage conveyor belts, set off metal detectors, and eventually 
 find a safe house in one of those rolling staircase/hallways used for boarding and disembarking 
 planes. How perfect. 
  
  Last, a thought on the quality of cooperation in L4D. Working with a team of survivors, I found 
 cooperation really only exists in the most rudimentary forms -- staying together to shoot as a unit, 
 reviving teammates, and pointing out ammo and health drops. Sure, it makes for fun, but is this 
 really the cooperative gaming experience of the year? Let's face it: This kind of cooperation is 
 simplistic at best. Many previous games that include cooperative modes have offered teammates the 
 opportunity to help each other in much more interesting, satisfying, and complex ways than only 
 shooting together and lending a leg-up. In GOW, GOW2, Perfect Dark Zero, (even working with AI 
 characters in games like Alone in the Dark, RE4, Army of Two, and a host of others) , the sheer 
 variety of cooperation is amazing: In all of these games, I've had to carefully pick off enemies 
 while my partner tried to accomplish some complex and time-consuming task, target enemies that 
 my partner could not reach, boost my partner up onto areas I could not access myself, work with 
 my partner in tandem to open double-locked doors, etc. etc. etc. L4D has none of this variety of 
 cooperation. I'm not knocking the game, and I am happy someone, somewhere is seeing how viable 
 (and plain damn fun) cooperative modes are in gaming -- I'm just raising the thought that, perhaps, 
 L4D is not the defining cooperative gaming experience everyone is hyping.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead places you in the shoes of one of four survivors who must battle through four "movie 
 campaigns", each with an exhilirating finale. These movie campaigns take an average of four hours 
 to beat, so the game does not truly have that much content in it. Luckily, its replay value is 
 very high... when you enter an area, the zombies will be placed differently, and each encounter 
 will play out differently.
  
  The movie campaigns are:
  
  No Mercy - Battle through No Mercy Hospital to escape via helicopter.
  Death Toll - Fight through 
 Riverside and reach a boat-extraction-point.
  Dead Air - Evading the hordes through an airport and board an escape-plane.
  Blood Harvest - 
 Shoot through woods and farms to be saved by the military.
  
  The game's weapons are fun to use and powerful. You begin with pistols that never run out of ammo, 
 and then can pick up an uzi submachine gun or a pump shotgun. Later, though, you can get a rapid 
 assault-rifle, a mighty auto-shotgun, or a far-reaching hunting rifle. 
  
  In Left 4 Dead, it is also essential to pick up first-aids, pain-pills, molotov cocktails, and 
 pipebombs to carve your way through the zombie hordes.
  
  Aside from typical campaign co-op, a versus mode is available. Up to 8 players can join in; 4 survivors 
 and 4 special zombies. The special zombies will try to stop the survivors from reaching their safehous, 
 and they have infinite respawns. Versus mode in Left 4 Dead is fun and strategical.
  
  All in all, Left 4 Dead is a fun, addicting game that boasts many hours of replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a very good example of how to make a good co-op team based game, but it's not all 
 that because even though the co-op is good there are some issues... only 6 different guns...?
  
  I liked this game because when i played it for the first time on easy it ran really smooth 
 and everything was great, I finished the campaign and I said wow and there's 3 more of these. The 
 campaign is pressented to you really nicely ( all 4) , but play it more than a few times it starts 
 to get boring. Although the guns, zombies, bosses etc. are always in different areas the game will 
 feel the same once you play a chapter 20 times on expert. Thats why I put the difficulty rating 
 to very hard because that's what the game is on expert very hard, be prepared to play a chapter 
 over and over, also there is no type of help or tutorials throughout the game.
  
  All that said there is some good in here. This game has to be by far the best co-op game out there, 
 the way you play it with 3 other people is really fun especially on versus mode. If you don't have 
 a mic or xbox LIVE for that mater you'll miss at least 70% of the game. This game isn't about stunning 
 graphics or sound, it's about team play and it does that very, very well. The community isn't always 
 great and you won't always find players that play seriously, but when you do the game is awesome. 
 
  
  The people that give this game 8.0 or lower really can't rate games it deserves 8.5 or higher. 
 The only reason i didn't give it that high is because you have all these zombies waiting to be 
 killed and you dont have enough weapons at your arsenal and I don't think they put enough content. 
 Like I said this is really a revolutionary experience like nothing you've seen before, but if co-op 
 and playing in a team is not your thing then maybe this game isn't for you, but i definetly say 
 this game should be bought or no matter what at least rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostondunn182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  first i want to get this out of the way they are not zombies they're infected. If they were zombies 
 they wouldn't die by body shots or run or mutate and they don't eat you. 
  
  I got this game about a month after its release I knew it was going to be good but I didn't know 
 it was so addicting. This game has got to have some of the best co-op and multiplayer to date. 
 I didn't know that sticking together was such an important thing especially on higher difficulty's 
 and on versus. Basically your chances of survival to the end of the stage drop with each surviver 
 killed off but even though they're dead you can still find them trapped in a closet waiting to 
 be rescued (ex. versus) . there are 2 types of infected regular and special. The regular depend 
 on numbers and charge you once spotted but go down in few shots. The special however are much more 
 annoying there are 5 of them and i'll list em hunters which pounce on you and rip you to shreads, 
 Smokers which literally grab tou with they're tounge and drag you to them, Boomers whic vomit on 
 you and attract the horde, Witches who are like emo's who cry in a corner not wanting to be disturbed 
 (trust me don't disturb them they will kill you quickly) , and the most irritating the Tank who 
 is a hulk like thing that beats you up throws concrete and hits cars at you incapacitating you 
 instantly. The draw backs however are that it's too short no story on what happened and there arn't 
 that many weapons. All in all it's a good game you should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM_punk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  First if you do not have xbox live you may not want to play this game. This game is based on multiplayer. 
 The campaigns are fun but predictable as at the end its always a last stand. The reason I gave 
 this game a 9.0 instead of a 10 is that the campaigns are way too short. Also there arnt enough 
 guns and that makes it not as fun its mainly 3 guns or options Snip, Machine gun, or Shotgun. Also 
 the versus mode takes getting used to and is very hard to find out what to do if your a zombie. 
 But what really hits me is the co-op. OMG. It has everything from a cpu taking over if you need 
 to eat talk on the phone bathroom etc. Also theres a voting system if you want a differnt diffuculty 
 or kicking out others. It's highly addictive. Caution: Requires Xbox Live or friends. If you are 
 an emo i reccomend waiting for the price to go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thex360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is fun for anyone who likes to work cooperatively. It features normal gameplay where 
 you play with up to 3 other people and yourself to go fight off zombies to make it to the next 
 safe house or to the finally. The game includes an AI engine where the AI directs how much zombies 
 you get at certain times. If your good health and are full ammunition the AI will through more 
 zombies on you and maybe even through a boss on you. The bosses include The hunter, tank, witch, 
 smoker, and the boomer. Each of them do special things to try to kill you. The boomer sprays out 
 some type of goo that all the zombies are attracted too. The witch can one hit knock you down, 
 but can be avoided by turning your flashlight off and being quite. The hunter pounces on you and 
 then starts to tear you apart. The smoker has a tongue that grabs on to you and pulls you to thrash 
 on you and then the zombies can beat on you while you are being strangled. The tank is the hardest 
 of them to kill. It is a huge over growned zombie with powerful muscles. If you get close to him 
 he is able to throw you far away or pick up a chunk of earth at you. The game overall has 4 different 
 stories and 5 chapters in each. For the first 4 in each you are trying to get to a safe house where 
 the chapers end and begin. Along the way you will deal with zombies that come from nowhere, and 
 the boss zombies spawned by the AI. At the end of each story you will encounter more zombies than 
 usual and more bosses before you get rescued. You don't know the story on how the zombies became 
 who they are but you just get rate into the action. The game also includes a feature where you 
 are able to play the zombie bosses, everone but the witch. The feature is only available on two 
 story modes for now. Valve will be putting more maps out in the future for the xbox 360 free and 
 of course the pc. Their is a rumor that their is going to be user created maps for the 360 where 
 you create the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythgar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  When Left 4 Dead first came out I was rather skeptical. Everyone was praising it the minute it 
 hit the shelves, but hearing that the game had little no story to it made me avoid it for a few 
 months.
  
  My friend rented it one night and I took the opportunity to give it a shot. I can tell you right 
 now that L4D is the most overhyped game of 2008 and it does not deserve it at all. If you enjoy 
 mindless shooting games where you kill zombies for absolutely no reason, then this game may be 
 for you.
  
  This isn't really my own person bias against zombie shooters either, I have enjoyed a few of said 
 games in the past (Resident Evil, Silent Hill) but this one just doesn't seem to be on the same 
 level with those epic series. Mostly because, as I'm killing hordes upon hordes of these zombies, 
 I realize that I really have no motivation. My own survival? I suppose that's partial motivation... 
 but I'd like some sort of plot, or even a backstory for my character to make it feel more dramatic 
 and desperate. 
  
  Not only does L4D lack a storyline, but it also lacks the fear-factor that many other zombie games 
 have done so well. A part of the reason to play this genre of game is for the fear, the suspense 
 when you're walking through that dark corridor and you never know what's going to pop out. L4D 
 has none of that, as you are being constantly assaulted by hordes of enemies which fails to make 
 the game suspenseful, or scary.
  
  Overall, I was very disappointed with L4D. It's lack of a plot, repetitive gameplay and sub-par 
 graphics make it a game that will likely not be remembered in a year with such a great lineup of 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  I will get this out of the way first, I am a huge zombie fan.
  I was hesitant to check out this game because I am a zombie purist. I am not into FAST zombies 
 nor am I into weird hybrid gorrila or frog people zombies.. or exploding zombies. I think you can 
 see where I am going with this. Zombies don't have to be fast or crazy hybrids... they are already 
 freaking zombies! 
  
  BUT... I put all that hate to the side, and I got the game in spite of feeling that way. I wanted 
 to give the game a real honest shot.
  
  Here are my biggest gripes about the game.
  -Story single player is WAY too short.. with little replay value.
  -Multi-player is only as fun 
 as the people you are playing with (as with all multi-player games) . 
  -Not enough levels or randomness in the game.
  
  If you want a real zombie game play Dead Rising.
 
  
  presentation: 6 (very few menus or options.. ok intro movie)
  graphics: 8.5 (nice lighting and mood)
  game play: 6.5 (run of the mill 1st person shooter format)
 
  sound: 6
  lasting appeal: 3.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth485074
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead pits you and three other characters (whether it be a AI or real people) against a horde 
 of zombies. In general this game maybe short with only 1 hour campaigns; however, this game has 
 up to 40+ hours of re playability (if your like me and love killing zombies) . The game offers Solo 
 campaign, Co-op campaign, and versus which pits you against player controlled zombies. To get the 
 most fun for your buck out off this game, I recommend playing online with real people to get bring 
 you more into the games atmosphere. All in all, Left 4 Dead offer very little, but, keeps you coming 
 back for more zombie killing. With its hordes of zombie ready to beat you down, the Tank that's 
 ready to pile drive you to death or even being leaped/choked to death by a hunter and a smoker. 
 And remember..... Run and Shoot!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can pick your character between this girl named Zoey. This old guy name Bill. 
 A biker guy with a leather jacket on named Francis. And a black guy with a tie named Lousie. The 
 game is really fun to play in Co-op but alittle lonely in single player. The game is really fun 
 killing zombies. The game is all about movies. There are four moives but each of them would take 
 you at least 30 mins to an hour to beat. The game has 4 maps but they are huge. The enimies are 
 of course zombies. There are regular zombies that attack you with there hands. There are smokers 
 that use there tongues to grab on to you and pull you with them against the wall and one of your 
 partners have to safe you to be free. There are hunters that jump on you and one of your partners 
 need to save you from them and they can take your health out really fast. There are withces that 
 are zombies that can also take out alot of your health and you discover it when you hear crys and 
 when you do you have to turn off your flashlight if you don't want it to attack you. The last type 
 of zombie is the tank it is a huge zombie that takes out a bunch of health and it is really hard 
 to take out. The guns in the game are a hunting rifle, a submachine gun, a hunting rifle, and a 
 shotgun. There are also health packs and pain away pills that you get before each chapter you can 
 use it to heal yourself up or heal someone else up but it takes alittle while to heal up. There 
 is also pipe bombs that you throw at the zombies to make them all go there and then it explodes 
 and there is a fire bomb that you throw at a zombie that it catches on fire.
  
  The good of the game is that there are alot of stuff in the game. Killing zombies is really fun. 
 Getting achievements are really easy to get.
  
  The bad of the game is that in Co-op there are a bunch of glitches.
  
  Overall this game is 
 really amazing and fun to play and kill zombies. I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero_libra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  First thing this game is near perfect and none of the flaws are really gameplay problems.
  it saddens me that this game like most valve games is so underated in the sense its not reall bought 
 by many people to stay in the top ten for weeks (like gears or halo) .
  The game captures the feel from a zombie movie with the unexpected spawning of the infected, i'll 
 admit it isn't as random as i would like but even though you kind of see a pattern after while 
 you still don't can't be sure where and when exactly they will come.
  This great spawning system mixed with how the co op is dealt creates a fresh atmosphere which makes 
 you feel like a survivor and what i like to call the generic movie characters start to pop out, 
 this isnt a bad thing since it adds to the experience what i mean is there is always a player who 
 thinks he's rambo and just gets killed or the one who's scared and whiny etc.
  to sum this game it's 28days later + counterstrike
  The one thing that takes away from the top 
 score is the lack of stages don't get me wrong they are so fun to play over and over again but 
 this game is so good you want more, more campaigns, more survivors (?) , more weapons, and most f 
 all MORE INFECTED SPECIAL INFECTED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minkis18
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is great! Valve once again delivered a great game with very few flaws as well as circulating 
 rumors of new content coming to both PC and 360 versions. The 4 campaigns are all very well done 
 and very fun to play through. versus mode is addicting but is completely disproportionate unless 
 you have 4v4 at all times. also you can currently only play 2 of the campaigns on versus
  
  the guns are your basic guns, but ammo can get scarce even on normal difficulty forcing you to 
 rely on your infinite pistol ammo. all the campaigns play through the same way, but the game system, 
 dubbed The Director, works in such a way that the game is different every time you play it, even 
 online. 
  
  the controls are amazingly simple, which means the learning curve for the game takes roughly 20 
 seconds. The aiming system is the most simplified thing in the world. There's no zoom except on 
 the hunting rifle but the variable deviation of most FPS games seems nonexistent. 
  
  hate zombies? want a good multiplayer game? get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subw00fer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm glad I got my copy of L4D for the Xbox 360 from EBgames in Canada for $19.99 in exchange of 
 two Wii games (Red Steel and MoH: Vanguard) . Even if it's cool overall, I think the game could 
 be polished a little bit more.
  
  I have played a campaign with my girlfriend as coop (split screen) and it was her first experience 
 playing a first person shooter. She did pretty well but a fps on the 360 isn't the best idea in 
 the world. It's better to get this game on the PC cause shooting enemies while aiming with the 
 mouse is much easier than trying to aim with the 360's controller.
  
  Boomers, hunters and smokers are interesting cause when you hear them, you get on your guards and 
 wonder where they are. You want to see them before they see you (particularly in the case of the 
 smokers) .
  
  I haven't had the chance to try online multiplayer yet but I will soon. I think I'll appreciate 
 the game a little bit more when I'll try that. At $19.99 it was certainly a very good deal. 
  
  I think that Resident Evil 4 on the Gamecube had better graphics than the ones on the Xbox 
 360 with L4D. The ambiance was scarier also. 
  
  I'd recommend the game if you can get it below $39.99, even if you like killing zombies. You won't 
 be missing a lot even if you wait a few months before getting the game.
  
  Happy zombie killing party! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnhart566
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  left 4 dead is 2008 best zombie shooting multiplayer game. It is funny and is very very crazy. 
 Its the life of the party you can have about 8 friends over and they will want to play this. Me 
 and my friend played this and he got me killed but it was a funny kill the tank took down the door 
 killed me and killed my friend. This game will make you laugh you ass off. My friends and I hope 
 they make more games like this because that would be crazy. This is the best zombie game for Xbox 
 360 in 2008. So go out and buy a copy rent one
  do what ever you want just try the game play it tell me what you think. The tank is an awsome but 
 scary zombie so watch out.
  
  Also if you think i could improve on my reviews just tell me how and ill work on it.
  
  Well 
 untill next time gamers peace out have fun and continue gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyromaniac1013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I've played the game through with my cousin and enjoyed it throughly. You have no idea when and 
 where the zombies will come from which really increases the replayibility of Left 4 Dead. The five 
 "special" zombies are really cool too. You'll need you friends to defeat them if they get too close 
 to you. You have to rely on your teammates if you want to survive. The problem is that there are 
 not enough maps and there are too few weapons. There are 10 weapons but they get old after a while 
 and it becomes repetitive if you continue to use them for more than a level or two. The maps get 
 old after a few plays as well.
  Versus mode is really fun. You get to be the special zombies and try to kill the survivors. The 
 Hunter is the best because you get to hop around and go basically wherever you want on the map.
 
  This game is fun but it would be a lot better if they released some downloadable content for it 
 with more weapons and maps. Try out the game and you will probably like it, but if you play it 
 too long, it could get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is probably the best zombie apocalypse simulation ever and has now helped me to learn 
 valuable lessons such as:
  
  1) Do not shine bright lights at weeping pale women
  2) If a fat zombie pukes on you then run like heck
  3) Melee attacks work surprisingly well against 
 zombie hordes slashing at your face
  4) Smoking eventually turns you into a zombie with a long grappling tongue (I assume)
  5) If 
 a large burly zombie runs at you then fire your gun like a madman or he will literally beat your 
 face in. 
  
  All of which are valuable lessons taught by a graphically great and fun shooter that is especially 
 fun during Co op session either online or offline. This is a must pick up for zombie/horror fans 
 and those looking for quite an immersive shooter. Though it has very few chapters it is still fun 
 to replay and get better scores and such. So pick it up and enjoy the joy of headshotting another 
 zombie... that is until you attract more zombies and they all congregate to devour you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is so fun and highly addictive to play with friends and can always be fun even if you 
 dont have xboxlive and you can just play local and be thrilled especialy because every time you 
 play its never the same and that to me is just so cool if you do have xboxlive its even more fun 
 because you can see through the eyes of a hunter, tank, smoker and boomer all the roles they play 
 are like a puzzle it all just fits in together so good if you get bored of it quickly its just 
 not the game for you, you should either get into it more and get better or just learn to like because 
 if you dont like this game your not a gamer and all the stuff they added is just so cool like if 
 your down you can help your teamates with dual-wield pistols and that alone is just a time waster 
 that all the game is a awesome, grusome and highly addictive game if you have any coments on xboxlive 
 or here you know my account name here and if you ever want to play a game send a friend request 
 to NightSighfried or my friends accounts Dorian222222222 (nine 2s) and DarthYoda2015 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRider799
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  It's just that good. When it was first announced, I originally thought it would be stupid. A game 
 about shooting zombies. Yawn, been there, done that. But Left 4 Dead surprised me and the rest 
 of the world by being a truly unique game that rewards teamwork and never gives you the same game 
 twice. By this, I mean that the gameplay is always changing. Thanks to its system called "The Director", 
 each encounter with the quick-footed zombies of Left 4 Dead will be completely unique. In one match, 
 you might find a room with a Smoker and a Boomer, but perhaps the next time you might encounter 
 a Tank and a Hunter. Another great feature of Left 4 Dead is the "Take a Break" feature. This allows 
 the computer to play for you while you go do something else. Trust me on this, the computer is 
 good at the game. It knows when to heal you, what zombies to kill, even what route is the best 
 to take. Left 4 Dead is a game that can be enjoyed by 1 person or, in my opinion, a full party 
 of 4 people. Left 4 Dead is a true gem in the 360 lineup, and a game that can't be missed. Be sure 
 to pick it up, because when your friends are blasting away at Tanks, Witches and the like, you'll 
 regret buying Wii Play over this truly elite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Wolfman09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Tight game, one of the best zombie games I've played so far (except Resident Evil and I have no 
 say about Dead Space because I've only played the demo) Its like a better version of House of the 
 Dead to me. Graphics are good, the horde zombies aren't as great but expected because the amount 
 of them. Sounds are great and useful, me and my cousins would've got killed quicker if we didn't 
 here the special infected. (saved us when they began appearing in the safe rooms) And though I've 
 heard people complain that the gameplay gets repetitive over time, I don't see it, it never gets 
 old seeing a zombie's head get shotgun'd off and explode like a over ripe melon! :) Only thing 
 is this ain't the type of game to go solo in, gotta find someone to play with, and make sure there 
 not the type to act stupid when getting pummeled by a Tank.  : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight. If you like zombies at all, Left 4 Dead is for you. If you're one 
 of those people who has an infatuation with flicks like Night of the Living Dead or 28 Days Later, 
 this game will satisfy you in every way. The premise of Left 4 Dead is an unspecified man-made 
 virus has infected the majority of the world, or at least the country. You take a role on a team 
 of four survivors, and in each campaign (which is like it's own movie) , try to escape. You may 
 be trying to get out of a city by helicopter, or out of a plane station by jet. Either way, survival 
 is the name of the game.
  
  And what a game it is. The focus on teamwork is unlike anything ever before in a game. While in 
 games like Halo or Call of Duty some players will be able to veer off on their own and play it 
 lone wolf style, Left 4 Dead laughs at that. Loners get it bad as the AI Director will spawn the 
 worst of the worst for straddlers. You'll get pounced on, mobbed, and if your team thinks it's 
 too much of a hassle, you will be left for dead. The game is designed so that you can't do anything 
 without the team, so you have to work as a team to keep everyone safe and alive. If someone is 
 downed, it's your job to revive them, if they get constricted by a Smoker or pounced by a Hunter, 
 you'll have to save them. At the same time, you will have to depend on your team if you are in 
 the victimized situation. This creates a very fun sense of companionship and dependency in the 
 game.
  
  The Campaign mode features four campaigns, all set up like their own individual movies. Each campaign 
 has five chapters, but an entire campaign takes about 45-90 minutes (depending on the amount of 
 human players and difficulty) to complete. This means the game's campaign meat is very limited. 
 While it leaves replay in trying to beat the much harder difficulties, it's still about a 4-6 hour 
 experience. What's worse is that without online, it only allows two-player split-screen on consoles, 
 rather than four. I feel this is a huge cop out, and the game has multiple reasons why you shouldn't 
 buy it if you don't have Xbox Live. Versus Mode is online only as well, so getting this without 
 Live would be crazy.
  
  Versus Mode is however, very well done. One team is Survivors and one team is Infected. If this 
 was a sport, Survivors would be offense and Infected the defense. You earn all your points in the 
 match as humans, and you keep the other team from getting them as zombies. Each side has their 
 own pros and cons. Humans (for whatever reason) do not respawn, while zombies do. However, zombies 
 die very quickly and don't have a repetoire of offensive moves like the Survivors do.. Both teams 
 still require lots of communication and teamwork to succeed.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a great experience, but it did leave a lot to be desired. There is a lack of weapons, 
 levels, offline appeal, and content in general for me to give this game anything above the 8 range. 
 It's still a great game and very much on the borderline of excellency, but most certainly could 
 have been even better than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinbore
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I don't usually like zombie games, but this one is awesome. The multiplayer 
 is the best I've played, but i don't recommend unless you've got friends or Live.
  
  Singleplayer: I don't recommend this unless you have friends to play with or if you have Live.
 
  
  Multiplayer: As I've said the best multiplayer I have played. Its really fun and addictive.
  
 
  Graphics: It doesn't have the best graphics, but they aren't that bad.
  
  Sound: This game has really good sound. The special Infected have their own sounds when they get 
 near, but i have to say the best is probably the Witch.
  
  Controls: The controls are easy to get used to, only took me a minute.
  
  Gameplay: The weapons 
 are good, my fave is the Auto Shotgun. This game requires alot of teamwork, like if a hunter or 
 smoker gets you a teammate has to help you.
  
  Thats about it, I highly recommend this game for its great multiplayer.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Come from the deeloper that make the most play FPS game, Counter Strike, here comes Left 4 Dead! 
 An Zombie shooter game that will force you to be very tactical in order to survive with all of 
 your friends... or maybe not...
  
  Welcome to the world of Left 4 Dead, where 4 lucky (or unlucky) people, Bill, look like a former 
 soldier, Francis, looks like a harley davidson-man with big muscle and no brain, Louis, looks like 
 an executive, and Zoey, the only girl on the gank, struggle for their live, to survive from zombies 
 that swarming entire city. There are no story of why and how the zombie come, they just... umm, 
 well, infected. No story on entire campaign too, just try to reach an evacuation spot and get the 
 hell out. It's that simple.
  
  The Gameplay can be very unique, the whole campaign actually a 4 separate campaign with 5 chapters 
 for each campaign. No save point, just checkpoint on every chapter. So you need to finish the whole 
 campaign to get the achievement. You can start from any campaign and any chapter as you like. You 
 can play it alone, or you can play it co-operative. Up to 4 people can play on campaign mode. You 
 can play split screen too. Seems promising but in reality, the game is quite easy. Actually, in 
 order to survive, you just need to always stay ogether with your team. Yes, there are 5 special 
 mutans and yes, there are zombie hordes but, as long as you stay together, nothing you can't handle. 
 Those zombies are weak, you can shoot them mindlessly, when you need to change your mag, you can 
 shove them. There are only 6 type of weapon on this game, pump shotgun (like remington 870) , smg 
 (like uzi) , assault rifle (like m 16) , hunting rifle (actually it's a sniper rifle) , automatic 
 shotgun, and handgun, all equipped with flashlight, so, don't affraid with the dark. You can burn 
 or explode them with molotov, pipe bomb, gas tank, or a bucket of oil too. Helping friends is the 
 greatest thing on this game, they can be incapacited by special infected like Tank, Hunter, Smoker, 
 and Witch, they can be a target by those zombie too if they get those liquid from the Bomber. When 
 they are downed or injured badly, we can revive and heal them, they can do excactly the same to 
 us. We can use first aid kit, pain pills, or boost health. we can die but, on multiplayer, we can 
 be saved later (we'll be locked on a closet or some room, waiting for other survivors to get us 
 out) . Good gameplay mechanics but it's too short (less than 5 hrs) , and too easy!
  
  The graphics is quite good, the lightning effect and everything is cool. Sometimes it get slow 
 when there are too many zombies on the screen, but it's cool. The zombie movement is awesome, they 
 will run, jump, climb, anything! to get to us, that's good, but... we can walk through other player's 
 body? that's ugly, the animation of healing or reviving teammate is bad too.
  
  The sound is good, the cast is doing a very good job, It have so many words and lines, the desperate 
 sound of each character is unique and awesome too.
  
  So... umm... it will be better to play it with friends, play versus, or campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  There have been multiple attempts at making a game based on Co-op, and almost every time with ether 
 bad, or very mixed results. Well famous game studio Valve, behind the Half-Life series, has delivered 
 a fantastic game. Left 4 Dead delivers probably the best new multiplayer experience out of any 
 game in 2008. 
  
  Left 4 Dead is a four player Co-op game that takes place during a zombie apocalypse. There's not 
 really any story to the game, it's main focus is the gameplay. So don't expect some mind blowing 
 explanation, or any at all, to why there are zombies everywhere. Just enjoy the game.
  
  If your getting this game, don't plan on playing it alone, because this is truly a Co-op game. 
 The game is a lot less fun if you decide to play it alone. This is because the game relies are 
 team work, and its not as easy to do that with the AI team mates. So make sure you have some friends 
 to play with, if you don't? No problem, the game can match you up with three other players over 
 Xbox Live. So that makes playing find a game with three other players easier.
  
  There are four campaigns to play though, each with the same objective, find a way to escape. But 
 you won't get there without a fight, because there are a lot of zombies. And one thing that make 
 Left 4 Dead so special is that the zombies will never appear in the same place twice. That's because 
 Left 4 Dead has a AI directer. 
  
  This makes each play though of a campaign exciting to play though, because zombies will spawn according 
 to how your playing. Which is important because four campaigns will take only about 45 minutes 
 to a hour to finish. But don't worry, they are highly re-playable. The AI directer keeps every 
 play though fresh.
  Though the regular zombies can be dangerous in large hordes, things get pretty crazy when the special 
 infected attack.
  
  Besides the normal infected that you'll see wondering around, there are five types of special infected. 
 Each special infected have a ability that make them more of a threat than other zombies. Tongue 
 grabbing, horde attracting puke, and giant muscular, to name a few. If for some reason these powers 
 sound fun to you, you'll love the versus mode.
  
  The versus mode takes eight players, the player is ether a special infected, of a survivor. The 
 survivor's goal is the same as it is in the campaign, find a way to escape. Except now its with 
 a twist, now you have four other player coordinating attacks on the survivors to stop them from 
 reaching the safe room. And since special infected can respond, and survivors cannot. Playing as 
 a survivor is now a whole new challenge. Playing as a survivor, and playing as a special infected 
 are two completely different experiences.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a fantastic multiplayer experience. No other game makes team work such an important 
 element in a game. So if you like Co-op games, you won't want to miss Left 4 Dead. There are many 
 zombie blasting fun times to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I first saw videos of this game a year or two ago and knew it would be big when I saw swarms of 
 sprinting zombies attacking the survivors. Its the zombie game so many have hoped for. I'll list 
 the pros and cons:
  
  PROS:
  --simple but effective combat
  --most fun when you have a "good team"
  --even when you get killed this game is hilarious
  
 --great idea having the stronger infected like tanks and witches
  --its a blast playing as the infected
  --feels great spraying shotgun shells into a crowd of 
 infected
  --the last stands are always epic
  --good humorous voice acting
  --good level designs
  --ai director keeps things fresh
  -good graphics
  
  CONS:
  --it 
 is frustrating when you play with a "bad team"
  --team killing can be a minor but annoying issue
  --one hit deaths from witches and being knocked 
 off buildings by tanks can make you throw your controllers at the tv
  --healing yourself is painfully slow
  --slim chance everyone will survive the last stand
  
 
  Overall this game is great and a must have for anyone that loves first person shooters and a good 
 multiplayer game. or even zombie games. This game washed the bad taste out of my mouth that was 
 dead rising. And all of the shortcomings associated with this game are almost always the human 
 players fault and not the game. If you play as a team and help each other its fun. If everyone 
 is doing their own thing, youll keep dying and it wont be fun. Good idea actually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokra213
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong because I find this to be a great game and I personally loved it. The real reason 
 I wouldn't give this a 10 is because there are some things that just get old and repetative after 
 a while. For instance, the AI keep setting off zombie hordes and the witches when you are trying 
 to do achievements and everything. Also some of the things get a little old after a while especially 
 when your AI stands back and watches you die and maybe after a while might come and save you. Probably 
 the biggest issue I have with this game is the AI but the game itself is fun. I would encourage 
 anyone that likes zombie killing to buy this game and have fun owning the undead. Just be careful 
 of the AI and really learn to watch out for yourself sometimes. 
  
  With the mulitplayer, that is probably one of the most fun things about this game. When you are 
 playing multiplayer you get the fun of being a zombie or a human so you get to see a lot of the 
 different things that zombies can do and from that you can learn what to watch out for in the story 
 mode. Another great thing with this game is the co-op, because you get to have fun playing different 
 chapters of the game with friends or different players and possibly you might be able to get achievements 
 easier that way. Also in co-op the people you play with might actually care about saving you unlike 
 your AI especially since they want to actually beat the game. So really don't take my rating as 
 a harsh thing because this game is awesome like I said the AI could just be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truehalolover
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome there is so much to do in it like there are so many fun things to do for example 
 there are you special infected like smokers , hunters , and boomers which a terrific .Expecialy 
 online you can be them and the achievements there so fun and easy to get so people who play online 
 you will absolutly love this game !!!!!!! .OK and the other fun things characters are the witchs 
 and the hordes . The witchs are always in a different place and the only way to find them is fallowing 
 there cries of pain . OH!! and the hordes there mt favorite part of Left 4 Dead they are like hundreds 
 of zombie coming after you and your fellow survivors .And another thing is the finalys there at 
 the end of every campaign and there SO much fun you have to survive like 10 min i think of infected 
 until a rescue vehicle picks you up its so much fun. The only thing i don't like is the weapons 
 this game would be a 10 but there are like 6 weapons there needs to be more but thats the only 
 flaw in this game so i hope you people who have this game and are getting this game enjoy because 
 man i no you will i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  Well, if you haven't been so addicted to a game in a long time because its so much fun you simply 
 can't put it down, and you'll skip work, school, homework and all chores to do it, be very careful 
 with this one. It will turn you into a crack whore, and fast!
  
  The waves of zombies just keep on coming, and from all directions. You'll quickly feel like a combination 
 of WIll Smith, battling zombies in the movie I Am Legend, to one of the non-infected freedom fighters 
 in 28 Days Later. The gross stuff just keeps coming at you, and there is only one way to stop it 
 - leaving a path of total destruction in your wake as you run your a** off as fast as you possible 
 can.
  
  Burn 'em. Blow 'em up. Machine Gun 'em into Red Mist. Wack 'em. Throw 'em off a building. 
  
 
  But most of all, just keep on running as fast as you can to escape to the next safety zone.
  
  The achievements are pretty fun. There are a few which seem pretty out there, unless you want 
 to make this game your life for a fairly extended long period of time, but overall, they are pretty 
 creative and fun to get.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun. Playing the part of a zombie seems a little weird at first, but 
 before you know it, you are so glad to be an infected zombie with all kinds of disgustingly gross 
 capabilities. Playing as a "survivor" human is challenging to fend off slightly smarter than AI, 
 Online Zombies.
  
  Most of all though, the Co-Op is the best I've played since the original Gears of War. One of my 
 friends has pretty much moved in ever since he started playing about the first 2 minutes of the 
 game. I'd charge him rent, but I'm afraid if I scare him off, I won't have enough help to keep 
 on battling the zombie hordes.
  
  Especially if you have a friend you like to play Co-Op with, get this game!!!
  
  Only drawback 
 is that I thought there should be some more weapons available - I think the weapons they have are 
 just fine, but a little more variety, selection and capability would have been nice in this department. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregson616
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  Hello all, 
  
  I've been playing this game with my mate on co-op mode for a number of hours, and before I played 
 it, I wasn't sure if I would like it or not. I had seen a few reviews, not many, because this was 
 released between some epic games. Such as Gears 2, Call Of Duty W@W, Fallout 3. But the reviews 
 I had seen, I hadn't been too impressed, with the graphics mainly. 
  
  But my opinion change completely when my mate brought it round. Watching the opening cut scence, 
 and killing that first zombie with the shotgun, I fell in love with it instantly. Cut to 5 hours 
 later, it was 1am, and the game was pretty much complete on normal. Was considering trying to complete 
 it on a harder difficulty, but there is only so much zombie killing I can take. 
  
  I definatly think this is the best offline multiplayer game i have played since Goldeneye. And 
 thats saying something. The different amount of zombies is brilliant. Trying to find that boomer, 
 who could be ready to puke on you around any corner, and sending that vicious orde after you. Running 
 to the rescue boat, before the Tank gets any closer. Seeing the living dead running after the beepig 
 pipe bomb, and watching a mist of guts and blood blow up in the sky!! Fantastic!! 
  
  I definatly suggest to anyone thinking about what game to buy next, please give this game a go. 
 You will love it. 
  
  This gets a 9.0, hands down. The only bad thing, is the computer AI when your playing offline co-op. 
 Sometime they dont take the best route, and keep getting caught and needing revival. 
  
  But still, brilliant!!
  
  Cheers for reading. 
  
  Gregson616 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsaacMG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to start...
  
  I didn't put many expectations in this game before it was released. I was liking what I was seeing,... 
 a coop multiplayer oriented arcade game. A game made for coop was the thing that called my attention 
 the most, like everyone else I suppose.
  
  Well, downloaded the demo, played it and had fun, but was a bit letdown with the speed of the game. 
 Yeah, it is an arcade game... but it was very very fast! More than I thought for sure.
  
  I called a friend, played the demo in split screen. Lots of laughs and fun, for sure. Multiplayer 
 was far better. I adapted to the game speed very well. In fact I can't see the game being slower, 
 it would lose the hook the game has.
  
  So, I bought the game when it came. Four campaigns, with 5 levels each and approximately one-two 
 hours each of the campaigns (depending in which difficulty you play it) . Well, it isn't the longest 
 game out there, but the good thing about this is the replayability it has. Playing coop with 4 
 friends online is a total blast. Split screen is really nice too, even the game works a bit worse 
 (in terms of FPS) . The level design is awesome! From a destroyed hospital, to a metro station, 
 a port, a farm,... really awesome settings. The campaigns consist in arriving at the refuge at 
 the end of the first four levels. Then, the at the end of the fifth level you have to call for 
 a rescue, and while you wait for it lots of hordes would try to stop you. It is really fun because 
 you can put some strategy here, and working with 3 real friends is nice. If you do it right you 
 wil survive.
  
  The enemies (zombies) are really fast. They attack you from every point, surrounding you in a few 
 seconds if you stay quiet. Then there are some special monsters with, of course, special abilities... 
 for example, the boomer, a fatty bastard who will puke over you and your team mates, making you 
 lose the sight and you will attract the zombie horde, like bees to honey. The hunter, who will 
 jump at you from really long distances, making you be defenceless and waiting for someone to help 
 you. The tank, a really big guy who will throw rocks at you, or tackle you and then hit you to 
 death.
  
  There are a few weapons, but very nice ones. Two shotguns, an automatic rifle, 9mm guns (you can 
 carry two of them) , a sniper rifle and a submachine gun. Then there are grenades and molotovs. 
 The grenades attract the zombies, so if you're surrounded you can always throw one of these and 
 free yourself. The ammunition is in different places of the map, I think that the AI director puts 
 them in different places every time you play the maps. It does that with everything: the monsters, 
 the medikits, the weapons... so it's nice to play everytime because it is never the same, or almost 
 the same.
  
  Then there's another multiplayer mode where you can be the survivors or the zombies. Is in fact 
 the same that the coop mode, but having human players as special monsters (4 vs 4) . It's a shame 
 that you can only play in the levels of the first two campaigns.
  
  Overall, the game is good fun. Playing alone is a bit boring, because the bots won't throw grenades, 
 and they would try to heal you when you need it. What's bad about that? Well, there's some achievements 
 that bots make harder to do, and there's one where you have to survive a campaign without healing...
 
  
  The only negative point I can add is that it is a bit short afterall... hope that VALVE gets us 
 some new campaigns to download, that would be very kind of them.
  
  I recommend this to everyone who likes fast-paced first person shooters, and of course to everyone 
 who likes coop games, cause this is one of the best coop games ever invented.
  
  And well, this is my first review ever. Hope you like it, and sorry for my crappy english! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potalot89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has Great multiplayer action. Ive never had so play a game and pay attention so much 
 to what your allies are doing. Playing both the infected and the Survivors never gets old. Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah. Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah. Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah. Sry had to fill up space req. some howBlah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah. Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah. Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwhedon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Valve has always been one of my favorite developers. I don't think they've even had one game that 
 was truly bad. And now they take on one of video games' favorites past-times, a zombie apocalypse. 
 Left 4 Dead puts you in the place of the 4 unluckist people on Earth, Bill (a Vietnam vet) , Francis 
 (the biker) , Zoey (hot college girl) , and Louis (an black man with a taste for ties) . Now you four 
 have the take on the zombie horde, and make your way to a rescue vehicle in four campaigns and 
 get the heck out of there. Now, if you like games with a decent story, well, this might not be 
 the game for you. Because that's all there is for the story. But the gameplay makes up for it. 
 The controls are easy enough the understand, and the use of Co-Op is actually not pointless! In 
 Left 4 Dead, you actually need the other 3 people to tag along with you during the game. There 
 are tons of zombies to kill, and one gun just isn't enough. There are also special zombies, like 
 Smokers, Hunters, Boomers, Witches, and Tanks. All these zombies have special attacks, like how 
 the Smoker can use its extremely long tougue to pull you away from the group, and you need your 
 buddies to free you from those attacks. But then Left 4 Dead kicks it up a notch. It actually lets 
 you play as those special zombies themselves in online multiplayer! So now the game turns from 
 the survival horror to a hilariously fun hide and go seek game. And you are the seekers. You can 
 control your zombie to go and use their special attack on some unsuspecting human, and in some 
 way when you succeed it is extremely satisfing to see your zombie start ripping the human's flesh 
 off. So now for the wrap-up. Alright sure, Left 4 Dead is short, so short that you could finish 
 all the campaigns in about 3 or 4 hours. But the AI Director spices things up for you by making 
 every single time you play a campaign different. So I recommend this game, it certainly is fun, 
 and I'm pretty sure you will have a blast with it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanqbuster
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  snipers...
  never been as useless as it has then in this game
  
  When i the preveiw/intro scene on xbox live i wanted to go to the store right then and get the 
 game, but befor i left i checked its rating on gamespot first. 8.5 sounded good.
  
  I got home, put in the game and saw the intro scene again, awsome! Then i started a campaign game 
 on live (first level) i picked up the machine gun as bill. I'm thinking what the hell how did I 
 get here where is the cut scene. I follow everyone else while desprately looking for the aim sights 
 button. After the game I find out I can skip to any level. I also find out that every level I do 
 the same thing.
  
  NO STORY! -- NO CUT SCENES! --SNIPERS AHHH! --I CAN GO THROUGH MY TEAMMATES?! -- COUNTERSTRIKE! AGAIN! -- 
 LT IS MELE?! SAME **** DIFERRENT MAP
  
  i couldnt return the game because i already opened it i had to sell it for 10 bucks one more thing
 
  
  THIS GAME SUCKS!
  
  i gave it a 1.5 because i like the intro scene the only scene in the whole game ;)
  
  SAVE 
 UP FOR RESIDENT EVIL FIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  i usually stat with pros and cons but i'll start with this IF YOU HAVE XBOX LIVE GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  pros: the best multiplayer since unreal tournament, great detailed graphics, millions of zombies 
 onscreen, you'll make alot of new friends, excellent pacing.
  cons: no story to speak of, too short
  so you are in a zombie apocolypse you play as one of four 
 characters its freakin awsome teamwork is vital ammo isnt scarse like most games of this type and 
 it isnt scary has a little creepy music but its not scary there is no story the four levels are 
 not linked in any way except you play as the same people in fact the only story you get is whats 
 written on the safe room walls there are regular zombies that are called the horde and you have 
 special on that are huge and near indestructible ones that pounce on you ones that zomit on you 
 and on that grab you with there tounges in my first six hours i made seven new friends since your 
 gonna be talking to teammates alot youll get to know them its not as good without the headset you 
 should purchase a headset if you want to play this game if you dont have xbox live that takes the 
 score down to a 8 this is made for multiplayer in fact single player is at the bottom of the main 
 menu but even if you dont have xbox live invite a friend over it has split screen co-op if you 
 have live get it if you dont think about getting it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  A good game, you can play all the chapters whenever you want to, don't need to complete the game 
 previously. I don't know the other difficulties because i didn't play them but i can tell that 
 the expert version gets you angry for sure. those damn zombies show up every time man but killing 
 them makes you feel better with yourself. if you are angry play this game and you will be better 
 because you killied them zombies ;)
  
  A good multiplayer too and it is funny when you are the zombie so you don't need to be afraid of 
 them running towards you because it is you that will run towards them.
  
  the game is nice to spend some time but after a while it gets pretty boring because you do the 
 same thing every time. so play it but don't get addicted to it - that happens with this game, believe 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Sous
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  L4D Is Overall One Of The Best Shooters Of 2008. With Its Fast-Paced MULTI-Enemy Levels, L4D Offers 
 Constant Action And An Awsome Replay Value. In A Year Full Of Great Games Like 2008, Its Hard For 
 A Game As Plain As This To Stick Out, But It Without A Doubt Does. The Only Aspect Of The Game 
 That Is Lacking Would Have To Be The Graphics. Id Say They Are About A 7 Out Of 10. Most Other 
 Parts Of The Game Are Great. Virtually No Lag, Intense And Wide Spread Pandamonium In Large Levels, 
 Great Weaponry Although Selection Is Limited, L4D Is Definatley One Of The Top 10 Games Of 2008. 
 A Great Feature I Was Unaware Of At Purchase Was The Abillity To Play As The Zombie Nation Of Charachters. 
 Be It The Long-Tounged Smoker, The Fast-Leaping Hunter, Or The Every-Powerful Tank, The Zombies 
 Add An Aspect To L4D That No Zombie Game Has Ever Had. To Sum Up, Its Online Abillities Are Second 
 To None And L4D Is By Far One Of The Most Action Packed Games I Have Ever Played For Any Console/PC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajchicago
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  Well to tell you the truth theres really no story involved... for all you know when you start playing 
 it jus starts off as a post apocolypic zombie rampage and you have 4 charecters to choose from 
 and thats about as deep as it gets. Your 4 charecters are a Veitnam veteran named Bill... Louis 
 a stressed out computer analyst... Francis the tattoed bike drifter and last but not least Zoey 
 a collage student horror movie ethusiest (go figure) .
  
  Gameplay:
  To start off, the game is divided up in 4 campaigns with 5 levels each! but its longer than it 
 sounds trust me when you begin to play lol. As you start each level you will start in a safe house. 
 This will give you a chance to load up and pack anything you can beofre you head out in the zombie 
 infested wastland. And right away you will notice the gameplay is very diffcult when a bunch of 
 zombies ganged up on you out of no where! Also there are 3 ways to atrract them to you instintly. 
 1. jus shooting at them obviously 2. there these beings called BOOMERS, they are overwighted zombes 
 that vomit on you and if it does it will atract a hoard of zombies and good luck to you on surving 
 that. And the last that attracts them is the car alarms... ya no joke they will swarm like a bunch 
 of Hornets if you get too close to the car. Also i would like to point out the weopns are pretty 
 decent i mean you get a mac 10, sniper rifle, shotgun, pistol, moltoves, and a grande that makes 
 noise to atrract all the zombies to that one grande and then blows up evry zombie in that little 
 area. Now i want to point out the bad parts to this game... first of all theres no 4 player split 
 screen.. it might not be a big deal to most people but to who ever doesnt have live they can only 
 play with 2 people... so i advise to play this on PC if your looking for a fun free 4 player party. 
 Also the gampay gets thin after a while since there isnt more content than XBOX LIVE and well thats 
 it.... and after you beat the game evern when you play with 3 other people its gets boring fast.
 
  
  VIsuals:
  The visuls meets XBOX expectations. It has really good lighting and i like the bruses u get when 
 u get bit by the zombies even tho they dissapear like they werent even there! 
  
  To wrap this up LEFT 4 DEAD is good party game but balry has any content to keep my intrest and 
 maybe others too. I would advise getting this for the PC for a great MULTYPLAYER experince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilWil92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  First level you walk through a building that has a few zombies here and there and then... BAM "HORDE!". 
 Zombies come from random directions and you better have your gun reloaded. That's Left 4 Dead. 
 A fun shoot up zombie game that doesn't really have that much substance. The idea is that you go 
 through 4 levels with 3 fellow survivors. 
  There are 4 "special" zombies that are different to your "every-day" zombies. The first included 
 the Smoker. The Smoker jumps around and will jump on you and lay down some heavy blows, that if 
 unaided you will die. When the Smoker dies there's a lot of smoke... clever. The Hunter hunts you.... He 
 will shoot out his SUPER long tongue and pull you towards him while strangling you. Again.. if 
 unaided you WILL die. Then come the BIG FAT FLOOD GUY, but what is really called the Boomer. He 
 vomits on you which causes a horde of zombies to come flying towards you. Not too dangerous. Then 
 comes the Witch. You can hear her when your near her. She cries and you often have to find her. 
 If you shine your light on her she will get startled and attack you. She will drain all of your 
 life. It's not easy to kill her, but not that hard either. So either turn off your light and go 
 past her or kill her when she can't see you will one blow of the shotgun. Then finally the Tank. 
 The big guy that will beat you up. Takes a long time to kill and he will throw large objects at 
 you. 
  Weapon choice is simple. Pistols with the chance of duel pistols, shotgun and automatic shotgun, 
 hunting rifle, uzi, and M16. That all handle pretty well. It's just a matter of which weapon you 
 like the most.
  Overall it's a fun game that you get sick of after a while, but you will come back to. It's alot 
 more fun to play online with friends that understand what you need done and can strategize with 
 you. Not worth buying it if you don't have Live. Borrow from a friend first, then make your decision. 
 Not worth $60... wait until it's $40. I have a feeling that it won't take that long until it drops 
 down to that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xxx360xxX
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  I created an account on Gamespot. com just because I have to express just how pissed off I am with 
 this game. It is the biggest rip-off I have seen in a very long time. The gameplay is mindless 
 and the campaign is short but that's not even the worst part. THE LEVELS ARE ALREADY UNLOCKED !!!!! 
 What the hell is the point of even playing this crap. Did I get a deffective game or something 
 because I see all these high ratings for this game but I think it is the most retarted thing I 
 have ever played in my whole life. PLEASE people do not listen to the rest and save your money. 
 The environments look good and shooting at a hundred zombies coming at you at once is fun if you 
 are a kid gamer but with the levels already unlocked it's MEANINGLESS, SHORT, REPETITIVE, STUPID 
 and a total RIP-OFF. Thank God I was able to sell this crap to some other poor sap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanspas3001
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The story is simple. Four players, its the zombie apocalypse, get from point A to point B and be 
 rescued. That doesn't leave much room for liberties in said story line and with only four campaigns 
 that don't last very long, this game has to depend on its strong online multi-player and varying 
 AI to get the job done. Well, for anyone who has played the game and experienced these aspects, 
 you know that the game exceeds expectations in those arenas. There is just something about blowing 
 up a boomer with a shotgun and then unloading buck shot into the rushing horde that is so.... satisfying 
 every damn time. The game encourages online play- a lobby has room for 8 players with half being 
 the infected and half the survivors. One thing you'll learn quickly is your team won't get anywhere 
 unless you act like... you guessed it, a team. If you're the infected, its about vomiting on the 
 survivors in a cramped place so that nearby hunters on your team can pin them down and maybe if 
 you're lucky your team's smoker will constrict the last one standing thus check mating your opponents. 
 If you are the survivors, its about getting through the level as a team, staying aware and out 
 of those sticky situations. Either way, the online play is fun and engaging despite only having 
 two campaigns to choose from. My only qualm concerning this game other than varying technical and 
 aesthetic problems, is that of a choice the developers made. Local Co-op. My question is why does 
 one have to be online with friends in different rooms (presumably different households) to experience 
 the full 4 player multi-player? I have three friends over, I want us all to play the Blood Harvest 
 campaign.... why don't I just send two home and we'll hook up over live? Logic tells me that the 
 developers did not want to sacrifice any aesthetics and split the screen up four ways. To that 
 I say, the 360 started shipping with an HDMI port a year and half ago, it comes with the component/av 
 input that most TV's have now; with that in mind shouldn't it be the players choice whether or 
 not they want to split the screen up? I understand if you're playing on a 16" tube you may not 
 want to split the screen up that much but I mean come on, who didn't do that with Goldeneye? Or 
 Halo for that matter? 
  
  In any case, Left 4 Dead, despite being one in a class of many zombie shooters (even COD: WaW had 
 Nazi Zombies) , comes off as original and engaging. It feels like it has been built off of a previous 
 installment of the franchise yet it is the first; which says much for the future of this game. 
 Overall, Left 4 Dead is an outstanding play that is an instant classic and excellent addition to 
 Valve's extensive library of fantastic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Valve has probably made some of the best games in the past (Half Life, Portal, Counter Strike, 
 etc.) . Now, Valve's great track record continues with Left 4 Dead, a game about surviving a zombie 
 apocalypse. What's not to like?
  
  Like many have said, there is little to no story, which isn't a bad thing at all. Everyone has 
 turned into zombies and four lucky (or not so lucky) people must work together in order to survive. 
 You must fight your way through all four levels (and five chapters) and escape. 
  
  There is more to the game than just fighting zombies, there are also different kinds like one kind 
 that jumps on you, one that attracts more zombies if they vomit on you, one that can drag you away 
 and more. The game relies a lot on teamwork while you're defending yourself from the waves of zombies 
 such as healing them, helping them up when they fall, or just saving them from other zombies.
 
  
  There are four characters to choose from in either single player or co-op such as Bill (a Vietnam 
 veteran) , Francis (a thug) , Louis (a business man) or Zoey (a college student) . The game supports 
 only 2 played co-op on one 360 but you can play up to four player co-op via system link. The game 
 is fun on your own but it is even more fun with friends. You can also play up to 8 players in multiplayer 
 (system link or online) .
  
  On top of co-op, there is also a versus mode, and this is probably one of the best things about 
 L4D. You can play up to a maximum of 4 players per team and one team can even play as the zombies. 
 Your goal as the zombie is to stop the human team from reaching their goal. This mode is just awesome.
 
  
  My biggest complaint is that the game can be a little short. There's only 4 levels with 5 chapters 
 each and they can be finished in a little over and hour. Other than that, this game can be a lot 
 of fun. I recommend it to anyone who likes FPS', good co-op games, or just likes shooting zombies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P90E21
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be fun at the time I downloaded the demo. I played it several times. Then I 
 finally got the play the game and I think its simply a great game. The down side is that there 
 are only for different "campaigns" to go through but you may find ur self playing them over and 
 over. The VS mode puts a nice twist on the game by letting you play as the survivors or as the 
 infected. Team work is a must if you want to win or stay alive. All in all I say that if in doubt 
 at lest give it a rent. So this thing wants me to add more char. I remember why I don't do many 
 of these I just like to keep things simple and to the point. But I hope that valve will add more 
 to this game in way of more levels. My fav. map is No Mercy you start out in an apartment where 
 the intro to the game leaves you. Then you advance to the subway and then to the sewer, then on 
 to the hospital and finally you go to the roof and await rescue. Oh there are Four zombie special 
 units Smoker which grabs victims with a toung and reals them in. Then there is the Hunter he pins 
 u to the ground and goes to town on you. (team must rescue you) Boomer is a big bloated looking 
 fat guy that vomits on you and then a hoard of zombies come after you ( Oh and if you run up and 
 shoot him and your next to him he will spray you with the lovely stuff that makes the zombies come) . 
 Then there is the daddy of them all the TANK this hulk like guy is very strong he can toss cement 
 at you and cars!! Also he has is own music theme so u will always know when there is one near. 
 Oh I forgot to mention the Witch this seemingly innocent crying little gril will spawn in in most 
 times out of your way but some times she will spawn in ur dirrect path. She hates light so keep 
 it off and avoid her other wise if you startle her she will open a can of wop ass on you. Any way 
 enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a great and fun game to play with friends. I have only played it on multiplayer with split 
 screens, so i dont know how the online play is, but playing with a buddy is a great time. The game 
 really captures the feeling of trying to survive and fighting your way through hordes of zombies 
 and other enemies. Also having to work together and sticking together to survive, if you wonder 
 off on your own, you are DEAD. There are times when you feel like "Ok, I'm safe for now" to all 
 of a sudden "OH GOD IM GONNA DIE!!" It can get pretty intense, even when you die, at times its 
 worth it to play the level over again. :D Which brings me to my next point, each time you play 
 a level no matter how many times over, the enemies always change around. Like say one time you 
 play a level and you go into a building and a horde of zombies rush out after you, then you die, 
 the next time you go that building that horde of zombies wont be there or they will be replaced 
 with a Smoker, a Tank, a different enemy, or just be empty. So the game is always making you sit 
 on the edge of your seat waiting for enemies to pop out of nowhere. This is the Good of the game, 
 now let me tell you about the Bad...
  
  The Bad thing with Left 4 Dead that bugs me and I'm sure it bugs a lot of other gamers too, is 
 that there are only 4 levels. Each level has 5 chapters that take probably around to 10 to 20 minutes 
 to beat, depending on if you keep dying and how maybe hordes you go through. Also depends on the 
 difficulty level you choose for the level, makeing the game harder takes more time and makes it 
 more intense, or maybe it seems like it takes more time since you are fighting for your life everytime 
 an enemy is around, making the minutes feel like hours :P. Either or, its fun, just kinda short. 
 Another point is that this game is not that much fun to just play it by yourself, its a lot more 
 fun to play with a buddy, killing zombies together, and helping each other out when one of you 
 or both are about to die and need revived. One more thing is that I'm usually a person who plays 
 games for the action AND the story, stories play big roles for me, but thats just me. This game 
 doesn't give a story, other than you play as 1 of the 4 survivors of a zombie apocalypse and you 
 have to work together to survive, but the action and multiplayer make up for the story. Still, 
 they could have added a few cut scenes here and there to get to know the characters better.
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead is a great multiplayer game. If you dont have any buddies to play with 
 or have xboxlive, i suggest renting it if you just want to see how the gameplay is. It's a fun 
 to work together with other players, but can get a little old just by yourself or if you keep playing 
 the game too long without taking a break here and there, but that happens with anything you do 
 lol.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond2d
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  People have been saying things like "where's the rest of the game?". The point is this game even 
 though it i short is highly replayable ... TRUST ME. Ifyour thinking this game is good single player 
 think again, L4D is best played online over Xbox Live with three strangers or three friends (which 
 is even better) . The game consists of 4 campaigns where all four survivoir's have to shoot there 
 way through hundreds of undead and make thier way to the pick up site. Valve have in troduced a 
 feature called the AI director which means every play through is different form the one before 
 ie weapons spawning in different places and zombies appearing in different locations. These sequence 
 of different events differ on how well or not well you and your team are playing. 
  
  I would recommened Left 4 Dead to anyone who like multiplayer games. 
  This game is truely something 
 unique.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 10
  Gameplay - 10
  
  OVERALL - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  left 4 dead places you as one of 4 survivors in a city overrun by a zombie virus. seeing that you 
 were ammune and you where the only ones here it gives meaning to the title left 4 dead. fight your 
 way through hordes and enraged zombies attack from every dirrection. cowards beware! there are 
 consiquences for hiding. to even try to beat the game you must force yourself through or be over 
 run! multiplayer in left for dead is also amazing. play off line with 2 people or go online for 
 a team of 4. play as the infected or take them down horde by horde! intense and fast-paced zombies 
 will challenge your accuracy with a gun! beware of the witchs hunters and smokers that only a teammate 
 can help you if you get grabbed or hung!
  
  suggested level plays for left 4 dead would be the following:
  Deadair- advanced- multiplayer 
 (offline)
  blood harvest- advanced- multiplayer (online) (offline)
  no mercy- advanced -multi and single (online) (offline) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simwods
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay on this game in amazing i luv it- playing online with friends is so much fun-the missions 
 are slightly short but if they were longer u'd be having nightmares! but killing your friends on 
 versus mode is even better.
  The game doesnt have much of a story mode so if your planning to buy it for its plot- dont! However 
 if your buying for a bit of fun then this is the game for you... WARNING! This game is not for the 
 faint hearted!
  
  Versus mode would be better if you zombie had more health but you know what! who cares!!!! Listening 
 to your friends screaming as you shred their guts through your thingers will never get boring.
 
  
  Personally I would rate the game 10/10 but i could understand if people think otherwise- graphics 
 arent amazing and I can see the game getting a repetitive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyDoom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was somthing i was really hyped to playbefore i had it. When i first bought this and 
 played to campagn i wasnt very impressed, what imean is THIS GAME GOT REPETETIVE same zombies all 
 the time boomer hunter smoker ect. always the same the story also has absolutly no info on how 
 this "virus" spread or why these people were unaffected. So with this very unstatisfying campagn 
 i tried some online which i heard was supposed to be good, and it turned out without a doubt better 
 than the story but still pretty repetetive same classes all the time even with the zombies "abilities" 
 it gets really old really fast. I gave this game nothing loxer than a 7.5 not because its that 
 decent , its because the idea was pretty awsome it just completely and utterly missed its target. 
 If it wasnt for this reason i would've given this game no more than a 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvader57
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  Look you will like this game if you like 1st person senseless shooters. And this game would have 
 gotten an 8 or 9 from me except for one main reason. Whers the rest of it? 4 chapters each one 
 with 4 mini levels inside it. If Im payin 60 bucks for a game, it better have more than4 hrs of 
 play time... and this one doesnt. Each Chapter takes about an hour to complete.... yep thats it. 
 And while the difficulty does make a difference in whether you can complete it, it makes no diffence 
 in the time it takes cause on the hardest level you have to run the whole time to keep from attracting 
 hordes. I can get past the fact that there are only 4 weapons to chose from (eww) 2 are shotguns! 
 And i can get past the fact that Bill always steals my pain pills in the game, but in this day 
 and age 60 bucks means a lot to me and it took me longer to drive to the store and back to buy 
 it that it did to beat it. Think im paying 20 more bucks for an expansion on xbox live for this.. think 
 again. That would equate to an extra hour of gameplay... maybe. A good unfinished game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demolisha12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  awesome game now to fill up the one hundred words one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 one one oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one 
 oneone one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one one oneone one one one one one one one one one 
 one one one one one one one one one one one one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I originally expected this game to be nothing but running backwards while spraying a gun. Turns 
 out, it's hard to back peddle when there's zombies eating your ass.
  
  Visuals: The graphics look amazing. During all four campaigns, I saw no texture clipping or wrapping 
 problems. The zombies all look great and detailed, even after you kill them. 
  
  Sound: The voice acting is better than some other, unmentioned, games of this ilk. The NPCs actually 
 say thing that are helpful. Things such as "There's a hunter/smoker/boomer." "Zoey's down." "You 
 need to use your medipack." and so on and so forth. The zombie calls sent shivers down my spine 
 when I first heard a which cry or a hunter scream. 
  
  Game play: I love the team work factor. I tried going an entire level alone but zombies will easily 
 surround you. You need to rely on your team mates to cover your back epically if you get pinned 
 by a hunter or drug off by a smoker. 
  
  Story line: Not much to it, get to the evac zone and kill every undead thing on the way. Some of 
 the graffiti on safe house walls tell a little of what happened. Zombies came and the army left.
 
  
  Online: Even better than single player. Much easier to defend a evac zone when there's 4 people 
 watching different entrances instead of all crowding around a single door.
  
  Overall: Great game. I wish the campaigns were longer and there were more weapons but it's still 
 a great play. Worth the $60 I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my son for christmas. Thank god I didn't buy it for myself expecting some 
 great game. I would have been EXTREMELY disappointed! 
  
  We paid $50 or $60 for this game. There is no game here. All there is a small section of city that 
 you have to go through to get to the chopper at the hospital. There is no background on why there 
 are zombies, or why these four people are running around together or anything. 
  
  The single player campaign can be beat in about 20 minutes. Whats worse, there is NO save option 
 to save your progress, but I guess wieghing in a 20 minutes means you really don't need to save 
 :)
  
  The source engine is, as always, nice. The gunplay is fun and the computer controlled characters 
 behave with some nice AI effects (most of the time) . The level design is nice and true to a small 
 section of city. It's too bad there wasn't more game here.
  
  This would have been a nice add-on for another orange box type thing. But a stand alone game??? 
 Please! Perhaps at $10 of downloadable add-on for the actual orange box maybe. This wouldn't be 
 so bad if the game had 8 hours or so of true content. I played it online for about 10 minutes only 
 to discover it is the same as the single player campaign, so why bother?
  
  Long story short? Rent it plus another game as you'll be done with this one in about 20 minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myriddan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this review with a sad bit of information, I don't have XBox live, so my review 
 is based on co-op play and single player.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a tremendously fun shooter that sends hordes of infected humans after the remaining 
 survivors. You play as one of four survivors and can team up with another player in co-op mode 
 or against them in versus (or all four in story mode, up to 16 people I believe online in the versus 
 mode, but don't quote me on that) .
  
  In any case, Left 4 Dead is short, even for a shooter. There are four different "movies" as they're 
 called that can be played with five sections each, the first four sections are pretty standard 
 with some outdoor spaces, buildings, and a random sewer or subway you have to work your way through. 
 The last section is always the rescue point and in comparison to the other levels is extremely 
 small since you'll be defending yourself against an onslaught as you wait for rescue. These situations 
 are perhaps the most fun and replayable. The problem is that playing through all five sections 
 in one go through will last about an hour, with each section taking ten or fifteen minutes to play. 
 Which is great if you just want to get a little aggressive frustration out of your system. Unfortunately, 
 this isn't a game you can spend hours on end playing (or maybe you can) because eventually everything 
 really is the same and you can only replay the same movie or section so many times.
  
  On the bright side, the game does a good job of sending different types of enemies and swarms at 
 you and gauges you and your parties generally aptitude to battle the swarm. The "director" as this 
 is referred to is quite good IMO at correctly calculating the amount of difficulty needed. The 
 gun choices are limited, but the ammo stashes are generally placed where and when you need them, 
 plus the pistols never run out of ammo and are quite effective in their own right.
  
  Overall, despite it's relative shortness, it is extremely replayable as long as you don't plan 
 to sit down and play for long periods of time. If I had Live I probably would rate this a bit higher, 
 but as it stands with just co-op it works fine as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Ah the highly anticipated zombie killer game comes. It's been out for a while but I thought I would 
 give it some time to simmer before I trash on it. Cause thats what his game sorta is trash.
  
  The Graphics
  The graphics are very bland. Normal scenery and some times in those forest 
 stages, I can't tell if it's a tree or a zombie. There's something wrong with that. I know it gives 
 a sense of suspense but I don't care for that. Just want a sort of pretty game that looks good. 
 Not as bad as the zombies in it. The zombies are also a bit bland since they run so fast and come 
 at you in large hordes you don't really get to see what they look like.
  
  The Story
  HAHAHAHA! For the people who are fans of Resident Evil and enjoy their story lines. You guys are 
 suckers cause there isn't one here. You simply get from point A to B. Then you defend yourself 
 in an area for a set period of time til help arrives and that is sometimes really hard cause they 
 send everything that got at you and no one wants to deal with that. Yep.... There is a sort of cinematic 
 movie feel when they post your names on a poster of there only 4 stages... and ending credits.... 
 go typing this out makes it seem lame. Only cause it is.
  
  Game play.
  Mindless. Go and play Guitar Hero. I hate guitar hero and that's what it felt like playing this. 
 Simple shooting mechanics. You don't have to be a good shot to be good at this game. Since as long 
 as you hit the zombie they die. I shot one in the arm and got a head shot. yea wtf. So as I said 
 simple Point A to point B with a group of other survivors who can be friends or the CPU AI who 
 isn't retarded. Shooting I guess is fun... I guess. It seems mindless a lot of the time.
  
  Multiplayer
  Where the game shines. Getting friends together to mindlessly shoot games I guess. 
 And yea all I have to say about that.
  
  Bottom Line
  It's a decent game. I wouldn't spend 60 bucks on it due to the fact it has little to offer on the 
 single player side and a game shouldn't get rave reviews for a game that only shines in it's multiplayer. 
 Zombie fans will be pleased with this game but it sorta pisses me off cause it seems over rated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drtacks37
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love Valve. The Orange Box was probably one of the best releases in the history 
 of gaming (in terms of quality: price) . I had big hopes for L4D. Unfortunately, they did not deliver 
 the goods. Mindlessly blazing away at a screen jammed with more action than can possibly be processed 
 is not my idea of a good time. I am so sick of this game getting great reviews. Did I miss something?
 
  
  First off, the single player experience is completely devoid of any sort of quality entertainment. 
 Go from Point A to Point B, shoot anything that moves. There is no storyline, no character development 
 and no thinking. I appreciate random spawns for the enemies, but the game is WAY too short. There 
 is NO replay value in single player. While I appreciate Valve's attempt to keep the team together, 
 I feel that they do it very cheaply: If you leave your party too far away you are caught from behind 
 by one of the special zombies. This cheap mechanic does not allow for you to defend yourself, because 
 they are behind you and you can't see them until it's too late. I didn't experience any problems 
 with my allies AI, so kudos for that. Based on the fact that the single player is worthless, I 
 immediately am turned off. A game that is getting 9-10 star reviews should deliver on both single 
 player and multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is the only area where this repetitive game shines. I am, of course, speaking of 
 the Survivors vs. Zombies mode. This game mode is really fun, but how many times can you play it 
 before you've "been there - done that?" This is compounded by the fact that there are only 4 "Special" 
 Zombie types. Add to that a tiny arsenal of weapons (the pipe bomb is awesome, though) and you've 
 got a boring, repetitive game. 
  
  I like a game with some brains, but it appears the zombies have already finished them off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha360x
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best zombie game i've ever played! 
  
  Their are 4 campaign missions you can play. Which are kind of short. And some what easy on the 
 easier difficulties. But don't let that get you down! After you beat on the easier difficulties 
 you can really challenge yourself on the expert difficulty. Which is very hard!!!
  
  After you get done with the campaign there's also a multiplayer where you get to choose from 2 
 of the campaign missions to play 4 on 4. Four people are the four survivors, then the other four 
 people are 4 zombies, but not just regular zombies... The special infected. You randomly become 
 either a hunter, smoker, or a boomer. But when you reach a part where a tank should be, one of 
 them becomes a tank! Then either when the survivors reach the safe room or they all die you switch 
 sides. 
  
  All in all this is a must own game! If you don't buy it, you will be haunted by a zombie till you 
 get it! Just kidding, but really you need this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is another survival games. This game is intended for online play. The co-op features 
 you get out of this game is unmatched. Lots of fun with friends and family.
  
  :::Story:::
  
  There isnt a story. Well theres 4 survivors and 4 campaigns. Each campaign has 
 5 acts. Every act is one very simple objective, get from point A to point B. Somewhat dull and 
 lacking a full story
  4/5
  
  :::Sound:::
  
  Very nice sound on the zombies. Surviovors yell if they need help. The music is very creepy. But 
 also it fells like your there with them
  5/5
  
  :::Gameplay::: 
  
  Very easy to get used to and this game is intended for co-op. The first option there is co-op. 
 Starts you out right in the action
  5/5
  
  :::Replayability:::
  
  Fun but gets boring after a while. If it had a nice unlock system or something it would be good 
 but gets dull and boring after a while. I would say a 3 month replayabiltity on this one.
  3/5
  
  :::Overall:::
  
  This is a fun game to play with friends. I would highly reccomend 
 this if your looking for a nice co-op shooter. I would not reccomend this is your looking for a 
 single player experience. It does have a decent versus which you can play as the zombies but just 
 dosn't have me come back for more.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubtleMurderArt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I was cautious when purchasing this game, but finally decided to when a friend of mine did. Overall, 
 It is a great game. Spooky, and addictive. It is a new concept for a game. Squad/Team based game 
 play, which heavily relies on team play and communication. There are only four levels right now, 
 but five parts to each level. If you think this game is easy, try beating every level on Expert 
 difficulty. The online is what makes this game. It gets rather bothering pretty fast on single 
 player, but playing online is great. Versus is also fun. It pits four players on the survivors 
 side, and four players on the infected side. The only downside is the re-spawn time for the infected 
 is 15-25 seconds, which is a pretty long wait time considering you die extremely fast as an infected. 
 The graphics and sound on Dolby digital 5.1 are great, and truly create a hectic, and horror filled 
 atmosphere. Great game, and a must have for any FPS or Zombie fan. 
  
  Fun times await you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: issanity
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Was not at all impressed with this game.
  
  You have 4 short story modes, then you can go online through the 4 short story modes.
  
  Gets 
 repetitive VERY quickly, gets old VERY fast.
  
  Can NOT figure out how the heck it got such high reviews.
  
  Oh and I didn't even mention you 
 only have 3 weapon types in the game.
  
  A shotgun (most effective) , a machine gun (does little damage) or a sniper (totally useless)
 
  
  What in the world are these people smoking to rate up a game with no options, and you can complete 
 start to finish in 4 hours tops?
  
  I don't see how this can be entertaining for anyone other than the desperate fallen asleep at best.
 
  
  ZZZZzzzz Save the money or rent it.
  
  Wow mininum waste of chars for a review to fill on such a looser game so zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesh89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  In a nut shell its a 4-player co-op tailored around an engrossing zombie horror flick storyline. 
 this game is unique to the fact that four people play through the entire campaign of which there 
 are four, each broken down into 5 sections, each campaign has a specific zombie movie theme e. g 
 city streets, a forest, an airport and crop fields. 
  
  On normal you could blast through the game in around 6 hours. and expert mode could last up to 
 well...... how good you are at working in a team ? expert mode is hard. due to the fact of left 
 4 dead having a unique AI director controlling each of the campaigns. 
  
  So every time you re-spawn from death or restart a campaign. everything changes. from weapon's 
 to med kits and the zombie hordes. they all relocate each time you play. the AI director also controls 
 special infected which spawn on how well you are performing through a campaign, so if you are totally 
 owning and taking no damage expect the AI director to have a tank zombie waiting for you around 
 a random corner. this thing can take you out if your not quick enough at working together to take 
 it down. 
  
  Then there is a versus mode. this takes two of the main campaigns and allows for you to take on 
 the role of the infected in them. this keeps the game super fresh. its highly enjoyable to fight 
 as four special infected against four human survivors. and due to the fact its based on a scoring 
 system and the roles swap between the two teams. 
  
  Everyone gets a go at being the special infected. i cannot recommend this game enough, especially 
 if you already have friends on xbox live who are playing it. brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bateman77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:43 am PT
Review:  I had great expectations towards this game. The first thing that meets your eyes is that there 
 is actually no campaign mode at all. Campaign is just four locations where you and your 3 pals 
 must make it out. No story, no context, nothing at all. Abysmal or not, story telling is a must 
 to me. 
  Without a plot to go thru, there is just no point to play alone and then online (as I'm used to 
 with the GoW, Halo, and CoD series) .
  Besides, I was negatively impressed by the fact that to make it thru any location simply takes 
 a little more than 1/2 an hour. So you can complete the whole game in a day (if not an afternoon, 
 if you're stuck at home with a flu like me...) .
  It's worth mentioning that online versus mode can be fun because it allows you to control the Infected 
 and kill the Survivor. But even this fun won't last long.
  My advice, rent it first and check if the price is worth. For me it wasn't and my copy will soon 
 hit eBay shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay is easy to pick up but hard to master since the normal difficulty doesn't do the game 
 justice those who have any experience in the genre will want to start out on the hard mode. Once 
 you've done that be ready because whithin seconds you're gonna have zombies all over you, from 
 all sides. The gameplay is truly frightning and intence but it's also addictive and fun. Valve proves 
 again that simplicity is golden.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  A mix between half life and TF2 the graphics are both realistic and over the top. There a great 
 amount of gore and blood in Left 4 dead but theres also a great physics engine behind it all that 
 makes everything click. The framerate also manages to stay smooth about 90% of the time which is 
 impressive considering the amount of zombies on screen.
  
  Sound 10/10
  A combonation of creepy backround noise the familliar zombie groans and loud guns means that theres 
 never a moment of complete silence or rest. The 4 survivors also shout warning and talk back and 
 forth to either help or tease one another.
  
  Value 9/10
  There are 4 storys and online co op or vs play. The re play value is very high since the AI acts 
 very different every playthrough.
  
  The good
  Another instant classic by valve, fun fat paced gameplay, dark graphics and fantastic lighting effects, 
 plenty of re play value.
  
  The bad
  There aren't more games like left 4 dead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldude007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead displays great visuals with intense atmospheric music. The combination of both makes 
 for intense gameplay, especially during the most difficult setting. Ones again a gamer (casual 
 or avid) can relive their fantasy of shooting zombies if they ever do walk among the living. Just 
 consider it training before the 2nd coming. One of the great innovation this game introduces is 
 the fact that no walkthrough is ever the same. The zombies attacks are different every time so 
 in reality there is no strategy one can take, but the basic stay together policy. The solo campaign 
 is pretty short and takes away from the actual ambitions of the game. However, once you find other 
 living corpses to tackle the undead, then the real fun begins. This enables players to tackle hordes 
 differently and ability to have immense fun during the most difficult setting. With different players 
 around the world again no walkthrough is alike. Also during the multiplayer campaign more entertaining 
 maps are provided, than those provided during the solo campaign. This game is truly enjoyable in 
 the company of other zombie exterminator aficionados. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffmclark1973
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ok First thing you have to know, this game is not really single player driven and that is it's 
 only major flaw. The other flaw is that it is very limited in multi-player maps, well kinda. 4 
 campaigns, on single player is ok your AI team is not so effective on helping you in a bad spot, 
 especially if they have already found a good hiding spot, they will only come out to save you if 
 you have been put on the ground and most of the time only if it is a special infected that has 
 you down. It is still a great game by yourself, and if you think it's too easy just up the difficulty 
 and boy it gets difficult!! This game is best enjoyed online with real people controlling the other 
 characters, but you better get your team hat on and your coordination skills honed, because without 
 your teammates to help you out, your not gonna like this game at all, and especially don't be the 
 guy who's always messing things up on purpose, because there is a kick feature that can have you 
 voted out!! Another aspect that may seem kooky but cool, the game is loosely based that you are 
 in a movie, so it kinda takes the creepiness out of it, but then again you really don't have time 
 to be creeped out as you will always be fighting off the infected. In verses mode you go from being 
 survivors to infected to see who can make it through the level or dominate as the those poor souls 
 as the infected, oh this is the other bad thing about it, it chooses your infected for you so you 
 could possible be stuck playing as a hunter or boomer a few times in a row. But it does make for 
 some great games. One last thing, there is no preset number of infected and if you wait around 
 too long, you'll get the horde, and if you make loud noises, you get the horde!! So all in all 
 move fast and efficiently. In all this game is defiantly one of the best investment you can make, 
 especially if you play on line. I just can't wait for more multi-player maps and maybe even a few 
 more editions to the teams?? (meaning the infected) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  You get this. Half Life/Counter strike meets 28 days later and dawn of the dead. Fans of the horror 
 movie based games and the team co. op games are in for a hell of a ride! I first played this game 
 new years eve... What a way to bring in the new year, huh? With screams, gun shots and 4 strangers.... 
 Well, depend on where you had your new years party, It might not be that different! Anyway, L4D 
 was a entertaining ride. what made it stand out from the usual horror games you see, is the A. I. 
 Who ever programmed the A. I for this game needs to be praised yet, at the same time they should 
 be punched in the face... The A. I of the zombies is great but, the team mates you have do things 
 from time to time that could case you to die. Well to its credit, this game is made for 4 people 
 to play. hence the name, Left 4 Dead. The achievements in the game are cool but at the same time, 
 the can get ridiculously hard to achieve. Burn the witch, Crowned, Tank killer, to name just a 
 few... That I can't get. Overall, this is a great game to get if you are a fan of horror games and 
 4 player co. op games. and all the added features in it will keep you busy for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead, developed by Valve Software, places you in a world where a strain of rabies has infected 
 humanity, leaving you along with 3 other survivors fighting tooth and nail to survive. You'll fight 
 through countless hordes of infected in an airport, a city, and even a dark countryside to escape 
 a grusome death.
  
  Left 4 Dead's main focus here is multiplayer. That's also the problem. Like Shadow Run, there's 
 no story. That would be ok, but Valve actually tried to put one in and removed it. It would have 
 at least been nice if they added some kind of bonus feature or collectibles just to give us some 
 kind of insight on the characters and what happened to humanity. It's fun slaughtering hordes of 
 zombies, but, why are they zombies? Who the hell are these people patting me down and handing me 
 drugs?
  
  The director A. I. can be your best friend, or a real A-hole. The game observes your progress and 
 randomly spawns weapons, med-kits and painkillers throughout the level. It also spawns special 
 enemies and sends random hordes your way.
  Your friendly A. I. is actually quite smart. It'll help you out when you need it, it'll heal you 
 when your health is low, and help you keep zombies off your back. I'll even go as far as to say 
 the computer is smarter than the people you'll play with over live.
  
  There's only 4 campaigns. Each campaign has 5 chapters, which amounts to about 20 different maps. 
 It takes about 45 minutes to blow through a campaign, and even longer on Expert. If you're lucky, 
 you'll do well enough to get through a campaign on Expert in an hour.
  That being said, you'll play these campaigns over and over and over again and again. After a while, 
 it gets a little boring, even with random spawns. There are only so many places tanks and assault 
 rifles can spawn.... And at the moment, there's only two Versus levels.
  Another thing is, all Valve games look and feel the same. It just feels like you're playing one 
 massive Half-life mod and that's not a bad thing, but it's not a good thing either. The graphics 
 aren't great, but, the game is so dark, you'll barely notice. Lest we forget about the hordes of 
 zombies you'll be running from or killing. The lighting is done well though and adds to the games 
 depressing and spooky atmosphere.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a very fun game at first, but, after the 10th time of playing through a campaign, 
 the fun wears thin. The lack of a story and things to do aside from killing zombies doesn't help 
 either. There's a lot of potential here and maybe through DLC, Valve can make Left 4 Dead go far, 
 but, if Team Fortress 2 is any witness to their lack of attention for the console versions, the 
 future looks kind of bleak. If you really want to buy Left 4 Dead, go with the PC version, there 
 are already some amazing mods in the works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  the whole concept of the "revolutionary" zombie AI director is that it will give the game supposedly 
 infinite replay value by spawning zombies in different locations every time you play.
  
  no cigar. there are four "campaigns" (each can be easily beaten in fourty five minutes or less) 
 and each is almost exactly the same as the last. there are only four weapons to choose from and 
 needless to say the gameplay gets boring pretty fast for quite a few reasons. after you've beaten 
 the four campaigns which you can easily do in a rental period, theres really no value left unless 
 you want to rack up the tedious (one requires that you kill 53,595 zombies for a whopping 20G) 
 and in some cases absurdly difficult achievements
  
  this is definitely not the best game of the year. it's not even the best zombie game as Dead Rising 
 has far more variety and replay value. so what is it? a cheap popcorn action game good for a few 
 hours of play. don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srowan03
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start off by saying, I hope you have friends! Or at least are able to make friends 
 very easily online, because, without them, this game will be nearly impossible, and just no fun. 
 This game is designed to be play with friends, not by yourself.
  
  Ok, to the review.
  
  Left 4 Dead is, as you know, a run and gun zombie killer. In the campaigne you choose from 
 four different players, who are stranded in a city swarming with infected what used to be, civilians 
 of the city. You have to fight your way through the city, picking up and using what ever you can 
 get to help you kill the zombies. You start the game out with a pistol, which has unlimited ammo 
 to use, and you can also find a second pistol so you can duel wield them, which also, both of them 
 have unlimited ammo. Through out the levels, you will find ammo stashes, each holding various weapons, 
 and a pile of ammo for you to fill up on your current weapons.
  
  There is the sub-machine gun, a small, fast shooting gun. This gun is great for those up close 
 moments when those zombies get just too close for comfort.
  
  There are two different shot guns. A pump-action shot gun, which shoots a round, then pumps, then 
 another shot. This shotgun doesn't really help much, but it can take out multiple zombies with 
 one punch. Then you have you semi-auto shotgun. It shoots with the power of the pump-action, with 
 only one difference, it fires as fast as you can pull the trigger! In my opinion, the best gun 
 in this game, it doesn't have to much range, but when those zombies start to gang up on you, it 
 has a massive crowd control. Just start mashing on that trigger button and watch them fall. The 
 only downside to this weapon is it's clip size, it just isn't big enough, and depletes very fast, 
 and it leaves you without a good weapon (not good) .
  
  The sniper rifle, I know, a sniper rifle? In a game where zombies run extremely fast and swarm? 
 How can this be useful? I thought the same thing when I first saw it. But actually, it has it's 
 moments. They are few moments, but there are some. Like when you first enter a large area, the 
 zombies aren't exactely stirred up yet and angry. Just tell your teammates to hold back a bit while 
 you thin them out some, work on your head shot achievment.
  
  Of course, you got your everyday assault rifle, it's slower shooting than the sub-machine gun. 
 But it is very accurate and has pretty good crowd control. You can pick off zombies from afar with 
 it, and when they charge, it works too! :)
  
  This game also gives you the feature to play as a "special" infected. There are the smokers, which 
 have to ability to shoot out there tongue and grab a human, making them helpless while you strangle 
 them to death, There is the hunter, which pounces on a human, also making him helpless, while you 
 literally rip his (or her) guts out. You got the boomers, which are very gun, you run around and 
 can puke on people, yes, puke. Once a human has been puked upon, the swarm comes, and is attracted 
 to it, causing that human to have to fight of hundreds of infected. Then, the tank. It's not an 
 actual tank, but darn close. It runs around throwing objects and bashing everything, it takes a 
 crap load of bullets to take down this bad guy.
  
  Overall, this game is a solid buy. It's very fun to play and has mad replay value. The zombies 
 spawn in a different area each time you play. So sometimes, you can sneak around that nasty witch, 
 while others, she spawns right in your patch, forcing you to disturb her. But, this game has it's 
 downfall, like many other games. For this game, it's an absolute must to play with friends, or 
 a group of talkative players. Yeah, there are bots you can use, but they aren't as smart and it 
 just isn't as fun.
  
  Zombies, they never die:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead for Xbox 360 is one of the reasons to pick up a xbox 360 it has great-smooth graphics 
 that run at constantly fast frame rate. the gameplay is fresh and fun with you and 3 other bots 
 or players running through a level while 100's of zombies come and try and maul you down , but 
 you arnt defensless you get Uzi, Shotgun, Assualt Rifle (M16) ,auto shotgun , pipe bombs , snipers 
 , molotovs , pistols anything you need to kill some zombies and all are so much fun to use. theres 
 SO far only 4 campaigns with 5 chapters each. the game is only about maybe 5 hrs long but with 
 4 difficulties , co-op different spawning of enemies, guns and bosses everytime you can bet your 
 ass youll play this game over and over. 4 friends onlines in campaign while as versus lets you 
 play 2 of 4 campaign maps and lets 8 players 4v4 humans vs zombie bosses which adds to the replayability. 
 Dont hesitate to buy theres gonna be more campaigns released in the future and honestly just thinking 
 about makes me think of how many nights me and my buds play this all night. 
  
  Overall Buy, Buy and Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is by far the best zombie/horror game I have ever played and never thought they 
 would even think of making a game quite like this one. It's kinda hard to put down.. once you start 
 playing it, you play for long periods of time and you don't want to stop... it's fast paced, in 
 tensed, and action packed... everything you could want in a horror game. You hardly ever get time 
 to just relax.. this game keeps you at the edge of your seat and keeps you well motivated, the 
 graphics, sound, game play well EVERYTHING about the game is great, then you even get to see what 
 its like to play at one of the infected monsters of the game. Its an incredible experience and 
 is well worth the buy... DON'T RENT just get it, you won't regret it.. You'll wake up each and 
 every morning eager for the time to come to just relax and eliminate all the mutated monsters in 
 your path, or just go to versus mode and turn on the humans and help the zombies... either way, 
 you'll love the game. 
  This is a must get no regret EXCELLENT for online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Art3Zero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead a recently new release from the prestigious Valve development team. Is it a good game? 
 Yes, in almost every way this game is bound to hook you from the start. Why? There are four different 
 campaigns in which you and 3 of your friends (or bots) shoot and blow up your way to the rescue 
 point. What is in between the starting point and the rescue point? DEATH! At least if you don't 
 play as a team that is. There are 4 safe houses I believe, before the rescue point. These safe 
 houses act as a checkpoint so if your whole team dies, this is where you start off again. Weapons 
 include two starter weapons: Pump shotgun and the sub-machine gun. Three later acquired weapons: 
 Auto shotgun, M4 Carbine, and a hunting rifle. These three weapons must be scavenged for but will 
 be found in obvious places. (Also appear early before the first safe house. Watch out for zombies, 
 they WILL look for stragglers. Versus mode is exactly that; Intelligent hunters, smokers, boomers, 
 and tanks. Are you having trouble deciding to buy this game? Lemme help you one last time. BUY 
 IT!
  
  I gave this game an overall score of 9.0 because even though this game is fun with friends and 
 the zombie killing is fun, it will be somewhat repetitive (even though the AI director spawns things 
 differently every time) . Killing zombies will not be fun unless you really have your friends with 
 you. Glitches are very scarce but in versus mode, zombies can move large objects (i. e. a forklift) 
 in front of a door blocking the survivors' path to the safe house. Hope these cons give you insight. 
 They don't change my opinion towards the game much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrofire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Shooting your way through hordes of zombies is always fun. Combined with the group tactics of four 
 players makes it funner. Sadly this game only offers levels which feel like clones of each other. 
 There is no plot, just shoot zombies until you beat the level or die. 
  First off this game is absolutely meant to be played with other human beings, the computer AI is 
 a little too good at times and can make playing the game by yourself very boring. 
  The game has 4 chapters which play like the typical zombie movie: Shoot your way to a rescue point 
 and battle wave after wave of zombies until rescue comes. Each chapter may have different looks, 
 but plays like the same house with new paint.
  The game only offers a few monster types which are there throughout the game.
  Offline, this 
 game offers 10-16 hours of gameplay.
  The best part of this game is VS mode that allows people to control some of the more powerful zombie 
 monsters. This makes the game more difficult and adds more originality when playing the same level 
 for the 5th or 6th time.
  
  This game feels like the maker meant to sell additional chapters later on through XBox Live, and 
 thus left the store copy with very limited game play. 
  
  This game is only worth while to those with internet access. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollingMeatball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  OK, so let me begin by saying this game is nothing new at all. It's a typical FPS replaced with 
 a zombie apocalyptic skin. The graphics are below average, and are what we expect off the previous 
 generation (with the exception of character designs) . There's not a lot on offer "story mode" wise, 
 just 4 campaigns that average an hour or so each. And speaking of stories, there's absolutely no 
 storyline what so ever. We are given character development in return for the lack of story.
  
  So despite all the negativity, why the high score? All the disadvantages couldn't match to 
 the high impact of how addictive this game is. It's a mindless shooter in which requires little 
 skill, just infinitive fun. There's no puzzles in between, no minigames, no nothing. Yet it somehow 
 draws you in, despite it's minor variety of goals. 
  
  Basically, it's a co-op game, nothing else. And if prefer to play solo, or don't have extra pads 
 or LIVE, than it's pretty much pointless purchasing this game. This game becomes tedious alone 
 and misses the aspects of what makes the game, mainly due to no one to laugh along with, and it 
 becomes serious. There are 4 maps, with 5 chapters featured on each one. You will encounter typical 
 areas around a city, including subways, airports, forests, sewers and farms. The level designs, 
 despite not really eye catching, please for it's complexity and simplicity. Voice acting from all 
 4 characters are truly amazing, nearly as good as Valve's "Portal". The voice relates to the topic 
 they are reffering to, for example, when Bill dies, Zoey would cry his name, as though she is literally 
 crying. Or when a player is hurt, he can actually feel the pain in his voice. The sound effects 
 are also exceptional, from minor sounds of clashing bangs to the grunts of the zombies.
  
  Your goal for every individual chpater is to reach the "safe room". A big dock-off red roomwith 
 graffiti all over it. You can't miss it. And that's all there is to it. It's just basically Point 
 A to Point B. In between these, you have little objectives to get to your desired destination, 
 such as pulling a switch to open doors, but each of these alert hordes of zombies, which require 
 plenty of medpacs and ammo to bypass. 
  
  The small variety of levels make up for the wide variety of enemies. Excluding the zombie zombies, 
 there are "special infected". These are opponments that have deadly abilities. Hunters are small 
 critters that look like the dude off Assassins Creed, only coated in black. His ability is leaping 
 on a player and rapidly take shred him to peaces, leaving him on the floor helpless until a rescuer 
 pulls him off. Smokers are tall, lanky dudes with green smoke whirling around him. He grabs people 
 with his huge tounge and brings the player towards him. Boomers are obese, bubbly critter that 
 puke (yes, puke) on the player, releasing a scent for fellow zombies to come and attack. By fellow 
 zombies, I mean hordes of them. 
  
  On top of these, there's 2 others that I like to call the bosses of the game. Witch is a female 
 zombie who is plotted randombly on the map, sat crying, and prefers to be alone. Flashlights on 
 and walking towards her would wake her, in which she launches her self at the person who startled 
 her, and rapidly attacks. She is critically dangerous, so it's best avoiding bumping into her. 
 Tanks are the big boys, the one's you really need careful planning upon how you approach them. 
 Teamwork is highly nesecarry. They use slabs of concrete from the ground to knock you on the ground, 
 and pummel you with their mammoth hands.
  
  The weapons in the game disappoints. Not so much they are bad, just again, little in variety. Excluding 
 pistols, there are 4 other guns, and only 2 types to be precise: 2 Machine guns and 2 Shotguns. 
 Because of the lack of weapons, there's little strategies combat wise to face your opponments. 
 On top of this, all 4 share near enough the same statistics. Double pistol can near enough match 
 the same strentgh of a Pump Action Shotgun.
  
  Oh, and there's a 4 on 4 VS mode. 4 survivors go through story mode as normal exceptthe special 
 infected are played by people. Oops, I forgot to mention that. And suprisingly, it works pretty 
 well. All as good as one another, and contain both advantages and disadvantages. Basically the 
 aim of the special infected is to stop the survivors from reaching the safe room. Despite not containing 
 the same atmosphere or goalless fun of campaign, it's great addition to the game if you feel competitive.
 
  
  Overall, if you are expecting an epic game with a phenomenal storyline, unique gameplay and long 
 story mode, look else where. It's nothing more than a high adrenaline packed, fun-as-hell barrell 
 of laughs. Don't dismiss this if you like your mindless shooters, or co-operative games, because 
 this will be a landmark in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinyp5
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I really dont know what people want today.
  When you get a good game with a bad story everybody keeps saying that its not immersive and there 
 is no atmosphere.
  And now, I see Left 4 Dead being this game, but instead of saying its not immersive and there is 
 no atmosphere, people say that this game is a old-school zombie shoting, a return to the arcade 
 shooting, etc.
  What?
  Today we`ve got games where you can fly helicopters, jump over buldings, kill giant aliens, live 
 the second world war, chainsaw monsters, use eletric power coming from your hand, explore an entire 
 free world city and everybody just want to know about shooting a few types of zombies, with a poor 
 variety of weapons, and run away from point A to B throughout the entire game?
  There`s is no inovation in this game. Its just shooting zombies, shoting more zombies and guess 
 what! Shooting other zombies!
  I`m not saying that`s boring, but It does get repetitive after a time.
  The game doesnt have 
 a plot or a storyline for you to follow.
  We can do almost everything in games today, and people just want a game with one button to jump, 
 one to run, another to shoot or throw a grenade...
  Its to simple. Like all valve games.
  And it beats me why everybody likes it.
  Why have next gen platform, if you`re going to play 
 such an arcade shooting?
  Not good. Really.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryulin18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  Okay, reveiw first, Its ambitious for something that brings back memories of my spot ridden teens 
 in a computer game store playing counter strike. Though the graphics can be dated somewhere about 
 2000 and it doesn't hold the title of most ingenoius layout or largest maps.... It doesn't need 
 them.
  
  What this game gave you was what John Woo with a syringe full of adrenaline would give you... Mind 
 numbing, screaming like a girl action as well as a form of comradery I only hope to see more in 
 games. How else can you play this game if not with 3 other players screaming like loons as you 
 un-load your shotgun on what you wish was your boss now covered in blood and maggots (Just me??) 
 No game I have played to date can fill your friends list so much.
  
  LONG LIVE LEFT 4 DEAD! SHORT LENGTH OF TIME TILL A SEQUEL I HOPE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SawtoothDragon
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:22 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead: I like this game alot, it has great graphics, awesome how it is a first person shooter 
 (new to most people who have played zombie games) , and fantasic multiplayer. I like how you kill 
 zombies endlessly, either offline or multiplayer with other people or friends. The thing that is 
 missing is a real story in the game, and new content. Yeah, you kill zombies on and on for hours 
 and hours, but it gets boring to most people after a while. You can play any level in the game 
 in any campaign regardless if you have gotten up to that part yet. I think that is stupid and pointless 
 because then anyone can play any level without even achieving the first part of the game.
  
  What I have left to say for Left 4 Dead is that it's a solid "Shoot N' Reload" game (derived 
 from "Hack N' Slash" haha) . I like Resident Evil more because of the amazing story and gameplay! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is good but you should rent first just because you will most likely beat it the week 
 that you do rent it. You play as one of four characters and you play these levels that turn out 
 to be movies that you guys are acting in. It is a good that they changed it instead of like other 
 shooters but just change it to something better. Now you get to blow off zombies arms and heads 
 and legs but that doesn't completely make up for how short and repeatative the game really is. 
 It almost does but not all the way. The onlie is a good thign to play when you jjust want to kill 
 things because you rather get to play a special infected zombie (that is a zombie with different 
 powers that just normal flesh hungered zombies) or one of the humans beside 3 other online players 
 it doesn't really matter who you play as they are all the same except there is one girl and three 
 guys. So one of the things that you will like about the game is that the graphics are good. One 
 of the things that you won't like about the game is that there are a very few variety of guns to 
 choose from through out the entire game. And a middle liner is that the zombies sprint at you it 
 is good because it is hard to miss the whole swarm of undead sprinting at you but bad because if 
 they sneak up behind you, you are almost basiclly f*cked unless your team mates are close to you. 
 The online is good but don't leave you team mates because you will die and don't let zombies kill 
 your team mates because you need them to survive. This is a good game but did not deserve to be 
 in one of the game of the year contenders. A strong 7 or 8 out of 10. Get it if you want but just 
 saying that you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toastngravy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  
  So I'm fairly sure most of us have heard of, watched a movie, played a game, or in some cases pretended 
 to be one for Halloween. What am I talking about? Zombies. We adore these brain eaters like it 
 was when we were 5 and had a favorite teddy bear you always had with you. Why do we love them? 
 That could be any number of reasons, the bloody corpses of our relatives coming to kill us, the 
 fun of beating rogue zombies that escaped the horde with a golf club, or just grabbing a generic 
 zombie movie shotgun and blowing their head off. No matter what the reason, many people adore them. 
 What people really adore is zombie movies. Wave after wave of the undead at a seemingly endless 
 rate attacking maybe the only survivors left in an entire city. This is where left4dead delivers 
 the goods.
  
  
  In left4dead you basically take control of one of 4 survivors (Bill the sometimes grouchy war vet, 
 Zoey the college girl who watches too many zombie movies, Francis the tough guy biker, and Louis 
 the black guy) in 4 different campaigns. Each campaign puts you into a movie setting (with its 
 own snazzy poster while the game loads) , each have its own unique environment to play in. From 
 the country side to the city you are going to hit zombies no matter where you are. In each game 
 your overall task is to (other than survive and kick zombie butt of course) make it to a location 
 where you can call for rescue. This is accomplished by making your way through city streets, sewers, 
 across roof tops; even through a cornfield at one point (The Children of the corn are never around 
 when you need them) . Weapons include a default pistol (which has unlimited ammo, and at some points 
 in the game you can pick up a second) , shotgun, hunting rifle, assault rifles, pipe bombs (which 
 beep and blink, they attract all normal infected in the area too it before exploding) , and quite 
 a few other random goodies.
  
  
  Just like traditional zombie movies, breaking away from the group is never a good idea and often 
 results in death. This is enforced by a few "special" zombies (The game refers to them as 'infected') 
 in place. The special zombies are unique zombies that each have their own special way to ensure 
 your fate if you don't have people to help you out. First let us go with the Boomer, in short this 
 is what all the overweight and poor diet people will become during the zombie apocalypse. These 
 guys will "puke" or explode (upon death, hence the name) on you causing a horde of zombies to be 
 attracted to the people who get covered in its slime. This leads to fun times. The Hunter waits 
 in the dark shadows before pouncing on top of you and, for lack of better terms "Rips your nipples 
 off" quite literally. The smoker (AKA: The Gene Simmons of zombies) has a long tongue that wraps 
 around you and drags you off away never to be seen again. The last that I will mention in detail 
 is the Tank. The name is fairly self explanatory but if you want a fairly good visual, type "Body 
 Builder" in Google images. All of these require other teammates help in one way or another to be 
 sure you make it out alive. The default zombies or "The Horde" are quite a funny thing to see at 
 times. They behave naturally, you can sometimes find them fighting amongst themselves, throwing 
 up, just hanging out, or other things. These guys are attracted by light, or louse noise. Setting 
 off certain vehicles car alarms in game will cause a large amount of them to rush your location 
 from anywhere they can. It's not all bad though, these guys die in roughly 1-2 well placed shots.
 
  
  
  The games graphics, while showing a bit of date compared to others, excel for the purpose of the 
 game. Dark rooms full of zombies that you don't see until your turn on your flashlight only to 
 have said zombies attack at first sign of your light. I could go on but I'd be here longer than 
 I wish. Each character displays different reactions, verbal and otherwise (facial emotions) to 
 different situations, which can cause some giggles. Let us not forget about audio as a whole. The 
 music in the game switches as per the situation each player is in, meaning it is possible for two 
 players to hear different music at the same time per situation. This adds unique music to fit what 
 is currently happening to your character. To be just pure honest, nothing beats hearing the scream 
 of the Witch (the special I never mentioned earlier) when she is startled by a foolish teammate 
 that gets too close.
  
  
  This game is meant for multiplayer, I wouldn't suggest playing it any other way than multiplayer. 
 Ignore that there is even a single player option, it doesn't exist, and the option is dead to you. 
 You can team up in any of the campaigns, on any difficulty, with other players. Each time you play 
 through any game, it is always different. This could range from gun locations, med pack locations, 
 pipe bomb locations, even places where special infected wait for you. That contributes to adding 
 a new experience each time you play through a campaign.
  
  
  Multiplayer doesn't stop there, it also includes "versus" matches that let you take control of 
 4 of the special infected (Boomer, Hunter, Smoker, and the Tank when the game allows someone to 
 be it) . While as an infected you die as easy as a person in a wheel chair loses a 50 yard dash. 
 That doesn't ruin the fun by a long shot. Nothing is as fun as lurking in the shadows waiting as 
 a hunter waiting for one of them to fall behind then pouncing out and ripping their nipples off. 
 It makes everyone feel better.
  Just to be fair this game isn't perfect. The zombies sometimes may move awkwardly, and the learning 
 curve of the game doesn't go anywhere. When playing the game, you learn as you go and you better 
 learn fast if you want to live (which in turn adds a zombie movie feel) . There are a lot of other 
 small things I could go into as well but I would just be nit-picking by that point.
  
  
  In the end, there is more I could have explained, more I could have went over, and some things 
 I could have just not said at all. That doesn't ruin the point that the actual game is fantastic. 
 The only thing that could make it better was an option to be an elderly lady that used a handbag 
 pepper spray that constantly tries to figure out why people are offering her free samples.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallenchicken
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game by yourself is just like playing with yourself; its better with 4. Left 4 Dead 
 has 4 movies or campaigns. Each campaign has 5 parts, its around a hour to complete each one. So 
 there's a 4 hour game you have, but you will spend no less then 15 trying to beat it on expert, 
 getting all the achievements, and just playing it out of love. Then theirs the versus which is 
 just a blast and will keep you playing for months. I would say this is a must own, if for nothing 
 else then to watch your Buddie limp why he begs you for your health kit. But don't give in to his 
 plea, that would just make you soft. Give a man a fish you feed him for a day, teach him how to 
 fish you feed him for life. When you tell him that he might call you a a**hole and call a vote 
 to kick you out of the room. But that vote wont pass, because your the host. He also might bring 
 up that your the one who shot him, and that you some how "owe" him the health pack. Or "obligated" 
 to heal him. But don't fall for his communist lie, this is America god dammit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsnake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is great fun
  there is only one bad things about it
  theres no real story
  each campaign has the story of how their going to get away
  but nothing gd or important for example, 
 where the zombies came from, who is responsible for them, and is there a cure
  none of that
  by reading this you would think it is a bad game 
  no stroy does ruin it abit
 
  but apart from that it is a great game
  the teamwork for example, healing each other, saving each other from the smoker and hunter zombies
 
  the selection of weapons is ok, the usual shotgun, m16, pistol, uzi, sniper, molotov and the pipe 
 bombs (which are wicked)
  other goods things about the game are you can choose your character, choose the campaign and the 
 chapter as all of them are already unlocked 
  also playing online is good because you can chat an you work together with people so you get more 
 friends
  one of the few games where you work together online 
  
  so overall it is a good game, sure it can be improved but hey, no game is perfect
  and it is 
 well worth buying
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  The game is absolutely awesome. Running around using strategical tactics to conquer the endless 
 horde of zombies with three of your best buddies is a blast. Each map has an eerie feel to it and 
 the score makes it that much more intense. Every time you hear that loud "uh-oh" music and the 
 ground starts to thunder every gets ready for the fight of their lives against the tank and other 
 zombies at the same time. Finding ammo and weapons are rewarding making you feel apart of it and 
 then setting up gas tanks and propane tanks to send the zombies back to hell in a blazing storm 
 of fire is just awesome. The versus mode is just as fun when you get to be the special infected 
 and the survivors trying to out maneuver them. Yes there aren't a lot of maps which doesn't let 
 this game be perfect but I'm going to give it a perfect score because of the rumored DLC which 
 adds maps and I trust Valve will do that knowing them. So its a must buy, its tons of fun and I 
 encourage all to purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pseudoluke
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  First of all, sorry by my bad english :)
  
  Left 4 Dead is the kind of game that give us another view about FPS. 
  Some players think that 
 the game doesn't have history, but this is not the point. The game remember the movies of George 
 Romero, Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriguez. The game also remember the good things of Seriuos 
 Sam's games.
  You cant play Left 4 Dead making comparisons with other games, because Left 4 Dead is single. 
 Playing online Left 4 Dead brings a diferent kind of fun. You fell really responsible about your 
 companios, and this is a big addictive to the game.
  Left 4 Dead it's a great game (even if you don't play online) , but olny got 100% in online play.
 
  
  The game jus't don't a 10/10 score because some small things. The game could have more weapons, 
 better progressive offline play and etc.
  The ghaphics are good (everyone knows what Source can do) , but is not full potential of Xbox360, 
 but this really doesn't matter when you have a great game like Left 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a great game for the family NOT.
  This is possible one of the most insanly fast paced games I have ever played in my life. Even on 
 Easy mode (although I normally play on the hardest one) I find that I am struggling to keep my 
 health up enough to get to the safe rooms found within the levels. So, now that you have had this 
 little random introduction :P Here is my review on all the key points.
  
  Aa1aa: graphics
  Aa2aa: controls
  Aa3aa: story
  Aa4aa: multiplayer
  Aa5aa: scores 
  Aa6aa: 
 wat you get for your buck.
  Aa7aa: character bio/ guide
  
  Aa1aa: graphics
  So graphics on Left 4 Dead are superb. The zombies look like zombies, you can tell what everything 
 in the environment is etc. Its all great in the design department.
  Now the only part of the graphics I have to say I am not a fan of is 2 things..
  1 is that the 
 lighting is bad at times. Yes I know that they are trying to add to the creepy affect and give 
 you a flashlight, but that flashlight is quite small you know, and sometimes (especially when you 
 are in buildings or in alleys) ti is so dark that even the flashlight literally only lights up 
 a very small space. Now thankfully these areas are few and far in between. My other complaint is 
 that the variety of zombies isn't that huge, they have around 3 different models for males and 
 females each, and then just really pallet swap them everytime there is a hoard of them. While they 
 still all look different my question is this where are the young and old zombies? I would love 
 to see a hoard of tiny toddler zombies that jump at you like hunters and witches do. It would be 
 freakin epic.
  Other than all of this graphics are good so they get a 
  9/10
  
  Aa2aa: controls
  This is getting split up as there are two whole different control schemes.
 
  
  Humans:
  Really good, almost everything is extremely smooth and stuff, its great. Only thing is that when 
 you first start there is really no tutorial (or none that I saw) and it just drops you into the 
 levels. This is okay but the thing is that there are two different pick up buttons, the right trigger 
 picks up ammo and guns and the x button picks up medicine and explosives. I can see why they did 
 this so they could overlap items to save space but still at first it is a bit confusing.
  Zombies: here: Hunter: 9/10 a bit hard to aim his pounce
  Boomer: 7/10 awkward controls
  Smoker: 
 8/10 same as boomer but a tiny bit less awkward
  Tank: 8/10 great, hard to aim cement though.
  So controls all in all get an : 8.5/10
  Aa3aa: 
 story
  The story is split u into four smaller sections. Basically each one follows the same plot "military 
 says we can escape her, lets get here and escape" Very week story I know, but still the actual 
 levels tell a story themselves scrawled on the walls is desperate notes from survivors of the infection 
 telling there family they love them and just stuff like that. It is this that really adds a new 
 depth to the story, and it is funny because even in the middle of this zombie apocalypse you get 
 the people that graffiti over peoples notes and on the signs saying where to go to find help and 
 stuff. IT really is a beautiful experience as far as this goes. So while none of the stories are 
 very deep well frankly aren't deep at all, this little stuff really builds up onto the story and 
 makes you have a genuinely more enriching experience.
  Thus story gets and 8.5/10
  
  Aa4aa: multiplayer
  Multiplayer is truly where this game shines, it is such a huge experience. 
 Being the zombies is insanely fun, and the fact that there are four varieties of them is even better. 
 Being the survivors is also really more intense in multiplayer, because in story you eventually 
 get used to the AIs way of thinking, but when playing against living breathing smart people who 
 are zombies ready to rip you to shreds well there is no other word for that other than beastly.
 
  The only bad part I have heard of multiplayer is that there are only 2 maps available, now I don't 
 know if this is true simply because I don't really host games, I just jump into them to get to 
 the experience faster.
  Anyways multiplayer is great and it gets a : 9.5/10
  
  
  Aa5aa: scores 
  Okay here is a quick roundup of scores
  Graphics: 9
  Controls: 8.5
  Story: 
 8.5
  Multiplayer: 9.5
  
  Aa6aa: wat you get for your buck.
  
  I'm not gonna lie, if you don't have Live do not get this game, the single player is 4 hours TOPS! 
 And that's if you are like not that good at shooters, I for one am spectactular at shooters and 
 beat all 4 campaigns in around an hour and a half
  But if you have live and plan on playing this then I say it gives you quite a bit for your money.
 
  
  Aa7aa: character bio/ guide
  
  
  
  
  
  Zoey
  Bio: Well from the guide it says that she was a student in a university who was flunking because 
 all she watched was horror movies, however these characters have good personalities so you can 
 build up whatever story you want. My take was that she was a single mother and her daughter got 
 "infected" and she was forced to kill her, and thus she wants revenge against the zombies.
  
  Playing facts: I am not sure if this is true but from what I have played with her, it seems 
 like she is a bit faster then all the characters but takes the most damage.
  
  Francis: guide says that he is like a biker dude, my take is similar
  Stats: seems a bit slower 
 but can take the most damage.
  
  Bill: guide says: he is a veteran from the military and is glad to have a new enemy to face. My 
 take: he was one of the army troops sent to save the survivors, however his whole squad was killed 
 so now he himself si a survivor that needs saving.
  Stats: slower but best accuracy.
  
  Louis: works at a job and needs to face up to his bosses, but now they are zombies: my take, regional 
 manager at a job and is forced to kill his staff which he has grown to love but are now zombies.
 
  Stats: same as Zoeys.
  
  If you have any suggestions feel free to PM me. Thanx.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arc170pilot22
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is extremely cool. It is also very basic. There are 4 levels that you go through, each 
 with about 5 parts to the level, each part taking about 15 minutes at minumum to complete. Add 
 it up and it isn't very long, which is a huge downturn. However, all the levels in the game are 
 cool. I can't think of one that is truly less cool than the others. The co-op is as good as everyone 
 says it is. The better you are as a whole, the better you will do. The biggest let down for me 
 would be playying as elite zombies in multiplayer. It is a little trickey to get the hang of them, 
 and even then, it still isn't much fun because you spend more time respawning than you do in the 
 actual game. There is a shortage of weapons in the game as well. There are 2 shot guns, 1 assault 
 rifle, 1 uzi, and a hunting rifle. That is about it. however, they are a blast to use. Even the 
 hunting rifle, which would seem an odd weapon to fend off the zombie apocolypse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForeinPotHead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  First of if you don't like zombie games this is not going to be a game for you, if you don't mind 
 the zombies and are just out there for a shooting game this could be good for you. The best thing 
 in this game is by far is the online play. You can pair of with some of your friends over xbox 
 live or just catch some random gamers trying to do the same thing you are.... and that's kill some 
 dam zombies.
  
  The story line to this game doesn't really catch my interest. If you don't have xbox live this 
 game is not much of a keeper. This game is all about its online experience, not the 2 hour story 
 mode that has no point to it. Yea you can still play with four other people but, the plot behind 
 the story is nothing new, or exciting. Just the same old, bad virus, everyone is infected, take 
 them down and aim for the head!
  
  The biggest downfall to this game is the aiming on the guns. In most shooters you can aim down 
 the scope of your gun, like in Call of Duty, Farcry, ext. Usually if a game doesn't have a good 
 way to aim down the barrel of the gun, they make an exception. Usually by making the aiming a bit 
 different, but still catches the eyes of the gamer making it still simple to pop a guys head off. 
 This game seems to lack the free aim option and there is no good way to honestly be "100" percent 
 accurate. I guess all the shooting is mostly close up and no need, but i wish there was a free 
 aim where you could actually try and aim for something instead of just spraying until you hit your 
 target.
  
  So to sum it all up, its a great game, and definitely a game you'll pop in your xbox more often 
 the you think. It has one great downfall (aiming) but other then that this is a great online experience. 
 O ya make sure you note that if you NOT and xbox live user and do not go online, and just play 
 the story/campaign mode of games. RENT IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:30 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead - The graphics aren't anything special. They look like some 2005 Xbox 360 game. They're 
 pathetic compared to the modern day games that came out in 2007/2008. I'm not even sure if it's 
 X360 graphics, maybe even XBOX, but graphics really don't matter one bit.
  
  Left 4 Dead's gameplay can get extremely repetitive - zombie, zombie, tank, witch, zombie, zombie, 
 boomer, hunter. Sounds like a lot, right? First off, the hunters are basically regular zombies 
 and boomers. They just barf on you. The witches are fun to fight, but it takes two seconds to kill 
 them. It's fun at first, but it can get really boring. It's basically the same thing the whole 
 game. The cool thing is that the zombies are different looking every time you see them. It's not 
 just like the Dead Space necromorph, GeoW2 locust but, it's different every time. L4D is a fun 
 game, but it can get extremely repetitive. 
  
  Multiplayer - Well, I haven't tried this yet, but hearing from some reviews, it's really good, 
 and some of the best. These are the creators of counter-strike - a famous first person shooter 
 with over 100k+ people on at once.
  
  Story - It has none. 
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead is worth a rent, but if you like it that much then I suggest you buy it. I 
 recommend renting it, because you might not like it because of the gameplay. If you like a good 
 story - this isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hard_Target
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:07 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead has already set a new standard for me in the horror genre of gaming. It's style is 
 completely unlike any other game you've ever played. Truly unique.
  
  Setting:
  Modern zombie apocalypse. Very chaotic. You do the math.
  
  AI:
  It has a real time difficulty 
 feature built in to the game that will always step the difficulty up if you're moving too fast 
 or dumb it down if you seem to be having trouble. Your teammates are sometimes "too good" as they 
 will usually see and kill the "Special Infected" before you ever know they are there. Sometimes 
 steal your shine/spot light.
  
  Graphics:
  Very good. Valve really hasn't done anything new with this game engine, so if you like games like 
 Half-Life and Portal, then you will you be equally impressed with these graphics/gameplay.
  
  Story:
  There isn't much back story given in this game; On purpose.
  How would you feel 
 if you woke up one day and there were zombies pounding away at your doors and windows? Me? I'd 
 team up with some people and try to get to safety...
  
  Controls:
  Very easy to use. Standard FPS controls. Should feel natural within about 5-10 minutes of playing.
 
  
  Replay Value:
  This game has one of the best replay values I've experienced in a while. It has been packaged with 
 an environmental randomizer. Meaning that every time you play through a campaign, every door, ever 
 wall, every area, every enemy, and every weapon will be placed somewhere different. In short, good 
 luck trying to form step-by-step strategies!
  You will never get bored playing this game.
  
  Online Play:
  Very good.
  The versus mode is excellent. Very fun and challenging.
  Playing 
 through a campaign with 4 other friends is simply amazing.
  Playing with people you've never met before can really be rewarding.
  It's a great team building 
 experience.
  (2 player split screen is available, even online! Do note that the graphics will suffer from this.)
 
  
  High Definition:
  Available in up to 1080p!
  The game actually has a "film grain" effect that is only accessible when playing on an HD tv.
 
  
  Worth Buying:
  Yes! This is one of those very few games that is worth the $60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str33tz_ninJa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  
 
  
  
  This game is great for people with LIVE
  -------
  Overall, this game is great if you have a bunch of people.
  
  Single Player isn't so much fun 
 because the AI follows; you cant ask them to go in the room first or anything so you always take 
 most damage. And stradegy is almost inexistant with the AI its just Run-And-Gun
  
  Multiplayer Player is a ton of fun because you can go fight the zombies with your friends or you 
 can versus your friends and play as the "Boss" zombies, which is a ton of fun. Also, you can do 
 the campaign (Single Player) with your friends and strategize
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwcolt44
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is a great game for someone who has a full friends list and others on the friends list 
 who have Left 4 dead in their game libraries. It excels at multi-player, and having a dedicated 
 group of friends to play with (or a clan if you are a member of one) makes this a great game. To 
 get the full effect of the "movies" you need to set aside about an hour block of time to play through 
 an entire movie. 
  
  If you do play with a random group of strangers be prepared for frustration as there are a lot 
 of people who seem to forget that this is a team game, and will tear off across the map with little 
 regard for tactics or communications. This game will punish you (and others) for trying to lone 
 ranger the game and it can get frustrating when you run into people who try to play this game like 
 it is Call of Duty with zombies........
  
  It can also be alot of fun to change the pace and play versus matches and try your hand as one 
 of the zombie horde. there is nothing quite like taking it to your friends as a tank, or spewing 
 zombie juice all over your opponets (that just sounds wrong on so many levels........) 
  
  The single-player, while there, is just the multi-player campaign with Bots controlling the other 
 three characters. The bots are deadly accurate with their weapons (to the point that you have a 
 hard time getting special infected kills sometimes) and they only go where you go. You could see 
 this as an advantage, but the game feels empty and unfinished in single-player.
  
  Overall, this is a great multi-player game, as long as you have friends or a clan to play with. 
 The single-player is what kills this game for most though, as it feels mostly like an afterthought, 
 and lets face it sometimes you just want to game alone, or you dont have friends up when you are 
 having an all-nite gaming binger and that is where Left 4 dead..... Dies.
  
  
  If you need to find a great adults only clan, and you are 25 years old or older, check out 2old2play. com 
 2old2play was listed by OXM as one of the top ten reasons to be on XBL. Or send me an XBL mesg 
 to ask about it. 
  XBL GT : TuffORCop
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Okey L4D ) Left 4 Dead ( is a great! game. very good graphics, good game play pretty much every is 
 so good in the game ! You learn the game very fast. I put Very hard cause i play and everyone else 
 should do that to by playing on the hardest Mode (expert) Could be very hard! easy game mode will 
 get boring in maybe 20 minutes of the game so i would suggest that you start with normal mode from 
 the start then you can higher up te level...
  
  The single player is okey the team mates can be little annoying by just standing in the way. And 
 sometimes when you mtry to escape and close the door when like 200 zombies just comes from no where 
 and they just opens the door and ruins it all but single player is playable 
  
  Now Mutiplayer is the best gaming experience in the whole game you can play with your friends as 
 the survivors fighting the zombies and making plans its the best mutiplayer ever.
  
  So about the zombies if you like games where you have to fight of 50 zombies every where, this is 
 the game for you it wont let you be in peace its awesome it aint like Res4 ) Resident Evil 4 ( L4D 
 is very intense.
  
  About the maps i think they should be little bit longer They aren't very big maybe just 5 minutes 
 (if your fast) 
  
  The map design is very cool and can be scary sometimes when you are hearing these voices from every 
 where and you cannot see anything at all then a bunch of zombies just jumps out and kicks your 
 ass so be on guard.
  
  The zombies aren't all the same some has special talents like the Hunter and smooker which makes 
 it cooler that not every zombie are the same. And one thing that's also very good that the zombies 
 are running like horses very fast makes it hard to get a shot at them which also makes the game 
 better in a way. So it aint those slow zombies no these guys are fast. The zombies are inspired from 
 a movie called 28 Days Later. And if you seen that one you will see that the zombies pretty much 
 acts like them....
  
  So that's why im giving the game a 9,5 would be 10 but the team mates kinda screw things up a little 
 bit but the game is anyway very awesome indeed and to every zombie lover well this is a game for 
 you 
  
  Thanks for reading my review
  
  Hitmaner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the best Zombie killing game I played in awhile. Yes even better the Dead Rising.
 
  
  Graphically its about as good as HL2 (obviously) . The zombies animations are pretty nice and you, 
 the humans, have good animations for your various events that happen throughout the game. Really 
 no complaints.
  
  Controls are a little weird to get use to at first since there are things like Yelling and all. 
 But its get easy after awhile.
  
  Audio is excellent. Screaming witch zombies, ground pounding tanks.... its all done well. And the 
 music that changes makes it perfect in a already tense zombie game!
  
  Gameplay wise it all really depends on what your doing. By yourself the game can be fun on a nice 
 big screen. But its funner with friends (that take their time) . Online.... its not as fun. 
  
  When offline you (and your friends) and the AI teammates go through 4 movie type scenarios 
 where you are trying to escape the infected zones. You get 1 primary weapon and a secondary. You 
 have a flashlight, first aid spot (can heal teammates too) , a pill spot for temporary health boost 
 (can give pills) and a spot for explosives like molotovs and bombs.
  
  There are two types of weapons. Basic weapons. And like advanced weapons. You usually start out 
 near basic weapon (uzi , shotgun, rifle.. etc) . Then at some random point you'll come across advanced 
 weapons. Which are auto-shotgun, machine gun, sniper rifle... etc. And there are things like mounted 
 turrets and gasoline containers and random stuff like that in the game to use/destroy.... etc.
 
  
  At certain parts of the game you have spots that trigger hordes of zombies to come after you. Usually 
 a switch or something that like opens a door or does something useful. This is usually pretty fun. 
 Oh and cars do the same thing if the alarm goes of when you shoot them. 
  
  There are diffrent types of zombies in game. There are just teh basic ones that run at you and 
 attack. Then from there there are the kind that leap on you and attack. Ones that grab you from 
 a distance with their tongue and pull you away. Ones that barf upon you to attract other zombies 
 (and you are blind somewhat) . Some that are called witches that just sit there and do nothing unless 
 you startle them with flashlights, noise, shooting them... etc. And a tank which basically chases 
 you and beats you to a pulp. He needs EVERYONE to take him out usually.
  
  The best part about this game is the fact is its all random. You can the first level 10 times and 
 while you still will be going to the same place... nothing will be in the spot... guns, zombies, 
 pills, explosives.... they are all randomly placed. Which is also affected by difficulty.
  
  There are some downsides to this game.
  
  Online can be fun if your doing COOP story... unless 
 of course everyone just rushes through the level. Then its no fun. Especially when everyone has 
 mixed connection speeds.
  
  Online matches where people can be zombies aren't as fun either. Being a zombie isn't much for 
 for most people. That needs some work.
  
  Theres only 4 "movie" scenarios. While each one takes about an hour to beat if your not rushing 
 through... its not alot to do... even with it being random and all.
  
  Overall its a really fun game. More so if you have friends online or off. Worth a rental. Even 
 worth buying... but once again only if you have friends to play it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAZAK913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the best zombie game I have ever played!
  
  The Campaign has 4 difficulty's Easy, Normal, Advanced & Expert. The zombies are like the zombies 
 in the movie 28 Days Later (Speedy Zombies)
  
  I finished the campaign in under 5 hours on Normal but the Versus Mode you can play as the Special 
 Zombies (Hunter, Smoker, Boomer and Tank if your lucky) You don't choose the zombie you want to 
 be it is randomly done.
  
  The one thing that you may be dissapointed about is in versus mode, when you get killed as a zombie 
 you have to wait around 30 Seconds to respawn.
  But at least that will give you 30 seconds to take a wizz or get something to drink :)
  
  I 
 think I have played 6 hours straight on Left 4 Dead or maybe more, no breaks I got so sucked into 
 Left 4 Dead, I forgot how to get of the sofa!
  
  So if you want a zombie game with speedy zombies and a brilliant online this is the game to buy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I had been looking forward to this game for a long time! From the first 
 time I heard about it I was pumped and couldn't wait for it! So yeah, this is my breakdown of Left 
 4 Dead:
  
  Graphics: Solid all around. Not the prettiest game ever but it does a solid job all around. Love 
 the head shots and when the zombies surround pipe bombs. It's a thing of beauty.
  
  Gameplay: If you like Counterstrike at all, you will love this game, especially when it comes to 
 gameplay. Control set is just sick and the game is fast and furious. You always have to watch your 
 back in this game.
  
  Audio: Character voices are great and they say some great stuff. Zombies sound very zombie-like 
 and when boomers explode it sounds oh so perfect!
  
  Overall this game is amazing and is a must play for anybody. If you have three other people to 
 play with this game is pure gold! It's even fun by yourself or played with just one other person, 
 it's that good. Plus, it's different everytime because you never know where everything will pop 
 up. GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboy3060
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be very good, but I recommend to have friends on xbox live who play it. Multiplayer 
 is fun, if you get a good team that knows how to play. The campaigns were fairly short, about 30-45 
 minutes on easy, and can all be completed in a day. The achievements and versus mode keep you coming 
 back. Versus is the mode that allows you to play a special infected and is very addictive. The 
 AI director has its bugs, but always makes the game different every time. You just never know when 
 that tank will spawn, or if the witch will be around the corner. Its just always different. I did 
 find some lag in split screen though, but not enough to ruin the fun. So in conclusion the multiplayer 
 is great and campaigns are short with lots of repeatability. If you love cooperative first person 
 shooters, then you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead, joins Valves family of top knotch games. Except this game features.... you guessed 
 it, ZOMBIES!!!!
  
  
  Left 4 Dead puts you in the place of four survivors, who have to fight there way to rescue.
  
 So. What does Left 4 Dead bring you?
  well, i shall tell you
  
  
  The story.
  
  So, you have the choice of four survivors.
  Francis: An outlaw biker.
  Bill: The war vet.
 
  Zoey: The dropout college girl.
  Louis: The IT consultant.
  These four have to fight, dodge and weave there way to rescue, through four campaign/Movie like 
 levels.
  Each one offers different difficulties and playability, but each are very fun to play.
  But the 
 story is left very short, and with only four campaign levels, and no real plot, except to escape 
 that is. It doesn't really grow on you, and can get quite stail.
  To be fair, it's all great, fun, quite scary and best played with friends. It wouldn't have hurt 
 to ACTUALLY come up with a proper story to Left 4 Dead instead of just four campaign maps to repeat 
 over and over and over till your brain implodes from bordom. But even so, it's all quite fun and 
 qill keep you entertained for a couple of hours, but it's not the type of story that's very compelling 
 and aint anything to really brag about.
  The AI director makes each run slightly different. but it doesn't seem to really come in to play 
 much, you often find yourself knowing where the infected are going to appear from, even if it's 
 a slightly different place, you know it's going to happen.
  
  The graphics.
  
  Valve have a reputation for creating outstanding graphics, and in Left 4 dead, it's no different..... But. 
 i have my issues with them.
  Left 4 Dead has to be the most rushed game graphics wise, i've never played such a pixilated next 
 gen game in all the time i've owned my 360.
  When you blow up a Boomer and venture off to see its remains.... you don't want to be welcomed to 
 half a body... with pixilated entrails, that's just plain pathetic. Walls and floors are no different 
 either, stretched and pixilated. Not something i'd really expect.
  the only properly detailed things are the four survivors faces... That's it.
  Lighting is quite 
 bad too. For instance, when you go behind an abandoned car with the lights still on, you'd expect 
 the lighting to reflect onto your HUD, but there's non of that at all, infact you only see that 
 in the intro cut scene. Ingame graphics occur in that, but obviously everthing has been improved. 
 as with all next gen cut scenes with supposed in-game graphics T__T.
  To me the graphics don't leave an impacked.. And arnt anything to get excited about, not even for 
 the PC version.
  The frame rate of the game seems a bit too gittery also, the way people get downed by special infected 
 seems a bit too cheap for my taste, and with the supposed ''MO-CAPPING'', it doesn't seem to actually 
 be there.. the infecteds movements are too sharp like time splitters, and the way everthing moves 
 seems a bit to... well... not realistic at all and i'd prefer it if everything where a little bit 
 smoother.
  
  
  the Physics.
  
  Lets just say that when it comes to physics.... It's like valve left that part incharge to..... someone 
 else.
  Water physics are non existant.
  Body physics are there.. but it's quite pathetic.
  Over physics such as environment damage like doors, cutlury and such are there, but also arn't 
 Valve standard.
  
  Multiplayer.
  
  Like i said before, Left 4 Dead is better when played with friends, and i stick to that statement. 
 the campaign is a hoot when played with your friends.
  But it's slightly worse when you play with strangers. You get kicked if you don't have a microphone, 
 and Lag always occurs.
  Left 4 dead has quite a bad Lag issue, and i have to say that the servers are bad... even more so 
 than gears of war 2.
  Verses mode ups the anti with the campaign mode, giving you the choice to play as one of the special 
 infected (minus the witch)
  this has to be the one that tops doing campaign with friends... and that's killing them while being 
 an infected.
  But with only 2 maps to do verses in. it's something that gets repeative after say about...10 plays.
 
  But. EVERYTHING just seems to be campaign related... as if Valve are ever so proud of it, but as 
 i said before, the story mode aint anything to brag about. so it'd be nice if they explored different 
 ways to make the mulitplayer vastly different.
  
  
  Overall though, Left 4 dead is a game worth buying.
  But with no downloadable content, short 
 story, repetative multiplayer and story mode. I'd suggest waiting till the prices to go down till 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender-san
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  For years I have argued with friends about zombie apocalypse survival tactics. Where would we go? 
 Who would we save? What would we bring and who would die first. Now, thanks to the folks at Steam, 
 I actually have a chance to simulate a sort of "zombie Apocalypse". 
  
  Without droning with backstory, Left 4 Dead is a 4 player, co-operative and Versus game. The idea 
 is that you use teamwork to move through almost impossible zombie situations. It's done in classic 
 "B-Movie" style and works amazingly well as both a co-operative game and multiplayer versus game. 
 Fundamentally a shooter, but at its heart, it's a short lived survival horror game. 
  
  The game does co-op like no other game before it. The game DEMANDS co-operation even on it's easiest 
 setting. At any point a teamate can be rendered helpless, and without the help of his friends, 
 he will die. No amount of button mashing on his part will save him. There's limited health supplies, 
 so the players must ration health and share with teamates to ensure survival.
  
  I won't go into all of the gameplay requirements as sureley you've already read the official review. 
 So I will introduce some aspects that most gamers dont talk about when they review this game, and 
 that is the friendship factor.
  
  On XBOX live, when you get into a good party (AKA a party which doesn't have 2 players playing 
 on split screen) and every one has a microphone, even the most uncooperative player is huddling 
 with the team if he's determined. The driving force of each player wanting to actually survive 
 the scenario keeps the team focused, communicating, and supportive. This (in my opinion) is the 
 best game for making friends online, as when you beat a scenario you will almost certainly feel 
 a comradery with the stranger on the other end of the country. Friend invites usually go all around. 
 And when you have a team that works cohesivly enough to try the expert mode... Well... then you'll 
 really have buddies. 
  
  Left 4 Dead is a MUST HAVE for fans of co-op (like me and my brother when the first halo came out) . 
 No game does co-op like this, but I'm sure there will be many a immatator soon enough. As a zombie 
 enthusiast, this is my favorite zombie game of all time, followed by Dead rising, and resident 
 evil (1,2, and 3 respectively) . My only complaint is that there's only 4 scenarios as shipped. 
 They are good, but even the most grizzly survivors will want to play some other types of scenarios 
 after a few go rounds. Also, I wish that there was some infinate horde mode. It seemed almost obvious 
 to put such a mode in the game seeing as how its a zombie game. Any way, Definitely worth a 60$ 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inwmickey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  u know this game should be game of the year because it was excellent of graphic, story but the 
 story is too short.
  
  now i will talk about no mercy champion. this campaign is my favorite campaign it show how long 
 or how short is it for u to go from the apartment to the hospital. it show how hard is it. this 
 one show a lot of effect when the survivor waiting for a elevator because the zombie will come 
 2 side of the lift it show how hard and how long should it be when u waiting for the elevator.
 
  
  death toll is the campaign that show about the city near the river because in the end there were 
 a boat that take u to another city. this campaign show that the city near the sea is not to much 
 people and building. 
  
  dead air is the campaign about the plane it show that when the zombie was come the airport were 
 destroyed by the horde and how hard is it to go in the plane and escape. this campaign show that 
 when the plane was come to the airport it was so hard to land on the runway and take the survivors
 
  
  blood harvest is the campaign that show about the long road that take u to the farm. this campaign 
 show that the fly vehicle and the big vehicle cannot land down and take the survivors but just 
 the cars that can take the survivors to safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a throwback to the old shooter that had no storyline per se. It is about stemming 
 the zombie hoard and that is all that there is to it. No storyline to tie you down or divert your 
 attention. This game is about getting from one safe house to the next wihtout being mauled by hoards 
 of zombies who, like killer bees, will swarm you when you least expect it. It is creepy and fun 
 as hec to play. The settings are reminiscent of some of the darker sets contained in the game 'half 
 life 2' which is not surprising since the game is by the same folks. Where this game excels is 
 in its lack of pretense to be anything but a shooter and in the cooperative play mode where one 
 can hook up with buddies while trying to survive the zombie onrush. The graphics are good, the 
 settings are cool if not a bit dark which, by the way, is the perfect kind of setting for killing 
 or being killed by mindliess zombies. Weapons are great and I personally recommend the automatic 
 shotgun for taking out many zombies at a time. This game reminds me of the good ol days of 'Doom' 
 when a shooter was simply a shooter and the storyline was about self perservation.
  
  Have fun!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  one of the most unique games Ive ever played and very fun I like it because the gameplay never 
 lags your constantly fighting and killing zombies and somthing is always tring to sneak up on you 
 so its got that resident evil feel to it and this game has great co-op even better it has offline 
 split screen co-op and in the game it allows you to be the zombies which I thought was pretty suprising 
 everything was pretty good I will admit some of the parts can be pretty frustrating and very difficult 
 but beating the 4 campains is very rewarding so fighting through the hard parts isnt to bad the 
 game should be a little bit longer I know alot of people compained about that but I think this 
 is the sort of game you play over and over again on diffrent difficulties and to get achievments 
 so it shares some things with call of duty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead pits players in a series of areas in which they must reach the end of in order to get 
 to the "escape". With intensely fun 4 player co-op this game has it all. The downfall comes when 
 you see the amount of campaigns available. There's 4 campaigns with 5 missions within each one. 
 I'm definitely not saying this game doesn't have a replay value because honestly the bar is step 
 pretty high in that area. Each level is setup the same way, you begin in what's called a safe house 
 and within each one is a health pack (used to heal yourself OR a teammate at any given time) , ammo 
 (placed for when you need to restock) , and lastly the choice between a Mini-Uzi submachine gun 
 and a shotgun. As you progress through the level you'll encounter different types of zombies that 
 are unique in the way they attack you. There's a zombie with the title of a "Smoker" who throws 
 his tongue at you and drags across the floor only attempting to strangle you, which can easily 
 be broken out of with the help of an A. I. bot or if you're playing cooperatively then a friend. 
 There's a very scarce amount of different zombie though. There's only about 3-4 unique zombies 
 overall, but there's a twist. Each time you play the game the zombies are placed differently making 
 it fun to replay and impossible to memorize where each zombie will be next. Left 4 Dead is focused 
 manly on the teamwork. If you are playing through the game alone you may be disappointed by the 
 A. I.'s stupidity sometimes, but there's a points where they do shine and save the day. Due to the 
 amount of mature content in the game you'll see a decrease in the amount of children playing the 
 multiplayer aspect of the game. Multiplayer is a very creative part of the game. It's a typical 
 battle, pitting the humans vs. the zombies, but this is where the creative part kicks in. The humans 
 must play through a normal campaign, but the fun part is that other players over LIVE are also 
 on the zombie team meaning that you'll be attacked by not only the zombies placed in the game, 
 but players over XBOX LIVE.
  
  Overall, the game is awesome and wont let you down at a party nor will it let you down if you have 
 friends who enjoy sitting back and shooting some zombies. Check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAX_RAMBONE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  If you don't have Live, why the hell not? Sort it out. If you like first person shooters and you 
 like zombies and you do have Live - stop reading this and go buy this game. Simple as. 
  
  As a huge zombie and videogame fan, I feel it my duty to write a few lines about this game. I'm 
 quick enough to slate any poor release in this genre - it's only fair I take a moment to pipe-up 
 when things are done right - as in this case. 
  
  It is of course short, short, short. 4 levels split into 5 small-ish maps. So long as you don't 
 enter into this game for long-term one-player thrills you won't be disappointed. It is my view 
 there will be many new campaigns and maps and weapons for download in the future, at a cost of 
 course.
  
  In all modes, L4D is attractive, tight, immersive and maintains an atmosphere of unpredictable 
 peril through it's dynamic AI events system and that really does save the game from repetitive 
 strain. You never know from which dark corner something may or may not pounce - AI or better yet, 
 HI controlled.
  
  As I'm sure you've read - this game lives for multiplayer and for it's multiplayer you will soon 
 live. It is a hugely addictive and fun experience online and that's where you'll head and stay 
 after an initial warm-up solo campaign or two.
  
  Upside:
  Technically competent. Atmospheric. Frenetic. Satisfying. Addictive. Bold arcade approach is refreshing.
 
  
  Downside:
  Gunfire sounds a bit too forward within soundtrack. The M4 Gives me a headache.
  
  A little 
 frustrating to wait 20 seconds to respawn as monster. Not long enough to roll a cigarette, too 
 long to do nothing.
  
  Light on weapon/map variety and (so far as I know) unlockables. 
  
  No Leaderboards or rewards for online advancement.
  
  I wonder how long it will be before 
 those who don't wish to pay for expensive DLC are playing less of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Fighting zombies has always been appealing to me. Resident Evil 4 was the greatest survival-horror 
 game ever created (in my opinion) . What kept me playing it was the sense of danger, creating excitement, 
 and the satisfying combat. Left 4 Dead doesn't have all that much in common with RE4, but it still 
 deserves a place in any horror fan's collection.
  
  There are four separate campaigns in Left 4 Dead., and each one contains four or five levels. You'll 
 be able to play as one of four different characters throughout the short campaign. And I mean really 
 short. This is a game you'll probably beat in under 3 hours. There are a few different guns to 
 choose from, like a shotgun, sniper rifle, M16, and an Uzi. You'll fight dozens of zombies across 
 a variety of different locales. Unlike RE4, most of these zombies don't seem to take that much 
 damage. There are four difficulty settings to choose from, but easy seems to be the most satisfying. 
 
  
  Each campaign will take your around 30-45 minutes each. The level design is quite simple. You and 
 your comrades spawn with weapons and health packs, kill zombies until you reach a safe room, and 
 repeat the process. At the end of each level, numerous waves of zombies will come at you as you 
 wait for an escape vehicle to arrive. There are a few unique zombies, like the witch, hunter, and 
 tank, a massive zombie. There's no denying, however, that the levels do get a bit repetitive. Some 
 players may even be bored with the game within the first hour or so. The game isn't as much fun 
 to play alone as it is with other players. It's basically built for four players to cooperate to 
 complete each level. 
  
  After you beat the campaign, there's a mode called Versus. There are two teams: survivors and the 
 zombies. If you play as the survivors, the experience is practically the same as the campaign, 
 except that there are four unique zombies being controlled by four real-life players. The zombies 
 aren't that much fun to play, since you'll get killed more often than not by the survivors. So 
 the entire game is pretty much the campaign, with the Versus mode being forgettable. A cool thing 
 that the game lets you do during the campaign is to have the option of "take a break." This allows 
 an AI-controlled player to sub for you while you're away from your Xbox 360. This is a very neat 
 thing in my opinion.
  
  The audiovisual presentation is great. The environments are highly detailed, and there'll be blood 
 everywhere when you shoot the zombies. The zombies sound great, and the atmosphere is simply excellent.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead is a great action game. Unfortunately, there isn't much to it. There's only the single 
 player campaign and the versus mode, which is pretty much the same thing and is forgettable. The 
 campaign won't last you more than 3 hours, and it's not that much fun playing it alone. Still, 
 this is a zombie fans' paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireAndIce12435
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I am seriously reviewing this game to be SICKKKKK!!!!!! It's so much fun, the only complaint its 
 only 4 Campaign's the only way for this game to get a 9.5 is if there's new game types and DLC 
 (such as Missions, Maps, Characters, and Weapons. But other than that its  
 C R A Z Y C R A ZY A W E S OM E A A A A A A A A A A A A W W W W W W W W W W W W E E E E E E E E 
 E E E E E E E E E SOSO OS OSSS S S S S S S S S S S S S M M M M M M M M M M M M MM E E E E E E E 
 E E E E E  1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I personally found the game very repetitive. Alllllllll you did was go around and kill zombies. 
 Sure it's fun for about 2hrs but then gets boring (just my opinion, don't get all butt hurt) . On 
 the bright side, when your playing it for the first 2hrs its definetely a blast. You go around 
 shooting zombies and its really satisfying when you get to a safe room. The gun controls are solid 
 but theirs not really a lot of variety to the weapons. It's pretty much one for each class of weapons 
 like for the assault class you get an M16, for demolition you get a shotgun and son on for the 
 other classes. It's best played with four friends you can give the characters names of your choice 
 or from your account. Graphics are solid, sound is excellent, gameplay is solid as well, but replay 
 value is low. After you beat the short campaign your gonna have enough of shooting zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead may not be the prettiest game technical wise but when it comes to the sheer fun of 
 blowing seven shades of sh*t out of hundreds of zombies it more than makes up for it with a great 
 co-op system and a fun versus mode where you can test out special infected.
  
  Although it has no proper backstory left 4 dead mocks B-grade zombie movies with loading screens 
 corny movie posters with the four survivors.
  Left 4 dead has a great control scheme with the usual right trigger as fire and left trigger is 
 to wack the crap out of a zombie.
  
  Although you can play by yourself with AI controlled teammates the real fun is with playing with 
 other people trust me the real fun is where you all have mics and one of your teammates starts 
 screaming like a little b*tch because a hunter has just pounced his sorry a*s.
  
  If you just want a really fun gameplay experience and you dont really care so much about story 
 then left 4 dead is the perfect game for anyone who will enjoy a romp through the zombie horde. 
 game of the year perhaps, best zombie game of the year definetley and this will keep zombie horror 
 fans happy until the release of resident evil 5 next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoMiNiC147
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics for this game isn't top notch graphics. In fact I'd say there kinda kiddish 
 but it does work with how the game feels.
  
  Controls: This one is different from most first person shooters. The B buttons to reload and the 
 Lt button is to melee. Now after a little bit you will get used to the controls or at least I did.
 
  
  A. I. : Both the Infected and Human A. I. really freaks me out. The survivors have almost perfect 
 aiming and they are a lot of help. They are willing to part with their Health packs an pain pills 
 to help you out. Now the Super Infected always make me say what the heck. They always get me when 
 I least expect it which really makes me wonder. Can the A. I. really know what your thinking?
  
  Sound: I suggest you play this at a high volume letter (or put on captions) because your going 
 to want to know when a hunter, boomer, smoker, witch or tank are around. The sound was okay for 
 me. Nothing really caught my attention.
  
  Multi-player: Now if you don't have xboxlive then DON'T GET THIS GAME. I can not stress that enough. 
 Not only is it way more fun when your playing with real people but it more strategic. You can plan 
 what you want to try out with real people. Also Versus mode was really fun for me. It sorta changes 
 the pace. It's kinda fun dragging one of the Survivors of the side of a building and into your 
 clutches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the BEST zombie game out there. The only problem in the game is that, there is no 
 story. You do not know how you got here, why you are there, and where you are. You know that it is 
 a mutated rabies infection, and you must kill everything in your way. So basically, the game is, 
 kill some zombies, reach the safe room, then all over untill you reach the extraction point. Sounds 
 easy huh? Wrong. It's all about teamwork, and even though the game is repetitive, gameplay makes 
 up for it. It is so much fun to use different weapons and kill zombies. The game is full of suspense 
 and thrill. You will love playing this game. Throwing pipe bombs and molotovs has never been so 
 much fun. You can choose to be 1 of 4 characters, Bill, Francis, Zoey, or Louis. It doesn't matter 
 who you choose, it won't affect you. If you get hurt, you start to limp and slow down. This causes 
 you and your partners to act as a team and watch each others backs. Assualt rifles, snipers, automatic 
 shotguns, double pistols, killing zombies is just so much fun. There are different kind of zombies, 
 which are special infected. There are Boomers, which are big fat zombies which vomit on you. If 
 you get vomit on you, zombies are attracted and will attack you in hordes. Or, if a Boomer explodes 
 near you, the same will happen. There are also Smokers, which are tall zombies which use their 
 tounges to grab you. They can drag you and then hit you constantly untill a friend saves you. Hunters. 
 Hunters ae zombies clothed in hoodies which can climb walls and pounce on you. If they land on 
 you, they keep attacking you which can deal a ton of a damage. Someone will have to shoot them 
 off your or knock them off. And then there are the Tanks. Tanks, are huge muscular, mutated zombies 
 which can pick up rubble and cars and launch them at you. If they hit you, you can go out flying. 
 Tanks deal tons of damage and can take a ton of damage too. You'll need teamwork to get rid of 
 them. When you reach the extraction point, and a vehicle rescues you, you and your friends will 
 have a happy moment. For you have survived the zombie apocalyspe. Now go on to the next level and 
 do it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkaydon2
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Some good things about the game:
  - You can play co-op with lots of friends
  - Good Engine, everything works just fine
  
  Now some really bad things:
  - Only 6 types 
 of enemies that keeps comming after you forever
  - Few weapons
  - Almost nothing to do to help each other passing through the stages other than shooting anything 
 that moves and using the healing kits. Could have been some other things like creating barricades, 
 helping each other to reach higher places, dividing the teams to other places that would put them 
 to work in diferent ways to reach something that needs more than one simple action to get. 
  - Scenarios looks the same in its structure
  - No story at all
  
  So the rank 5.0 goes because 
 although it's a well made game, doesn't offer nothing new after just 2 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ah Valve, one of the best developers of all time. Creators of the Half-Life Series, Portal, and 
 Team Fortress Series now give us Left 4 Dead which is quite possibly one of the best games I've 
 played.
  
  Left 4 Dead is all about friends, so if you don't have any you won't have as much fun. You can 
 play on Live, or Split-Screen Co-op [both awesome] . This game as four campaigns that are around 
 two hours each. Now that may short but they are highly re-playable and have more campaigns coming 
 out soon like the mall from Dawn of the Dead. The game mechanics are fantastic, each level is very 
 fun taking on horde after horde of zombie, and then taking on special infected like the "tank" 
 which is a huge zombie that is hard to kill, or a boomer which vomits on you. The graphics are 
 also very nice to.
  
  The game is perfect in every meaning of the word and should not be missed, and should be in every 
 gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game uses valves tried and true half-life engine. This game does not shoot for the crazy, 
 blow you away graphics with all sparkles and glittery things possible. Instead they stick to a 
 very dependable if slightly outdated system, and the final product is near perfect. 
  
  The game is set up like 4 movies. Like literally movies. The loading screen has the cheesy theatrical 
 poster that introduces the characters *who are the same across all 4 movies* and tells which players 
 are playing as who. The movies cover the basic infection settings, Urban setting complete with 
 undead hospital. A rural setting with farms and farm house. Lake side property with a great lakeside 
 property. Lastly the Airport. Each map is well thought out and looks great. Each "Movie" should 
 take about a hour and a half on the normal setting, if your playing with at least semi experienced 
 shooters.
  
  The game is fast paced, frantic and absolutly requires cooperation or a painful and helpless death 
 will soon be yours or your team-mates. The game basicly forces team play down your throat... which 
 makes since considering hell itself has broken loose and your not a super hero or Rambo. 
  
  Another nice thing about this thing is the "Director" a AI that changes the difficulty of the 
 game your playing depending on how well your team is doing. * a poor team will see more med pacs 
 and weapon ponts as well as fewer boss infected, the opposite applies to the team that does really 
 well* this insures that absolutly no play through is remotly similar other than the basic layout 
 of the maps. The infected will appear from places I never expected, including out of rooms, windows, 
 roofs, cellings, walls and who knows where. Basicly they can come from anywhere anytime they want, 
 you are never safe unless you have reached a saferoom which acts as the check point.
  
  The Multy play in this game is really fun, again granted you are playing with a good group or friends. 
 There is off-line CooP that can be played by two people splitscreen style and online CooP which 
 can be played single player connected to everyone else or even splitscreen connected to other people. 
 There is also competitive mode where four players are the humans and the other four are the special 
 boss infected. the two then take turns trying to finish one of the stories.
  
  Overall this game is probably the best group game to have come out in a long while. Playing this 
 game with friends is really a blast. though it is "short" by comparison to other games it has plenty 
 of replay value and if this is like valves other games new content should come regularly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAt0m
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  When I say HECTIC I mean HECTIC. Zombies sprinting toward you 10 or so at a time... a zombie pinning 
 you down and ripping you to shreds... a safe house so close, but yet so far away. Hectic and in 
 the best way possible. This game made me go out and buy a couple zombie movies. The gameplay is 
 really addictive and is most fun playing with friends. Although, I still have fun playing solo. 
 
  
  Valve does an excellent job with the graphics in this game. I really enjoy watching the zombies 
 do... well zombie stuff when they don't see any of the Survivors. They'll be vomiting or will sometimes 
 just plop on the ground. Also, when you are killing the zombies, limbs will be flying everywhere, 
 heads will be exploding, but my favorite is if you unload on one zombie, it will keep reacting 
 to every bullet until you are done with it and it falls to the ground. 
  
  The sound in this game is done very well. The creepy sounds that the zombies make as well as the 
 background music do a good job of creating a scary environment. Also, the Survivors don't go rambling 
 off the same lines over and over.
  
  Although this game's campaign can be finished in 8 hours or so, I feel this game is still a good 
 value. The multiplayer is incredibly original and works really well. You either play as the Survivors 
 or the Infected. Playing the Infected is really fun and really makes this game stand out from other 
 shooters. Also, even after beating the campaign, the achievements are done so well that it will 
 make the player want to keep playing so they can unlock particular achievements.
  
  Overall, I feel that Valve did a great job making this game. It is truly the best zombie shooter 
 I've ever played and the multiplayer concept is so fresh and original that it will be a refreshing 
 change for those who need a break from COD4 or Halo3.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 9
  Value - 9
  Tilt - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XvX_Fear_XvX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  L4D Is Great fun. It just never gets old killing zombies! The Campaign is very re-playable too! 
 There are lots of zombies to kill, but witches can be a pain. I haven't played online yet but i 
 hear it is really fun. The only downside I think.. is the selection of weapons. There is only 6 
 types! Shotgun, Hunting Rifle, Auto Shotgun, SMG, Pistol, and Machine Gun. They get a little bit 
 old after a while though... It would be fun to have some melee weapons like a shovel or axe or 
 something. That was something i liked about Condemned, you got to hit sh** with a pipe. If it had 
 more weapons and maybe a few more types of zombies, like tanks, witches, hunters, and smokers i 
 think it would be more challenging. Overall I really liked this game, it was fun for hours! i give 
 it an 8 out of 10.
  Buy it for Christmas... you won't regret it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Zombies. There have way to many zombie movies and games to count over the years, and quite frankly, 
 the majority of zombie media is mediocre at best. For one, there's only so many ways for the "origin" 
 of the zombies to be explained, leaving you constantly with a microwaved left-overs taste in your 
 mouth. However, instead of heavily focusing on an in-depth storyline, L4D leaves all the storytelling 
 to you, leaving you clues and hints as to what is going on in the zombie-infested world around 
 you. 
  
  But, the story aspect of the game steps aside for more exciting things. Co-operative play, for 
 example, is brought to a new level in L4D. Not even the most grizzled FPS veterans can storm through 
 a chapter on their own. I guarantee it. You will die if you go alone. Sticking together is the 
 only way to survive, especially when attack by a "Special", an extra mutated zombie that's even 
 more bent on eating your flesh. 
  
  The zombie horde is extremely fun to kill, and watching their heads explode after a well placed 
 shotgun round is oh so satisfying. Depending on the difficulty level you play on, the Horde will 
 kill you at different rates of speed, ranging from, "Come back here and I'll bite your legs off" 
 to "Tag, your dead." Special Infected keep you on your toes at all times, and due to the uber-creative 
 AI Director, you never know where or when Infected are going to attack.
  
  The only thing in Left 4 Dead that annoyed me was the occasional friendly AI's lack of common sense. 
 Now don't get me wrong, the friendly AI is incredibly smart, and will save your life more times 
 than you'd think, however, there are times when they aren't as responsive as a human player. If 
 your pinned by a Hunter on the other side of a corn field, you better hope and pray that your AI 
 will finally hear your screams of agony and come to your rescue. 
  
  The friendly AI problem that I just talked about can however be diverted, by either playing online 
 Co-op or online Versus. Co-op is the same campaigns you can play through on Solo, except this time 
 around, your teammates will hear your blood curdling screams. Versus mode adds yet another exciting 
 chunk of gameplay, presenting you the opportunity to make the Survivor's lives miserable and play 
 as a Special Infected. 
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead is an innovative and fresh, and even though there are only four campaigns 
 at the moment, the AI Director makes every play through a new and invigorating experience. You 
 can't go wrong purchasing Left 4 Dead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ch3mic4lX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: zombies are fun to kill, special infected are unique, great co-op play, artistic graphics, 
 multiplayer options are some fun.
  
  The Bad: not enough options to have the game worth $50 dollars this should be $30-40 considering 
 the limitations of gameplay.
  
  this game is lots of fun but the gameplay will get old after a while because you are doing the 
 same campaigns over and over.
  this is still a fun game just i think the price should be lowered.
  
  people who have a shorter 
 attention span will get bored of this game pretty quickly. If you had the choice to get another 
 game instead of this one I would pick a different game something like gears of war 2 or call of 
 duty 5, because this one just quite isn't worth paying retail for. renting it would be the best 
 option because it is not expensive and you can play everything in a short period of time.
  
  I hope you found this review useful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefeet619
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  left for dead is an alright game. though there is alot that could be added to make it better, for 
 one.. the weapons suck, there fun to start off with but get old, like really quick. you cant even 
 aim, only with a sniper gun. that sucks. they should make the m16 better. put a high tech scope, 
 and a grenade launcher on it. i mean the game play is great, but there is no story line really. 
 there needs to be more cutseens. thy should also have something on the main menu, to tell you your 
 zombie killing stats. like how many kills you had so far .
  left for dead is good but not the best iv played. they should make a new left for dead. make the 
 weapons better and it will be like more successful than the first one. there is not much else to 
 talk about this game. so i guess its pretty cool. yo. they better make another game. this game like 
 needs to be unproved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manmanmanmab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Like many of Left 4 Dead's current players I experienced the thrill ride for the first time while 
 signing into Xbox Live and downloading the demo onto my 360's harddrive. I mean it's Valve? How 
 could you go wrong? After the downloading was complete I stuck around to see the introduction video 
 first. As I sat and watched, my mind began making criticisms such as "This is so Resident Evil" 
 and "I bet half of what the introduction scene depicts isn't even part of the gameplay." Boy was 
 I wrong.
  
  I picked Louis for the first time (cause he's more of a badass than the general) . And as I picked 
 up the equipment from the stock table on the first roof of "No Mercy"'s map I continued thinking 
 this was going to be the same thing as anything else. Then after a good 2 hours of playing the 
 demo I had an epiphany about this game. It's not meant for single player. It's meant for friends. 
 And at the instant I realized "I have been left...4 dead."
  
  Three days later I sold many of my PS2 games and I bought a copy of L4D at a local Play N Trade, 
 eager to get into the gameplay. Three more of my friends have purchased the game and it was on. 
 We started on Expert mode, saying "Hey, let's make this as realistic as possible." With the wits 
 of Will Smith from I Am Legend we all had to watch eachothers backs along with our own. Take all 
 precautions necessary to survive.
  
  And it was amazing. We screamed into our microphones, we made constant horrible killing lines, 
 and swear words were as common as oxygen on Earth. The passion you have for one of your friends 
 getting strangled by a Smoker and the need for you to rescue him/her is beyond anything I've experienced.
 
  
  The versus mode is predominate as well. Bringing the experience of you wanting to kill the survivors 
 as you play as one of the "special" zombies such as Smoker, Boomer, etc. It makes you strategies 
 with your friends and gives justice to the name since the player needs to stick together at all 
 times... or else...
  
  Why didn't I give this a perfect score since I'm raving about it so much. Every game has it's flaws 
 and although this one doesn't have anything too big to remove the player from the experience the 
 mini-quirks do make it a bit annoying.
  
  For example the accuracy of the players gun. If you see a raging zombie coming up from behind of 
 your friend you'll try to shoot it in over to get that ego-boosting "protection" notification on 
 your screen. However, after pushing down on the right trigger you'll discover that you shot your 
 ally and depleted their health significantly. The auto shot on your zombie's cursor is also a bit 
 iffy (sometimes if you're a hunter and your trying to pounce on someone trying to save a constraint 
 ally, you may find yourself pouncing the constrained guy due to the auto shot *sigh*) .
  
  All in all, aside from nit-picky things, Left 4 Dead is a simply unique and intense experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrazr_live
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't know exactly where to start. The game itself is just a lot of fun to play. The downsides 
 are length, and the multi-player. It is WAAAYYYY short. When I say short I mean that you and 3 
 other friends can go online and literally roll through this in around 4 hours from front to back. 
 There are 4 campaigns that consist of 5 chapters. Each campaign takes anywhere from 45-75 minutes 
 to complete. The saving grace with this short of a game is the fact that everything changes from 
 the last time you played. In other words you're not going to say "OK... here's the part where the 
 Boomer comes..." etc. The online multi is rediculous. Basically, if your the survivors you're going 
 to win. If you're the "infected" then good luck getting a kill. The gameplay is addicitve and rewarding. 
 The environments are realistic and immersive. The audio is haunting as well as well written and 
 rest assured it will raise your pulse. One of the best features about this game is just how realistic 
 the damage to zombies can be. Example... you're carrying an AR-15 and you spray a horde, no two 
 zombies will fall the same way. You may clip an ankle and that zombie will limp on that leg until 
 they either A) get close enough to attck or B) get shot until they are dead... again. Limbs fly off 
 and blood and vomit cover your screen. What more could you ask for? I will say this about the game 
 that kinda ticked me off and there's nothing (that I know of) that you can do about it. One of 
 the achievements for L4D on the 360 is where you go the entire campaign using only pistols and 
 another for not using any health replenishers. One of the features of the game is when you stop 
 playing your character for even a brief period of time AI will step in and take control of your 
 character for you. No way to pause in this game because, well, that would be rude right?! Whatever. 
 If they're your friends they'll wait 2 minutes while you take a leak or answer a phone or whatever. 
 Well guess what your character was doing for you while you were gone? You guessed it. The first 
 thing that they did was grab a beefier gun and use health ruining your chances at getting the achievement (s) . 
 Also along these lines, if it's you and 2 friends and you have only 1 AI in the room he/she will 
 try to heal you when you are trying to get that achievement. You can run but they chase after you 
 insisting that you let them heal you. A real pain in the... I'll keep it clean. So these factors 
 can make this game frustrating but over all it's not enought for me to dislike this game in the 
 least. I gave it a solid 9. Definitely worth buying and playing over... and over... and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is pure entertainment. It is one of the best games of the year hands down. It seems 
 Valve is doing something right these past two years. From the Orange Box to Left 4 Dead, they have 
 done a superb job. Left 4 Dead takes place in Pennsylvania. You play as one of 4 survivors that 
 are basically in movies. Yes Left 4 Dead has four missions for four movies. I was even surprised 
 that they even had credits after the mission/movie is done. But let me make this very clear to 
 you. This is Silent Hill or Resident Evil. This is something much more exciting. In those games, 
 zombies would just walk over to you or maybe sometimes jog over to you. In Left 4 Dead they will 
 run at you full speed without falling and smash you into the ground and start ripping out your 
 intestines. Left 4 Dead also does a good job of scaring the crap out of you. When I played the 
 game again, I was expecting to not be scared from the zombies spawning points. When I got to a 
 part of the game I knew zombies were in . . . . they weren't there. No, no a horde was waiting 
 for me in the next room. I got scared, won't lie. Along with the scary parts, FRIENDLY FIRE IS 
 ALWAYS ON. So be careful where you shoot your shotgun or your assault rifles. It makes the game 
 more intense. Then there's multiplayer. You can either play as the survivors or the infected. Both 
 of the sides are fun but I would be the infected I mean who doesn't want to hurl on a man without 
 being yelled at? Left 4 Dead is not just a horror game but it's also a social game. The campaign 
 is supposed to be four friends playing together and having a good time with the game. This is a 
 must have for PC or 360 owners . . . . if you are okay with scary scenes and blowing legs, arms, 
 heads with your shotgun.
  
  GOOD: Great enemy AI; Replay of the campaign; Multiplayer is fun; basically everything.
  
  
 BAD: Nothing really
  
  Left 4 Dead is fun fun fun!!! It is awarded a 10 out of 10 and my highest recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jub77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is one of the best games I've ever played, and I've played alot of games. It will be 
 known as one of the best if not the best game from Valve to date. I mean HL 1 and 2 were good, 
 and Portal was great, L4D is amazing.
  
  The graphics (and physics) are probably the best part of the game in my opinion, not including 
 the versus LOL. There is a hint of horror (zomg if there wasn't I'd be scratching my head heh) 
 but anyway, you don't know where the zombies will turn up next because of the way Valve made the 
 game. They made it so that everytime you play it will be a different game. One game zombies may 
 be flooding a subway station, the next, they may be elsewhere waiting for you to walk into their 
 trap. It's just another way to keep u coming back for more. 
  
  The versus is probably the BEST part of the game, multiplayer game of the year IMO. You can either 
 be the survivors and play the game like you would the campaign (which i'll explain later) OR, you 
 can play as the elite zombies and coordinate your attacks and try and kill the humans. If you dont 
 have XBL (or rather a connecton to it) GET IT NOW. You wont have nearly much fun with the CPU then 
 with buddies online. Just hearing your friend scream to get the zombies off him makes it all that 
 much more fun. 
  
  Now for the campaign, which is good not as great as versus but theres two modes:
  
  1) online 
 campaign - self explanatory really, just u get to experience the campaign with 3 other buddies 
 online.
  
  2) offline campaign - again pretty self explanatory, it's just a local game on your console.
 
  
  The one thing about the campaign that is cool, same with the other modes is that you play the game 
 like a movie of sorts. You have to keep moving through the game otherwise the "Director" will send 
 the kitchen sink that you literally full of zombies. The one thing I don't care about the campaign 
 is that theres only 4 levels which can be done in a couple hours each so pretty quick. 
  
  Overall Review - 9.5
  
  graphics - 10/10
  campaign - 7/10
  gameplay - 10/10
  controls 
 - 9/10
  multiplayer - 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wetsandman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the best zombie game to ever come out. You can play as 4 different characters, Bill, 
 Francis, Luis, or Zoey. None of them have anything special about them so it doesn't matter who 
 you play as. There are 4 different campaigns to play through. Now here comes the reason why this 
 wasn't that great of a game. There is no story to the game. You basically are just trying to get 
 to point a, to point b over and over again. Oh yeah and kill a lot of zombies. The part about killing 
 zombies is fun and all but it is like an unfinished game. it really feels like a beta or something. 
 After playing it for a while it makes me want to now why are their zombies? what happened? who 
 are these characters? and sadly you will never know. Other than that the game is fun.
  
  If you don't have xbox live, don't bother buying this game because it is only fun if you have 3 
 other people playing with you. The multiplayer is nothing all that special but fun. You play as 
 either the survivors or the infected. As the survivors you just try and make it through the levels 
 alive. As zombies, just infect them before they reach the end.
  
  I was really excited for this game but disappointed that there is no story and that the gameplay 
 is nothing special. This is a rental at best or if you can buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skittles_McGee
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that universally, all gamers love to fight zombies. It's no surprise then, 
 that Valve would give us a game where the sole objective is to fight zombies. Now normally, this 
 would seem rather shallow, but Left 4 Dead isn't like any other zombie game before it.
  
  To start with, let's look at the biggest feature of Left 4 Dead: The AI Director. An AI engine 
 that is constantly watching the game, constantly thinking, and constantly adjusting the game to 
 best create a fun and varied game environment. The AI Director will decide where zombies will appear, 
 how many there will be, what kinds will appear, where weapons are placed, where health is, etc. 
 Anything that isn't the level itself is completely unscripted and left to the discretion of the 
 AI Director. This system is a huge risk. Using it could potentially turn out as a disaster.
  
  But it didn't. Instead, the AI Director system is one of the best game engines I have seen 
 to date. The level of depth to it is mind boggling. The Director sees how fast you progress through 
 a level, everyone's health, what has damaged you, how many bullets you've used, what guns you're 
 using, your overall accuracy, how efficiently you defeat enemies, and much more. Based on all this 
 information, the Director will create zombies, weapons, and other items accordingly. For example, 
 if you are progressing through a level quickly, taking little damage, and have a high accuracy 
 you can expect to have a tough time eventually as the Director will up the challenge greatly, regardless 
 of difficulty. On the flip side, if you're going too slow, the Director will create zombies in 
 key areas designed to get you going. For example, it will create a Smoker BEHIND you in order to 
 push you forward.
  
  But enough about that. I could tell you about the AI Director all day and there simply isn't enough 
 space in this review to give you all the details of the AI Director engine. Just know that it is 
 incredibly complex and it alone makes the game more than worth owning. So, on to the gameplay itself.
 
  
  When playing as a Survivor, combat is pretty straightforward but extremely well polished. You can 
 only carry one throwable weapon (Molotov or Pipe Bomb) , one medpack, one bottle of pain pills, 
 pistol (s) , and a primary weapon. Your primary weapon can be anything from an Uzi to an M4 depending 
 on your progress and what part of the level you're in. You also have the ability to "shove" away 
 enemies by pressing the Left Trigger. This ability comes in handy when being attacked by a Horde 
 (a large group of normal zombies) . Using the Shove function lets you, as the name implies, push 
 the zombies away from yourself. This leaves them open to attack and keeps you from being harmed. 
 You can also use the Right Button (near the trigger) to do a 180 degree spin. This too comes in 
 handy to keep enemies off of you quickly.
  
  As it is, Left 4 Dead isn't the most difficult game. However, on Advanced and Expert mode, you 
 will find it to be one of the hardest FPS's out there. Even the first campaign is impossible for 
 many players to beat on Expert mode. So those looking for a challenge will be very pleased as well.
 
  
  If you somehow become bored playing as a Survivor and fighting waves of zombies (which trust me, 
 is not likely to get boring) you can also play Versus mode and BECOME the zombies. You can play 
 as either the Hunter, Smoker, Tank, or Boomer special zombies. I could go into detail about playing 
 as each one, but its best to experience them for yourself. What I enjoyed, however, was that each 
 special zombie had a purpose. I didn't feel like I was "stuck" playing as any of them. I had fun 
 no matter what kind I was playing as. Each of them controls remarkably well and the zombie gameplay 
 shows a very high level of polish.
  
  One of the only downsides to the game is that you are limited to four campaigns of five maps each. 
 That makes for 20 maps in all. However, the fact that, level design aside, the maps are totally 
 random each time makes them extremely fun to replay. 20 maps is also nothing to laugh at for a 
 multiplayer game. The real downside, is that only 10 of them are playable in Versus though there 
 may be a patch in the future to allow all 20 in Versus mode (though its mere rumor for the time 
 being) .
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a fun co-op/multiplayer game you need look no further. If you 
 like zombies, look no further. If you like video games at all, look no further. Left 4 Dead doesn't 
 break the mold aside from its AI Director, but its one of the most fun and polished games you'll 
 play all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w-i-l-d-f-i-r-e
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The re playability of this game is astounding with an actual AI director that caters the campaigns 
 difficulty to your own standards i. e if your sailing through then you'll suddenly become overrun 
 by murderous zombies appearing from all corners vents blasting hoes through walls etc,
  
  also the game randomizes certain aspects like where the best weapons are and health packs etc this 
 makes the game easy to plat over and over again especially with a buddy or two, mabey three on 
 xbox live 
  
  On single player the three bots accompanying you can be more useful than humans by virtue of the 
 fact that they never seem to miss , this can be really anoyying in a mixed bot human multiplayer 
 match, by virtue of the fact that if your an infectd then it can be really hard to kill a lone 
 player the bot always runs back to help out. 
  
  A very good game and very Replayable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Extremely simple game play- survive.
  It has no plot, which some may find disappointed or some may take advantage of it and let their 
 imagination go wild.
  The messages left in the safe houses are extremely hilarious. Although a few are quiet dramatic, 
 for example one stating a man killed his children.
  The messages may give you flashbacks to Portal. But... there's no cake =/.
  The graphics are 
 awesome. 
  Unfortunately there's not too many levels but the ones that are there are sweet. 
  The levels 
 are fairly linear other then a few paths that wind up leading to the same place as the others.
 
  The zombies are very freaky.
  The "director" makes things intense insuring that each time you play will never be like the previous 
 one.
  Being the zombies is extremely fun.
  Unfortunately Versus is only available in only two out of the four campaigns.
  A game with split 
 screen!!! *Angels Singing*
  The simplicity of this game may attract some and send others away.
  With not a terribly huge 
 amount of content you might get bored with this game a little too soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I was psyched for this game to come out and finally it did, it's loaded with zombie shootem-up 
 which I really like, similar to Resident Evil Games. However it gets extremely repetitive shooting 
 the same zombies over and over again...
  
  The game had a sweet and comical layout, like short movies about zombies and you were the star. 
 Competing with 3 others to gang up and shoot all the zo, bies and make it to the next stage. The 
 creepyness and blood in the game were awesome, there is no shortage or disembowlement and blowing 
 the crap out of zombies heads watching blood go everywhere. It was grousome and bloody and was 
 awesome!
  
  The game was a quick beat, all 4 camaigns can be beat in about 7 hours for all 4 of them but the 
 game has a great multiplayer aspect to keep you going! You can save others and help peopledefeat 
 the zombies, and help heal others when they are hurt or sick. If i had online capabilities this 
 game would be awesome for me to play with others. but by yourself it gets old quick.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes zombi shooter games, there is no lack of that. 
 But its over quick and very repetitive, tho playing with others you would definately have a blast! 
 break this one out at a party with all your friends and shoot the crap out of everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is easily one of the best games of the year.
  
  Left 4 Dead starts out as this mindless quest to get from point A to point B under hordes of zombies. 
 It includes 4 scenarios or movies you could describe them. Each movie follows a different path 
 and place to fight the horde.
  
  ------------------Game play ---------
  So left 4 dead is all about getting from point A to point B. On a typical run you go from point 
 A stop at point B alert the horde get swarmed defend a last stand then go to point C where you 
 do the same as B and then to D same as C and then get to E where you finally finish.
  
  This all seems like a very simple game but Left 4 Dead is not a simple game. Left 4 Dead shows 
 off some of the brightest moments of the Source engine. It fully establishes a lag free online 
 unlike Team Fortress 2 on Orange box. It also features amazing moments with tons and tons and tons 
 of zombies swarming from all directions as you and 3 friends try and fight your way to a safe house.
 
  
  Left 4 dead features one of the coolest AI features ever. A specially designed AI director. The 
 AI director basically means no 2 games are the same. Each game the AI randomly generates positions 
 of new Witches and zombies and tanks and smokers and all sorts of zombies. It will also tune to 
 your level of skill by making it easier or harder so its never to easy or never impossible. 
  
  The game play is amazing because it forces you to work together. The motto goes fight together 
 or die alone is fully true. If you separate and try and go Rambo and be this god of fighting your 
 going to die. You must work with your teammates or you will die. This creates one of the best co-op 
 experiences and strategy filled games I have played.
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  
  The sound is perfectly tuned to make it sometimes scary and sometimes not. It fits to create this 
 epic moments. Like when you die and you get this like no hope music.
  
  ------------Graphics ----
  The graphics are not the best we have seen on the console. But they 
 don't disappoint. They work together to create nice good looking zombies that yet again don't disappoint.
 
  
  
  
  The multiplayer is as I said some of the best I have seen. There are 2 modes one that is a standard 
 co-op you play with friends thru the 4 scenarios trying to make it to the end.
  
  The 2nd is my favorite Versus. One team plays as the zombies and the other as the survivors. The 
 best part of this mode is not only do the survivors have to work together but the zombies have 
 to work together or die alone to the players.
  
  There are 6 types of zombies
  
  your standard zombies (unplayer controlled)
  
  The witch is this lady who sits on the floor 
 crying and has this weird music. She is the most important to the survivors survival to not piss 
 off. She does not attack on sight. Instead the witch will attack only if you get to close to her 
 or shoot her or shine a flashlight on her. So turn those flashlights of! The best part about the 
 witch is she is randomly generated each time so she is never in the same place twice.
  
  The next zombie is the hunter who you can play as who jumps on people and can rip them to shreds.
 
  
  After that there is the Smoker who has a long tongue and can pull survivors with it and get them 
 stuck on walls or sides of cars until their friends free them.
  
  The last playable one is the boomer. If he spits on the surivvors or explodes near them he blinds 
 them and it calls HORDES OF ZOMBIES TO KILL HIM. He is really fun to play if you spit on all 4 
 of the survivors and get them murdered by hordes of zombies.
  
  The final zombie is one you only randomly get once and a while to a random zombie player. The tank. 
 He is incredibly strong and big and can punch people really far knock them off stuff and throw 
 concreate blocks at them
  
  All the zombies besides the tank are pretty easy to kill so it requires a lot of strategy and thinking 
 for the zombies to kill all the players. Yet again this creates the best co-op play with friends 
 I have seen in a long time
  
  ----Level design ----
  
  All 4 levels are really well designed.
  
  Theres No Mercy this place where you run thru a hospital 
 to survive.
  
  Then theres Dead air you go thru the streets and country to get to a airport
  
  Then theres 
 Blood Harvest where you run thru a country side area to this home
  
  And then theres Death Toll where you run thru a city again
  
  Each level finishs when an epic 
 finisher of a defend to the last man sort of thing as you fight a crap ton of zombies swarming 
 you.
  
  In conclusion if you like multiplayer play and fun co-op with your friends and screaming ZOMG OMG 
 ZOMBIES RUN moments then your going to have mad fun with this game.
  
  It is an easy buy for just about anyone who likes multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemariens22
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  left 4 dead is an exciting fps shooter that puts u in the shoes of one of four survivors that are 
 trying to survive the zombie apocolipse its good points are the intenese non stop action the ai 
 is smart most times healing itself and yourself when need be. taking out enimies like it should 
 and always finding the best weapons and ammo and med kits. the zombies come fast and hard at u 
 and show no mercy like they should and there are lots of them! and they are varied from the normal 
 zoms to the creepy stalking hunters! to the sobbing stronger than they look witches to the annmoying 
 fat ass boomers! and drag u away and slash u up smokers to the near impossible to kill tanks! the 
 game only has four campaigns but each one is challenging and the gameplay always! changes no matter 
 how many times u play the same level weapons and ammo will be in diffrent places along with the 
 zombies. 
  
  the bad is that this game was made for co op and online there is no real storyline to speak of 
 with minimal character development and story and only four campains with 5 levels each which are 
 all unlocked straight away is disapointing the ai is generally really good but on some occasions 
 it can be annoying like waiting to be revived and at the end of each level getting on to the escape 
 vessel they can take there sweet time.
  
  but all in all left 4 dead is a good game that just needs to have a fleshed out single player storyline 
 to be great 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Well i like the graphics an dthe level designs, the unique bosses, though not very hard, are pretty 
 cool with unique abilities such as a grappling tonque for the smoker. the witch is just creepy 
 and when i first played and i heard her crying it scared me a little, then i carelessly approached 
 her......... bad idea.
  a fun multiplayer in which you can play as the infected, plus the pipebomb is the best! just seeing 
 a bunch of zombies huddle around it in curiosity only to be blown to bits is hilarious and cool.
 
  
  but repetitive, you ofetn find yourself shooting at anything that moves and there sint much strategy. 
 the campaign is a little dull, not cutscenes no branching stories. the opening video was amazing 
 and i expected more scenes like that but thats the only one. the weapons are good but ammo is very 
 often found laying around and you never feel you have to conserve any. all the safrooms look the 
 same and have dumb little phrases and writing on the wall, as well as alot of ammo and your choice 
 of what gun to use.
  
  well its a fun game but if you like games with more meaning this one isnt for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolPawnt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Valve once again releases an epic game of epic proportions! Left 4 Dead is a zombie that's mainly 
 about... Killing zombies!! 
  
  This game is extremely well done, and your first time playing it will be a great experience if 
 you are used to those kinds of controls. 4 Campaign maps or "movies" full of excitement. You can 
 play with your friends or play by yourself with decent AI bots. If you're playing by yourself, 
 you will come to realize that they work very well with you, sometimes they will ignore you if you're 
 being strangled or you're incapacitated if you are behind a rock or out of their field of view, 
 but it does not happen very often and you can trust them to watch your back.
  
  Playing with your friends is a fantastic experience, allowing you to create strategies to make 
 the game interesting and you're also doing it with friends!
  
  The AI Director is amazing, I have played each map many times and I have not seen the same zombies 
 in the same place twice. The AI Director will spawn zombies depending how well you are playing, 
 less infected and bosses will appear if you are not doing too well, more will appear if you are 
 doing very well.
  
  All in all, this game will blow you away. I highly recommend getting it or, at least, renting it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCSBEARMEAT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Left 4 Dead a couple of weeks ago and am loving it! It's deffintely worth the $60 and 
 you will have tons of fun with it. There are four campaines and five senarios for each campaine. 
 Single player is really good but multiplayer is Amazing! You can play single player or you can 
 team up with four friends online to tackle the campaines. But the best part of Left 4 Dead is the 
 Versus mode. In Versus mode there are two teams, The Survivors and The Infected, The survivors 
 goal is to make it from point A to point B without losing too many survivors ( this doesn't always 
 happen) . The Infected have to killl the survivors before they make it out alive. Both jobs are 
 challenging. There are a couple of things that I didn't like about the game. You can't play all 
 of the four campaines on Versus, and that there really is no background to the game except writings 
 on the walls of the saferooms ( which I recomend that you read because it's the only background 
 story you get of the game) . Hopefully in the future Valve will make some DLC for Left 4 Dead which 
 I hope includes: New weapons, New species of Infected, The abillity to play all four campaines 
 on Versus, and maybe some new Campaines. Once again Left 4 Dead is worth the $60 price, but if 
 you don't like Survival Horror games or First Person Shooters then Left 4 Dead isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: con_matrix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  It beats Dead Rising and Resident Evil 4 by a long shot. If anyone wants a good fast paced first 
 person shooter or a game to just mess around on with friends this is the game for you. The scenery 
 is amazing and realistic with the best shadow effects the I've ever seen. Although there isn't 
 many guns the ones they do have make up for it. Whether its speed or power they have every gun 
 you need really, from the Automatic shotgun, the Assault Rifle and the Hunting rifle and not forgetting 
 the pistols which you can dual wield. The graphics are brilliant and each different zombie has 
 a different facial expression. The boss zombies are a brilliant idea. In the game there are 5 types 
 of boss zombies appearing randomly in every level. The boomer, he hunter, the smoker, the tank 
 and the witch. The characters are well designed as well, Zoey a normal mid twenties girl, Francis 
 the hardnut of the operation, Louis who looks like he used to be a business man or something and 
 Bill the war veteran. The story is split into 4 campaigns: No mercy, Death Toll, Dead Air and Blood 
 harvest. The is designed to play with your friends so this is how it really shines. Along with 
 co-op and single player campaigns there is versus mode where you control the boss zombies. Overall: 
 BEST ZOMBIE AND VALVE GAME EVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a superb game to play. Its a lot of fun. The action is fast and furious. I love 
 it when a horde of zombies come running at you. Its great fun to mow them down with your machine 
 gun. This is an awesome game and an instant classic. This is one of the best games that I have 
 ever played. The only other zombie game that is better than this is Resident Evil 4, which I gave 
 a 9.7 out of 10. The graphics are very great. The players faces look perfectly real. Everything 
 in this game looks great. The single player story modes (There are 4 all together, for a total of 
 20 chapters) are great as well. Story mode #1 I give a 9 out of 10. Story mode #2 I give a 9.5 
 out of 10. Story mode # 3 I give a 8 out of 10. Story mode #4 I give a 9 out of 10. The four story 
 modes are as I said awesome. I haven't played multiplayer or on line, but I can only imagine how 
 much fun it would be. The music, sound effects, and the voice acting are top notch. The game play 
 as in the four story modes is superb. Its non stop action. I love games like this. The controlls 
 are perfect. The reply value is great. Especially with multiplayer and on line I'm sure. I played 
 this game and James Bond Quantum of Solace recently. Left 4 Dead blows Quantum of Solace away. 
 I only gave Quantum of Solace a 6.5 out of 10. Its an average shooter overall. This game however 
 is spectacular.
  I give 9 out of 10 for the game play. Superb game play. 9.5 out of 10 for the graphics. awesome 
 graphics. 8.5 out of 10 for the sound. Very great sound. 9 out of 10 for the value and replay value. 
 10 out of 10 for the tilt. The controlls are perfect. 9 out of 10 for the combat. superb combat. 
 9 out of 10 for the four story modes overall. Overall I give this superb game a 9 out of 10. Awesome 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Playing Left 4 Dead has been a real blast. I've logged in somewhere around 20 hours or so and had 
 a genuinely fun time. I won't get into what the game is about or the concepts behind it as I'm 
 sure you've read the main review already. Overall the tension built while playing alongside others 
 in a frantic fast paced environment is very much as described: Very fun, especially when you're 
 playing with a group of buddies online and not just random people. Graphics are nice and hold up 
 well (nothing jaw dropping, it gets the job done) , sound is decent, and the actual 'feel' of the 
 weapons and combat are good (with nice touches thrown in here and there... such as limping when 
 badly injured) . 
  
  However, and this opinion might not be shared, but I felt the weapons were a little lacking in 
 terms of variety. You end up with one of 4 weapons you can utilize which can later be found in 
 their 'upgraded' form across the campaign. Although you might say "Well, that's 8 weapons, that's 
 not too bad." But, eh. They could have added another half dozen or so and it would have been MUCH 
 better as a result. Also, you get 4 different campaign 'chapters' with about 5 'mini-levels' apiece 
 (each ranging from about 15-20 minutes of gameplay per 'mini-level'... though your mileage may vary 
 pending on difficulty.) . On average, it took me about an hour per campaign. They probably could 
 have added another two or three campaigns and that would have been optimal. Instead, I'm guessing 
 they'll probably use downloadable content in the future and have you pay for it... which is kind 
 of lame for a sixty dollar game. Eh.
  
  Anyway, if you enjoy fun, frantic, and enjoyable online madness, look no further. For those looking 
 for something deeper along 'zombie apocalypse' genres, the wait for Resident Evil 5 might be well 
 what you're after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgotNoGoodName
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  L4D is just an all out great game. following the idea of 28 days/weeks later infected, they are 
 fast moving, hard hitting, and nasty zombies. The game features amazing survival gameplay, not 
 that it has much of a story line in it but in some games they just make it work. You play as one 
 of 4 survivors always, unless your in versus where you take up the role of certain infected bosses. 
 the gameplay is fun but only if you have a group that STAYS TOGETHER not the two friends who play 
 and believe that 4 on the title is a simple suggestion. the game is a must buy only if you have 
 xbox live or friend to play with. other than that it does fall short in only having 4 campaigns 
 though they do change after playing threw it you know where to go. if you just love zombie games 
 like me GET THIS if you like a fun multiplayer FPS GET THIS if you want to play a game with replay 
 value GET THIS but if you want compelling story and a colorful backround im sorry this isnt for 
 you. but if you want to wonder why you dont get infected after getting the snapple beat out of 
 you my guess is A) you only be infected after death in that world or B) the main characters are 
 just too rowdy for infection... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  As a survival horror fan and a Valve fan, Left 4 Dead was #1 on my To-Buy list after Fable II.
 
  
  Of course, having played Valve's other games and mods for years, this system was moderately easy 
 to become accustomed to. I had a few pinches from its AI every now and then, and the discovery 
 that in this game I am going to need to do more for someone else to reach completion bit me in 
 the ass, but only briefly.
  
  The only real gripe I have (Apart from lack of certain creations, which I'll discuss below) with 
 this game is that the system is far too relentless, DEPENDING on the roll of the dice the AI plays 
 against you. Which is NONSENSE. A game shouldn't randomly take a break from linearly projecting 
 something at its players that are inescapable when the circumstances have risen already beyond 
 ridiculous. There are brickwall mechanics that unyield, and can play tricks on the players, so 
 much and so randomly that a player has to tell themself that it's either gonna need more depth 
 and testing for more developed player situations, or it's just gotta go. Because as of right now, 
 it's possible that an experienced Left 4 Dead player (s) are able to make it through 4 chapters 
 of one campaign on Expert only to be stuck for more than 8 hours on its finale, which shouldn't 
 happen - in a video-game -.
  
  As of right now, the AI Director needs more testing, and it needs to be developed more.
  
  
 To truth, Left 4 Dead is a stylish rip-off of survival horror hits like Resident Evil / Outbreak, 
 and inspired by George Romero's films, and turned into one big fast-paced Zombie-shooter - which 
 is good, it's fresh, however the game lacks certain creation elements, such as more Special Infected 
 than the 5 that unexplainably keep reappearing in each campaign, locations and interactive game 
 mobile or stationary objects more than what it is limited to, and the ability to choose from a 
 wider variety of characters, even if they are no more important, the current 4 very stereotypical 
 ones just don't cut it.
  
  What the game also lacks, is a fully developed creative direction for the 4-player co-op system 
 that is encouraged in this game.
  
  What should have been done, is since so much emphasis is placed on Survivors Left 4 Dead in a Zombie 
 apocalypse trying to save eachother out of it all, is it should've been given 4 different characters 
 for each campaign all telling their own stories, or better yet, the ability to support up to 8 
 players per virtual vicinity, where 4 Survivors from one game can randomly run into 4 Survivors 
 from another game within a part of Left 4 Dead's ruining cities, to help eachother -- to give it 
 a more open and believable sense. Another possibility, could have been Friendly NPC, such as soldiers, 
 or even other survivors you're able to save. These are things that really shouldn't be let out 
 in a game like this, there's really no excuse.
  
  Fortunately, a fan-based Zombie mod for the Half Life 2 engine called No More Room in Hell is currently 
 in development, and apparently those developers are adding practically every thing I mentioned 
 above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is an amazingly simple game, that somehow has the exact right blend to make it a memorable, 
 rich multiplayer experience. The game features next to no storyline, the only story given in the 
 safe rooms on the walls. It is a very, very, simple idea, but executed so well, that it is almost 
 unbelievable. The multiplayer experience is unique, no other game has anything like it. There has 
 been no real horror multiplayer experience on the xbox. There have been attempts, none of which 
 were good. This game provides scares and adrenaline rushes all the way throughout. The replacement 
 of enemies and weapons makes the experience different. And while the game will not entertain everyone, 
 it is surely going to entertain most people. The AI is done well, at least as well as it can for 
 being a zombie game. The characters have a large range of lines to speak, the zombies all act in 
 certain ways; Leaning against walls, sitting down, fighting each other. The music, unlike any other 
 game out there, is actually vital to the gameplay. It will allow you to be aware of when a certain 
 enemy is nearby and you will grow to learn how to hunt down these fiends so that you may avoid 
 them instead of running up on them by surprise. It is nothing like the Orange Box, which a certain 
 moron happened to say in the reviews. That person gave the game a 4.5 and said "gears this, gears 
 that". Trust me, if your going to be a stupid fanboy and favor Gears 2 over everything, don't play 
 the game. It doesn't deserve to be insulted so. 
  
  In my opinion, Left 4 Dead is a quicker, more intense multiplayer experience than Gears 2. Not 
 to say Gears 2 is bad, not in the least. The game is amazing. It is just that, Gears 2 stays the 
 same whether your teammates have mics or not, while Left 4 Dead is not. With a full party of talkable 
 teammates, Left 4 Dead is an amazing experience. People get frantic, and often scream in excitement. 
 While Gears 2, you just camp one spot and fight hordes of enemies, which doesn't require teammate 
 communication at all. In Gears, all you have to do is follow the leader or go off on your own killing 
 spree, and if you go down, someone notices immediatly and comes for you. In Left 4 Dead, it is 
 not so simple. Yes, it says that they are down, but most of the times you don't notice because 
 your either A, being chased by a tank, B, cant see because of boomer vomit, C, fighting a horde, 
 D, trying to kill a witch, E, getting grabbed by a smoker, f, Getting tackled by a hunter or, G, 
 all of the above. 
  
  And we can't forget Versus. There is a competetiveness that is absent in Gears of War 2. When online, 
 there are no vendettas. In Gears 2, there is no sense of revenge. In Left 4 Dead's versus mode, 
 you play AS THE ZOMBIES to take out the survivors. And it is never over. I was playing with a party 
 and there were two survivors left, they entered the safe room and both got tackled by my teammates 
 who were hunters and we won, them not surviving at all. This puts tensions high, as the positions 
 flip and you get a chance at revenge.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a truly unique experience. Play it. 
  
  Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shungokusatsuwh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a fps survival horror in which you and three others need to stick together to fight 
 off hordes of zombies. the weapon variety is somewhat slim but each gun is useful in different 
 situations , the pump action and automatic shotguns are very useful to fight mass amounts of zombies 
 swarming at you from close ranges while the sniper rifle is useful to pick them off from afar. This 
 game is best played when accompanied friends to fight aside you. when playing with A. I teammates 
 you get this feeling that they have the own mind leaving less of a team experience, however they 
 do heal and provide painkillers as needed. the campaign itself is pretty short, but zombies never 
 spawn in the same spot twice giving the game many hours of replay value. where the game really 
 falls short is story line, there's is seriously little to no story line in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilton45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The sheer fact that it's a multiplayer zombie game makes this game very immersive, and intense. 
 To give you an idea of how great this game is, my girlfriend who doesn't like anything other than 
 mario kart, loves it. We've been actually playing through the campaign together. The graphics are 
 good, I wouldn't say they're the best, but they're definitely good. But the fact is, this game 
 is made to be played with other people. In fact normally on most games the multiplayer modes are 
 in a submenu, in this game the Co-op is the first thing you see, it's supposed to be played with 
 people, you can played alone, but that wouldn't be too fun. Something that is very cool too, is 
 that zombies will never spawn in the same places after you die, you never know where they will 
 be, this includes the stronger and bigger zombies as well. If you have XBL, or friends, GET THIS.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someteenager
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  How can this game be any more bad to the bone! It's great the way you try to survive the zombie 
 apocolipse with ur friends. Although the there are only 4 campaigns the game itself is tight. The 
 characters are cool and the intro movie is great. But what got me thinking is how the infection 
 started? Dog bite? Well the guns are good but the upgrades are better tons of fire power for tons 
 of bloody zombies. If u really lik zombie games lik I do u should try it in expert, making it more 
 fun and stressing. Realyin on ur teammates is what makes the game hard. Knowing that if ur down 
 the only person that could save u is ur buddy. Friendly fire is what makes me angry, knowing that 
 i just recovered my self then my friend accidentally shoots me what was the point of all that! 
 Anyways great game, nice graphics, intresting characters, evil zombies/ specials too, and yea thats 
 its. Hopefully they make more maps, guns and special zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  just like half life 2 one of my favorites that you never get bored of no matter how many times 
 you play it keeps a good rate of playability with three modes offline single player online multiplayer 
 then versus mode thats online but you can play offline to it never gets boring at all but it has 
 some flaws but what game doesn't like halo 3 big game huge bugs it only has six guns shotgun, auto 
 shotgun, sub machine gun, assault rifle, hunting rifle, and pistol
  it also has pipe bombs, and Molotov it has gasoline tanks, and propane tanks to
  valves succeeded 
 majorly in almost every way 10 out of 10 in gameplay and it has no story so cant rate that but 
 some flaws lowered it to a 9.5 and valve good luck on the next game your not going to need it at 
 all not one bit and this is my reveiw of the game left 4 dead 4 pc and xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielbill12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  If you love show those last-on-the-food-chain zombies who the Lion is, then DO NOT pass this title 
 up. Not only does the randomness keep you on your toes (or edge of chair, whichever) it makes every 
 Horde, Tank or Hunter you kill seem like a bigger success than the last one. And multiplayer only 
 doubles, if not triples, this feeling. Watching your teammate go down in the middle of a Horde, only 
 to be saved at the last second by that lucky first-timer with dual pistols is always encouraging 
 enough to get you to go after that horde alone, only to inevitably be saved by pre-mentioned first-timer 
 with dual pistols. And hey, when you do, atleast theres the gut-wrenching screams of your character 
 to keep you entertained for a few seconds! And of course i can't forget to mention this: The Last 
 Stand. Nothing can compare to the feeling you get when your the last one left alive, backed up into 
 a corner, blasting those zombies for dear life! (Literaly so, because theres no getting revived. So 
 don't cower and run away you panzy!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rooster703
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is, generally, a pretty decent game. Left 4 Dead's best feature, which also makes this 
 game very innovative, is what the game developers call the AI director. What the director does 
 is it watches you, the player, play. It decides whether to ambush you with hundreds of the "infected 
 horde" or to just keep you in suspense. Every play through you make in this game is different. 
 The director will make it harder if you are just blasting through everything it creates or easier 
 if you having a slow, hard time with the level. 
  The best way to play this game is with friends, not that its scary, it just makes it more fun and 
 sometimes more challenging. Other than 4-player co-op, Left 4 Dead also features a versus mode 
 where 4, human players, "survivors" must make through a scene, or level, while goin against 4 human 
 players playing as "boss infected". this mode is also fun but it is also brings the games to a 
 faster rate of play, instead of taking your time your trying to make a quick dash to the safe house. 
 
  Overall Left 4 Dead is a very good game. If you are really into movies like Dawn of the dead, 28 
 days later, etc. than this game is for you. If your unsure than I recommend just renting it or 
 borrowing it from a friend first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim-E
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I think that as a $60 game, more should be required. More levels at least. The levels are very 
 short and can be beaten in an hour. But on the hardest difficulty it takes quite a while. There 
 aren't many weapons but it's understandable.
  
  Now here's the good stuff. The graphics are great and co-op is good as well. Boss battles are perfect 
 for enforcing the cooperative play. Weapons are also balanced pretty well. After you finish the 
 single player/co-op, then you can go online with versus mode. In versus mode you can be a zombie.... 
 this is the peak point of the game... it feels so great to tackle someone to the ground as a hunter 
 just knowing you are giving them a hard time. But with the whole randomized thing inside the game 
 (zombie and weapon location is made randomly) , sometimes it'll be unfair to a team the whole time. 
 
  
  After a good week or 2 you may find this game just collecting dust, its kind of depressing. I don't 
 think 2 weeks is enough. And most of those 2 weeks will be you trying to get achievements with 
 a friend. But as soon as DLC comes, it'll be patted off and be up and running again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  There's not a lot of complexity to Left 4 Dead. There's a total of six different bad guys. (Infected, 
 Smokers, Hunters, Boomes, Tanks, and Witches) . You'll see them in the first campaign and every 
 campaign that follows.
  
  but while there may not be a lot of variety in Left 4 Dead, you'll find plenty of things to do. 
 Each enemy specializes in a different way of killing the players, which does a great job of keeping 
 you on your toes. 
  
  There are a total of 4 campaigns to play through, each taking anywhere from 30 minutes to 3 hours 
 to complete, depending on a variety of factors.
  
  This game was made to be played with 4-8 HUMAN players. The A. I. teammates aren't the most fun 
 to play with, but they serve their purpose (they'll attack and defend when they need to. in fact, 
 some will say they're TOO GOOD) . 
  
  4 player Co-op is a amazing, and 8 player versus is a complete riot. Left 4 Dead does a great job 
 of bringing players together. Teamwork is ABSOLUTELY 100% NECESSARY. You won't be able to Rambo 
 your way through this game.
  
  Perhaps the greatest thing Left 4 Dead offers is the promise of a different experience EVERY TIME 
 you go through the game. the A. I. director controls the monsters, the music, the weapons/ ammo, 
 etc. It will track how well the players are doing and change the game accordingly, always keeping 
 it a challenge. It's a brilliant idea that more games should take advantage of.
  
  Overall:
  There are a few small complaints some could make about the gameplay, but when Left 
 4 Dead is played in its own element (with four human players) it's possibly the greatest gaming 
 experience you'll have this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is such an amazing game and one that took me by a surprise because I didn't think that 
 it would be as good as it actually is. I would defiantly recommend this game to anyone especially 
 people who are into the zombie stuff.
  
  As for the people in the game you got 4 people Francis, Zoey, Bill, and Louis. If your wanting 
 to get this game for something like a story well it doesn't have a plot or anything so throw a 
 good story out of the window you just get to know stuff about the four characters' then you are 
 thrown into a huge place with a lot of wild and crazy zombies and get to fight for you life. So 
 there I said it so don't go and get it then say it isn't a good game because it hasn't got a story 
 and doesn't make sense because I told you so.
  
  The best thing about the game is defiantly the multiplayer and stuff that were more of the fun 
 comes in. so you defiantly got to try it out and play online if you have it. Like I said I recommend 
 it to just about anyone because its so much fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  At PAX 2008, I saw a booth for "Left 4 Dead" and passed it by, thinking it was some lame adaptation 
 of "House of the Dead" from my childhood arcade days. Boy, did I eat my words.
  
  "Left 4 Dead" is without a doubt the surprise hit of the year. This game came from nowhere to deliver 
 a zombie-slaying experience like no other. The campaign consists of four separate missions cast 
 as different B-movie horror flicks, complete with purposefully cheesy titles (but featuring the 
 same cast members) . This sets the tone perfectly for a half heart-pumping/half-humorous survival 
 horror experience filled with unexpected moments.
  
  Each of the campaign modes can be played cooperatively over Xbox LIVE. Indeed, the game is designed 
 to force players to cooperate, as once tackled or ensnared by a variety of special zombies, a player 
 must rely on his teammates to rescue him. This creates a sense of comradery that lies at the heart 
 of why the game's campaign mode is so engaging. The feeling of standing back to back with your 
 comrades and fighting for your lives against the rush of an overwhelming zombie horde is unlike 
 any other co-op experience.
  
  The experience is all the more engaging because the AI is dynamic: enemies behave differently and 
 spawn in different places every playthrough, so if your team fails a first attempt, subsequent 
 attempts are never the same. The enemies are varied as well: one enemy can snatch you with his 
 tongue like a frog can a fruit fly; another fiend can vomit bile on you that will attract a zombie 
 horde, still another can pounce from the shadows and rip your chest out chunk by chunk. Combined, 
 the foes in "Left 4 Dead" are extremely fun to fight and force you to stay on your toes and watch 
 your teammates' backs.
  
  Perhaps the best part about "Left 4 Dead" is that you can play as the special zombies in the competitive 
 online multiplayer mode. Surprising a group of survivors with a belly full of bile or watching 
 a poor human player writhe and struggle in my zombie grasp was endlessly entertaining. My only 
 regret was the absence of any ranking system to add an extra layer of addiction to the online play. 
 
  
  The few minor criticisms I have of the game relate to some limitations on variety and integration 
 with the Achievements system. Despite the good diversity of zombie types, I wish there had been 
 some enemies or bosses specific to the different campaigns, so that each one would have felt a 
 bit more unique. Also, the online Versus mode was only limited to two maps, which was somewhat 
 disappointing. Finally, some of the game's Achievement requirements are excessively draconian: 
 for example, one might devote several hours to completing a campaign on "Expert," fail to escape 
 on the last chapter, then have to play the entire campaign over again to get the Achievement.
 
  
  But these are minor gripes about an otherwise excellent game. For what it attempts to do -- deliver 
 a survival horror action thriller in the package of B-movie horror flick -- "Left 4 Dead" excels 
 and ultimately topped all my expectations. Anyone who enjoys exciting co-op action (or eating human 
 brains) will surely find "Left 4 Dead" an appetizing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well about 2weeks ago me and my mate both went into town to pick up a copy of this amazing game. 
 i dident play the demo so i dident really know what to expect so me and my mate just both jumped 
 into advanced difficulty (second hardest) and i gotta say its quite hard to start off there when 
 u never played the game before.. luckly my mate did and he knew what the special infected and button 
 are.
  
  The Game is split up into 4 difficulties Easy , Medium , Advanced , EXPERT and i gotta say there 
 all pretty good difficulties for different kind of gamers. Expert though umm. i do say that is 
 1 heck of a challenge.. it requires some good friends all with mics and pretty good experience 
 at the game. the other 3 difficulties are split very well though.
  
  Graphics are pretty amazing and the gameplay is extreamly smooth so this game is pretty average 
 to get the hang ov.
  After you spend a couple of hours in the game left 4 dead.. you wont want to do anything else as 
 this game is completely awesome. The 2 game modes Campaign mode and versus mode are both pretty 
 simular apart from. when you are playing versus it requires online and you and 4 teammates will 
 swap between the infected and surviors while you would play against another 4 players.. this requires 
 alot more teamwork then the campaign mode but there is little to achieve on versus due to no ranking 
 systems or not many achievments. 
  
  Achievments is what makes this game alot better as there is tons more to aim for and there all 
 extreamly fun to get :)
  
  
  
  
  
  Thanks for Reading check my page out and add me (y)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenchu660
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, if you have 3 others friend that love to play fps with zombies, YOU ! won't 
 be bored with this game, The game may be repetitive (because of the few levels) , but if you play 
 with 3 of your friends a couple of beers and a long period of time ahead to kill zombies you won't 
 be disappoint. The zombies are quite a big challenge, i personally spent 4 hours in the first 3 
 levels without going throughout the whole levels alive. But we had lot's of fun i recommend it.
 
  P. S : Friendly Fire is on ! so if your teammate shoot you in the back, don't be angry, it's just 
 a game ! :) (review from Quebec Canada.)
  
  The only thing i hate, 
  
  The versus mode doesn't allow to switch difficulty for the AI zombie, so you can survive even with 
 20 zombies smashing you... but playing as the infected is really fun :)
  
  And the best part id say, the coop campaign = Hours of fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead always has a great frame rate and never lags so the coop experience is enjoyable time 
 after time again. There are 4 campaigns but they are short but depending on what difficulty you 
 put the zombies on it can range from 45min-2hrs or even longer on expert. Graphics are decent for 
 a game that deals out large numbers of zombies at once. I must make this extremely clear Left 4 
 Dead is mainly good when you have a good team, because if your team runs off into different directions 
 alone your literally screwed. The AI is great because it will change every game which increases 
 the replayability rate. The main enemies or boss infected range from the whitch who you can hear 
 crying and if you disturb her you should run and shoot because she knocks you down in one hit and 
 will continue clawing at you until you or she are dead. Boomers are the fattys which are bomb barf 
 bags which if puked on you have a hard time seeing but the big thing is the infected even if none 
 are around will swarm at that 1 person trying to kill relentlessly. If shot they explode and the 
 puke covers an area so shove them away and then shoot. The hunters can leap and pounce on you leaving 
 you incapacitated while they claws your eyes out, but they can be shoved or shot off. If a player 
 is downed you can revive them but only can go down 3 times and by number 4 your dead. But don't 
 worry before a checkpoint you'll hear a survivor trapped in a closet and once released the player 
 is back alive. The smokers are the ones who will use their long tongues to snare you and pull you 
 to your death. Your friends will either have to shoot him or his tongue to free you. And finally 
 the tank which has relentless health and can take a beating will throw you across the street and 
 throw concrete and rocks at you. The weapons are basic two types of shtguns, a uzi, pistol or dual 
 wield pistols, assault rifle. The nades are the infamous pipe bomb which lures infected with a beeping 
 and they'll run after it leaving you to fight a bomb and then boom they die. The other is the molotov 
 cocktail which of course sets fire to everything it hits. There are med-kiits and pain pills but 
 the pills give you temporary health and they will slowly drain the health they gave you.
  
  Versus
  The versus is amazingly fun. Its simply 2 teams of 4. You take turns playing as infected 
 and survivors. Team 1 is humans and Team 2 are boss infected and are randomly chosen either boomer, 
 smoker, hunter and sometimes Tank. You'll be aided by AI withces and infected. The main job is 
 too kill the survivors before they get to the safehouse and the levels are the campaign levels. 
 You'll switch on and off and the infected can climb poles and use special boss infected abilities 
 which is endless fun.
  
  Left 4 Dead is great and deserves at minimum 8.75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  The thing about Left 4 Dead is quite unique game that you can able to play up to Four people in 
 this game or by yourself. When playing by yourself it's not quite as fun when playing with your 
 friends. Single player is quite easy and short but if you play the harder mode it might be a big 
 longer while the zombies come in more faster. The graphic is decent, this game is quite fast. 
 
  
  Pros:
  It's quite fun when playing with friends 
  Always have different short movies that you can choose from
  You can able to help your teammates 
 by healing them or protecting them just about anything
  The weapons, ammo and Medicine is decent when you needed.
  Cons:
  The single player is quite 
 short
  The A. I mode can be quite annoying sometimes they don't help you at all
  
  I have to say this game is fun, a tad bit short but it's quite fun. If you like zombies or horror 
 movies probably you might enjoy this game.
  
  -Hintaki- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarrohead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  An 8.5 really you are wrong gamespot. Left 4 dead is the most realistic game i've ever played. 
 some may disagree but you are put into the game with no instruction except for controls you walk 
 down and if youve played the orange box you already know the controls on 360. there's no story 
 but it's also part of the realism you already feel accepted by these 3 people you are with AND 
 THE ZOMBIES RUN they run 666.
  
  one insult the campain is way too short and the multiplayer is not much elaboration on the original 
 levels and only two are playable Hopefully DLC is next for this title instead of more and more 
 pc tf2 maps with no 360 support 
  The zombies are awful killing machines But are so incredibly nice to shoot at but dont shoot louis, 
 hes cool
  
  TANKWHITCHBOOMER alerted the hoarde
  
  (gotta fill space) !
  kjdhfl; khdkflnlewh ejw klfejn wfklek ejlfkwj ewl; hjeh cjhwkjg rjkhjk rhgkjhrkjh gjkerhjkg rejkh 
 gkjehrj kghjkreh gjerhjk hrejk ghjkerhgjk erjkg jkerh jkgherjk gjke rhgjk rejkgh jkreh gjke hrjk 
 ghjkre hjkhrekjg ekrh gjkhrkjghrjkhgjh erjkghkrjh gjkrehgjkhr kjghrkjehgkjhr k ghkjreh gkjehr kjghrjkgherjkg 
 jkerhgjkhr ekj ghrejkhgjkhjkrh jkghrjkghjg rekjgk jreh gjkerh kgjher jkghkrj ehjk hrek ghrh g r 
 jkgre hekrjh gjkkre hgjkreh jkgjk rejkg kjreh kjghj khlgkj hwur wg yiuel ihrnw 8888 u5j 84uh gw89 
 uj5 og 8u8u 5ljih5h ku66 6ehi rohw; iowjr ioej tojoijio rh; oi hoihioh6 ioh6oi hjio iou jio6 6 6ioii 
 loiuu hirh wtior jhtwe lrliotre htuhl reeei ureyt iuehrilu thiure htuireh iltuh riue htiu htiu 
 whuireh666thur ehtuw ehrrituhr euhtiue lhrtiuer htue rhu threiu th uir ehtuw eh iuthwiu rehtiure 
 htiluwtheri tuirehwt uirelt iuhreit uruitw t wert reu tret rt rewtrer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm.. you want a story plot for Left 4 Dead? Well. alright if you really want it. Here I go. Left 
 4 Dead is about a group of survivors, four to be exact, that are. uhhh. left four dead in a city 
 overrun by zombies. Wow, I guess the title pretty much tells you what the game is about. A bit 
 ironic don't you think that two little words (three if you count the number four) , can sum up the 
 entire plot of a game. To tell you the truth, there really isn't a story driving this game, so 
 if you were hoping for a zombified epic with beastly characters, emotional zombies, and Chris Redfield 
 (guy from Resident Evil series) then you my friend, are looking at the wrong game.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a 1st person zombie shooter. So what exactly do you do in the game? Shoot zombies.. DUH!!! 
 Left 4 Dead is a pretty average shooter if you compare it to other games like Halo 3, Resistance 
 2, Gears of War 2, and Call of Duty 4. But there's one thing that Left 4 Dead has that those other 
 games don't, living (sort of) , breathing (not really) , butt ugly (not too ugly) zombie hordes that 
 want nothing but your flesh and bones, mostly flesh. Defending yourself from hordes of zombies 
 while trying to keep your pituitary glands (armpit) from excreting too much fluid is a jaw dropping 
 good time. You can also play co-op with your weak hearted friends and enjoy blasting your way through 
 4 levels of zombie mayhem. You also have the option to play as the beloved zombies you are so fond 
 of shooting, and compete on 4 on 4 matches. Humans v. s. Zombies. To sum it all up, Left 4 Dead 
 is brain eating fun. 
  
  Left 4 Dead doesn't exceed the boundaries graphical wise. The graphics look pretty dull, and the 
 in-game levels look recycled and boring. But maybe that's just me and my rotting brain talking. 
 At times the levels became so dark, even with a flashlight, that I had no idea where I was or what 
 I was being attack by. I'm not sure about you, but when I kill something I want to actually see 
 it. Oh well, at least I have some zombies to comfort me.
  
  The sound design on the other hand was spectacular. Listening to the groans of a mob of zombies 
 approaching my proximity was probably one of the best moments in the game. The voice acting was 
 well done and matched the characters perfectly, but I did get annoyed when they kept repeating 
 the same lines over and over. After you hear the characters shout "reloading!" for the 100th time 
 your insanity may dropjust a little. 
  
  Overall: Left 4 Dead is a bloody, gory, zombie fest of a good time. If you are even remotely interested 
 in shooting off body parts of the not so undead, then this game is for you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbebigokuxx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer in this game is fast paced while your alive (and if you're a zombie it won't be 
 that often) and very innovative and fun. But the respawn times are very aggravating and it is very 
 one sided on the part of the humans in some instances. The spawn system on the other hand allows 
 you to respawn safely away from any trigger happy human. It's a very different approach to spawning 
 not seen in many new releases. They should have tweaked the zombies just a little because their 
 moves are at times slow and predictable making you an easy target to become giblets. But all in 
 all it's a very solid game with plenty of re playability although the story mode is a tad short. 
 Definitely worth at the very least a rent, but if you're a fan of good shooters and need a game 
 to fill in the time when Call of Duty has made you mad then I would recommend this as a buy. I'd 
 give this game a 9 out of 10 any time of the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoodooHak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead came out of left field to become one of my favorite games this year.
  
  My biggest fear was that since the game didn't have the narrative depth of a Half Life or tactical 
 depth of a Rainbow Six, I'd be left with a shallow experience. However, this unabashed simplicity 
 is what makes Left 4 Dead such a great game. It doesn't pretend to be anything more than a pure 
 arcade experience with a movie veneer reminiscent of "28 Days Later". Plot is unnecessary since 
 getting from point A to point B provides more than enough motivation to get through any of the 
 four campaigns. Mechanical depth feels just right as hordes of infected sprint at you from all 
 directions, and special infected keep you on your toes.
  
  To mix things up a bit, Valve added multiple paths in some places. The AI director keeps things 
 unpredictable by placing weapons, ammo pick-ups and enemy spawns random. The only exceptions are 
 then rescue sequences. Playing with friends adds yet another layer of replayability. The versus 
 multiplayer is as refreshing as Splinter Cell's multiplayer.
  
  When all is said and done, Left 4 Dead is a vehicle for creating great "Holy crap!" experiences, 
 perfect for stories told around the water cooler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Since Left 4 Dead was announced, about a year ago, I always wondered what it would look and feel 
 like. Valve has a reputation for making AAA titles, and once again they have not failed us. Left 
 4 Dead is just plain fun. Whether you're playing it alone or with a friend, I think you'll be satisfied 
 with of all that zombie-killing-and-smashing awesomeness. And on top of that, it's one of the very 
 rare games that offers sick co-op possibilities. You and your friends are, without a doubt, going 
 to enjoy this game and after beating it 3 or 4 times, you'll be wanting to play it again. Replay 
 value is, in my opinion, the best I've seen in years and I'm already waiting for a sequel to this 
 game. With all the games coming out this November and December, it's normal to be confused and 
 not know what to buy. But hear me out, you cannot go wrong with Left 4 Dead, unless you're afraid 
 of zombies. On the negative side, I thought that the game severely lacked a story and cinematic 
 to draw us in and the graphics weren't on the amazing side, but despite that, Left 4 Dead still 
 comes out on top of most of the games to have come out this year. You should buy it, or at least 
 rent it. Do yourself the favor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BasicSpartan354
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game to be blunt, is awesome. Every blood particle flying about is beautiful in it's own way. 
 You will be holding the right trigger screaming at the top of your lungs for a while with this 
 one. L4D brings together everything that a co-op game should have. This game is a MUST have for 
 any decent or even casual gamer out there. Story: you are one of four survivors: a biker Francis, 
 a college girl Zoey, an old war vet Bill, or an office manager Louis. It doesn't matter which character 
 you use because they can all do the same things but each has a different personality to suit your 
 gaming style.
  Why aren't they infected you ask? They are immune from the virus but the story is mainly told from 
 the other survivors. Others whom have come through an area will leave messages for their friends, 
 family, or just to help any other survivors out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets talk about the characters you can play as in L4D;
  Francis: Cocky, loud, and pretty sure he's indestructible, Francis acts like the zombie apocalypse 
 is the world's biggest bar fight. When the virus hit, everybody else stockpiled food and looked for 
 a place to hide. Francis found a gun and had some fun. No cops, no laws, no order-if it wasn't for 
 all the zombies, he could almost get used to life like this.
  
  Louis: Louis had been working up the courage to quit his job as Junior Analyst at his company's 
 IT department when a virus showed up and downsized the world. Now Louis has a new set of goals (live 
 long enough to succeed) and a new set of tools (guns, sharp objects) to help him achieve them. With 
 any luck, he'll figure out how the new management operates before they get a chance to murder him.
 
  
  Bill: It took two eventful tours in Vietnam, and handful of medals, a knee full of shrapnel, and an 
 honerable discharge before the unthinkable happened: Bill ran out of wars. But now an army of infected 
 undead has declared war on humanity. After decades of aimless drifting and dead-end jobs, Bill's 
 finally gotten back the only thing he ever wanted: An enemy to fight.
  
  Zoey: After spending her first semester holed up in a dorm room watching old horror movies, Zoey 
 was given a choice: Stop fooling around and get her grades up, or drop out. Now that the planet's 
 overrun eith murderous zombies, and all of her proffesors are dead, Zoey at least has the cold comfort 
 that she's been studying up on the right subject after all.
  
  The four scenarios which act as differant movies are: No mercy, Death Toll, Dead Air, and Blood Harvest 
 which you can play in any order you like since the game has no real plot to it but no one said 
 that was a bad thing. In my ranking, the best scenarios in order from best to least favorite are: 
 Blood Harvest, Death Toll, No Mercy, and Dead Air. No hate on any scenarios but in my opinion, Dead 
 Air was kind of stupid.
  
  Now the game has no plot to it, none of this is explained, you're just thrown in there with the knowledge 
 of your characters, and that is: Your in a zombie infested area and you need to escape. Which is 
 the whole point of the game so don't go bombing it saying "This game sucks! It doesn't make any 
 sence!" Thats the whole point of the game, so if your that idiodic and picky to rip on a game because 
 of it, then don't get it, it's just that simple.
  
  Versus is pretty much the same as Campaign: Get from point A to point B only instead of respawning 
 A. I. Special infected, they are being controlled by actual players, nuf said.
  
  Theres your basic Pistols, Uzi, and Pump Shotty, then theres your slightly more advanced weapons such 
 as the M16, Auto Shotty, and Hunting (sniping) Rifle, as well as your Molotov Cocktails and Pipe Bombs. Thats 
 about it but no need to worry because VALVe has announced they are trying to get downloadable content 
 such as: New weapons, survivors, special infected, and scenarios, one leeked scenario so far is the 
 mall from the famous George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead.
  
  Thats about it so if your enterested in this at all, get it or rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnd_421
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is very good and i love it. If you are looking for a zombie shooter to xbox 360 to play 
 with your friends this is recommended.
  If you have played Counter strike you will get the feeling that i got.
  It is Counter strike 
 just with zombies.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
 +
  + Different infected
  + Good weapons
  + You can play as a girl to
  + Action !
  
  -
  - Campaigns are to short !
  
  Score: Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
 
  Addicting: 8/10
  Holding: 9/10
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Thoughts:
 
  
  This game is very addicting and you get well deserved achievements. It is recommended for you that 
 love action and blood. It got 4 Campaigns and all of them are short. It is recommended to use microphone 
 when you play campaign in co-op.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lljjihbbccq
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  this is my first review so just keep that in mind. ok lets start with the singl player. it has 4 
 campanes wicth are all fun with alot of repalyability. you can do this with 3 other people or by 
 your self with 3 bots the bots are ok but they arent as good as 3 real people. the only bad thing 
 abought the story is well there is no story realy. what i mean by this is there are no cut sceance 
 explaining what happens or how it happened. but still it is a amasing game. now the online is sweet 
 too. it is only two of the four campanes that eight people play though four as humans four as boss 
 infected. the four as humans go though the campain wile the others who play as infected try to 
 kill the humans before they get killed. anouther problem with the game is only 5 guns they are 
 all good but still only 5 guns. so this game is a must buy if you like shooters or zombie games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey23KING
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Took me about an hour at Fry's before I finally made my decision to pick it up. Having RV6 Vegas 
 1 & 2; Halo 3; GOW1 & 2. I was tired of them all & were searching for something else.
  
  First half an hour into the game I was already thinking of reasons to take it back to the store 
 & get store credit back for something else. But then it started to grow something in me from the 
 inside. 
  
  The urge to feed on human flesh & blood. grrrrrrrrrrrrrr... it's a bit different from all the other 
 games in the same category, it is something you will truly enjoy once you get into some fast pace 
 multi-player co-op action.
  
  Able to play both the human survivors & the special zombies to stop the human survivors from making 
 it to the safe house is something I have never seen before!!! And it is AWESOME to jump on someone 
 & rip them apart.
  
  With 3 other solid friends, 4 can be very deadly online. Great game, and I highly recommend anyone 
 out there who enjoys 1st person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tizzsnoodle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  This review is going to be short and to the point.
  
  - Repetitive
  "The level design is great and all, but it usually comes down to a flock of zombies running at 
 you over and over again. I will say though, the special zombies can add a little to the fun"
  
  - Short
  "This game is insanely short. You can beat all of the campaigns in about 4 hours, 
 and the replay value is low, so this adds to the lack of depth in the game"
  
  - Depth 
  "This game has six guns, no grenades, no special abilities, nor any story depth. This is not something 
 that makes a game terrible, but it for sure makes it less enjoyable"
  
  - Competitive Multiplayer
  "This games competitive multiplayer mode seems like it was thrown 
 together in about a week. There is no depth to it, no ranking system, and essentially, it is the 
 campaign"
  
  - Cooperative Multiplayer 
 This games coop system is the main strong point of it. It is very fun, while it lasts. It adds 
 alot to this game, but with such a short story it is not very enjoyable."
  
  - Story
 This game literally has no story"
  
  Overall 
  - This game is fun while it lasts. It has 
 very fun cooperative play, but lacks the depth to make it a replayable game. I suggest you rent 
 it, because the five days you have it rented is probably the onl five days your going to enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayceemarie
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. I find it fun to play both online & offline co-op. some achievements 
 are easy to get while some pose more of a challenge. I definitely recommended it for a casual to 
 moderate gamer. the AI direction is very well done.. you can play the same level over and over 
 and it's a bit different each time. The only downside is that if you play live, it's a little difficult 
 to play with people who don't want to participate in teamwork. that is, after all, what the game 
 is about. you will not survive for long if you step away from your group. the game needed to make 
 a way for you to free yourself from the 'special infected' if your other team mates happen to be 
 pinned or busy fighting off a hoard. it's not a huge quip. it is still a really fun and entertaining 
 game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infamous_XI
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  like most gamers out there, im wondering why theres only 4 campaigns and such a limit on everything..... it 
 gets very repetitive and i just wanna know what i should be waiting for... otherwise itd get a 
 10, but it just feels so.... limited......
  
  with Versus taking the love and acheivements playing hard-to-get, it definately leaves a challenge 
 for the hardcore gamers, and it also draws in the not-so-hardcrore gamers as well with its easy 
 to learn gameplay and smooth graphics that arent over the top or forgot about the new generation.... i 
 would personally pick it over games like Mirrors Edge, Dead Rising, Mortal Combat vs. DC Universe, 
 Legendary, and Gears of War 2.... but i still think theres a good amount of room left still for 
 improvement. gl to valve for the future of Left 4 Dead............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngboy
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  GOOD:
  
  -fun co op campaign that requires everyone to try to work together and survive the zombie outbreak
 
  -lots and lots and LOTS of zombies make the action frantic and thanks to the random spawning, 
 you're always on your toes.
  -interesting vs mode where players can actually be zombies!
  
  BAD
  
  -get's repetitive. walk down path, kill zombies, walk down other path, kill more 
 zombies
  -lack of story and objective variations leaves you just going through the motions after a while.
 
  -lack of multiplayer modes on limited maps. it's the same mode: humans try to get to check point, 
 zombies stop them. there should have probably been more creative mp modes to make the game more 
 replayable.
  -a few visual glitches that would actually hinder the game play. for example: why can't i see the 
 spotlight of another players flashlight when my flashlight is off? it would have been cool if there 
 was one player that was acting as decoy and i had my flashlight off but i could still see the things 
 that my team mate's flashlight is pointing at. but no dice.
  -no 4 player local splitscreen campaign ( it would have been a fun party game if they had this)
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  i was really looking forward to this game, but due to the crazy gaming season, i had to put this 
 into the rent column first, and i'm glad i did. while the game was fun at first playing with friends, 
 it got to the point where we were just going through the same old things over and over again that 
 made this game a bit too repetitive compared to other shooters out there. games like gears of war, 
 call of duty, even dead rising, actually had an engaging story that involved different types objectives 
 that had to be met in order to keep the game going. things like; defending a post; assassinating 
 a general; killing a big boss in an unconventional way, make those other shooters more interesting 
 and keeps the gameplay fresh. with left 4 dead, you basically have to run to a "safe room" while 
 killing zombies on the way. there's no story, and the objective is always the same for every map. 
 in the end this mode bored me and my friends.
  
  the vs mode was fun at first, but again, the lack of variety in the modes really made the game 
 overall seem more like half a game then one that costs 60 dollars. you're either playing as humans 
 (who have to do the exact same thing as in the campaign mode by running to a safe room) , or be 
 a zombie (which did add an interesting element and is a redeeming part of the game)
  
  if you love running around and shooting a crap load of zombies, then this is the game for you, 
 but if you're looking for something that has more variety in game modes and general gameplay through 
 out the campaign mode, then i suggest maybe a rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, and I can't stop telling my friends about it. This game isn't quite what you 
 would expect, it isn't a tactical shooter or anything like that, it's an all out massacre, and 
 everyone who is reviewing it badly on here didn't quite expect that. The game won't redefine the 
 zombie, or FPS, and it doesn't knock Dead Rising off of it's pedestal as best zombie game of all 
 time, but the game is insanely fun, and I think that was the goal. Just like Valve's game Portal, 
 this game lacks a proper story, and any story you get you have to infer from the game, just like 
 in Portal. If you really care about the story you'll look for it, and if you just want to kill 
 zombies the game doesn't force feed a story to you (I see this as a plus) . Playing the game alone 
 can get a bit boring, and the AI can never replace a real person, no matter how good it is, but 
 if you regularly play on Xbox LIVE, or if you have some friends who want to play with you this 
 game becomes an absolute blast to play, especially on the harder difficulties which are intensely 
 difficult. The graphics are surprisingly good considering the use of Valve's 4 year old source 
 engine, and while it lacks the power of Epic's unreal engine, it is better at rendering facial 
 expressions, lighting, and it has MUCH better physics.
  
  All in all it comes down to do you want to shoot zombies or don't you? While there isn't very many 
 maps and the campaign is short this game is a blast, and since it's a Valve game you can rest assured 
 that the game will be expanded and that it will have new stuff soon. Also, it's insanely fun and 
 difficult to play as zombies, and just mastering becoming a zombie is worth purchasing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigtimer495
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Killing zombies... lots of them. Sound interesting? Oh it is. Too bad the failures of the makers 
 lead this to be ultimately unfulfilling. There are 4 maps available on multiplayer, the graphics 
 leave some to be desired, and the game is very repetitive.
  
  If you enjoy doing the same thing for hours or even months, you will really like this game. If 
 you're more into playing a changing game with a fantastic storyline, you may want to stay away 
 from the zombies.
  
  I see Left 4 Dead ending up being unplayed in 3 months at most. People will ultimately realize 
 how boring this game really is. Killing zombies will get old just as fast as Assasin's Creed got 
 old.
  
  Do yourself a favor, rent this. If you enjoy it, go ahead and buy it. If you don't you'll be like 
 everyone else in 3 months... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Valve's take on the zombie experience that has been part of the horror phenomena ever since George 
 Romero's Dawn of the Dead... delivers. And it delivers well.
  
  The story mode in a nutshell, serves no particular point. There are four chapters, set up similar 
 to a movie style experience. You can play as any four of the survivors (or randomize it) , and like 
 Halo, you get to wield two weapons. Primarily, a handgun is the prerequisite weapon, so you can 
 either wield one or two. And handguns have unlimited ammo, so there is a plus side to it. Your 
 secondary weapon can be an semi-automatic, an automatic rifle, a shotgun, or a rifle. You can also 
 carry one type of explosive device: a molotov (which does impressive fire effects in a spread area) 
 and a pipe bomb (attracts all normal undead in area to cluster around it before it explodes) . The 
 game pits you against hordes of undead and even special Infected:
  
  -The boomer: a fat, slinking Infected that spews vomit on any nearby Survivor, both blinding the 
 Survivor and attracting immediate waves of infected toward your area.
  
  -The hunter: blends in and looks like a normal infected, but can leap from anywhere and tackle 
 a survivor to the ground, clawing them to death.
  
  -The smoker: lashes out with a tongue intent on drawing in survivors one by one and strangling 
 them to death; also releases a blinding gas into the air upon death that causes temporary blindness 
 to environment, pending movement to clearer surroundings.
  
  -The tank: built like a gorilla, can take a ton of damage and is physically strong. Can down a 
 survivor with one shot on harder difficulties and kill them with another shot (also on harder difficulties) .
 
  
  -The witch: takes the form of a crying girl. If provoked or shined on with a bright light, she 
 will immediately seek out the perpetrator and try to take them out.
  
  So what makes this game addicting? The multiplayer. This game emphasizes teamwork, whether playing 
 it with four friends or playing against another team. In the versus mode, one team takes the Survivor 
 group, and the other composes itself of Special Infected. The survivor group works to conquer each 
 Special infected, while the SI's work to defeat the survivors and break their team. Teamwork, folks. 
 
  
  This game is a great multiplayer game, and the story mode is best meant for anyone taking a multiplayer 
 reprieve or wanting to get a feel for the controls...
  These are my friends now...-cough- Sorry. Song stuck in my head... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  I love zombies and this game sends more zombies at you then you'll know what to do with. I buy 
 games mainly for the single and not the multiplayer. I played through all the levels in single 
 and thought, "Ok that was fun but might start getting boring". I go online with it and the campain 
 was like a totally new experience. I was laughing out loud and dumb **** my team mates where saying 
 to each other in the middle of being completely overwelmed with the undead, holding up in a tiny 
 room slaying hundreds of zombies while you wait for help to arrive, AWESOME! In vs. you actually 
 play as the special zombies wich is great too. I'd highly recomend playing this with other ppl 
 online. Again, I don't play alot of online multiplayer but I haven't played a game this fun online 
 since COD4. If you like FPS and zombies are your thing, this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruze007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  This game, when it comes down to it, is just plain shoot your heart out fun.
  From its sold soundtrack, to its George Romero atmosphere, its a good 8-10 hours of zombie killing 
 bliss. 
  First things first, the game has has a lot of flaws, most of them are n the multiplayer but more 
 on that later. Whle the games looks pretty good it could have been a lot prettier and the enviorements 
 could have been a lot more interactive. The real stand out in the grafix is the lighting, its really 
 sets the mood and it does a very good job from going from light to dark. My only gripe is that 
 the compleatly dark rooms are to dark even with your trusty flash light, its easy to get lost in 
 a small room if that at all sounds possible. Second I saw a lot of infected reachng through solid 
 walls. While this may sound trivial it just could have been more polished. All in all it get a 
 solid B in the grafix dept
  The weapons for the most part are all solid. It is kind of lame that the pistols have unlimited 
 ammo, but then again, this is not a traditional shooter. 
  The huntning rifle is pretty much useless dont even bother to pick. That being said the game could 
 have used a few more weapons, a flame thrower perhaps? 
  The infected. Zombies they are not. If dead Rising was Day Of The Dead, this is 28 Days Later. 
 The run at you with all they have and not in a stright line. They shimmy and juke so you have to 
 keep a good bead on them with your weapon. Its solid A. I. and as it states on the back cover no 
 two plays are the same. The spawning is totally random and it ads good replay value. 
  The "special infected" are also well put together. You really hate it every time they pop up. They 
 do put a damper on your day. From the Hunter who pounces on you from nowhere, to the smoker who 
 finds just the right place to
  hide and lasso you in. Some times it even seems like they wait for you to be seperated from the 
 team to strike, Its just some more solid A. I. The Tank and the Witch are even worse. They are just 
 a pain to kill, but not to much of a pain, they have just the right challenge most of the time 
 and the Witch for the most part can be avoided but it s just so much fun to piss her off. That 
 being said they could have used some more specials, maybe some DLC n the future 
  Your "squad" while it is better to play with a friend, or hop online and play with a few, is dam 
 effective, actually they are too effective. Some times it does feel like you could just never fire 
 a round and still walk away. They are for the most part some of the best A. I. teamates in a "shooter" 
 i have seen so far. Their quick to help you out when you get downed and so far in 20 or so hours 
 of play, lets just say if you want the saftey first acheviment its all up to you, they have never 
 shot me once. thay do have their moments of sheer stupidty but all in all i wsh i had them in every 
 other squad based shooter
  Now as far as the story line goes thats where the game is truly lacking. There is no story line. 
 its just get from one safe house to the other and then hop aboard the escape vechile. It really 
 could have used some back story and some minor fleshing out of the characters, tho the banter between 
 them is pretty good it just needs more. Also the game is short, only four maps. most likely we'll 
 have some dlc on that end.
  Now for the multuplayer while it is fun the spawn times for the infected are just too dam long 
 like 20 seconds long it really kills the flow especally on the fact that it is very easy to get 
 killed while playing as the infected. and there are no other modes. Like i said before ths game 
 needs DLC more maps more infected and more modes and kill the dam spawn times to 10.
  All in all its just a dam fun game to play and the achvements for the 360 are very obtainable its 
 pretty easy to get most of them in a few hours. Ohh yeah least i dont say some thing about the 
 sound quality ts one of the best around pump up thse surrond sound systems boys your in for one 
 hell of a treat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdookee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros: - The game is very quick paced and action packed. - Running around with guns blazing is just 
 plain fun. - Random enemy encounters and weapon placement keep replays refreshing. - Multiplayer 
 is great since cooperation is a must if you want to survive.
  
  Cons: - Only 4 campaigns. - Versus can get old quick unless you're playing with friends. - Computer 
 AI can screw you sometimes. (i. e. someone healing you while you're running to the helicopter so 
 you get raped by zombies.)
  
  I'm hoping they get release some DLC before people start putting the game back on the shelves. 
 I'm just filling up space here to reach my 800 character minimum for a review. Anyways I would've 
 given the game a 9 or higher if there were more maps, more multiplayer variants, or 4 player local 
 coop because sometimes its just more fun to have everyone over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleanPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is pretty self explanatory. Kill Zombies. The concept is well-built together with smart 
 enemies and the AI Director but it really shines due to it's online co-op really utilizing the 
 player to use teamwork. Every single healthpack, pipe-bomb, and bullet counts in order for you 
 and your teamates to survive.
  
  Each campaign is designed for online mulitplayer. If your going to play by yourself and expect 
 and amazing storyline, you will be let down. The campaigns both have massive replay value due to 
 the AI director making it different every time you play. The mode I only play on is expert, to 
 experience the full challenge of battling hordes and hordes of zombies. The thrill of closing a 
 door before zombies rush in, getting head shots, or killing the Tank is one of the best experiences 
 I've had with a game all year. 
  
  The Versus mode is also fun and challenging. You can play as the zombies and it's fun being able 
 to pick off the survivors. My complaints with the game is no checkpoints is a drag, a wider type 
 of enemies would be nice and more weapons. The game limits itself to what you have to an extent 
 of feeling a bit ripped off. I hope Valve supports the game because it's community is already thriving 
 for more and more. 
  
  Last word is get the game if you want an online co-op experience like none other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Damn you Valve. When I opened this game and placed it into my 360, I got a rush like you wouldn't 
 believe. My knuckles were white, I was gripping the controller like a crackhead clinging to his 
 pipe. I watched enthralled as the introduction played. This was going to be it. This was going 
 to be the game. I played the first campaign, too quick to notice anything. Not caring. Off I went. 
 It was fast paced. It was brutal, friendly AI was good. Zombies were plentiful. I was in love. 
 When I reached the end of the campaign the first shock hit. WTF? Why am I back to the menu? Where's 
 the next campaign? Suddenly I realized that I wasn't playing a single player game I was simply 
 playing this game on a server with bots. I felt cheated. I felt betrayed. I felt like the joy of 
 the last hour was nothing but an empty feeling built on something I thought was there but wasn't. 
 
  
  And that's when I realized that you bastards got me to pay 60 bucks for this when it's nothing 
 more than Counterstrike (something that costs what, like 10 bucks?) with Zombies instead of Terrorists. 
 And what's worse? I bought it for the 360, so I'll have to pay every time you make a new map or 
 campaign. 
  
  The gameplay is solid. The graphics are solid. Almost everything is so freaking rock solid that 
 I was almost rock solid. But it's all empty, isn't it? It's all a lie. That fine lady I just brought 
 home is, in fact, not a lady. 
  
  Now for some less airy complaints. The game seems to freeze up A LOT when I enter a safehouse. 
 I replayed the second campaign about 4 times before being able to get to the end. It's happened 
 on the fourth campaign (entering the last safehouse) twice and at once on both the other campaigns. 
 It seems to happen whenever there are still Zombies around when I close the door. The special infected 
 make no sense. They're just there to be there. Infected often time pop into the game right in front 
 of you (including the swarms) . Squad AI when playing alone is very limited. They will not use grenades 
 or trigger events. Zombie swarms make no sense. They just happen. It isn't because you make noise, 
 or go into the wrong room at the wrong time - they just happen cause you're moving to slow. I can 
 shoot a zombie in the head and the other zombies around it don't seem to react. That strikes me 
 as weird, especially if these are infected and not undead.
  
  I started out writing this review with a score of 7.5 (a solid good by Gamespot standards) but 
 as I wrote this, I felt compelled to lower the score down twice. And FWIW, just in case anyone 
 from MS happens by, I will never buy a Valve game on a console for as long as I live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ozbastard
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of zombie movies and games, (you know who you are, you hope for a zombie apocalypse 
 to go down in your time, you've read the zombie survival guide ,etc.) . First Impression is an awesome 
 zombie mod for source. As you play more you get the whole feel of being in a movie which is well 
 done. This game is of course best played multilayer, The AI keeps track of how you progress, giving 
 you moments to take breaks from slaughtering zombies which also creeps me out wondering why its 
 so quiet. Playing with friends is an awesome way of bonding and a great excuse for hanging out 
 with 4 guys in a heterosexual way. I find most times i find myself screaming out key enemies just 
 before a game character does, giving the game a more intense experience besides the mass amounts 
 of alcohol consumed before and during game play. The game is extremely easy to learn how to function 
 in the game's world. After that its up to you and your friends to learn what cooperation is all 
 about which is common sense. After each level it's surprisingly satisfying reaching it to the end, 
 giving everyone a scene of accomplishment and worth when the safe door closes. Replay value is 
 high, but of course the same 4 campaigns will get old eventually, even when using versus mode, 
 (The mode where players take the roll as boss zombies and survivors.) . Now I think its up to valve 
 and gearbox to provide more campaigns to keep random internet people playing for months and not 
 switching to new games when they come out. In summary this game is a great game for those people 
 who are into FPS. A definite must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiriyama12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead, probably one of the best games that came out with some of the best (not-so-top-end) 
 hardware requirements, powered by valve engine which is very much similar to counter strike which 
 was the most famous shooter in our area before call of duty 4.
  
  The game features a lot of pros and basically very minor cons, I played single player and in about 
 30 to minutes or less I've already finished the one of the four chapters, wait! hear me out, it 
 isn't actually short, I already had my share of shooting and where my fingers were almost numb, 
 which is a good thing.
  
  Anyway about the game schematics, the features 4 people, survivors actually, and the zombies? well 
 they're a LOT more, if you are looking for a  game then this 
 isn't for you, why?! because your basically gonna fight hordes of enemies, and I really mean a 
 whole bunch of them, which made this game so much fun. that it made me write a review which is 
 don't typically do. co-ops with the other 3 are your edge, being aware of the surroundings saves 
 your life, as for the graphics, i was shocked the game looked incredibly stunning (great character 
 detail, horrid looking zombies, very apocalyptic places.) it was a zombie shooter fans wet dream.
 
  
  As for the cons, i barely found any like bugs or anything, nothing of the sort, well so far I've 
 only reach 1/4 of the game so far.
  
  My recommendation would probably be to try it out, it's a value for money game and great to play 
 with friends, I'm playing this at my not so gaming laptop so I'll be bringing it over my friends, 
 play at night and close the lights =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xzero-deathX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  left 4 dead is one of the games i have had most fun with... with zombies so many zombies running 
 at u whats not to like.... but even tho this is a awsome game it has its downfalls... for one only 
 4, 5 part levels... but even tho this is a bad thing its also a good thing because they are all 
 fun and u can play them more times over then u think.... but then theres versus witch only gives 
 u 2, 5 part levels but lik i said before thats not really a bad thing either..... those to levels 
 are really fun to play and even more fun when ur the infected..... and being the infected is just 
 plain awsome.. and when u are the infected its payback time on the other team since versus mode 
 is two teams of 4.... one last thing i want to bring up is the wepons.... yes there is not that many 
 but they are fun to use the one i use the most is the hunting rile its fun to kill zombies and 
 watch some body part fly away.... well overall this is not a single player game for sure but its 
 great multiplayer amd woth DLC coming soon with more maps its something worth the wait for sure
 
  i give this a 10 because of how much fun it is
  and its downfalls i believe are easy to overlook
  and i would say this is a most have for any 
 zombie fan or shooter fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10/10 
  
  The Source Engine with zombies. How could you go wrong with that? The weapons do not vary as much 
 as Counter-Strike or Half Life, but whatever you need to kill the zombie infestation, it's there. 
 From shotguns to Uzi's, M16s and sniper rifles. The hand thrown weapons such as; the molotov or 
 pipe bomb, give a different strategy to fighting off hordes and teamwork has never been so vital 
 in a game. There is no way a single player can beat the game, it's nearly impossible. Heck, it's 
 difficult to play through the game in multiplayer with just 3 people. Especially if the other team 
 is well organized. Whatever you do, don't play this game alone. This game has to be experienced 
 with other players, without human players present, it just isn't as fun. The multiplayer is where 
 this game really shines. You can play 1 of 2 scenarios, each consisting around 4-5 levels. It's 
 4 vs 4, survivors against zombies. Both teams alternate turns. Each group requires a different strategy 
 to win, survivors need to stick together and protect each other from being killed by the zombies, 
 while the zombies must work together to hunt the survivors down in a way that they can no longer 
 help each other out. Cooperation is extremely crucial, which is why this game is a hit. Everyone 
 likes co-op.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Nothing really new here, the Source Engine is starting to show its age. Environments are not as 
 detailed as today's games, but the game throws tons of zombies on screen without it chugging, and 
 the frame rate is silky-smooth.
  
  Story - 7.5/10
  
  Those who are looking for a story will probably be disappointed, there are no cinematics other 
 than the intro. It's supposed to be this way, however, you are supposed to feel as if you are in 
 a zombie-flick, and you have to get your way out.
  
  Presentation - 9/10
  
  Valve has done a great job of delivering that fast paced zombie-horror-flick feel into video-game 
 form. I prefer turning the film-grain off, but it adds to the feel.
  
  Replayability - 10/10
  
  The single player campaign is very short, some people can complete 
 the game within 2-4 hours, even less if they rush through it, but the game was built to be played 
 over and over and over again. If you don't have xbox live, you better get it for this game. The 
 multiplayer is just that awesome.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  i love this game this game is so cool i have a little brother and if he broke it i would kill him 
 first i would tell my mom then kill him that is how great this game is the good thing about this 
 game is that you do not have to be killing zombies alone this game is the kost legendery zombie 
 game i have ever seen tell the creators of left for dead that i said right  
 this game is totally crazy i love tis game so much  u can contact 
 me at garciadilan39@yahoo. com thanks for making this game you guys are so freakin  
 you guys the creators deserve a reward for this game. you guys should make a contest so that people 
 around the world could have left for dead but the contest should be all around the freakin world 
 if u think that is cool u can contact me at again garciadilan39@yahoo. com woo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 again. so again thank you creators for making this game called left 4 dead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikePri37
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This fantastic new game is the winner of several awards including "Best of E3" from Game Informer 
 and more to come. Left 4 Dead is developed by the creators of Half-Life, Counter-Strike, Portal 
 and Team Fortress, so if you like these games I guarantee you will love this one. With all the 
 game modes available you will never run out of possibilities. Whether it be solo, co-op, online 
 co-op or online versus game where you play as special infected you can never be the same because 
 game modes are run by "AI (artificial intelligence) Director" that changes the zombies, effects 
 and other environmental experiences every time you play. This game is packed with 100's of zombies 
 20 new maps, 10 brand new weapons and 4 campaigns that are set as if they were a movie. In the 
 campaign you can play as 4 different characters, Francis; A motorcycle man with a shotgun, this 
 bar boy grabbed a gun and popped some heads. Louis; A system Analyst guy ready to quit his job 
 but then the virus hit and Louis has a new job, STAY ALIVE. Bill; A hardened Vietnam veteran with 
 a desire to fight now hes only got one thing left to do, Fight for his life. Zoey; A college girl 
 with poor grades but is fluent in one subject, zombie killing. Because of her time watching horror 
 movies in her college dorm she knows how to survive. Theres only one thing left to say, CAN YOU 
 SURVIVE THE ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the latest offering from Valve, the fine folks who brought us Counter Strike, Halflife, 
 and Team Fortress. With such a pedigree to live up to, Left 4 Dead had it's work cut out for it. 
 Did it succeed? Well, if you have a group of friends to play with on regular basis then most certainly 
 YES. If you don't, or prefer a solitary me versus them scenario then by all means save your money.
 
  
  Story - None really. There is a brief back story given but that really isn't the point of the game. 
 Why there are zombies running all over the place doesn't really matter does it? Just get to safety 
 already!
  
  Graphics - I always felt Valve almost doesn't care about graphics. Not that they put out bad looking 
 games, not at all. But essentially Left 4 Dead looks like Halflife 2. This isn't the end of the 
 world but an extra tweak or two to the good old Counter Strike engine would've been nice.
  
  Sound - Good. Not great, like Dead Space for example, but it gets the creepy/chaotic point 
 across. No matter how many times you've played, whenever you hear the witch in the distance your 
 ears always perk up!
  
  Gameplay - Left 4 Dead justifies it's $60 price tag here. The 4-player online co-op is as much 
 fun as anything out there. There are four scenarios in which your team must ultimately reach an 
 extraction point to succeed. There are many, many adversaries (known as infected) between you and 
 your goal. Failing to stick together and work as a team will always result in failure. It is terrific 
 fun and very satisfying to ratchet up the difficulty to see how far you can get into a particular 
 chapter. 
  On the other hand, playing alone is a rather hollow experience. Character slots are filled in with 
 bots. In Valve's defense, these are without a doubt the best AI teammates I've seen in any other 
 game. The CPU is logical, helpful, and pulls it's own weight. The problem is it's not really any 
 fun as a stand alone game. You really miss hearing your friends in your ear freaking out and yelling 
 out various expletives when the zombies come pouring in.
  
  Basically, Left 4 Dead is only as good as the people you play it with. And in that context it is 
 very good. I would like to see additional chapters and scenarios added to the game in future DLC 
 as the game is actually fairly short as it is. I would recommend waiting to see who on your Friends 
 List has the game before buying this one though. Because as you would expect, facing a hoard of 
 zombies isn't much fun by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCORPIO30
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Brilliant game with the idea of four survivors all working together against all host of nasties 
 is spot on, the sound fx and music is creepy and its only a matter of time b4 you are awaiting 
 4 a hunter, smoker or boomer to yak on ya NICE!!!!!! lol.... i personally love the zombies with 
 all kinds of weird and wacky ways of attacking/hurting you... its great how you can help each other 
 along and rescue teamates along the way as do the AI for your character.... the sound and music 
 is eiiireley perfect and makes you alittle on edge when you first try this game, which i might add 
 is disturbing when in the dark on your own lol.... another great feature is the superb graphics, 
 and the difficulty level is a good strong challenge, i would try normal level and up if you really 
 wana be a bad boy ( ya hear me ) anyways.... i love this game and hope there is more kind of its 
 statue in the future :O) zombie hunting and surviving just taken a huge blast in the right direction.... 
 a well spent 40.00 for my birthday.... MORE PLEASE 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conway-San
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  when i saw this game for the first time i thought to myself OMG!! they have made a new genre of 
 zombie shooter games this game is nothing like the likes of resident evil (which is my favourate 
 game) but they use all the good things from that genre and reinvent the way we play, rather than 
 slow paced thinking games such as resi evil this game gets your pulse racing and gets you ready 
 for a bullet shooting fest of fun, yes the AI might not be what its cracked up to be but seriously 
 what is this game for? you being sat in your bedroom alone with the lights off or being online 
 with your friends and scaring the hell out of each other!
  
  Gameplay: yes the single player isnt as good as it could be but this isnt a single player game 
 get online and sort it out! but the zombie AI is absolutely GENIUS!! 9/10
  
  Sound: you dont need to be watching the screen to feel like your right there in the middle the 
 music and character voices make you feel like your really there with the 4 made up characters in 
 the game. 10/10
  
  graphics: the visuals are dark and fit perfectly into the story! the zombies are not all identical 
 and i think there are a nice variation of different types. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NrkSaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a 4 player co-op zombie survival game. 4 campaigns with 5 missions each. Different 
 locations and AI-Director throwing zombies at you from every which way. Hordes of zombies and to 
 mix it up; 5 different special zombies are tossed into the mix. How can you go wrong?
  
  You can probably guess how L4D plays, so i'll just address a few small complaints that I had for 
 the game.
  1. Wish the game had a character-creation system instead of having to choose from 1 of the 4 just 
 meh characters.
  2. A little more story would've been nice. All the story you really get is from the messages written 
 on the walls throughout the 4 campaigns.
  3. A few more weapons would've been nice. I would've enjoyed a bit more variety in the weapons. 
 
  
  I really don't know what people are talking about when the complain about the time it takes to 
 complete the game. On expert with 3 other experienced players, the game is pretty hard and takes 
 a lot of teamwork and cooperation. The AI director makes it different every time, so it works for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ittman123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  First and Foremost, this is NOT a single player game. Yes, it has a single player campaign option, 
 but playing this by yourself is a waste of time. The AI is ok, but the real fun in this game is 
 totally in the Multi-player aspect. The way the game dynamically alters the tempo of the scenario 
 on the fly, and the versus mode really make L4D stand out. If you read any reviews from someone 
 that only played single player, or that's complaining about the game being too short, then they 
 haven't played it more than 1 time, and they played alone. The only shortcomming this game has 
 as a multi-player experience is that there are only 2 versus campaigns. Valve has stated that there 
 will be DLC for L4D, so that will solve that. I recently played this at a 3 on 3 LAN party, and 
 all I can say is that it was the most enjoyable gaming experience I've had in a very long time. 
 If not ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianoo76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  gameplay, graphics and weapons are tight but all the single player campain is run and gun with 
 no save points and no compass. i would definatly rent this game before spending your hard earned 
 money on it. the friendly computer ai is joke, your teamates are constantly jumping in front of 
 your bullets causing friendly fire damage and they never follow you to strategic positions to eliminate 
 the horde, instead they end up causing you to leave your position to save thier sorry butts and 
 end up getting you killed in the process. god forbid you are half way through one of the so called 
 campains and have to tend to other matters because there is no way to save your progress! if you 
 want to earn acheivements for finishing campaigns you better put aside 2hours because you have 
 to play straight thru in one sitting. the best part of this game is the intro, which just makes 
 you more dissapointed when you actually play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  "Left 4 Dead" is the type of game that is meant to be played online. The campaign is brief, but 
 is best played on the internet with three other players. But the competitive modes is the real 
 steak on this meal. It may not rival Valve's "Orange Box" when it comes to depth, but the entertainment 
 value is solid. Unfortunately, the lack of content is what keeps this from being a true masterpiece. 
 However, if you're a fan of zombie shooters like "House of the Dead", than you'll love it.
  
  The game's story is almost non-existent as the campaign is divided into four short chapters 
 meant to be a campy take on old school "B" grade horror flicks. While the narrative is nil, the 
 thrills take center stage as you and three pals blast rushing zombies as you travel from Point 
 A to Point B. It's a simple task, but the challenge comes in sticking together as mobs of zombies 
 and a few powerful types will make your job hardwork. The limited firearms is a downer, but it's 
 still fun blowing away the baddies while saving your buddies (and you) as a result. The competitive 
 modes has a group of humans trying to survive a group of zombies. It's simple like the main game, 
 but fun. This is the perfect type of party game that can be played in short spurts or throughout 
 the course of hours. It's addicting and fun and is one of the best multiplayer horror games out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I think Gamespot and I are not getting along with these reviews. Every game they praise I have 
 to shut down, and every game they bash on because they didn't get paid enough to review, I have 
 to bring onto the table for re-evaluation.
  
  Left 4 Dead, is a Half Life 2 mod that should of been included in the next Valve box set (like 
 Portal) . It should not be a stand alone title. It takes about 4 hours to beat the game in total 
 (with a decent crew at your side) . The A. I. director is over-rated, and doesn't mix it up enough 
 to make a game that much more re-playable. There are not enough weapons to mix up the gameplay 
 style for players, and the zombies are not really scary enough or unmanagable to make the game 
 that hard.
  
  The game lacks substance and story, and cannot match Dead Rising for the "I need to survive" edge 
 that made the game so great.
  
  I like playing this game because of the hordes of running zombies. However, the four types of super 
 Zombies don't make the game better or more interesting, and for a game with such an arcade flavour 
 it should of included more weapons, including hand to hand weapons to cut, bash, or crush your 
 undead attackers. A character creator would of been great, so you could be whoever you want instead 
 of four horrible characters that don't match myself or my fellow Zombie hunters in any way.
  
  The now aging Source engine needs a rehaul, and the game could use a map creator, so to expand 
 on the game, by the users.
  
  My 7.0 is a generous one, and its gets it because I really like taking out Zombies, and the co-op 
 aspect is the only part that is in any way innovative.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TastyWand
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Valve's HL, CS and TF games, but I found this game lacking in many ways.
  
  In CS and especially TF the variety of character classes and weapons meant emergent complexity. 
 
  That is to say, as I came to understand new aspects of those games, the experience and immersion 
 became exponentially richer. Learning how each class in TF2 plays meant increasing more complex 
 and richer game experiences.
  In L4D I found that once I'd grasped the 4 types of mobs, there was very little challenge left 
 and it just became dull.
  
  The environments are remarkably bland when compared with other recent and I think the lack of story/context 
 was also a negative.
  
  On the positive side, the procedural spawn system is innovative and as always, I greatly enjoyed 
 Valve's in-game commentary.
  
  As for value-for-money, L4D is light years behind Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbcjrballa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  1st of lets start with wats good about this game lets see where to begin well the graphics for 
 1 are pretty decent maybe not revolutonary but they get the job done i dont know about u but i 
 always prefer a game with decent graphics that runs smooth compared to an amazing looking game 
 with a horrible frame rate especially with all da things goin on in L4D (tons of zombies, explosions, 
 and split screen works perfectly too) . As for the gameplay wat makes this so amazing is not just 
 the huge hoards of infected u fight off or da amazing online play but the in-game AI Director that 
 makes every run through a scenario different for example if u happen to be playing great blowing 
 through infected just owning the director will make even huger hoards appear more often, place 
 less items in the game and make a tank maybe even two appear (1 earlier than the other not at the 
 same time) and probably place a witch in the worst spot possible, its just amazing how u can never 
 know wat will happen each time u play.
  
  Now onto the slighlty bad stuff (because i really feel there isnt anythin wrong with this game 
 IMO but thats just me)
  Now there are 2 things they could've made better, 1 is the amount of chapters, there are only 4 
 in total which may seem like a lil bit but honestly up till now i havent been able to complete 
 a single chapter (in expert) , which isnt necesseraly a bad thing because this game is so addictive, 
 but they seem to be solving this by makin new scenarios available through DLC some time later still 
 TBA, The 2nd problem is the Friendly AI they seem to be a bit laid back making u lead all the time 
 which puts u in danger to be attacked 1st most of the time but they arent as bad as every1 makes 
 them out to be actual human players are better though (sometimes) .
  
  Final Verdict-9.4
  Ultimately this game will keep u entertained for quite a while and with all the DLC comin 4 it 
 should be entertaining to just about any gamer out there
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuToPsY_SpEcIaL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead, the shooting struggle to survive from level to level. I bought this game purely because 
 of reviews I had read and I was not disappointed. You have the option to play as one of four survivors 
 through different Zombie movies and each movie has 5 levels. If played on an easy level you can 
 beat the game in no time but its not as fun as playing on a hard difficulty. When you play on expert 
 it can take 2-3 hours just to beat one level and you get an action packed oh crap theres a really 
 good chance im going to die experiance, so you make every shot count. The game is OK when you play 
 it by yourself but it really shines when you play online with friends or other Xbox live comunity 
 players. Online it can be difficult if everyone is not working together because team work and communication 
 are key to your survival on harder settings. The one thing I really like about this game is how 
 its different everytime you play the level. In one area you might fight a lot of zombies, then 
 if you die and have to play the level again theres a good chance there wont be any zombies in that 
 same spot. So you never know where they are going to come from and they can lurk around every corner.
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are not up to GOW2 level by any means but they are not as 
 bad as some people say. Not to mention on harder difficulties your having so much fun trying to 
 kill zombies and make it to the next level that you dont really have time to pay attention to the 
 graphics. I personally feel the graphics are perfect for this type of game. I'm also the type of 
 gamer that enjoys gameplay over graphics. I know there are people out there that don't share that 
 same opinion but if you miss out on this game just cause you think the graphics are bad, then your 
 an idiot.
  
  Overall - If your a zombie or first person shooter fan that has Xbox live or friends to play with 
 this game is a must buy. If you don't have friends to play with or Xbox live its definately worth 
 a rental. 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Zombies, Frantic Action, Blood, Guts and Vomit just add friends and serve. Not a really hard concept. Plays 
 very smooth and the levels are well designed. So whats not to like.... Well
  
  I usually don't complain about the length of a game because if the story is good and it keeps you 
 wanting more then that's fine. Now because this game has no story to mention I would say it needed 
 at least two more chapters. Witch I'm shore we will be getting as DLC for a price. So basically it 
 dosn't have enough bang for your buc.
  
  The weapons could also use a little spicing up. I know they are trying to use real world weapons 
 and that's cool. I don't need a flamethrower or a rocket launcher but a magnum pistol or a double 
 barrel sawed off shotgun would be sweet. Also another DLC for down the road I would guess.
  
  As I said the game plays smooth but there are little glitches. Zombies halfway in walls or trucks. It 
 would be nice if the cross hairs turned colors if you were aiming at a zombie or friend. The AI 
 is good but they do not pick up pipe bombs or molotov cocktails witch would help!
  
  So far a great game but not enough content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psdsoldier25
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Ive been following this game since it's inception at E3 last year and it did not disappoint. Mad 
 props and much respect paid to valve. Left 4 Dead takes place shortly after an infection spreads 
 throughout the city. Now were faced with a zombie apocalypse. The game is pretty simple, get from 
 point a to point b, but that's also where it gets complicated. On your way from point a to point 
 b your going to have to fight through 100's and 100's of zombies. The AI of the zombies is awesome, 
 it seems they never attack the same way twice. Around every bend is another hoarde waiting not 
 to mention the special infected. You will have to contend with hunters who wait to pounce on you 
 and rip you to shreds, boomers who get close to you and puke on you attracting the hoarde, a smoker 
 who will shoot his tongue out and strangle you with it and last but not least a very very mean 
 witch....
  
  Amazing graphics and a killer soundtrack to boot. There were really only 2 things i would have 
 wanted to see done differently. 1. A longer campaign 2. A bigger variety of weapons. Now i must 
 say the on-line multi-player is something of another breed. After your finished playing solo or 
 co-op ing through the campaign hop on live, where you take turns playing as humans and infected. 
 Things heat up pretty quick as you try to make it to the safe room. Most of the time i forgot about 
 the objective and just concentrated on killing everything in site (great fun) . All in all left 
 4 dead is a great game, it's everything i expected it would be knowing that valve was behind the 
 game. Great gameplay and extremely high re-play value make this a must have. Zombies, zombies and 
 more zombies, how could you go wrong ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltgcrunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok starting with people with no xbox live,
  Single Player is pretty fun with 5 chapters, with 5 missions per chapter.
  It introduces a whole 
 new experience as your a member of 4 people together NOT ONLY ZOMBIES BUT stuff called "Hunter's" 
 that pounce on you and you cant do nothing as they try to rip you to shreds, then a "Witch" is 
 crazy, if you hear one crying you bend down and turn ur fashlight off and either walk around it 
 or surprise it, if it touches you it will automatically put you to the floor and you have to be 
 revived, a "smoker" is a zombie guy that lashes its tounge at you and tries to take you from your 
 group, and a "boomer" is a fat blob that throws up on you which attracts a load of horde at you,
 
  a "TANK" now is a beast that has alot of hp and it can toss cars and throw rocks, so if you see 
 one shoot it early and often
  
  missions are fun, not many weapons to choose from, you can use a molotov cocktail, or a pipe bomb (which 
 attacts horde to it, so throw it in a crowd to stop the crowd from chasing you) you can heal your 
 teamates or you, can get pills that give you an health boost that dont last much.
  GAME NOT 4 EVERY1 but it is fun with friends or if you like a good scary teammate game,
  
  
 NOW 4 PPL WITH XBOX LIVE
  its pretty sweet,
  you can group with friends to do co-op campaign or just do a versus mode
  where 4ppl can be the 
 survivors and 4-5 people be a team of the "infected"
  you can be a hunter, smoker, bloomer, or a tank even!!!
  but you can not be a witch though, but 
 o well its fun just try 2 stop the survivors.
  
  
  OVERALL
  its a pretty faced paced horror game, it is fun and something new,
  i took a gamble with this 
 game and it really did pay off well
  i love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I keep writing $20 checks to valve, but they keep getting returned! I am insistant that they take 
 more of my money, because there's no way a game this great can only be $60. There's roughly no 
 other way to describe - this game is $#@&%*# awesome!
  
  You want story?! Valve says $ story. You and three other people are there... that's it... no explanation, 
 no exposition, no subplot, no fighting bosses to figure the truth behind whatever is causing these 
 zombies.... NADA! Rather than be involved in a story, and muddle the game with plot and context 
 and subcontext, valve puts you in the situation and lets you run. You never find out why people 
 are getting sick and what's going to happen once you escape. You're there and that's that; this 
 lack of story, however, is what draws you in more because there's no plot twists to anticipate. 
 You're left to wonder what's going on around you, with only some eery (and even funny) comments 
 and love letters on the walls in the safehouses. This exclusion of plots sets the mood of uncertainty 
 and desperation that meets you at every turn as you struggle to survive.
  
  This game uses an impecible amount of realism to suck you in. The survivors you play as - Zoey, 
 a college student, Francis, the bad-ass, Louis, the 30 something behind a desk (think office space) , 
 and Bill, the disgruntled war vet - are very likelike and ordinary in their responses - when they're 
 in full health, they are responsive and quick, and when they are near death, they become sluggish 
 and unresponsive to the other characters. Never in the game are you impervious to attack, so even 
 when you heal one another or reload (which is effortless) , you're always on guard. The zombies 
 faces are wretched and distressed, but become even more so when shot or meled. When killing a zombie 
 up close, blood spatters all over the screen. 
  
  The most important part of any zombie game is.... the zombies, of course! Valve has done a superb 
 job of crafting the fastest, smartest, and most powerful zombies ever seen in a video game. This 
 undead crazies will set up traps, attack in waves, and make even George Romero hang his head in 
 shame. In addition, there are special zombies: The smoker, which lashes out with its tongue and 
 constricts you; the hunter, who leaps and and pounces on unsuspecting surivors; the boomer, who's 
 vomit impares your vision and attracts the rest of the zombie horde to your face; the witch, who 
 is virtually harmless, but when disturbed, becomes a lethal weapon; and the tank, who's the most 
 powerful and deadly bruiser of the group. Valve has put the leashes of these freaks in the hands 
 of its wonderful "AI Director" which takes note of how well you and your team are doing, and will 
 attack you with more zombies when you're holding your own; conversely, it will lighten the load 
 if your struggling to survive. 
  
  Alongside great zombies, valve has given you some great backdrops to play on. While most games 
 give you quantity over quality, valve gives you 4 (count 'em 1..2..3..4!) campaigns, each with 
 5 chapters. This may not seem like a lot, but once you see the beautiful and interactive sets valve 
 created you will understand that valve gave you 20 amazing levels that you will play again and 
 again.
  
  As amazing a job as they did on visuals, Valve wows with audio making it the best and most important 
 feature in the game. The survivors banter back and forth offers a comedic sidebar to a rather serious 
 toned game. The music which swells and fades during moments of horde attacks or tank oncomings, 
 constantly on the edge of your seat; however, the audio can often save your life. Valve has given 
 each of the special zombies certain audible sounds which alert you to their presence. I can see 
 millions of online gamers screaming "LIGHTS OFF! THERE'S A WITCH CRYING!" or "I CAN HEAR BOOMER 
 VOMIT!" which shows how effective the audio can be towards gameplanning. 
  
  And gameplanning is a must, as this game boasts the best online co-op to date. You and up to three 
 friends can team up to take on the zombies. But just because you're playing with friends rather 
 than AI, doesn't mean you can run off and shoot your way thru. This game focuses heavily on teamwork, 
 and the second you are seperate is when you are incapacitated or die from a zombie attack. The 
 entire game can be played with computer AI, but while the AI does a great job of keeping each other 
 (and you) alive, they often inadvertantly startle witches and will choose to sit and fight rather 
 than run, should the situation call for it. The game as a whole loses a little bit when played 
 alone.
  
  If co-op isn't your thing, this game also offers one of the most innovative multiplayers available. 
 You and up to 8 players can compete on teams, with each team taking turns as survivors, and the 
 infected. Now the tables are turned and it's you who are the attacking infected and your job is 
 to kill the survivors. But rather than playing a plebian zombie, you are given control of the speciality 
 zombies (with exception of the witch) . Even in this mode, the game plan is still strategy, as zombies 
 are weaker than survivors, so you must plan combo attacks which yield the most damage before you 
 are offed.
  
  Once in a generation (console generation) there is a game that defines that age (console ages) . 
 This game breaks barriers that other games wish they could nudge and valve proves, yet again, that 
 its game making is clearly a level above everyone else. Don't miss this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Its seems that there is not alot of horror genre games out their right now, mainly all we had was 
 Condemned and Dead Rising. But Valve has decided to add them selfs to the list of horror game devolpers. 
 What Left 4 Dead brings to you is a whole new Horror experience. Which means, your gonna get a 
 different spook everytime you play that campiagn, which its running on the same engine as other 
 games, you feel like its a new one you have never used before, Examples are if you stay in one 
 area, you are never safe, different hordes attacks from different area thus leaving you and your 
 buds in a pickle cause your friend did not see that hunter jump out at him while your being circled 
 around by zombies and wont let you out to save your friend. Also, you might encounter a boss zombie 
 (witch, tank, smoker, etc.) in a different area every time. But the dissipontment in this game 
 is that there is no storyline to tell, its just basicly shooting to survive. Also, if you don't 
 have Xbox LIVE, YOUR SCREWED! This game is only fun if your an online player that has people you 
 can talk to, Its hard to go for that acheivment where you dont get healed thourgh out the whole 
 campaign when Bill is over their running at you with his health pack trying to heal you (That happened 
 to my friend when we we're playing online co-op.) . Also, this game gets tiring bery eaisly, so 
 don't say "I can play this game all day!". Trust me, i did that and overkilled the game a bit too 
 much. But whats a fun mode is the new Versus mode, where you either be a survivor or infected, 
 the only disipointment with this is as the infected, you can't be a witch or a horde member, Just 
 Tank (random) , Smoker, Boomer, or Hunter. This game is a must buy for most Xbox fans, one good 
 thing about it is that it is one of few games that supports 4-player co-op, and we all now your 
 starting to get bored of Halo 3's (I got bored of it when it came out.) Left 4 Dead is a must own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_mally
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I brought this game expecting a Resident Evil/Dead Rising experience, however, I was sadly disappointed.
 
  
  Story
  .... or lack thereof. I was extremely upset that I spent $60 on a game with no story. I pictured 
 this game as Dead Rising with four person co-op, instead I received a bland first person shooter 
 with no plot; sub-plots; or character to character interaction between the survivors. This game 
 would have been a lot better if there were cut-scenes showing some sort of interaction between 
 the survivors.
  
  Each scenario in the game has the same goal (reach the end and get rescued) , this gets old fast.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The controls are tight and well done. However, there is a lack of variety when it comes to weapons. 
 I melee weapons, claymores, different kinds of pistols, machine guns, and shotguns would have made 
 this game so much more enjoyable.
  
  It would be awesome if I could pick up a brick and bash a zombie's skull in, or sent an IED for 
 a gang or zomies, or my personal favorite set up with a .50 cal sniper rifle and watch zomibe's 
 explode when you shoot them. A flamethrower would have been cool also, as well as an assortment 
 of bats, sledgehammers, chainsaws, and guns.
  
  The action in this game is so disappointing, all you do is spam shots at hordes of zombie's, and 
 the guns don't even feel satisfying in your hands, couple this with the lack of variety in weapons 
 it just makes this game feel half-ass.
  
  Also, I ntoice that when a zomibe gets up close to you, you can shoot right at it and nothing happens, 
 this is annoying to no end.
  
  Graphic's
  
  The graphic's look cartoony and lack detail. The zombie charactors look good but the enviroments 
 are kind of bland and look like there are details that should be there but just aren't (like Resident 
 Evil) . 
  
  This graphics remind me of team fortress, and it these kind of graphics just ruin the whole experience.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is surprisingly good, I just wish there was a story to go along with it.
 
  
  Value
  
  This came is a budget title at best, and is not worth $60, maybe $30. I played this game online 
 for 2 days, and was so pissed that I purchased it that I returned it to gamestop, got my money 
 back and purchased Resistance 2 (great game by the way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50peso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  i dont know about anyone else but i have been waiting for a game like this for years. It is fun 
 fast past, and has a high replay value. I wish that there was more variety in the guns you get 
 but that can be overlooked by how much fun this game is to play. The difficulty of this game at 
 times was almost to hard. it seemed like the more times i replayed a level the harder it got, it 
 seemed like the game would predict my moves and plan for them. I can see a potential for huge expansion 
 of this game in many places, such as more guns, levels, enemies and more items that you can pick 
 up and use. I know that it sounds like i am bashing on this game, but i am not i am just saying 
 that this game could be even better. 
  
  
  I would highly recommend this game for anyone who wants a kick ass zombie game that is mixed with 
 a great multiplayer game. It might just be me, but why is it that the 360 and ps3 have four controllers 
 but there is like 2 mutiplayer games for the systems, i find that simply amazing. i mean whats 
 the point of having 4 controllers on a system that you will never use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I remember watching E3 2006, seeing this game for the first time and just being absolutely amazed! 
 Now 2 years later it is finally released and worth every penny! Maybe even more!
  
  The Good:
  ~ The game itself is its a revolutionary title which will and quite possibly already 
 could have changed the world of gaming
  
  ~ The graphics and design of the game are all beautiful and quite gruesome 
  
  ~ Every time 
 you play through the game it is different, NO JOKE! Not just the zombies change position and quantity, 
 but so do the weapons and ammo!
  
  ~ The game makes you feel like your in a horror movie, featuring 4 characters which represent different 
 horror movie characteristics
  
  ~ This game NEEDS teamwork, which is something you dont find much in games nowadays, its nearly 
 impossible to play this alone, actually, im pretty sure its 105% impossible
  
  ~ The versus mode is highly addictive, placing you in maps from the story as either a Survivor 
 or the Infected. (Survivor plays through the level normally, while the Infected try to stop them 
 from finishing the level)
  
  The Bad:
  ~ There are only 6 weapons (Handgun/ Handgun x2, SMG, Assault Rifle, Shotgun, Auto Shotgun and 
 Hunting/Sniper Rifle
  
  ~ In the Campaign/Movie mode, there are only 4 levels with 5 different sections in them, which 
 isnt bad playing on Hard and Expert because it can last for days, maybe even weeks, but on normal 
 and easy, it would only take about 6 hours [i have timed myself playing the co-op online]
  
  Other than that this game is perfect with a high chance of DLC (Downloadable Content) Being 
 released some time within the next few months, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerzombieman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9/10 It's fun, addicvtive and just plain fun, killing hundreds and hundres of zombie's 
 over and over again with a lot of variety modeled zombies. it's crazy fun, no lag either. it hasnt 
 for me yet, but i could see how it might get repitive...
  
  Graphics: 8/10.. hmm they are good, i'd say definately better than CS, not by much, but it's definately 
 noticeable. they're probably slightly above average for a game coming out in 08/09. they'll do. 
 i mean if this game had amazing graphics it would lag terribly. 800 zombies rushing at you at once? 
 yeah the graphics are just fine.
  
  Sound. 10/10 the best part of the game, everything is just spot on, the zombie moans, the gun shots, 
 the character voices. everything.
  
  overall:9/10. great game!! i just wish maybe that there was little more variety in just everything.. 
 but for the pc gamers.. they'll get that variety with all the mods and stuff. also i wish there 
 was cutscenes.. the intro was sick!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speranza318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This review is from someone who has only played this game on expert. With that said, this is the 
 most challenging FPS I have ever experienced to date. The adrenaline rush after 40 hours of gameplay 
 still remains.
  
  STORY
  
  Left 4 Dead' s story is best described as intense, from beginning to end. You take the role of 
 4 survivors who have survived 2 weeks in a zombie infested town. There's one objective - to get 
 out alive. The characters, depending on which you play, is unique in the way they interact with 
 their surroundings. While each handles a gun with equal efficacy, their personalities are truly 
 unique. For example, as one character nears death, she says "Oh my god... I'm gonna die" and you 
 can hear the fear in her voice. Another character says, "Looks like I'm goin home in a box", almost 
 shrugging this impending doom off as he continues to fight. When a character dies, you get a sense 
 of how other characters felt about him/her as they say a short line. Also, how they die (in a fire, 
 getting smashed by a Tank, overwhelmed by the horde) also determines whether other characters scream 
 their names, or starts bawling in hopelessness. You feel like you are right there.
  
  There are 4 campaigns, and if you were to play the game on easy, you'd be done in a short time. 
 However, to truly get that sense of being "left 4 dead", play the game on expert. You will feel 
 hopeless, struggling to survive, and overwhelmed, which is exactly what this game's premise is.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The controls are so simple. What makes this game so challenging and great is the NEED for teamwork. 
 Playing this game in single player mode is one thing, but multiplayer coop is where it's at. You 
 need to have a good formation, watch each others backs, stay close, and work as a team. Otherwise, 
 you will get picked off. If someone wants to go back for ammo or a weapon, and the rest of the 
 team isn't with you, consider yourself dead. You will get ambushed. If a special infected attacks 
 you, or if a horde comes at you, you will get knocked down. Unable to move, you can only shoot 
 from the floor with your pistols, and it is extremely inaccurate and slow. You will be dead before 
 your team can get to you. Then you have to be saved by your teammates in the nearest closet as 
 a lost survivor.
  
  Multiplayer versus is another addition to an already great game. You can play as the special infected, 
 and challenge the survivors. You can go on top of buildings, plan attacks from afar (you can always 
 see survivors as the infected) , and have a ball tasting what it's like from the evil side.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The environments are dark and beautifully rendered. There are lights only from 
 your flashlight or from the abandoned cars with their headlights still on. Most streetlamps are 
 powerless, along with the buildings, giving the sense that the area has been ravished before you 
 got there. When you reload, the flashlight attached to your gun moves, leaving you temporarily 
 in the dark and adds a layer of fear. The zombies are all done uniquely, from their faces to their 
 actions. Some sit down, some are fighting with each other, others are puking or staggering against 
 a wall. They live and breathe. As they come at you in waves, all you see are the whites of their 
 eyes. If you get a head shot with a shotgun or rifle, their heads explode in bloody glory, their 
 brains and skull caps flying in every direction. It's just plain fun to watch everything going 
 on around you.
  
  SOUND
  
  Impressive. The music is eerie. The intense piano keys and sudden pounding of drums adds a great 
 effect to the game. When you die, an angelic tune plays with the voices of the dead ringing in 
 your ears in your last moments. Most impressive are the "special infected" sound effects. Each 
 makes their own specific noises, whether it is a cough from the smoker, the roar and vibrations 
 of the tank, the deep gurgling grunt from the boomer, or the painful cry of the witch, you will 
 know they are coming before you see them. On expert, it is absolutely pertinent that you hear before 
 you see so you can prepare for an incoming attack.
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Get this game if you have online access and want a truly immersible experience. 
  
  Each time 
 you play it's different because the zombies are always laid out uniquely. 
  
  4 campaigns may be short to some, but on expert it'll keep you busy for a long time, not to mention 
 that even when you do beat it the experience will change next time you play.
  
  Multiplayer coop and versus adds a great experience and challenge to the mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBustCh33ries
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  for me this game was a sleeper because i heard about it only 2 weeks before it actual release date 
 and when i did hear about it i didn't get to excited for it. when the game was released i went 
 out and bought it becausea co worker seriously recommened it and he has never lead me wrong before, 
 and his recommendation hhis struck gold once again. this game is great, the best multiplayer game 
 by far anywhere, and what really odd about it, is that there are only four maps on campaign mode 
 and 2 maps on vs mode, but i still cannot seem to put this game down, since i have got this game 
 i have completly stop playing any other other fall releases and i have actually gotten 2 more since 
 this came out (Call of Duty: WaW and Tomb Raider Underworld) and i have yet to even take them out 
 of the pakaging. The Geniuses at Valve have some how managed to take heroin and administer it through 
 the game, it's the only way i can explain this gameit has taken me off track with fable ,2 falllout 
 3 i dont even know where my copy of far cry 2 is, and i can't tell you when i played gears 2 last. 
 the game rocks and the only thing keeping it from being a perfect complete game is the fact that 
 you can finish the campaign maps literally is 4 hours, that aside you will still play the game 
 over and over again, and have no idea why, and another thing, i am normally not an achiement whore, 
 but for some reason i want every last one of these achiement point :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Well L4D is not just another first person shooter. Its about you and 3 other characters either 
 NPC's or ur friends over Xbox Live trying to fight the zombie apocalypse and make it to the extraction 
 point to be taken out of the city. The game has 4 campaign's and each one has 5 chapters to complete. 
 The thing is, everytime you play it, it will be completely different because of the impressive 
 AI system. The game has 4 difficulties, Easy, Normal, Advanced and Expert. For Easy and normal 
 you can do it on your own but for Advanced and Expert it would be a lot easier if u got a friend 
 who is actually liven with you. There is 6 weapons in the game so far. The ones you start with 
 are Uzi or shotgun with a pistol. You can pick up another pistol and dual weild. When you get futher 
 on you get a Hunting Rifle, Auto-Shotgun or a Machine Gun. You can get either a pipe bomb or a 
 molotov too. All and all this is a amazing game with great graphics and someone that doesn't have 
 it should definitely buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blooga245
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Plot: There is no real plot. You have 5 campaigns, each a movie, with no tie-ins on any level to 
 each other. You start in a safe house, one of four "Survivors", have to progress through the level, 
 stopping at safe houses along the way, then come to an ultimate fight that ends in a rescue.
  
  Graphics: Character models are second t none for the humans, showing emotion like I have never 
 seen before. Zombies are very good, although a bit repetitive (this problem might have been solved 
 by keeping the array of character models, but changing the clothing) . The fog surrounding the players 
 is perfectly done, where it obscures vision enough to seem creepy, yet is light enough to see a 
 good long ways. Environments are very well done. Lighting is some of the best I've seen in all 
 my years.
  
  Audio: Second to none. The groans, howls, screeches and vomiting of the Infected are only outweighed 
 by perfectly done human voices (they're not the annoying repetitive unhelpful norm!!!) . The Survivors 
 voice's convey emotions in a way that floored me. Variations in pitch, wording and tone show other 
 games how all characters should sound. And the specific musical cues to indicate oncoming enemies 
 (such as a battle horn playing before you get rushed by a Horde) is a very nice touch.
  
  Gameplay: The controls may feel awkward to some at first, but they are perfectly sited for this 
 game. Reloading with B is not as big a deal as other faults in the game. And the right bumper to 
 turn 180 degrees is more useful than one might initially think, since you will be surrounded many 
 times during the game and will need to react fast and move even faster to survive.
  
  Overall: Left 4 Dead is a very solid game. I did like the enemy AI, which makes the zombies act 
 in different and unpredictable ways. Another big thing was the changing levels. L4D falls drastically 
 short in level number and variety, so it needs all the help it can get to overcome that. By making 
 the enemy spawning uncountably variable, it makes the 5 maps different every time you play a campaign, 
 and keeps the experience fresh. Not knowing when a Tank will start to shake the earth, or even 
 if the next hall will be full of zombies like last time or empty like the time before that is one 
 of L4D's great accomplishments.
  I also liked the pistol as a constant weapon. It is easier than you might think to run out of ammo, 
 and the pistols aren't so weak as to cause dread of running out of shotgun shells, but aren't strong 
 enough to make using them not a challenge. Giving them infinite ammo is a blessing that few will 
 recognize until they are pinned against a wall and facing a rushing Horde.
  Weapon variety will seem small to some. Counting pistols, there are a total of six weapons in the 
 game. The Uzi and pump shotgun are the lower level weapons, while the M16A3 assault rifle and auto-shotgun. 
 A hunting rifle tips the scale 3 - 2 for the superior weapons, and works well in the game.
  A major killer for L4D is the unfriendly single-player campaign. Survivor AI is out of synch with 
 the player. They can take care of Boss Infected before you even know there was one, but assistance 
 only comes when you're on the ground shooting for your life. A way to issue orders, even the most 
 basic, like "stay" and "go" would make things so much easier on the player trying to get ready 
 for a mob of Infected about to attack a small house where one is boarded up. Also, while they can 
 shoot just fine, not a single bot has ever used a pipe bomb or Moltav cocktail in my 13 hours of 
 play. Getting bots to sare ammo and gernades would make surviving so much less complicated, especialy 
 when they take the last pipe bomb in the safe room, but won't ever use it, leaving you stuck in 
 the rain.
  Multiplayer is flawless, however, and this is a premier party game for all gamers. Playing the 
 Infected, from a Toad-like "Smoker" zombie with a long tongue and wicked stench, to an obese, puss 
 covered Boomer whose vomit attracts the Horde and blinds it's victims, to the leaping Hunter that 
 pins Survivors and rips at their flesh, and the menacing Tank, a Hulk-like monstrosity that throws 
 cars or pieces of concrete that it rips from the ground.
  I do have a problem with the linear gameplay, however. L4D does make use of different path choices 
 to make, but these are so few and far between, (not to mention short, as the paths will converge 
 in roughly 100 steps) . Wider, more eree roaming maps would make the levels more interesting, yet 
 the game achieves a nice balance of risk/reward in level exploration, I would hate to see them 
 make levels too big, so that that whole aspect of the game is voided.
  The ability to reload and bash Infected intermittently is a great help when swarmed by Infected, 
 especially with dual pistols. However, I found the fact that you have to keep pulling the right 
 trigger to fire the pistol a drag in the same situations, where it would have been helpful to even 
 be able to fire both pistols at the same time (save for head shots, it usually take two bullets 
 from the pistols to kill an Infected) .
  Hopefully a sequel, or XBOX marketplace add-ons will fix the problems that the game has, but everthing 
 in account, you are in the hands of a revolutionary step forward in the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  well, this games has truly amazed me. it's everything dead rising should have been. and this is 
 like the Dawn of the Dead game we have always wanted. now, this games is VERY short. 5 hours tops. 
 but there's a lot of replayability. the AI Director can increase the difficult based on how well 
 you do. so it's guaranteed you can't ever really play the same game twice. and the graphics are 
 pretty god. I have seen any bugs or glitches for this game yet, so I'm pretty happy about that. 
 and the gameplay is great. everything is very fast-paced. there can be swarms of zombies charging 
 you at one time. it can get your blood flowing! the guns are pretty good, too. the pipe bomb is 
 pretty good. if you throw is, they will swarm around it and it can blow up MANY of them there's 
 also moltovs, pain pills (temporarily ups your health) , first aid kits, etc. now, the most important 
 element in the game: team work. if you think you can just go Rambo on the zombies by yourself, 
 chances are you probably won't succeed. your teammates and you must work together. to get things 
 done. the gore in this games is GREAT! the head shots are explosive and awesome! and the levels 
 are pretty well thought out. you really feel like you're there and the environment is very creepy 
 and immersive. the only things that irk me are that there's no checkpoints and no story (plot) in 
 the game. but the sheer awesomeness of the game makes up for that in many ways. so what I'm saying 
 here is GET THIS GAME! there's 4 player co-op and it's just plain awesome! so far this year, this 
 is my wisest purchase and the game hasn't let me down yet! so go get it yourself and be amazed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  -Multiplayer is fun offline and online
  -killing the zombies never gets old
  -replay value
  -levels are never the same 
  -online zombies vs surviors is a great addition 
 to the game
  -has good graphics
  -sounds are almost perfect
  -and the game is very fun
  
  The Bad
  -The game relys to much on the multiplayer aspect of the game and it can make you 
 very frustrated when your partners are down and a hunter attacks you or smoker sucks you in cause 
 you need a partner to help you out.
  -very little health packs when you need it like you see the health box and they give you pain pills 
 instead which if your life is like 23 and it brings it up to temporarily 75 if you run into a tank 
 or boomer your toast.
  -Game is too short
  
  So over all Left 4 dead is a great game definetly a top contender for one of my favorite games 
 of the year. Now the gameplay in this game is definetly the most important aspect of this game 
 this game has the best gameplay ever it really does make you feel like your one of the surviors 
 in the game especailly during the finalies because when your facing the hundreds or thousands of 
 zombies your happy to make it out alive. Also some cutscenes would have been nice so that way you 
 could have some respects for the characters but even though the game lacks cutscenes you still 
 have love for every one of your squad mates and will help them everytime they go down just like 
 they would for you. And the friendly fire shouldnt have been added because when your just unloading 
 on a tank and say louis steps in you way and you end up incapacitating him it can get very frustrating 
 or when you are trying to back up and shoot at a tank at the same time and you cant see where your 
 going u get stuck on a wall or something and the tank smacks you across the map and you fall of 
 the building and die can get really really annoying but really you cant let these little flaws 
 ruin the game experience for you because left 4 dead is a stunning game making you come back for 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombomb7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of fps titles with online co-op, and I have played the Halo series, the Call of 
 Duty series, the Battlefield series, the Gears of War double, and others in between. These are 
 all great fps games, but you should buy Left 4 dead for a number of reasons
  
  Emphasis on mulitplayer-
  This game is most fun when you play with friends, either online of 
 off. the downside to this is that you may feel detached from the game if you only play this on 
 your own. In fact I would recommend you only buy it if you are set up for multiplayer.
  
  Survival-
  That aside, when you play through the campaign with friends you become immersed in 
 a fight for survival, one which draws you in even further which each increased difficulty level. 
 All players must work as a team, or you die, it is as simple as that. Those that stray usually 
 end up dead. Ammunition is usually in good supply but health is not, meaning you will have to work 
 as a team to stay alive as best you can, just like you see in the movies. 
  
  Innovation-
  -Zombies can attack you from anywhere, Valve have come up with the 'Zombie Director', 
 which means that zombies with have a random spawn point each time you play. Hordes of zombies can 
 come from anywhere any time as a result, and no two experiences are the game. This makes up for 
 the fact that there are only four campaigns 'chapters' or scenarios for you to play through.
  
  Teamwork-
  -Certain zombies can constrict you or pin you down and it takes a team mate to 
 get you out of certain sticky situations, believe me it can be very nerve wracking when you get 
 dragged away from your teammates by a zombie!. Team mates are also required to revive you further 
 increasing the need to work together, especially on harder difficulties (I've only managed Advanced 
 so far!) .
  
  Some bad-
  There is a small selection of weapons. There are only four campaign chapters. Playing on your own 
 isn't half as fun.
  
  I short-
  It is easy to overlook the shortcomings mentioned above. If you are into multiplayer shooters, 
 and like the 'zombie and fight for survival' genre then this game will provide ample fun.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteninja
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  as great as it is, its almost just as simple. but you can be overwhelmed and killed. and stick 
 with team is a must. guns could of been cooler, or more of variety, and levels are pretty short. 
 i guess its suppose to be a game where you want to play over and over again, which you easily can. 
 can get very intense and the graphics and lay out of the devastated city is great. its pretty fun 
 over all, but get a feeling of how simple it is some times. but you do have to be on your toes 
 or you will die of course. hopefully this will give me hours and hours of play , i keep buying 
 games and not liking them so much. already rethinking NFS undercrapper. i did a review on that 
 one. just stick together, communicate and watch each others back and kill as many as you can. and 
 get the hell out of dodge. and get the hell out of dodge and get the hell out of t here already. 
 well thats about it bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Let's get the bad out of the way first. There are only 4 campaigns and the single player does nothing 
 different to set itself aside from the campaign. Now that that is done, Left 4 Dead is definitely 
 a must have if you own a 360 or PC. Playing with 3 other people takes teamwork, quick wits, and 
 your head must always be on a swivel. The Zombie Director (Dynamic AI) will throw different looks 
 at you every time, so even though you may play the same level over, you will not run into the same 
 combat scenarios twice. The versus mode which allows you to play as special infected tanks, hunters, 
 etc. is fun, but takes a lot of teamwork and planning especially if your playing as the infected. 
 I really can't elaborate on anything different that the GS review doesn't except that this game, 
 short as it is, still provides hours and hours of repeated fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emotionlessreal
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game, zombie games usually thrill me. However this game? Not so much... way 
 too many random zombie hordes so you never have any time to do anything like re-load or stop to 
 try to pick something up... or explore... not that there's really anything to explore because all 
 the rooms are just really tiny closets or bathrooms with nothing in them...
  
  Maybe the co-op is fun, but single player definitely sucked and killed it for me, and that's really 
 all I wanted since I don't do too much multiplayer stuff on-line.
  
  Also the "Special" zombies were ridiculously stupid and obnoxious...
  
  Needless to say, I 
 brought this back for trade in the same day that I started playing it... sucks for single player, 
 maybe you'll dig it if you've got friends on-line and all that jazz, but I say steer clear from 
 it...
  
  Definitely NOT the best zombie game. That honor still stays with Dead Rising! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alp1981
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of the survival horror genre. I played Resident Evil and never got as much out 
 of it as others. Zombie movies are the same. Outside of Snyder's Dawn of the Dead remake and Shaun 
 of the Dead, I couldn't care less for the genre.
  
  So right off the bat Left 4 Dead was destined to fail for me.
  
  Then I tried it.
  
  No 
 cheesy storylines, no bad acting, no social commentary. Just killing zombies with friends.
  
  The goal of the game is to get from Point A to Point B without dying. Simple as that. And it 
 works better than any game that came before it.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is quick and easy to learn and the cinematic feel to the 
 experience is enough to give Hideo Kojima an erection.
  
  My only issue is the weapon selection is shallow. You got pistols, shotguns, hunting rifles or 
 machine guns. Sure, there's also pipe bombs, molotov cocktails, gas and propane cans but it would 
 be nice to get a few more weapons. Hopefully Valve will fix that with some downloadable content 
 in the near future.
  
  Other than that the game is flawless and will be a staple in my 360 for weeks to come.
  
  ...
 
  And now that those weeks are over, I can take a moment to look back at the game and give it a 
 proper score without sporting a raging hard-on.
  
  It was fun while it lasted but it didn't last long. In the end, it felt like more of a mod than 
 a game, albeit a very fun mod, but there just wasn't enough substance.
  
  I don't really like to give games a numerical score because everybody has their own range - for 
 example a "7" is average to some while a "5" is to others and even more no doubt avoid games that 
 score less than an 8.5.
  
  With that said, I'll give it a 7/10 because the site demands a numerical rating but my recommendation 
 is to rent not buy unless you can pick it up used for a decent price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the84yearoldman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Just what I've always wanted! A crazy fast-paced multi-player horror!
  
  I've always been a fan of survival horror games like this. And finally we get a great one with 
 good multi-player capabilities. You can even enter in versus mode and play as the infected, targeting 
 the survivors!
  
  Great selection of characters. I like how they are all pretty much different (black guy, old white 
 dude, biker guy, young white chick) . 
  
  Weapons are good. Pretty realistic in that you wouldn't have 30 different weapons to choose from 
 in a situation like this. There also isn't much of a limit to ammo, so you can focus more on having 
 fun blowing things to bits rather then conserving precious ammo, but at the same time, you can't 
 just go out there spinning in circles while holding down the shooting button.
  
  People will complain about the environment / graphics / storyline, but the way I see it, this game 
 is FUN. And that's what I want in games, so that's why i rate this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J3ffZilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead can be summed up in two simple words: Intense Fun. Left 4 Dead, with its fast paced 
 and team focused gameplay, is a great game for any multiplayer enthusiast while the simple yet 
 satisfying action is fun for casual gamers and hardcore fanboys alike. The campaign is decent on 
 single player but really shines with a group of friends playing at a jacked up difficulty level, 
 the survivors kick too much infected butt on any difficulty lower than advanced which takes away 
 the overwhelming feelings of desperation and fear on the survivor's side of L4D. The director A. I., 
 which essentially randomizes all encounters, keeps the game fresh and keep the player guessing 
 even after a few play throughs. The versus mode, which pits a group of survivors against a team 
 of infected, is also a great way to experience L4D with a group of friends. Versus requires a great 
 deal of strategy and communication on both sides, but good team work can almost always lead to 
 success. However, playing L4D with a random group of people is hit or miss. A team that dosen't 
 communicate or who would rather "rap" into thier headset can lead to some frustrating games, but 
 such us Xbox Live. Overall L4D is a great experience and although the maps can get repetitive the 
 random generation of baddies in bother the campaign and versus keeps the player guessing and never 
 allows the player to get comfortable. L4D really deserves two socres, one for poor groups and one 
 for awesome groups but your team will make all the difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I've played Dead Space and experienced several "Holy crap!" moments, but last night I popped in 
 Left 4 Dead, played solo on Expert and the entire experience was wonderfully terrifying. There 
 was never a time I felt safe. It was a large dollop of 28 Days Later, with a splash of zombie vomit. 
 Mmm mmm.
  
  I don't play on XBox Live, mainly because I know I would lose what little life I have outside of 
 work and would end up appearing on "Intervention". I can't wait to get my son this weekend and 
 play some split screen co-op. I know it's not as fun as the 4 player online mode, but watching 
 my son cringe in fright will make up for it. Muhahaha. 
  
  Graphics- I really have no problem with the graphics. The game is moving so fast that if you're 
 standing around criticizing the building textures, you're not playing on a hard enough difficulty. 
 Wave after wave of bloodsucking, gut eating, vomiting freaks really never left me time to even 
 care. The characters are well done and their facial expressions and body language really shine.
 
  
  Sound- "I'm dying!" BOOM BOOM (shotgun) "Nooooo!" BANG etc etc. It's enough to convey the sense 
 of helpless and futile doom. Sound is fine. The voice acting is surprisingly good, considering 
 most of it is comprised of whining and screaming.
  
  Gameplay- Pee in your pants scary, and action packed.
  
  Anyway, if I were a multi-player fanatic, 
 this would probably be the among the best games I've ever played. Even on solo, it's fun. I wish 
 Valve had included a way to lead your team a' la Rainbow 6 when you're soloing, but you can't have 
 everything. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: famoham
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Say what you want about zombies but I for one love blasting them to bits sure its as scary as hell 
 but that doesn't stop me from still shooting them. This simple concept of zombie games has been 
 around for a few decades and with so many already out there the concept can become blurred. Some 
 gamers could so far as to say that this type of zombie game is a rip off of all the other zombie 
 games out there, but that's just stereotyping and should be left oyt of gaming. It creates a bad 
 vibe and atmosphere in gaming and shows arrogance.
  
  Anyways, left 4 dead does a lot of things well like providing you with well crafted and strong 
 weaponry, polished fine tuned characters and their backgrounds , huge sprawling environments, strong 
 versatile zombies, not too mention unlimited ammo. But it does fall short on a few things like 
 sometimes the AI team mates neglect to heal you when your low on health they also don't follow 
 you at certain times when you are moving head of them. This can be frustrating at times especially 
 when you are fighting off a horde of zombies by yourself and they do nothing to help you fight 
 them off.
  
  Their are only 5 levels in 5 different campaigns in solo mode but even so they provide enough to 
 satisfy your craving of zombies and if that's not enough to reel you in playing multi-player can 
 really keep your thirst for zombies fresh and vibrant. All of this in one game will keep you busy 
 for hours on end even if you finish everything you can go back and do it again you'll be surprised 
 at the different outcomes. To conclude this game offers everything and more and you won't be disapponted 
 with any of it. 
  Rate this Review: Good Bad Track Author Report Abuse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Say what you want about zombies but I for one love blasting them to bits sure its as scary as hell 
 but that doesn't stop me from still shooting them. This simple concept of zombie games has been 
 around for a few decades and with so many already out there the concept can become blurred. Some 
 gamers could so far as to say that this type of zombie game is a rip off of all the other zombie 
 games out there, but that's just stereotyping and should be left oyt of gaming. It creates a bad 
 vibe and atmosphere in gaming and shows arrogance.
  
  Anyways, left 4 dead does a lot of things well like providing you with well crafted and strong 
 weaponry, polished fine tuned characters and their backgrounds , huge sprawling environments, strong 
 versatile zombies, not too mention unlimited ammo. But it does fall short on a few things like 
 sometimes the AI team mates neglect to heal you when your low on health they also don't follow 
 you at certain times when you are moving head of them. This can be frustrating at times especially 
 when you are fighting off a horde of zombies by yourself and they do nothing to help you fight 
 them off.
  
  Their are only 5 levels in 5 different campaigns in solo mode but even so they provide enough to 
 satisfy your craving of zombies and if that's not enough to reel you in playing multi-player can 
 really keep your thirst for zombies fresh and vibrant. All of this in one game will keep you busy 
 for hours on end even if you finish everything you can go back and do it again you'll be surprised 
 at the different outcomes. To conclude this game offers everything and more and you won't be disapponted 
 with any of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have read my reviews before, I am breaking away from my typical review style. 
 The main reason being that I honestly have more to discuss than just what was promised. Left 4 
 Dead has been on a lot of peoples radars for a long time. The main reason being that it would be 
 the first real break from zombie games being the same thing. Third person action/shooters. The 
 first person perspective is as always pulled off spectacularly by Valve. For those who have played 
 Counter-Strike Source, you will instantly feel comfortable using the weapons in this game. Mainly 
 because these guns are derived from CS Source. The punchiness of them is so reminiscent of CS that 
 you feel as though you are playing Zombie mod on CS Source. This game (away from its CS Source 
 feeling) really captures the feeling of being in a zombie movie, from the quirky personalities 
 of the four characters, to the seemingly non-stop onslaught of infected. If you've seen 28 Weeks 
 Later, you know the movement I'm about to talk about. When you see the Infected first outbreak 
 in the quarantined area and the soldiers are popping off shots at them. The bodies don't get blasted 
 back or do flips like in many games. The way their bodies drop literally is affected by their forward 
 momentum. If you shoot the lower portion of a zombies leg off while he is bolting at you, he just 
 falls on his face. If you smack one thats coming at you, he falls back and regains his balance 
 to come at you again. The physics of this game are UNBELIEVABLE!!! 
  The co-op aspect of this game is really where the greatness of this game comes from. When you have 
 three friends playing alongside you trying to survive on expert or advanced, sharing pills, health, 
 and trying to keep each other alive, you just do not get any feeling other than accomplishment 
 when you make it to a safe house. If one of your friends is unlucky enough to die, you can revive 
 them in a sense. After a short respawn period, you will see an orange silhouette of a person through 
 walls ahead of you. If you go to the door that they are behind and open it, the person who died 
 is brought back into the game. While it would be more a game of desperation if you could not revive 
 them after death, it does make the game more fun. If you died and were gone permanently, I think 
 a lot less people would play this game. I know that this is really supposed to be a survival horror 
 game, but you really cant run out of ammo. The pistols have infinite rounds, and the main weapons 
 have at least 128 rounds. The Uzi has 400+ You're never worried about running out so this aspect 
 is somewhat downplayed. L4D is a short game but the fact that weapons, enemies, health, and ammo 
 piles are ALL change every time you play, makes this game infinitely playable. Yes their are only 
 4 campaigns, but think about this. 1) If you get it for PC, valve and steam are known highly for 
 their mod-community. and 2) Because of the AI-Director, (that chooses spawn points for everything) 
 it would be quite easy for Valve to simply make new campaigns as DLC. So in the future Im pretty 
 sure well probably be able to look forward to new campaign maps. 
  Versus mode. This game is highly rewarding no matter how you play it, the ways you can kill zombies 
 are great and this is a wonderful addition to the already large number of hits by Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gusphan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing games for 25 years now and this is the first game that I've felt compelled to 
 write a review for. I chose to write because while the reviews have generally been positive, I 
 don't think they actually capture how brilliant this game is. With that said, this game is an instant 
 classic, one of a kind, and a must buy. Here is the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: I'm not surprised to see negative comments about the graphics; the game uses the source 
 engine which is now four years old. At times, objects and textures can look unrefined and pixelated. 
 However, there is good reason for this: there is so much happening in the game, so many zombies 
 on the screen at once, that this is necessary. Visually, a game like Gears of War 2 is better looking. 
 But Gears never has as many enemies and action on screen that Left 4 Dead does. This has to be 
 taken in consideration when reviewing the quality of the graphics.
  
  In fact, I think the game looks great. It's a forest vs. tress situation: when you are stationary 
 and examining things (which is foolish when there are flesh eating monsters afoot) , you may find 
 unimpressive textures, but when playing, you see just how brilliant the graphics look and how well 
 the game runs. There is no frame rate slow down! The game has such a great feel with the graphics 
 because of great pains the developers took to use special effects to get that "horror" look. The 
 animation is great and things seem very lifelike despite so many undead walking around! 9.5/10
 
  
  Sound: The sound of the game is right on. When there's little to no action, the only sound you 
 will hear are groans from zombies or movements from you and your teammates. However, when a boss 
 or hoard rushes you, the music, in true horror film fashion, becomes frantic to capture the desperate 
 situation you're in. Often times, the survivors (main characters) , will make comments appropriate 
 to the situation, such as "healing", or "smoker", to indicate a boss is near. If they are injured 
 or hurting they will let you know. Guns are right on. 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay: This is undeniably the best co-op multiplayer out there and where the game shines. The 
 quality of this game, as has been said, truly depends on who you bring in with you to help fight 
 the zombies. If you're a loner in the world of video games you best change your ways and make friends 
 fast. After all, if this event happened in real life, would you team up with people who refused 
 to listen and cooperate? 
  What is so amazing in this design is that it captures not only the element of teamwork, but the 
 art of communication. Players who can effectively communicate and listen to others will survive 
 this game; players who don't will perish. How simple and yet brilliant! Your very survival in this 
 game requires the constant cooperation of teammates, something games like Army of Two and Gears 
 come close to, but don't quite capture this the way Left 4 Dead does. 
  However, the highlight of the gameplay is the AI director. For those of you who don't know, the 
 AI director randomly changes the sequences of the game every time you play. One play through a 
 boss might be in one setting but in other play through he doesn't appear at all. In other words, 
 you never know what to expect and this adds to a unique experience each play through that greatly 
 extends the chance that you will be playing this month to come.
  
  Addressing Criticism:
  My one complaint, albeit small, is the lack of story. While most horror films are hardly noteworthy 
 for their stories, it would be nice to have some dimension to the characters you play as.
  Other criticism that you may hear would be about the single player. First of all, this game was 
 designed to be multiplayer from the start. In essence, faulting it for its single player experience 
 would be like faulting counter-strike for its single player experience- it makes little sense to 
 do so. 
  You may hear the game is too short with only 4 campaigns. Alas, I wish there were more campaigns, 
 only because the game is so great. The game has 4 campaigns with 5 levels each, so all in all there 
 are 20 levels. But consider this: playing the first campaign on the expert difficulty, I spent 
 at least 4 hours on it and didn't beat it. If you play the game on easy you may be able to run 
 through it in 2 hours. It's really up to you.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a must own, and my vote for game of the year. It's really up to you, 
 the player, to determine how much you get out of this game. If you buy it for single player, you 
 will be disappointed because it's not built for that. If you don't make an effort to make friends 
 with people who are committed to communicating, you will be disappointed. You get what you give, 
 and if you give a lot, you may just survive to the end with a smile on your face and your friends 
 by your side!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  We were crossing a roof, on our way out of the city. We jumped down to a lower roof, but Louis 
 decided to have a look around before jumping. 
  
  His mistake. A smoker got him.
  
  Zoey nailed it with the hunting rifle, but it was too late. Louis was incapacitated, and there 
 was no way back to save him. We tried jumping, climbing, but it was no use.
  
  Louis called out, "You guys go on ahead. Or better yet, shoot me."
  
  Shoot him? Louis had 
 already saved my butt 3 or 4 times. I couldn't do it, didn't have the guts. So Bill finished him 
 off. Louis took a long time to die, screaming the whole while.
  
  ------------------
  
  If you think this a cool thing to happen in a video game, buy this game, since it really did happen. 
 I probably have 10 stories like that, a lot of them about how I 'almost' made it. Play it, and 
 write your own stories. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johqnox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The feeling of dread as you play the game is addictive in itself. Especially in the dark areas 
 where your flashlight is the only available source of light. Great effects, good AI and all around 
 fun game play.
  
  The random nature of where mobs spawn and the timing of certain events adds a ton of re-play value. 
 Set up your own dedicated server and hash it out with some good friends. One of the few games I've 
 played that has excellent spectator value. Get a bunch of people playing in a room and it all adds 
 up to good fun. A great adult party game.
  
  The lobby used for setting up a quick game is a nice new addition. I like it. The game has an auto 
 adjustment that scales to your system specs. I tested this on two different machines and the game 
 auto scaled nicely so both machines had a nice player experience.
  
  (AMDXP 6400, Geforce 8800GTS 512, WinXP, 2GB ram and AMDXP 5000, Geforce 8500GT, WinXP, 2GB ram)
 
  
  Who doesn't like shooting zombies? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campfireglory
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game had me suspicious from the get-go. The very first preview sounded too good to be true. 
 4-man Zombie survivor game with multiplayer and the option to play zombie "bosses" not just grumbling, 
 slow, dim witted Zombies with no chance what-so-ever. Speaking of which, the Zombies in Left 4 
 Dead are by no means grumbling, slow, or dim witted. These Zombies are more like terrifying, brutal, 
 and attacking by force. The AI is simply amazing, setting off a Zombie rush by accidentally shooting 
 a car with a car alarm. Everything about it so far is amazing. the multi-player is great, (other 
 than the fact you have to switch between survivor and zombie after every game.) Personally, I would 
 be a Zombie every round if I could. A Zombie campaign would be a much appreciated add-on. Other 
 than that, this game is a 10 out of 10 for me. There is never a dull or slow moment like in Dead 
 Rising (which happens to be my favorite game, par none.) Where in some instances where you are 
 waiting around for hours on end. L4D is on the opposite side of the spectrum, it barely gives you 
 a chance to come up for air. I love it and so will you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: new22003
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Great concept let down by length, depth, and overall quality (or lack) of online players. Paying 
 $50 for this really feels like a ripoff, should be priced at $29 max, and $19 if you want to feel 
 good about your purchase. It got old after 3 days of playing. Multiplayer is good if you can find 
 the right group of people but 90% go off on their own leaving teammates to die. Single player is 
 extremely boring after the first 2 times through, its very very short and the story, what little 
 there is doesn't tie in together. I understand they want to do mini movies, but don't use the same 
 characters for each one. Seeing "Bill" escape onto a chopper, boat, plane, apv ruins part of the 
 concept. They should have used 4 separate groups of people or tied all four chapters together better. 
 If you don't have a clan, or extensive group of steam friends who are online playing L4D while 
 you are, you will never get the most out of this game. In a perfect world this game is an 8, in 
 the real world it's a 5. The first Valve game I have been disappointed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Before I start please realize my criticism to this game is only so that you may know any problems 
 I have noticed before you purchase this game. Players of the game who read this please know this 
 criticism is simply my experience so far.
  
  I have read other reviews and noticed people mentioning bad graphics, I am disappointed in them 
 as this just doesn't matter if you are playing the game at the 'run-for-your-life' speed the game 
 tries to force on you. This game is for running and surviving, not setting up camp every time the 
 horde comes. After all, If I were in a zombie apocalypse I surely wouldn't spend time I could use 
 running criticizing the fact that the hospital has pretty crappy wallpaper.
  
  The shooting is great, I love the fact that some weapons have unreal accuracy at time, but when 
 mixed with everything that can happen, this insane accuracy means nothing.
  
  What I dislike is when you are being hit from say, behind, by a single zombie, you are stuck in 
 that spot until the zombie is killed. The zombie is hitting me, not latching on, so why am I stuck? 
 I would have appreciated the ability to back away as your guns wont always work point blank, even 
 the shotgun can miss a zombie who is almost laying on your barrel. (note that I would not criticize 
 the stopping power of a zombie when surrounded, only when your being attacked from one side do 
 I find the stopping power inconvenient enough to take from game play)
  
  I also do not see any weapons aside from the one pistol type and five guns. an Uzi, a pump shotgun, 
 an assault rifle, an auto shotgun and a sniper rifle are good yes, but the lack of variety sorta 
 disappointed me. Surely it would not be too weird for Melee weapons to exist? a pipe, a shovel. 
 I was surprised about the lack of stuff to hit things with in a city.
  
  This and I find the AI directorial in the game is not as great as expected. While the same enemies 
 wont always appear inn the same spots, you can almost assuredly find that many spots indeed do 
 always have certain enemies.
  
  The versus mode was alright but not that great in the end. It holds up to being like the story 
 if your a human aside from boss zombies having a players intelligence. I found it unfair for the 
 boss zombie team as you don't have the health to survive a direct shot unless you are a tank, which 
 you can only play as if you are lucky. The other flaw in the game was the fact you can pick which 
 zombie type you are. This is extremely inconvenient to players who are used to learning how to 
 play specific types of game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Steam has FINALLY released it's new game 'Left 4 Dead' and not a moment to soon. After the big 
 release of 'Fable 2' and 'Fallout 3', I personally was up for a change of pace. The role-playing 
 aspect of gaming is indeed super fun, but can get repetitive and boring after a while. Then again, 
 what game can't? I've always been a fan of the Steam engine and was super excited to see what the 
 have done this time around. The game's story is pretty cool, but better yet, the gameplay ROCKS! 
 You can choose your difficulty from easy, to ridiculously hard. I went straight to ridiculously 
 hard. So the zombies can FINALLY run and the FINALLY have some sort of sense of AI. Dead Rising 
 was a good zombie game but had it's flaws. Left 4 Dead is simply an amazing thriller action FPS 
 that I can't see getting boring for quite a long time. I spend a good 3-4 hours on each level because 
 I have the difficulty all the way up and have to play the level 20 times over just to beat it. 
 I'm SUPER SUPER picky about the repetitiveness of games. And after playing the same level 20 times 
 with a friend, it NEVER gets old. I find it lots of fun staying up all hours of the night trying 
 to strategize with a buddy to get through HORDES and HORDES of zombies. With tons of emphasis on 
 HORDES. There are a ridiculously large number of zombies that just keep coming and coming. Yet 
 it never gets old to mow them down in some sort of strategic way. When you're alone, the game is 
 pretty stinking scary. Sure, you have AI friendlies. But everyone knows they're not real. So anyways, 
 Left 4 Dead is a simply amazing game. Creepy sounds, cool guns and what-not. The intro video rocks 
 too.
  
  Now for the few negatives...
  The game CAN get aggravating at times. Doesn't mean the game is annoying or less fun in any way. 
 There aren't a whole lot of guns to choose from and the customization of everything is pretty limited. 
 In other words, you can only be 1 of 4 guys and you pretty have the same 4 items on you at all 
 times. But again, it doesn't matter. The game is super fun. 
  
  Graphics- Pretty stinking cool. 8/10
  Sound- Really stinking cool. 9/10
  Gameplay- REALLY REALLY 
 stinking cool. 10/10
  Story- Meh, not so hot. But who cares? 6/10
  
  The game is cool. At least rent it.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Being alone in a city overrun with zombies pretty much guarantees a gory and unpleasant death. 
 Team up with 3 others that are trying to survive, and you will actually have a chance of surviving. 
 
  
  Left 4 Dead, is simply put, a masterpiece in the COOP department. Not only do you RELY on your 
 teammates to make it through each of the sections of the city, the game is tailored so that if 
 someone tries to Rambo the game by themselves, leaving his/her teammates back in the dust, zombies 
 will swarm that person and rip him to pieces.
  
  The game plays very fluid. You have 2 weapons, medpacks, pills, and you can either find a Molotov 
 or a grenade. You and your teammates work together to make it through the section of the city. 
 The mechanics are simple but work very well. A member can get pinned by certain zombies and it's 
 up to the other members to help that person, but that's if they are not pinned or vomited on themselves. 
 It's frantic fun juggling the fact that you are keeping zombies off of you, helping your teammates 
 when they are in need, and trying to find the safe room.
  
  Graphically, the game looks as it should, and using the Source engine, the game does like fantastic, 
 although slightly dated. But for a zombie shoot-em up, it works game and feels right to the eye.
 
  
  Split screen was a ton of fun for me. Giving me the chance to play locally as well as online was 
 a huge plus and I look forward to having friends over to play through the game on expert! 
  
  All in all, Left for Dead is a great shoot-em up which relies heavily on teamwork in order 
 to succeed. It's fresh, unique, and again, simple mindless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way right off the bat; Left 4 Dead is an absolutely incredible game and 
 needs to be in any gamer's collection (provided that you are of age) . This game does so many things 
 right that it is easy to ignore, and maybe not even notice, the few short-comings it has. Whether 
 you are playing by yourself, with a friend sitting next to you, or online your experience will 
 be unlike that of any that you have had with other first person shooters. Valve proves once again 
 why it is the king of the genre.
  
  In Left 4 Dead, you play as one of four characters that have been left to fend for themselves in 
 a zombie infested world. There are other survivors but your only encounters with them are for them 
 to come pick your up via helicopter or boat in rescue at the end of certain levels. Before you 
 go thinking this is another Resident Evil clone let me sway you from that notion. Other than the 
 zombie premise, this game is nothing like RE or any other Dawn of the Dead type game you might 
 have played before. This is a first person shooter, the zombies are fast moving and strategic, 
 the action is wild and adrenaline pumping, and the emphasis here is to stick together or die. Going 
 solo in this game is the quickest way to get yourself killed so don't!
  
  The zombies come in six forms and they are different from anything you've ever seen. First are 
 the typical and most common types; "The Horde." What these zombies do is attack either individually 
 or in huge clusters. One on one, these things are cake to kill. But when these fast moving monsters 
 get together, they are a handful. Before you know it you will be rushed by tens to hundreds of 
 Horde zombies that attack you from all sides. They swarm together all at once and they don't stop 
 until all in their group are dead or until you are. When it comes to attacking, these things know 
 how to work as a team so you better know how to too or you die. Next is the "Boomer." This guy 
 is huge, fat, slow moving, and totally disgusting. He's not too tough but he is very dangerous 
 in what he does. His attack is to vomit bile all over you and your teammates from afar. The bile 
 itself doesn't do any harm but it temporarily blinds you and its scent attracts hundreds of Horde 
 right to you. If you thinking killing the Horde is tough, try doing it when you can't see. The 
 "Hunter" is next. These things move fast, crouch down and jump on you out of nowhere; clawing at 
 you violently. If they pin you down, another teammate will have to come to your rescue. The "Smoker" 
 is a long distance zombie that shoots his tongue at you and latches on, pulling you away from your 
 party. The danger here is they can isolate you or they can pin you should they be on top of a building 
 and before you know it you're stuck on a wall above ground having your life choked out of you. 
 Should the Smoker pull you in, they will claw at you and you won't be able to fight back. Killing 
 the Smoker can be dangerous too because when you do, his body ejects a cloud of smoke that will 
 affect anyone near it. It's wise to keep your distance until the smoke clears. The "Witch" is a 
 very unique type in that she sits and cries in the dark. She wants to be left alone. So turn off 
 that flashlight, don't shoot anywhere near her (unless you have to kill her because she's killing 
 you already) and don't get close to her. If you're making her mad, she'll growl to warn you that 
 you're pissing her off. If you disturb her cry, WATCH OUT! Last is the big bad boy: the "Tank." 
 Most aptly named, this guy is a huge brute that attacks with a huge punch. He sends you flying 
 back and takes out quite a chunk of your precious health. His punch can isolate you and make you 
 susceptible to Horde attack and he will keep coming for you at the same time. It takes a lot of 
 shots to put this guy down so again, teamwork!
  
  This game truly shines in multiplayer. As you are one of four people, you must rely on one another 
 to survive. Moving as a group and defending one another is the only way to ensure success. That's 
 what makes this game truly unique. Each player has a slightly different personality in what they 
 say, but they are all basically the same when it comes down to playing so it makes little difference 
 which player you choose to be. They all have access to the same weapons, they all move at the same 
 speed, they all have the same strengths and weaknesses. What makes this game so different from 
 the norm is that your own choices come in to make the game a different experience. Playing online, 
 you use your headset to decide what strategies to employ with your fellow gamers. You can see each 
 player's health at the bottom of the screen so you can tell if someone needs your help or not. 
 You can choose to heal yourself or to heal another in order to keep everyone alive. Keep in mind 
 that should one player fall, you will all fall. Three ain't gonna cut it here! Watching out for 
 one another and keeping all four players strong is the only way to make it. It's something you 
 just have to experience to understand how engrossing Left 4 Dead is.
  
  Another way to play is versus. This is, again, a unique experience. Eight players go up against 
 each other in teams of two. You choose to either be one of four survivors or one of two zombies, 
 or "infected." If you are a survivor, the game play is per usual. If you choose to be an infected, 
 then that's where things get really interesting. There are four different playable versions of 
 infected to play as; Boomer, Hunter, Smoker, or Tank. Each type has their strengths and weaknesses. 
 As you are playing as one of them, their attacks are the same as they are in the regular game. 
 What makes this so different is the way each unique attack allows for different strategy in fighting 
 against the two survivors. For example, choose the Hunter and you can jump long distances and to 
 areas that might not be accessible to survivors. You can have long range attacks if you choose 
 to be a smoker. The possibilities for different style of play are endless!
  
  Single player is fun but it's not as rewarding. That's not to say it's bad, it's just dwarfed but 
 the amazing multiplayer options. However, should you choose to fly solo here, the game will still 
 be a blast. You pick one of the four survivor (again, it doesn't matter which one) and the computer 
 will control the other three. The team A. I. is very well done here. The other members of your team 
 will protect you, heals you, and they actually do a good job of fighting off the Infected as they 
 attack. The game is divided into episodes which are further divided into levels. Once you beat 
 one episode, you can choose which one you want to play next. The story for each one is more or 
 less the same: your team is the only group of survivors and must get to a special place at the 
 end of the last level and call for someone to rescue you. The only thing standing in your way is 
 a ton of zombies. Each episode should take anywhere from an hour to an hour and a half to beat. 
 They are challenging but short and they don't give the sense of traditional progression for a game. 
 This is kind of a nice twist because you can play this game in short bursts and still get a small 
 sense of accomplishment. There are plenty of episodes to play through the challenges are aplenty. 
 Just don't expect the epic story of Bioshock of Half Life 2 here.
  
  The graphics and atmosphere are amazing. Valve has used the Source engine that was used for the 
 Half Life 2 series to make this game. Everything runs incredibly smooth 95% of the time and the 
 game maintains the dark and eerie mood throughout. Music is typical scary zombie movie music and 
 the voice acting is outstanding, if a little short. One sound that really sticks out is that of 
 the Boomer. When one is around, you'll hear gagging and vomit sounds that will turn your stomach. 
 It's a great warning for when one is close and it fits the character perfectly, but it's pretty 
 gross. Controls are typical of first person shooters for the 360. One thing that is nice is that 
 shots don't require pinpoint accuracy like they do in many shooters. This more arcade style of 
 shooting perfectly fits a game like this, especially when the Horde gets to attacking you.
  
  As amazing as Left 4 Dead is, it isn't without its flaws. Though they are few and far between, 
 you might see a couple things that make you wonder if this could have used just one more month 
 of fine tuning. First off, when you see your teammates walking around, you can walk right through 
 them if they are standing in your way. It's just a bit awkward, especially when you are both standing 
 in the same place and you can see part of an arm coming out of your own point of view. There are 
 a couple glitches with the zombies wheret you can sometimes see part of them through doors or walls. 
 This lessens the sense of surprise when bursting into a room and not knowing if you'll be attacked 
 or not. Another annoyance is when being attacked by the Horde it's hard to just plain get away 
 from them. If you are being hit from many of them and they are all in front of you, backing up 
 becomes slow as if you are obstructed by something at your back when there is no one there at all. 
 It may be a mechanic that was put in the game to keep the difficulty raised and force you to fight 
 instead of run away or it could be a glitch that just wasn't noticed. Either way, it makes things 
 a little irritating. Lastly, when the Horde gets attacking in huge numbers, the game will slow 
 down quite a bit. It's rare that this happens. The 360 has the power to process most of everything 
 smoothly, but when it occurs, it will get frustrating; especially when online. All that said, these 
 glitches are few and far between. They rarely show their face and should not detour anyone from 
 purchasing this game. However, they are present and you should at least know about them and be 
 prepared to run in to them occasionally. 
  
  Even with some minor drawbacks, Left 4 Dead is an amazing experience. There has never been a multiplayer 
 game like it and it gives the zombie game genre a much needed new coat of paint. The graphics will 
 blow you away and the game play will keep your heart pumping and thumping throughout. It's dark, 
 it's scary, and it's a blast. As incredible as it's been this year for gaming, Left 4 Dead is a 
 shoe in for multiplayer game of the year. While the solo game is still fun, playing with friends 
 is the way to go here. After everything is said and done, we are left with a gaming experience 
 like no other. Is Left 4 Dead perfect? No, but it's damn close!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rksh0gun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday, but just from the 7 hours I've played I can tell my friends and 
 I will be playing a lot in the months to come.
  
  i cant imagine much i'd rather have in a shooting video game than flesh eating zombies. Games like 
 counter strike have breached this territory with gamer-designed modifications, and recently COD: WaW 
 comes with a multiplayer "Zombie Nazi" mode. While CS mods have proven to be fun, they lack the 
 depth and constant playability. 
  
  Left 4 Dead sounds like an ambitious foray into a genre that sorely needed a good representation 
 of what desperately needed a well developed game. For a price slightly less than a brand new release, 
 you are presented with the greatest stand alone addition to the zombie genre to date. 
  
  With engaging campaign, fast and furious multiplayer and innovative xbox live features, L4D forges 
 into the dark post apocalyptic scenes that seem to be ready fodder for zombie movies and games 
 alike. Campaign is set in one of four scenarios which are cast as mini movies. In these, four characters 
 who seem to be hand picked from a George A. Romero movie make their way across zombie packed streets 
 to promised rescue. Their one liners are true to the genre and also informative as the GS review 
 said.
  
  Campaigns are fun but seemingly short. The reason this isn't a problem is the adaptive AI. The 
 AI utilizes spawn points all around the level, gauging the players skill and adjusting aggressiveness 
 and number of zombies to a difficulty that is fitting of the player. Also, adaptive special zombies 
 add a much needed bit of punch to the horde. 
  
  The game has impressive ability in multiplayer. Besides xbox live, it allows for 2 player split 
 screen, which is awesome for me being in college where i cannot update my xbox live games. They 
 dropped the ball when they didn't allow for four player split screen. As someone who really looks 
 for a game that allows me to play with my buddies on the couch, this game at least partially delivers 
 but i was disappointed when only two of us could play at a time.
  
  Online campaign lets players search for a campaign to join so that four players over the internet 
 can connect to play. Between adaptive AI and playing with someone you've never met before the strategies 
 and games are never the same twice. Plus as soon as the game loads, you can go into a menu that 
 allows you to see who in your friends list is playing L4D, and lets you jump in to one of their 
 team mates if a slot is available.
  
  Verses allows for a spin on campaign that really is fun. Humans play like normal, moving through 
 a campaign and killing zombies. The spice is added when the AI is removed from the special zombies 
 and replaced by the cunning opposition. Strategies become more and more frantic, with zombies executing 
 more co-ordinated attacks and humans having to deal with an often more ruthless opposition.
  
  The game is innovative and fun, taking everything you love about CS and a good zombie flick, 
 and the AI technology is very well developed so that zombies always seem dynamic and fresh. While 
 small levels seem to be a setback, and lack of four player split screen is slightly annoying, the 
 overall game is very fun and being at a discount, even more worth getting. One of my favorites 
 this season.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentbob522
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a first person shooter sci-fi horror game made by EA and Valve. Basically the goal 
 is to survive if you play the normal campaign. You'll be rolling through the zombie infested lands 
 as Zoey, Bill, Francis, and Louis. The reason their names are important is because each of them 
 have a completely different life style and personality. This really makes the game more interesting. 
 Although all 4 characters are played the same, every inventory decision is a unique one in itself. 
 Each character can carry one primary  rifles.) 
 From there all 4 characters carry a secondary weapon being a pistol (infinite ammo) , but it is very 
 likely to find another pistol along the way which does allow you to dual wield unlimited ammo pistols. 
 You can also find Pipe Bombs and Molotov Cocktails to use as explosives. Last but not least is 
 your health packs and pain killers.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game makes its shinning weather your playing campaign or versus mode 
 it goes a long way to make everything better using a human as a partner rather than some lousy 
 AI.
  
  
  
  THE GOOD
  Gameplay, Non stop action, different character personality, Multiplayer, great graphics and visuals.
 
  
  THE BAD
  Poor AI, Shorter Campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visiondj1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Not really much to write, it's a valve game; that about sums it up. Graphics are not cutting edge, 
 but still look good, difficulty ranges from too easy to too hard and everywhere in-between. Single 
 player is boring, but don't buy this game for the single player.
  
  So far, the servers are smooth like butter with no lag, and the adaptive AI is great, making re 
 playability almost infinite. Speaking of infinite, the number of expansion packs and down loadable 
 addons is also infinite! There 'are' only 4 "chapters" in the game (each with 5 levels) , each chapter 
 on Advanced mode with 4 human players takes anywhere from 1 to 2 1/2 hours. Though there aren't 
 many stories here, they gave you a ton to do in them. Verses mode (play as zombie) , multilayer 
 co-op, and the boring 1 player (CPU controlled allies) . 
  
  Oh, and the AI is actually really good, best in a while now. The zombies as well as the CPU controlled 
 players are quite smart and won't make you mad... much. (Tell Bill to stop setting off the freggin' 
 car alarms!
  
  
  Take the 1 player action out of the rating, and even GameSpot can't deny a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinsacry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  wanna know why it won't destroy your social life? Because you are probably playing this game with 
 your friend. The multiplayer packs a punch, with addictiveness oozing from the controller. You 
 will spend hours upon hours trying to defeat the single player mode, and even more hours defeated 
 the ridiculous expert mode. Having to be a zombie is a great add-on because it has greater fun 
 than killing the reckless zombies. Playing with three of your friends creates the ultimate style 
 for this game. I highly recommend left 4 dead, and should be included in your Christmas list this 
 year. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah BUY IT! My brother and I will both be asking 
 for it, since the demo was so epic. Wanna know the most epic part of the game? well here is a hint, 
 it covers a massive crop field of creepy music and amazing tanks coming after you for a romance 
 explosion in my pantalones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipushmycar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5/10
  -Graphics aren't amazing, however they fit this game perfectly. Of course, we'd all like to see 
 every game look like Gears of War, but the lighting and cinematic effects make this game look exactly 
 as it should. The zombie appearances fit the scenario (doctor zombies in hospital, police zombies 
 on the streets, etc) . There's a good variety in the horde, however the special infected all have 
 the same appearance so they're easier to recognize and adapt to. All tanks look the same, all smokers, 
 all witches, etc. Animations in this game are extremely life-like and varied.
  
  AUDIO: 10/10
  -The audio in this game is phenomenal. The music works with the game in many aspects 
 adapting to how the player plays, audio cues alert players when enemies are near and what enemies 
 are near. The music is well made, it's creepy and fits each scenario perfectly. Audio tracks are 
 tuned differently to each player depending on what situation they're in, and when spectating, you 
 can hear what audio tracks are playing for each member.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  -The game is what you make of it. If you're a tactical player, then find other players who are 
 willing to play as strategically as you are. If you're a "rambo" player, join a quick match game 
 or likewise find other players that play like you. The game spawns everything randomly yet fairly, 
 as the AI director does a near-perfect job at supplying you with weapons and items based on how 
 you are doing in the game. The randomness keeps the game intense and suspenseful at all times no 
 matter how well you may have memorized each scenario. Likewise, the special infected force you 
 to play a differently when they come into the game- a good break from spraying down the massive 
 hordes with your weapon of choice (which every weapon is equally effective) .
  
  FINAL NOTE
  -To truly get the most out of this game, you must play over Xbox Live with other 
 human players. Many complain that everyone online plays incompetently- to this I say find some 
 dedicated gamers on Gamespot/GameFAQs forums or the forums of your choice. Alternatively if you 
 find a player who plays your style of game in quick match, friend him and ask to play a serious 
 co-op campaign with you.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10
  -To sum it up, it's addictive and one of the most fun game experiences you'll ever encounter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowiplayWoW
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I was dissapointed with only 4 campaigns, but that doesnt mean it lacks replay value. The online 
 multiplayer is amazing and the gameplay is also great. Super satisfying. Definately a must have. 
 I was iffy about buying this game (because the 4 campaigns) but i was wrong... its great. Although 
 there is only 4 campaigns, essentially 4 environments, theyre different every time. Different bosses 
 and more. Definately amazing and very fun. B U Y T H I S G A M E! Z O M B I E S A R E F U N T O 
 K I L L I A M J U S T D O I N G T H I S T O G E T 100 W O R D S. Sooooooo Thisssss Gameeeee Issssss 
 Realyyyyy gooddddd. I would definately buy it if i were you. This game is the best game on the 
 xbox since gears 2... its been a long time i know but still... its great. definately get it if 
 u like zombies or killing stuff or have friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maceng
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree that the graphics are a big letdown and that some physics just dont work (for 
 example, when dragged by one of those frog-like zombies) , but the great gameplay more tahn makes 
 up for it.
  
  The AI Director works as advertised: every single match is different from the others. After been 
 wasted, you start at the beginning of the safe house and thru the first 2-3 minutes, zombies are 
 scarce, to say the least. Then, pow!, the horde swarms.
  
  The sounds are satisfying: like you hear the tank rambling about, and the change in the music when 
 the horde is imminent.
  
  This is one of the most difficult games Ive ever played, period. I spent the whole night playing 
 with 2-3 friends on expert mode, and we just couldnt finish one single episode without dying 4-5 
 times, each.
  
  I dont agree with the reviewer in one aspect: if you stick with the bots, you can easily make 
 it to the safe house.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfossil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps because I can still play Pac Man Championship Edition, Time Pilot, or Contra on XBLA for 
 hours on end, I guess I don't immediately notice graphics or physics over game play. This game 
 does exactly what it's supposed to do for me. I enjoy the atmosphere, the environments, audio, 
 multiplayer, and, yes, the graphics and physics. They all work in tandem to create an enjoyable 
 gaming experience in my opinion. I want to blast zombies, which is what I'm doing. Whether it's 
 alone or with friends, this game delivers that. Also, I enjoy the fact that these are not your 
 typical slow, retarded, shuffling zombies, but your berserker, fast, leaping, vomiting, crying, 
 bat-$#@% insane zombies that swarm all over you. I prefer arcade action over first person shooters 
 that involve sneaking around and worrying about running out of bullets or storing things and perfunctory 
 and tedious managing of inventory. The only exceptions to this rule in my opinion are Dead Space 
 and Resident Evil 4. I will not rag on other gamers who seem too focused or jaded over flashy graphics, 
 or "next gen," but I will state that I still can enjoy playing Atlantis on the Atari 2600, just 
 as easily as getting immersed in a game like Bioshock. Just get over the graphics and realize that 
 most games are lateral thinking combined with violence or collisions or avoiding collisions of 
 objects. Yes, video games have reached the level of "playable art." That being said, not every 
 game is going to be pretty or technically amazing visually. If Dali were still alive, he'd be desiging 
 art for video games... are you going to criticize him for some "jaggies" or things being "washed-out?" 
 Or, perhaps, if a Cubist made games? You'd probably say: "It's too blocky!" I recommend Left 4 
 Dead. I liked the gameplay, the graphics, AND the physics. If you're unsure -- rent it first. Then 
 again, this could be said for any game. If you have the ability to download the playable demo, 
 do that first and then decide to buy-or-not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is only good for multiplayer. That's it. Lets start with graphics. They are barely acceptible 
 with no goo textures. Second, the engine, which is not good in my opinion with this type of game. This 
 is a fast paced game which needs a more confident gameplay. The camera feels like its flying and 
 the shooting is not anygood. Third, the physics. Might not be a big deal to some people but to me 
 the physics would help this game a lot. Everything in this game feels like its in fast motion. And 
 finally there are suble things like not being able to take off the crosshairs or turn off that 
 annoying other player blue highlight. That's only good for multi. Like i said. This is an Xbox Live 
 game. Its a great sociall game where u help each other out and thats great reward only in multiplayer. 
 The story is non existant. Its basically a run in gun. (only for multi, like i said) . I will say the 
 sound is great though. If it weren't for the lame graphics, bad flying camera, sorry lazy engine, and 
 the cartoonish physics, this game would be a hit. Get the PC version. You can fix the physics and 
 the graphics with a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foo_fighterr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game before It came out and got hooked. Now that I have played the full 
 game it's even better! There is nothing more fun than loading up a shotgun and fighting off never 
 ending hoards or Zombies! Not only is it fun to play alone but the Coop is also very well done 
 and makes the replay value of the game very good. As well the various multi-player games you can 
 play just add to the Zombie killing awesomeness!
  
  I didn't think it was possible but playing as the Zombies on multi-player is JUST as fun and playing 
 against them. The spawn system is unique and the level of difficulty as playing as either side 
 is not to lop sided to make it frustrating. 
  
  If you liked any of the 28 days/weeks movies or every played any of the Hunter games on the original 
 Xbox. Then you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPU385
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  i mean even thought this game repeats level i find it still entertaining knowing if you are going 
 to win or even survive, because zombies show up any time and even how many and the tank never know 
 when they will attack, also gotta be smart game isn't just easy, again like i said it may repeat 
 levels stop playing on normal get on expert and attempt to survive back to back hard to do, you 
 could get hit by a boomer... or even worse Tank / Witch but in my own saying i find it a great game!! 
 doesn't lag and always find someone to play with just got to communicate with the person. just 
 how the area and situation you are placed on is what makes this game incredibly fun, and volilent 
 *evil Laugh* but just the rush and needing to get out of the area tryign to survive is what makes 
 it really crazy and hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9077
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Half life mixed with Counterstrike mixed with resident evil. Badass game Rated it a 10. Great team 
 based game which was expected from Valve. Havent played online yet so i may be rating a little 
 too early but i loved playing the campeign over xbox live. A little short but i only beat it on 
 one difficulty so im sure it will be harder next time around. Not very story-based movie scenes 
 but the gameplay makes up for it. Always gotta watch out for witch hunters crying in the corner... walk 
 over and BOP! shes ontop of you like a patty is on a bun. Resident Evil 5 will definitly beat this 
 game however. Seeing gameplay videos from that and comparing to this its pretty laughable. Exspecially 
 because Resident evil 5 has split screen and i thought that was the best feature of this game. 
 The main reason i like this game is because it is very team based and if your teamates arnt around 
 you then your pretty much screwed eaither by getting knawed on by a hunter or get slimey goo all 
 over you from a boomer... and slimey goo means tons of hungry zombies. very revolutionary game. 
 havent seen one like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breese1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is so good. It feels just like a movie. All the scenarios provide a lot of fun! Waiting 
 for the helicopter at the end of No Mercy is so cool, very thrilling! The Multiplayer is very Stable 
 and Easy to Use on the Xbox 360. The Versus Mode is cool too! Playing as a Zombie is fun. But it 
 can be frustrating sometimes. For my advice, this game is a must buy!
  
  Playing with bots is fun too. The only bad thing about bots is they don't go up front. They always 
 stay in the back and you have to be the leader. So far, i tried the two first campaings and the 
 game is well done. 
  
  The models for the 4 character are very well done. They all have their own personality! This game 
 really recreate the atmosphere from Horror Movies. There's a part in the tunnels like in dawn of 
 the dead. At the end of each mission, there's a Credit-like debriefing. It shows all the stats 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkytheWiz1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  You're walking along like you normally do.
  You know - packing, trying to survive, and with your three best (and only) friends.
  You've just 
 blown through an infestation of zombies that swarmed you when one of your friends decided that 
 it'd be a smart (and exciting) idea to shoot a car, thus making the car alarm go off.
  The four of you took them out with relative ease, and are proceeding through the next doorway when 
 suddenly...
  you drop dead.
  Because your friend shot you in the back for a laugh.
  
  This is what you have to look forward to in Left 4 Dead, assuming you didn't simply shell out $60 
 to play by yourself or couch co-op (although this still could happen in couch co-op) .
  
  This necessarily, is NOT a bad thing. In fact, Left 4 Dead is an altogether fun game (I'll list 
 points below) . What needs to be said is, it's a pointless and mindless fun game with no real plot 
 that's fun, after beating the game, comes from messing around with your friends or trying to play 
 through on expert without dying... within the first five minutes.
  
  Overall (and I'm listing everything I can think of that someone might/might not like) :
  
  Pros:
 
  +Pointless, mindless fun.
  +Seeing such a large horde of zombies will make any gamer smile.
  +The essential idea of teamwork, 
 such as aiding when a hunter or smoker disables one of your buddies. Or you.
  +Envionrments, though linear, will often make you forget that you're constricted to a single path.
 
  +Lighting visuals are incredibly nice, and add a mildly spooky effect.
  +Soloing the witch. On expert. Yeah, try that.
  +AI Director, for the most part, is incredibly 
 well done.
  +Replay value is incredibly high due to changes in weapon, zombie, and health placements everytime 
 you play.
  +Fairly satisfying weapons/damage.
  +Desperation: Seeing the horde of zombies approaching, after hearing that your evac will arrive... in 
 fifteen minutes.
  +Good variety to bosses.
  
  Cons:
  -Pointless, mindless fun. (Yes, this is also a pro. Some people really like plots)
  -Once you 
 beat expert, the only exciting thing is to purposely draw zombie hordes to kill your friends (which, 
 depending on who you are, isn't necessarily a bad thing)
  -Small number of weapons.
  -If you're trying to focus on being a "serious" player, this game really isn't for you. ("Why so 
 serious?")
  -The music (big deal, right?) often plays random noises at random times, as if signaling that a 
 boss is there... but there isn't.
  -Regular zombies can easily be dropped in 1-2 shots. To the foot.
  -Incredibly short gameplay 
 (although, on my current playthrough, it's taken me almost two hours to get through the first chapter 
 by myself) .
  -If you don't have XBL or someone to play with frequently, you'll quickly feel like your $60 was 
 wasted, as 90% of the game's value comes from multiplayer, whether it be co-op or versus.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  The game is incredibly fun, albeit short game that's mainly attractive to 
 those who don't take themselves seriously.
  I give this game a 9.0/10, saying that it's worth the rent if you don't have XBL, and worth the 
 purchase if you do AND fit the previously stated criteria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  I'm going to focus mainly on the campaign since a lot of people have heard that its short.
  
  Let me start by saying if you played the demo on expert.... the devs were going easy on you 
 because the REAL expert comes when you by the game. I played the first level you play on the demo 
 on expert last night and in the short amount of time we were playing, we were attacked by 2 Boomers, 
 2 Smokers, 1 Hunter, 1 Witch and about 4 to 5 hordes. Sometimes all at the same time. I can remember 
 a part where we successfully sneaked pass a witch only to run into a tank. That had us running 
 back toward the witch but this time someone scared her so we had a tank and a witch going ape **** 
 on us.
  
  The respawn system is awesome as you can tell when the game feels like it's kicking your ass too 
 much. For instance, lets say you have a play through like the one I mentioned above but your team 
 just gets demolished. Well when you restart the part again you'll probably notice weapons in a 
 place they weren't before, maybe some extra pain pills here and there, and fewer tough guys on 
 the map. On the other hand lets say your team is pwning the map, just when you start to feel like 
 this game is too easy they throw hordes of zombies at you, with a hint of boomer, a dash of hunter, 
 a sprinkle of smoker, all covered in tank, to knock you down a couple of notches.  
 ! That adds a ton of replay value to the game. Also it turns that "2 hour" campaign to 8/10/12 
 depending on how good your team is on expert. If you're one of the schmoes who don't like dying 
 so you play all your games on easy/normal then you honestly have no right to complain about it 
 being so short. It's obvious this game was meant to be played on the hardest difficulty setting 
 so simply put, go hard or go home.
  
  The multiplayer is the added extra that gives the game that extra push toward stardom. Basically 
 its 4v4 with one team as the survivors and the other as the infected. It basically runs just like 
 the campaign except the 4 infected, along with all their zombie pals, have to try and stop the 
 survivors from reaching the safe zone. Being an infected is fun as you can spawn off somewhere 
 in to the map and lie and wait for the survivors to walk by before you pounce on them. The only 
 gripe I had is that you couldn't select which horde you wanted to be, it's all random. I like being 
 the hunter. To sum it up this is an awesome game that might get overlooked but really shouldn't. 
 It's TOO DAMN FUN.
  
  Graphics - 8.5 (lighting is awesome)
  Gameplay - 9.5
  Story - 8.0 (like any zombie movie you've seen)
  Replay Value - 9.5 (i know ill play this waaaaaay 
 more than I played TF2)
  Concept - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspeckman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I love Valve, Half Life Universe, Portal, been play'n for 10 years.
  
  I preordered this game and wound up buying Call of Duty, WaW to round out my CoD WW2 collection. 
 Glad I did. Thanks to some critical reviews, I learned this game could be finished in 1 hour and 
 unless you are playing with headset equipped players online, it isn't much fun.
  
  Not to rehash their reviews, but I wanted to say I think this game is being overrated, for what 
 it is. 
  
  Call of Duty WoW has a good single player, 4 player coop, and to put the cherry on the cake, it 
 has some levels online where you play against ZOMBIES.
  
  CoD has better graphics also, good storyline, solid gameplay.
  
  I'll buy Left 4 Dead in time 
 for next Halloween, I am sure the price will drop on this one.
  
  Halo Wars in Feb. is my next game, then a long dry spell till Halo Recon.
  
  If Duke Nukem 
 Forever EVER comes out, I might see what that is all about, any good? I personally think it will 
 flop, but I still have my hopes up.
  
  Ghostbusters, will it Duke-like vaporware? Another game that could get my cash.
  
  Last but 
 not least, Half Life 3 (episode 3?) in 2009?? Would love it!!!
  
  Left 4 Dead get's an 8/10 because I LOVE Valve! Keep up the good work and please put up some DLC! 
 However 8/10 is mainly because any game developer that charges 60 smackers for 1 hour of singleplayer 
 gameplay, needs their hands slapped......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JofuInSpace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the game for about 6 hours now. After struggling through Expert mode in the demo 
 and beating it twice, me and my four friends decided we'd play through on Expert the first time 
 around. Six hours, and we are about to escape the roof of the hospital! This game will definitely 
 last all week, maybe even all month. I hope. And that's just the campaign.
  
  Play this game on expert if you want it to last, and if you want the most hardcore shooter experience 
 of the year. You'll need strategy to overcome the waves of zombies and tank fights. It's very intense. 
 The planning and thought involved in surviving and making your way through each chapter adds a 
 whole new aspect to the game. It's not just mowing down zombies with your guns.
  
  I recommend playing this game with friends. I'm pretty sure that's the way it was designed. Well, 
 I'm very sure. You'll need a well coordinated team to survive on expert and dominate in multiplayer.
 
  
  Valve does it again! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze1919
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  it's a good game, while the campaigns (there's 4 of them) are relatively short with only 5 chapters 
 each (each campaign takes more or less around 1 to 1.5 hrs) it's still amazing, and with the versus 
 mode you play through the campaign but you're randomly selected to be a human, who tries to make 
 it through the campaign levels, or a zombie, who tries to kill the humans before they make it. 
 The game will literally sometimes leave you slightly breatheless from screaming like a mo-fo. i 
 know when i get infected bile puked on me by a zombie and a horde of 30 or so zombies comes flying 
 to attack me while my screen is soaked with zombie puke and im rattling off shots on god-knows-what 
 and hitting my teammates as much as the zombies in my panic, that im riddling off tons of swears 
 at the top of my voice, and next thing you know im gasping for air. the graphics of the game are 
 amazing, and if you aren't pumped from the intro video then check your pulse, you're probably mentally 
 incapacitated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zauriel_MU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Our generation has seen int he last few years a resurgence of the Zombie in all its forms. From 
 novels, to comic books and even movies. Though there have been a hand full of zombie games made 
 in the past they have been, for the most part, lacking.
  
  This game does not disappoint.
  
  I will start off with the negative thing about this game. 
 The graphics are good but not amazing. Now this may not seem like a true gripe but that's because 
 I was taken aback by this game. I thought long and hard and the graphics, well they could be a 
 little better.
  
  But honestly, who cares. What we get instead of dazzling graphics is a deep, well balanced, fun 
 and intense game that will leave an indelible mark on gaming.
  
  Left 4 Dead is the zombie game we have been waiting for. The game is basic, you and 4 other people, 
 A. I. or actual players, try to make your way through a series of locations until you have to make 
 a final stand and wait to be rescued. Simple as that sounds you have an army of the undead standing 
 in your way. These are your post-modern zombies, fast and aggressive. Gone are your father's undead, 
 who stumble and moan. There are types of zombies also. Tanks, boomers, smokers, hunters. I won't 
 go int detail about any of them but suffice to say that there is one in particular, the witch. 
 You will know her when you find her.
  
  The weapons are balanced and as powerful as you might imagine. The pistol is your old stand-by 
 with infinite ammo, but it does the least amount of damage. There is a predictable collection of 
 shotguns and assault rifles and all of them do real damage.
  
  The A. I. is intelligent and does its job. The point of this game is to work together as a team 
 and they hold up their end of the bargain. They travel as a team and you really do survive as a 
 time. If you strike out on your own, ala Master Chief or Duke Nuke'em , you will die. Quickly you 
 will be overrun and beaten to death. But if you stick together they will help you out.
  
  I guess the best way to sum up this game is to say that it is more than the sum of its parts. The 
 music, the way the zombies run, how your team calls for help. How when you find a pipe bomb you 
 hold on to it, waiting for the perfect time to throw it. This game makes you think the way a survivor 
 might in this situation. If you wise up and act right you might make it out. If you don't, well 
 you might be Left 4 Dead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes Valve is that Developer that brings you this nice horror first person shooter. You're probably 
 asking yourself why would you get this shooter being that there are so many shooters out there 
 already. The thing is what game can you play with friends that every time you play with them it'll 
 be a different experience when you play the level numerous times. This is what Left 4 Dead will 
 offer you and lots of fun as well.
  
  You have 4 different campaigns and in each one you have 5 different levels. You can play alone 
 if you choose to but I think it's much better if you have 3 more friends with you. Also the difficulty 
 level is much higher when you're playing with friends than with bots. 
  
  The graphics in Left 4 Dead looks pretty good. The level of detail in the game within the environments 
 looks great and the sound effects just adds to that feel of the game. There will be times that 
 you're just walking around with not one zombie around; the minute you turn a corner you see a swarm 
 coming from all over the place. In each level you'll be face with at least 6 different types of 
 zombies. You have your normal horde zombies that just attack you in packs. 
  
  The other 5 are broken down as mini bosses within the levels. You have a Tank zombie that's literally 
 is built like the incredible hulk type zombie. You have your Witch that if you get her angry or 
 flash the light on her she will beat you to your death. You have your Hunter which will attack 
 you from a distance and jumps right towards you. The Smoker zombie is the one that will sticks 
 out their tongue and kill you with smoke. The last one is The Boomer which is an overweight zombie 
 that would spray you with to call the entire horde of zombies to come right after you. 
  
  He comes the fun part if you don't want to play as one of the 4 main characters in the game which 
 are Louis, Francis, Bill, and Zoey. You're more than welcome to play the game as a zombie and just 
 like I describe each zombie technique you'll be able to that to other players that are playing 
 the game online. The game is not very long but that fact that you can play both sides and play 
 with friends and enjoy others online. This game has a lot of replay value and it also has some 
 really fun and interesting achievements. If you're a fan of Valve than you know what to expect 
 from them. This is something a little different compare to the other shooters out there. This is 
 a must buy for any fan of shooters and zombies. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I got this game today, and I am so glad that I got it. Left 4 Dead is made 
 by Valve and reminds me so much of Counterstrike. One side is the zombies, the other is the good 
 side that needs to get to the safe point. Or, you can do a survival mode which is so much fun.
 
  
  The zombies are never the same. When I say that is they are in different area's each time and do 
 things differently. So, each round is something different. When you are playing online with friends 
 its awesome. Even if it is someone you don't even know you will have a blast. 
  
  I don't think I have had this much fun on a game in a while. I have had so many awesome moments. 
 The game really has no story, but either did Counterstrike so I really don't care. I would go buy 
 this game you will not be disappointed you will be so happy that you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highlife
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I've only been playing for a few hours, but i have to say what an amazing achievement in gaming. 
 Its so intense all the time, i love how the game is never the same each time you play through the 
 levels and keeps you on your toes. I am currently playing on normal and anyone that says this is 
 too easy hasn't gotten to the rooftop at the end of the first chapter. All i can say is wow, wow, 
 and wow. A defiant must buy for the holiday season. I can see many hours of my life being used 
 in the future in playing this game over and over. I've never yelled such absurd things into my 
 mic on xbl in my life. "the tongue things got me", get this thing off me", "what the f@#kin hell 
 was that", "do you hear that" ," AHHHHH right behind you" , "screw this your on your own, im running" 
help me man im dying. All i can say is i love this game. In till this game i had almost gave 
 up on online games all together. But this one is exactly what I've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  let me get this out of the way first THIS IS COUNTERSTRIKE WITH ZOMBIES (and a very thin plot) . 
 If you don't like counterstrike, or don't plan on playing online, this probably isnt the game for 
 you.
  
  I love zombie movies, so when i read about Left 4 Dead in a xbox magazine last year I got super 
 excited. But after I read the same article a couple of times I began to get a little worried. Why 
 you ask? 
  
  1 - the game is based on engine that Valve ran Half Life 2 on. While this makes the game solid, 
 I worried a bit about jumping, ladder climbing, and I knew the graphics weren't going to be "cutting 
 edge"
  
  2 - This game is meant to be played online. So literally, the game experience depends on who you 
 play with. Its AMAZING if you are playing with friends who have head-sets, but what about those 
 times that you want to pop in and play for a hour and none of your friends are on (and then you 
 have to play with people who dont have headsets GASP!)
  
  So right there are the strengths and weaknesses of Left 4 Dead. The necessary tweaks to Valve's 
 engine have been made, running, jumping, climbing, all movement is really fast and crisp. You dont 
 even notice the "semi-dated" graphics because everything is going at such a fast pace (which is 
 fine with me, dumb down the graphics and making the game smooth was definetly the right decision) .
 
  
  I really want to give this game a 10/10, and I definetly will IF the game community really embraces 
 Left 4 Dead. What I mean by this is DLC (4 levels that take about 30 minutes to play, but are vastly 
 replayable) , and people that will play with headsets are key. But I can tell you, you play a game 
 with 3 other pals and this game is easily one of the coolest multiplayer experience since Rock 
 Band.
  
  The Good - while graphics arent great the make the game run really fast, the use of lighting (muzzle 
 flair from guns) , the missions are just the right length, frantic paced playing, smart AI that 
 adapts to how good / or how bad your playing, ZOMBIES! 
  
  The Bad - Playing with ill-equipped players REALLY kill the experience
  
  The Ugly - This game 
 definetly will be in the need for more levels ( i dont care if i will have to pay extra for them) , 
 is this going to be the next Shadowrun? I. E. how many people will be playing it in 6 months? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  WOW! this is what resident evil outbreak should have been. with all of games that have come out 
 in the last few weeks this game does stand out. if you like zombies then this game is for you. 
 i did not think value could pull off what they did but they did it. Resident Evil is now on notice, number 
 5 better be great or Campcom is going to be sorry. this game plays like the a classic zombie flick. 
 sure you have guns but dam there are alot of bad guys. but unlike most games and moives you have 
 to work together or you're not going to make t out. i really hope that this game does at some point 
 makes it way to the ps3. YES its that good that everybody no everygamer needs to try this. well 
 may be not the wii crowd but thats not the point. please try this game even if you only rent it 
 or down load it you will be glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProHexen
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what an amazing game. I loved the demo so much. I played it for many hours. But when I got 
 the full version today, I was more blown away like never before. This is clearly my favorite game 
 so far this year. I love how the game is never the same, the A. I. does an excellent job making 
 the game challenging for us by surprising us all the time.
  
  Graphics are great, I love how Valve still makes amazing looking games with the Source Engine. 
 Game play is perfect. I had no lag at all when I was playing online co-op. There's so much action. 
 I nearly killed a 1000 zombies on the first campaign. 
  
  Even when people leave the game, the character A. I. is very good, they don't just stand there, 
 they actually help fight, heal you, and revive you.
  
  I am glad that Valve and the other companies took their time in making this game. I waited a long 
 time for this and I'm glad I waited. This game is perfect for everyone who loves fps and horror 
 games.
  
  If you don't get this game now, please get it for Christmas.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigZombieFan28
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing!!!! Best Xbox 360 game to date!!!!! The graphics are impressive, the game 
 play is even better.... NO, scratch that..... wicked. But I gotta say your teamates arent that helpful 
 at sometimes but they can kill a lot of infected. though!!!! Anyone who reads  
 There is a lot of shooting, there is a lot of blood and gore, you will get swarmed quite a bit. 
 What was really cool about the game is that if shoot the cars, sometimes theres an alarm and it 
 just brings more infected so have some ammo handy. This game is just like 28 Days Later, 28 Weeks 
 Later, Dawn of the Dead (The one were the zombies run) but way better!!!! What I thought was cool 
 too was that there is 4 campaigns but they split it up in to 5 seperate parts. SO thats my review.... GREATEST 
 Xbox 360 game EVER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishboy41
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep you up all night. You will not be able to sleep. I nearly wet my pants like 
 three times and I loved it. I can't wait to go play more of it. It is the greatest game I've played 
 in a long time. This was a game that flew under the radar too. But now it is out and it is better 
 than it was on previews. When I put in my gaming system I was astonished to find it was the greatest 
 game I'd ever played. I am so happy that this game is amazing because I really wanted it to be 
 amazing. I am so happy that I bought this game because now I have enough entertainment for a life 
 time. This game has changed my life and I'm sure it will change yours too. As far as gaming goes, 
 this is the best money can buy. This game is definitely all it was cut out to be and I think people 
 should give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootergray34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  First off, in the previews, I saw cornfields and awesome cinematic movies, here in the actual game... you 
 get none of that.
  
  The game takes about an hour to beat, while online play is pretty fun until their is some DLC for 
 the game, it is kind of a pass unless you are hardcore into killing zombies.
  
  This is no way going to be even close to what RE 5 is going to be. If you are in a bind and can 
 only get one game, get something with a little more depth than this right now. There are 4 different 
 types of zombie characters, each more un-interesting than the last. I expected a lot more from 
 Valve, but oh well, i'm going to play a better game. Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe... and even that's 
 not worth the hype either, but at least it isn't as bland and boring as left 4 dead.
  
  Overall, I will give this game a 6.5 out of 10 only because I am fully expecting online play to 
 get some decent DLC. 
  
  Till then folks, enjoy your zombie hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is not your everyday Zombie shooter, which is a great thing. No, this game is not for those 
 seeking the Crysis graphics. Those people who are looking for superb graphics go buy something 
 else. This game still does have very good graphics,. i for one do not care if the game amazes me 
 with its graphics, I look for the gameplay of the game. This game has great gameplay and the multiplayer 
 is addictive where the 2 teams switch between the infected and the survivors. It has been one of 
 the most fun ADULT games to come out in a long time. To those who did not like it. I don't know 
 what you are looking for, you need to stop playing video games because games apparently aren't 
 for you. I do enjoy reading all of your horrible reviews and the reasons. Overall this is a must 
 have for gamers who enjoy owning zombies and also enjoy first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joerockingshire
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say other the 'oh my god' this game is so terribly addicting. On the lower difficulties 
 it isn't much of a problem, but after that you got yourself a challenge. Fast paced and intense 
 this game deserves a 10. No matter how good the next resident evil is this game will hold its own 
 for a long time if it continues to evolve upon great game play. The other great thing to love about 
 this game (other than the great graphics and intense zombie fights) is that no matter how many 
 times you play through the same chapter, it switches things up a little bit for you each time so 
 you never know whats coming. If anyone can find a better zombie game to date i would love to try 
 it. The only downfall to this game is the small selection of weapons. They need to add more variety, 
 maybe make it like Counter-Strike where you could somehow buy weapons that are perhaps better than 
 others. I mean you go through the chapter and eventually get an M16 or M4, can't remember which, 
 instead of your MAC. The only difference is that it has more power, same mag cap, well with maybe 
 a bit more range but that doesn't make a difference in a lot of the levels. Well thats all for 
 now folks and I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves shooting and zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Degon360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Lets start talking of this terrific game!!!! (sorry if I had grammar mystakes)
  
  I dont now if it is the graphics the multiplayer or what would it be but this is a terrific game. 
 This game have almost all you need to play, it have 16 missions (some are short) to play and they 
 can be played on co-op up for 4 people, the sound is so great that you may pee of hearing the zombies 
 coming to kill you and your friends.
  
  The online is all a different story, is you and your friends are survivors trying to survive waves 
 of people playing as zombies you must get to a pint of the map and the zombies will try to stop 
 you ,its very fun and you will feel paranoic playing it because you think everything can be a zombie, 
 but it is more fun to be a zombie and try to eat the brain of that stupids survivors, seeing them 
 getting wet on the pants because of you and in the start of the match the zombies will be ramdomly 
 assigned to one of the following types of zombie:
  
  Boomers: You will be a fat zombie which vimit and explode to kill all the survivors and make them 
 cry. 
  
  Hunters: The most agile of the zombies, they are fast and will make you feel like in the old resident 
 evil times but this time now you are the stupid zombie.
  
  Smokers: Use a very long tongue to hang you rooftops, pin the survivirs against a chain linked 
 fence, this type will make you crap if you are a survivor and will make you happy if you are a 
 zombie.
  
  
  Tanks: This is like the gorila of the zombies, if you are a survivor you must be very carefully 
 about this one because is fast strong and almost inmortal it will make you so scare that you will 
 no even see you shadow again but if you use it be ready for one of the most fun things in your 
 life throwing things to the survivors nad destroying everything on your path between you and your 
 beautiful survivors.
  
  
  This game have all you need to have some fun it have FPS action, it have a good storyline ( but 
 dont expect smething like indigo phropecy ) , the coop and the paranoia you will get playing online 
 as a survivor trying to survive the waves of zombies or teh fun you will get trying to eat the 
 brains of the scare survivors. I really recomend this game so good bye I go to kill some zombies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Horror FPS games i've played since Quake. Seriously, it's great.
 
  
  In Left 4 Dead, the first thing you see when you put the game in is the Intro Sequence. They show 
 you the characters and the bosses. They also show you how intense something gets when you only 
 cross the street, or go through a house. It does literally get that intense.
  
  In Left 4 Dead, you play as one of the 4 characters, Bill, Louis, Francis or Zoey. Bill is a Vietnam 
 Vet. Zoey is a college student who needs to keep her grades up, instead of watching horror movies 
 in her dorm, Louis had been working up the courage to quit his job as Junior Systems Analyst at 
 his company's IT department when a virus showed up and downsized the world, and Francis acts like 
 the zombie apocalypse is the world's biggest bar fight. He dosnt really have a backround. 
  Also, you can play as 4 of the 5 Zombie "bosses". The witch, who is an instant knock down if you 
 disturb her. She wont attack unless shot at or flashing you lights on her. The Boomer either Pukes 
 on you or blows up on you, attracking the horde. The smoker uses it's tounge to grab survivors 
 and drag them to their doom. The hunter is the quickest, and pounces ontop of survivors, pinning 
 them to the ground. FInially, the Tank is the strongest infected, so watch out.
  
  When first playing campain, you will notice that you have 4 "stories" to chose from. No Mercy, 
 where you are in a city and have to make your way through railways and sewers to get to the helicopter 
 on mercy hospital. Death Toll has you going down a turnpike, and going through a suberbia town, 
 heading to a waterfront for survival. The dead air places you in an downtown city, which leads 
 you to an airport and being saved by the last plane. The Blood Harvest, my favorite story, has 
 you in a forests and farmlands, finding safety.
  
  The campain is well thought out and has good replay value.
  
  The music is excellent too, whenever 
 i hear that witch music, it puts shivers down my spine, wondering what to expect.
  
  The multiplayer is great. You can either do Campain with 3 other friends or play as the Infected 
 and actually fight the survivors. I found blowing up on survivors fun, as well and pinning them, 
 choking them, and beating the crap out of them!
  
  Left 4 Dead uses a new system called, AI Director, which the AI choses where to place weapons, 
 ammo, and the zombies! Which makes the game different every time it's played.
  So save up 60 bucks and get a game that will have unlimited replay value, and a chance to crush 
 survivors, blow up or puke on them, strangle them, or pin them down, or be the survivors and escape 
 the Zombie Apocolypse, the game has endless replayability, so come on and get this game, the best 
 Zombie Horror FPS in this time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glitch_Fox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are a true gamer you will have this game in with all the rest of you collection.
  
  This game delivers great coop gameplay and I think the biggest replay value a has game ever had 
 since Mario.
  
  The stages are not really short but just a little short, but you will keep playing till your thumbs 
 fall off trust me I had the demo with only two stages from "No Mercy" and I played it for hours 
 on end.
  
  What is great about this game is that the Program that Valve has put into this game watches each 
 individual players status, such as how much damage you are taking, how much damage you are inflicting 
 and depending on how good you are doing, the level of difficulty changes. 
  Example: I start off shooting everything down and nothing can touch me and then out of nowhere 
 I get swarmed by infected. Now if im getting owned right off the start of the game the infected 
 will take less notice of me, but still they will attack you. If you are the most aggresive player 
 you will be attacked the most, if you are the least aggresive player you will attacked the least.
 
  
  There are 5 Different Infected
  
  Boomers: Which vommit and explode on you and drive all the other infected to want to rip you to 
 shreads
  
  Hunters: The most agile of the zombies, leaps great distances and tears your clothes off...
  
 
  Smokers: Use a very long tongue to hang you from rooftops, pin you against a chain linked fence, 
 drag you down some stairs and constrict you till you cant breathe, plus beat the crap out of you
 
  
  Witches: These emotional zombies just like to start whining and make all sorts of freaky noises 
 and just want to be left alone... just like your mom. If you disturb them they will show you what 
 women are capable of.
  
  Tanks: AKA the zombie on Steroids, these massive beasts just like to throw stuff at you and beat 
 you on the ground like a domminant gorrila. 
  
  
  This game is a great game. 
  
  I have enjoyed this game thank you valve.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Frankly I have to admit I was a little reluctant to attempt another "zombie" like game after I 
 felt that I had been led astray with Dead Raising. But Left 4 Dead is a very cool and intense game. 
 
  
  You are one of four characters that are "left 4 dead" in a town that has been complete changed 
 over to zombie-vampire like things. All of these characters are the steriotypical people found 
 left 4 dead in every other zombie movie. You can play online with 3 other friends or by yourself 
 in the single player mode. Playing online is much more fun though. Especially since you have to 
 rely on one and other to survive. 
  
  Game play is quick paced and aggressive. The zombies are fast, furious, and unrelenting. These 
 aren't even close to your Resident Evil like Zombies that suffle about. They are smart, quick and 
 very hungry. The AI is quite advanced for this game. I applaude it's level of difficulty that is 
 put up just by the shear number of enemies that the game can put forth. Speaking again of the multiplayer, 
 people can sign on to play as one of the undead to munch on the 4 survivors fighting for their 
 virtual live. It's a pretty cool concept. Particularly for people that aren't as adapt to going 
 on line with their games. 
  
  The story is pretty simple, get out of town alive. So naturally the play control is easy to pick 
 up and play, but can be brutal in the hands of a master or anyone that has prior expierence with 
 FPS. 
  
  The graphics probably won't break any records as the flashiest on the 360, especially compared 
 to GOW2 or COD: WAW. But they get the job done. I recommend to play this game in a dark room. It's 
 can be pretty freaky. 
  
  The sounds and music attack your senses in this game. Plenty of screaming, snarling, and mood setting 
 music/ sounds of terror. The speaking that goes on between your party in the single player mode 
 is pretty cool. There is a lot of banter, as well as tactics and status that is passed back and 
 forth. Which helps to give that element of urgancy to the game. 
  
  The movie in the begining of the game really sets the mood and the pace. 
  
  All in all Left 
 4 Dead is a very intense game. It wreaks havic on your nerves, makes you jump in some places, and 
 is a very cool all around game. It isn't for eveyone though, so casual gamers beware. While I appreciate 
 the multiplayer mode more at this point, the single player is still pretty deep and will totally 
 get you ready for the multiplayer environment. I am a bit pick about graphics and these aren't 
 the best you will find but they get the job done. This game is great for any FPS fans, or survival 
 horror fans. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
