-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legends of Wrestlemania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/legendsofwrestlemania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting video montages of classic events.
 Great roster of past legends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic, repetitive combat.
 Grossly exaggerated character models.
 Legend Killer mode is grueling and dull.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.4, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 216 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legends of Wrestlemania strikes a great nostalgic chord but quickly goes flat. 

  Although many wrestling games pride themselves on featuring up-to-date rosters and letting you 
 do any move you want during a match, Legends of Wrestlemania takes a different approach. It appeals 
 to nostalgic wrestling fans, giving them the chance to play as classic wrestlers in historic Wrestlemania 
 matches from the '80s and '90s. It also favors accessibility rather than complexity, and its simplified 
 controls and limited moveset make it easy for anyone to pick up and play. However, this simplicity 
 comes at a price, and the action quickly becomes repetitive. Matches feel the same no matter how 
 many shiny, overmuscled legends you bring into the ring. It's good for a quick nostalgia fix, but 
 Legends of Wrestlemania runs out of thrills faster than a Pay-Per-View event.        

  Once the actual match begins, you are introduced to the glistening character models, which appear 
 to be smuggling large cuts of meat under their skin. The Hulkster was always a muscular guy, but 
 in Legends of Wrestlemania he looks like ballooned-up action figure. These overdone characters 
 are particularly jarring when you've just watched a video of the real wrestlers and have seen how 
 they actually looked. This dims the nostalgic glow, but it becomes less pronounced with wrestlers 
 in the mid-to-late '90s, who tended to be much more physically sculpted. Underneath their armored 
 carapaces, the character models are pretty well animated and convincingly capture individual mannerisms 
 such as Stone Cold's swagger and Undertaker's lanky rigidity.  

           Once, these two gentle giants lived side-by-side in harmony.      

  The gameplay itself 
 is quite simple. Most of the time you'll be using the buttons for strike, grapple, and block to 
 damage your opponent and counter his blows. You can also climb on the turnbuckle, perform an Irish 
 whip, take the action outside of the ring, and, of course, pin your opponent. It's easy to master 
 the basics that you'll need to win matches, and there's not much beyond the basics. Scripted intros, 
 finishers, and certain grapples will trigger quick-time events that challenge you to press the 
 prompted button before your opponent does. These allow Legends of Wrestlemania to show your wrestler 
 doing more-advanced moves, but you won't really get to watch him because you'll be so focused on 
 the button prompt. There are some painful rapid-tapping sequences and a momentum meter that lets 
 you do more powerful grapples, but these don't add much complexity to the gameplay. The action 
 is ultimately shallow, and it's not long before all of your matches start to follow the same repetitive 
 pattern.  

  One interesting attempt to spice things up can be found in the Wrestlemania Tour mode. Whether 
 you are reliving a past event, rewriting history by competing as the loser, or redefining the event 
 by changing the match conditions, each event has a number of objectives that you can complete to 
 earn a gold medal and unlock small bonuses. These range from simple (taunt your opponent) to complex 
 (attack your opponent from the top of each turnbuckle) , and they can add some much needed variety 
 to the proceedings. More-recent events have more-elaborate objectives, but having a longer to-do 
 list doesn't make the match better, just longer.  

           It's hard not to get angry when your muscles balloon to uncomfortable sizes.      

 
  There is also a Legend Killer mode that lets you pit your created character (or an imported character 
 from Smackdown vs. RAW 2009) against grueling tiers of legendary wrestlers. You have to fight 10 
 consecutive matches to beat one of the six tiers, three of which are unlocked only with a Smackdown 
 vs. RAW import. Each tier is long and painful. You carry the same health bar throughout the 10 
 matches, so you will become very familiar with the one taunt that regenerates a fraction of your 
 health. Worse, you can't save your progress, so you have to do it all in one sitting. The action 
 simply can't hold up during such a long session, which makes Legend Killer mode little more than 
 a test of your tolerance for boredom.  

  Legends of Wrestlemania also sports a full array of exhibition match types and support for online 
 matches. The robust creation toolset from Smackdown vs. RAW 2009 is included, with the notable 
 omission of the fun Create a Finisher tool. Although it's great see so many legendary stars gathered 
 in one game, Legends of Wrestlemania just can't live up to the hype. The gameplay can be fun for 
 a little while, but it soon becomes an exercise in repetition and boredom. The highlight reels 
 are really fun to watch, but when the most entertaining aspect of a game is a 10-year-old video 
 montage, you're dealing with some serious mediocrity. And that's the bottom line.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The main review basically has it right. "Legends of Wrestlemania strikes a great nostalgic chord 
 but quickly goes flat."
  
  Button mashing has no place in modern gaming. Ever.
  
  The online play was so frustrating. Every time you finish a match you have to exit out of a game, 
 set it up all over again, and re-invite your opponent. My friend and I felt like we spent more 
 time setting up matches than we did playing the game.
  
  Also it would have been awesome if we could have been on a tag team together and beat up on the 
 CPU, but no such luck here.
  
  On the plus side: The archived videos from back in the day are great and set the tone of the Relive, 
 Revise, & Redfine Wrestlemania moments really well. 
  
  And where the heck was Randy "Macho Man" Savage? That guy was Hitler, Stalin, and Bin Laden all 
 rolled up into one guy to me back around Wrestlemania IV. SNAP INTO A SLIM JIM!!!!
  
  This game will be $15.99 in the bargin bin by the summer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajleo
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I was so damn excitted when this game was about to release, i kept counting on days, being a hardcore 
 wwf fan and wrestling video games, i had big expectations, name as big as "legend of wrestlemania" 
 under THQ probably the best wrestling game creators, damn i had huge expectations! 
  
  When i got this game, it looked classic, the limited match types didnt cause me any problem, i 
 goto exhibition mode, i choose warrior VS hogan, the entrances are awesome, i dont have problems 
 with exxagerated models, in fact i liked the models for a game. The match kicks off, and WHAT the 
 HACK!! damn ur so busy focusing on circles to see which button to press you kant even get into 
 the game! the gameplay sucked big time! and i mean really big time, people say they like the movies, 
 dammit if i wanted to watch classic wrestling movies why in the hell would i buy a video game?!!! 
 Its not the graphics, music or the roster, at the end what counts most is the gameplay and thats 
 exactly where THQ has screwed this time, too much repeatation, too much bordom! Damn man, This 
 title deserved a lot more than this! Damn you THQ and dman this game!!! Grrrrr!! Im so irritated, 
 finally we get this roster we wnated to play and its all scrwed due to damn experimentation by 
 those THQ dumbs, Gamespot is right as always in reviews... DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!! :@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drama_313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is how a wrestling game should be done. The controls are great and very easy to mater, especially 
 for the casual "grappler". The ability to import all the SVR wrestlers into this game make it the 
 only wrestling game you'll need for some time. Wrestlemania tour is where this game really shines, 
 being able to relive, rewrite and redefine all those classic matches we grew up on is simply awesome.
 
  
  The old footage of matches and build ups just adds to this great game. Wrestlers look great, and 
 look like they do in real life (some facial features are off in a few wrestlers but not a big deal)
 
  
  The only downfall of this game is that Legend Killer mode is boring and seems pointless (though 
 it's the only way to up the attributes on your CAW for online play) One more small thing is the 
 lack of online matches available to play, most of the classic ones are there but my only beef is 
 with more than 2 players you can only choose Tag Team or Triple Threat matches, you can't do the 
 "gimmick" matches unless it's one on one.
  
  All in all, great game with endless replay value and easy enough to learn for people new to wrestling 
 games. Don't let the gamespot review sway you away from this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdegaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The main thing people are complaining about this game is starting to make me sick. I had both SvR 
 09 and LoW. and legends is a lot more fun than SvR. It brings a fresh feeling to the wrestling 
 games. I played SvR 09 and was bored of it very quick. because they didn't fix any problems ( very 
 Slow grapples, with the same reverse animation for the last 3 games) and the fact that I've seen 
 the same move animations since here comes the pain. most of the animations in LoW are fresh, and 
 the manager functions are lots of fun. I wish there was some more managers ( Scary Sherri, Kim 
 Che, Harvey Whimpler and Jim Cornete) or given the option of using some of the wrestlers as managers 
 (i. e Iron Sheik as Srgt. Slaughters manager, or Hawk as Animals manager) In all this game is off 
 to a good start and hope that SvR 10 brings some of these elements to the table and that next year 
 at this time the cover the legends ii has Macho Man and Rick the Model Martel on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huerito323
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, I did the smartest thing by ignoring the gamespot review. I love the old Wrestling 
 days, and if you do too, you're gonna love this game! It's fun, it's easy, and it looks great! 
 Keep in mind I dont play the smackdown games since i dont watch WWE anymore, so if you do, it might 
 take time to get used to.
  
  Cons: I wished they added more legends and a story mode. I also would've liked to be able to grab 
 a weapon anytime I want instead of having to take my opponent outside. And the last negative thing 
 I have to say, is that i dont like the quick-time events during gameplay when you have to press 
 a certain button faster than your opponent, it really disrupts the gameplay for me. 
  
  Pros: It's Legends! How can you go wrong with legends!? The gameplay is really simple and easy. 
 You grap with A, strike with X, and reverse with Y. The entrances are amazing and really well done, 
 and the crowd looks and feels alive! The wrestlers look great and you can see all the sweat on 
 their bodies. Relive is amazing! You get to relive those great moments in classic Wrestlemania 
 matches, you get points by doing the objectives that happened in real life! And before every match 
 you get to see a video of the rivalry between the 2 wrestlers. You see what happened in the match, 
 and then when you get to the game, you can actually make those moments happen. For example, in 
 the Warrior vs Hogan match, at the end Hogan went up to the Ultimate Warrior and gave him the belt 
 along with a hug. Well, in the game that actually happens when you beat Hogan! So cool! This game 
 really brings back memories, and every die hard wrestling fan should get this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genleesson
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  The game is not quite what you would expect from the wwe franchise. I have played most of them 
 out there and they could have done a LOT more to it to make it a top notch wrestling game. With 
 all of the wrestlers that are in the hall of fame and are considered true legends of old school 
 I wonder why they weren't added. Think about it .... there's not really too many there to choose 
 from. They could have added a lot more substance to it. With that said they seem to just have made 
 the first truly wrestling fighting game with absolutely no storyline whatsoever. The history is 
 an added bonus to this game since most kids don't have any idea who most of these wrestlers are. 
 Maybe next time they could be a little more informative in who the wrestlers are and maybe put 
 some in that most adults will remember. It doesn't suck overall but come on .... if the developers 
 knew they were going to get such a crappy score , don't you think they would have done better on 
 the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougw56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  I have just spent approximately 30 hrs. playing this game, and love it. The ability to play so 
 many legends that I watched years ago, with my Dad & my sons, brings back so many memories. Today's 
 wrestling is unwatchable soft-porn garbage IMO. 
  
  While a few of the controls (taunts for example) could have been made easier to use, most are accessible 
 easily after a little practice. I found the Legend Creator to be great fun, having made four so 
 far. Kind of wish I had held on SDvsRAW 09 so I could have imported my legends there. I lost my 
 saves to the red rings of death awhile back. 
  
  Would have liked to see the Macho Man, Lex Luger, and Paul Orndorff included, to name a few. Having 
 a "Legends" game without the Macho Man is like doing the rock n roll history without Chuck Berry 
 and the Beatles.
  
  The bottom line is this: if you loved the old good/bad guys of 10-25 years ago, you will want to 
 play this game. If like this reviewer, you spent that time at water polo matches, take a pass :)
 
  
  Long Live Roddy Piper!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vercetti05
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  FINALLY!!!! O wait wrong intro. Ya this game disapoointed me a little. I was very excited when 
 i heard that THQ was going to make this game, because they were awesome in making past games such 
 as No Mercy and SVR. But like everything, the more games they make, the more the damn thing has 
 to be complicated. This game takes time to master. If you enjoy games of past, like easy button 
 coordination to perform a move, they u will hate the livin piss out of this game. It took me forever 
 to figure out how to do this, and how to do that. The only positive thing i can say about this 
 are the characters, graphics, historic footage and environments. But the gameplay completely blows... period. 
 Put it this way, if u enjoyed WWF Warzone, then will enjoy this, because its a frickin carbon copy 
 of it. So if you want to play a game that u will enjoy as soon as u take it out of the cover... sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bvic132007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  First off let me just start by saying NO MACHO MAN or DEMOLITION! Thats like having a game about 
 retarded blondes and not including Paris Hilton. I as A avid old school wrestling fan and A casual 
 gamer appreciate change but I feel as if this game really should have stuck with A more SvR oriented 
 control scheme. I didnt really enjoy looking at the quick time button prompts while also trying 
 to concentrate on dishing out a stunner. Graphically you will notice that this game is pixels on 
 botox! Hulkster looks more like a ninja turtle on steroids and Andre is ripped, not quite the giant 
 I remember. The videos before each match are cool but I didnt buy this game for the videos. The 
 effort that they put into the videos could have been used towards voice over for the stars. I feel 
 as if it hard to really get pumped for a match without A good story mode. Maybe if THQ is listening 
 to the fans they will include Macho man and Demolition and other classic stars ( The Bushwhackers) 
 via DLC. I was looking forward to this game since the day it was announced and while not disliking 
 this game I dont feel as if it is anything special like it should have been. If you are A fan of 
 old school wrestling then I would highly recommend you give this A try, by rental and if you fall 
 into the group that really loves this game, buy it. If old school wrestling isnt your thing avoid 
 this like Rosie O'donnell at an all you can eat bean buffet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  You really have to be a fan of old school WWF to like this game, so it's a good thing I am. Yes 
 the controls are simplistic and it lacks the Macho Man, but it is really fun.
  
  Tip: The 2009 S Vs R is already on the Legends disk, it is only unlocked if you have saved data 
 from S v R 2009. So if you don't like S v R 2009, then borrow one or buy a used one and return 
 it once you have unlocked the S v R guys. 
  
  I wish that other classic Legends were available, such as:
  Hercules
  Earthquake 
  Savage
 
  Powers of Pain
  Giant Gonzalez
  Razor Ramon
  Diesel
  Mick Fuley (why in the hell is he not in here?)
  Sting
  Tag Team Trio Demolition
  
  Also, 
 the Relive, Rewrite, Redfine mode should have been extended for each match to include the option 
 to alter things further. More classic battle Wrestlemania matches should have been added. 
  
  Story Mode: Yukes should of had a story mode with the characters, back room interviews that 
 go totally wrong and brake out into brawls, etc.
  
  Controls: Simple. Personally I would of like to have the control scheme from S v R 2007 along with 
 the dramatic camera antics when performing a Finisher in 2007.
  
  Downloadable Content: Well, hopefully THQ fully supports this title and fixes some of the minor 
 issues that people are complaining about and add more stars from the old days.
  
  Roster: Nearly 70+ Guys available? Combine the roster of S v R 2009 and Legends and you get a whopping 
 amount of people to play! :)
  
  Final: I am totally happy with this purchase and any old school fan will love this game!! It is 
 very fun and exciting tag teaming with friends and reliving the more exciting days of wrestling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  You have to be a true wrestling fan to appreciate this game. Yes I do agree that the wrestler models 
 are ridiculously shaped, but that's easily forgotten once you start to play. See as a gamer I enjoy 
 sitting down and just playing a game without having to open a book for moves or searching the internet 
 for cheats. This game does that. It's really easy to sit down and play it with no problems. Now 
 as for the repetitive game play that is true, but you can change up the option and make the matches 
 more interesting with all the interactive spots around the different arenas. I do agree that the 
 Legend Killer Mode is a little dull because you have to play 10 matches in a row and you can't 
 stop or save without having to start over. But like I said before tweak the option menu and your 
 created wrestler should fly through the tiers in no time. The wrestlemania tour is probably the 
 best part of the game. The match videos before you play are incredible. The match objective are 
 really fun to complete. The only downfall to some of the objectives are the ones where your opponent 
 does something to you and you have to break out of it. It's hard to get the A. I. to do those things. 
 I'm hoping they do make a Legends of Wrestlemania 2 because this game only goes up to WM 15 and 
 I can think of so many matches I'd like to Relive or Rewrite and I can definite think of a few 
 Legends that I'd like to see in the game. One in particular "Macho Man" Randy Savage. You'll definitely 
 enjoy this game if you're a true wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuke1984
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  As a child of the early 80's I grew up on the sayings of Hulk Hogan saying eat your vegetables, 
 take your vitamins, and say your prayers. But knew nothing of Hogans steroid use. This game shows 
 a ridiculously huge Hogan fighting the majority of the matches. If that doesnt bother you, than 
 perhaps the constant button mashing for every other move set you intend to do. Still not pushed 
 away from this game? Try the overly simplified controls for moves consisting of the double tapping 
 the A button or holding the A button, or maybe mashing the A button repeatedly. I feel that small 
 thing really make a good game, and if the developers paid attention to the small things, then you 
 could assume they did a good job on the big things. WRONG!!!! Entrance attires are horrid, i. e. 
 Undertaker not wearing his dark duster or trench coat on entrance, Same with Rick Rude. HBK has 
 horrid looking ring attire topped off by evenly horrific alternate Rockers attire. But wait..... 
 no marty Janetty to team him up with. The faces of all wrestlers look way to cartoonish to be even 
 slightly impressed with any detail Yukes and THQ put into this piece of trash.
  I understand many wrestling fans love the CAW or CAL in these games, and many say "Well, I guess 
 I could just make a better wrestler myself". Why? You paid the money for a game that is clearly 
 unpolished. If you like SVR series which in my opinion is also lacking, than you may not enjoy 
 this awful attempt at nostalgia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  If you were a fan of WWF in the 80s and 90s and have not played Smackdown series of videogames... you'll 
 love this game.
  
  Simple controls make the game accessible and fun to pick up and play. People who have played Smackdown 
 will probably hate the controls.
  
  Lots of modes to play. Relive is the most fun in nostalgic terms. And Legend Killer will keep you 
 occupied for a good amount of time.
  
  Wrestlers look a bit cartoony and action figure-like but you get used to it pretty fast.
  
 
  It is great having all these wrestlers on the game.. no more need to make your favs, because they 
 are most likely already here. You can still make your own wrestlers too with create-a-legend.
 
  
  Overall the game is fun but it will have a hard time succeeding in today's market. Most people 
 think wrestling games are too complicated so they won't buy one... and the people who do buy wrestling 
 games won't buy this one because it is not what they have come to expect from the smackdown games. 
 
  
  presentation: 9 
  Really captured the feel of 80s and 90s.. videos are great to set the mood as well.
  
  graphics: 
 8 
  Over ripped cartoony models detract from otherwise nice design.
  
  sound: 7 
  Nice to have the old music.. but it sometimes sounds washed out or tinny.
  
  gameplay: 7 
 
  Easy to pick up and learn.. but lacks depth of movesets.
  
  replay: 8
  Great to pop in and play for short periods of time to relive the glory days.. lots of modes to explore 
 and beat.. create a legend is a great way to extend play as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbkjason
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  ok so I have been a wrestling fan for a legit 19 years I say legit because I see a lot of 12 year 
 olds who claim to have been watching WWE since the 80's I take it they must be buds with Doc Brown 
 and have borrowed his delorean.
  
  Anyway in the run up to this game when the announcement was first made I think nearly all wrestling 
 fans young and old were excited. Even with the somewhat small roster for me personaly all the guys 
 in there are good. People got hung up on oh so and so never did anything at a wrestlemania. Well 
 who cares its a legends game and Wrestlemania is just its main selling point.
  
  I will start with the most important thing the controls. LOWM's basic control scheeme is fine its 
 fast simple and most improtatntly its fun. Against the cpu its very easy but in multi player sitting 
 next to one of you buds the quick time chain grapples add a elelmet of excitem, ent to the matches. 
 My main and biggest problem with the controls is what many people had problems with and that is 
 the kicking out of a pin. i think most peoples problems with this were because it was so different 
 from anyotehr wrestling game and god forbid they had to read the instructions or the tutorial to 
 figure out how to do it. Now I have some what mastered kicking out of a pin problem here is it 
 went from me getting pinned every single time to me now being able to kick out with relative ease,
 
  
  Game mode wise the relive re wriet and redefine was so much fun especially the relive. Some of 
 the challenges were very hard which was fun. It took me forever to get the gold medal against The 
 Rock and once I did I had such a great sense of acheivment somthign taht is all torare in wrestling 
 games. Howver once I had done this I was like great now I guesse I will play exhibition matches. 
 the otehr 2 modes rewrite and re define were not as good while still fun the objectives were nearly 
 all the same. Once I had gotten all my gold medals I cam to the realisation that, that was pretty 
 much it I mean I am not interested in CAW's as mine suck so until theres decent formulas I am not 
 intereste din Legend Killer mode sonow all I have is exhibition matches. There should have been 
 far more matches in teh wrestlemania tour mode or perhaps even let you create your own relive moments 
 where you can assign different obnjectives and how many is required to get a medal.
  
  LOWM's lack of moves somewhat hurts the game as well, the fact the macthes are over quick does 
 somewhat disguise it but it can be very annoyin to have to do the same piledriver 4 or 5 times 
 in a row. 
  
  Presentation wise the little video packages are just great and the whole game has a great look. 
 However some of the characters are just odd I am not talking about the over exagerated style I 
 kind of dig that, some characters are just wrong.
  
  HBK for example from the play by play its clear they wanted leader of the new generation HBK. yet 
 they give him his heel attire but his face new generation era entrance. Not to mention he seems 
 to change his boots after the entrance how the hell did they miss that. His alt attire has the 
 exact same entrance which makes no sens as rocker HBK would just have to had ran to the ring and 
 that could have been it.
  
  In closing I have enjoyed LOWM but I feel kind of cheated a game based on nostalgia should get 
 all the little details right. Thats why we play it so remind us of things we saw and things we 
 loved. They did not do this like I said the game is fun but it just has this rushed feel to it. 
 Heres hoping we see some DLC or a new LOWM game but with THQ's potentialy loosing the WWE license 
 this year who know this gme could be a one off.
  7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTsensation
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  From the new controls for the royal rumble to the thumbtacks in the whole new hell in a cell.. 
 The game just pretty much covers all angles. Sure there are some legends missing but the caw mode 
 helps you out with that makeing those missing .. Iam a huge fan of wrestling and been so for sometime 
 I grew up watching warror hogan and to be able to relive key moments in wrestlemania history is 
 every wrestling fans dream.. Now it just dont end there those of you who have svr 2009 can import 
 thew whole rostor to legends. So you can have those dream matches of cena hogan Bret vs warror 
 andre vs big show . The list goes on and on... If your a big wrestling fan this is a must get.... 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davegrams
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes the game does have its downsides, but it is a very fun game none the less. If you are a hardcore 
 wrestling fanatic where everything must be PERFECT for your game to achieve greatness, then this 
 game may not be for you. Rent it or wait for the bargain bin.
  If you are are 30 or older and like the glory days of wrestling, this is a fun game. Espcially 
 being able to import the Superstars from SDvsRAW09. That is a great addition to the game.
  Without this feature, the game may feel 'less' but with the huge roster, it is a fun game.
  If 
 you are unsure, rent it first... But if you've played the demo and liked it, the game is that plus 
 more.
  Keep in mind that you dont have the 'freedom' that you have in sdvsraw, and the controls take a 
 bit of getting use to. But if you have some of your buddies over to play, they might stand a little 
 more of a chance with the new control scheme.
  The addition of the vintage tv clips are a wonderful addition in setting up the matches in the 
 RELIVE, REDEFINE, REWRITE sections.
  I hope that THQ continues with the 'importing' features of wrestling games. It makes you feel like 
 you get more bang for the buck.
  Eventually the character models will change where it wont be possible, but it makes a huge difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker058
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If the WWE would have come out with this game even ten years ago I think it would have been more 
 appreciated by the fans. Instead you have people writing reviews who have no idea who half of the 
 people in the game are since they are only fans of what wrestling is today on television and not 
 what it once was before it was called "sports entertainment". Without the wrestlers that are in 
 this game there would be no WWE today and wouldnt have been an ECW, WCW, WCCW, AWA, or NWA for 
 the current crop of wrestlers to work in to make it to where they are today. 
  
  One of the cool features in Legends of Wrestlemania is that you can import players from SvR2009 
 and can still add custom music to the game. The controls are harder the the SvR controls but then 
 again if it was just another SvR clone I would have been upset since the new controls force the 
 player outside of the normal confort zone they are used to.
  
  This is a good game but I can think of many others who should have been included such as Randy 
 Savage, Mick Foley, Psycho Sid, Kevin Nash, Vader, Paul Orndorf, and others. I hope they add a 
 few more wrestlers via xbox live. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
