-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legendary
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/legendarythebox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Werewolves are cool.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly.
 Story doesn't make any sense.
 Jumping and sprinting mechanics are awful.
 Poor level design brimming with shooter cliches.
 It's easy to get hung up in the cluttered, linear environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Spark Unlimited
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This frustratingly bad first-person shooter is not the stuff legends are made of. 

  When a first person shooter bungles moving and shooting, what does that leave room for? Great reloading? 
 A potent save system? Awesome menus? Legendary is not a good game nor is it a so-bad-it's-good 
 one. Its premise is sound enough: let loose a myriad of mythical brutes into our modern-day world 
 and throw in a diabolical tyrant intent on ruling the earth. You at least have potential for a 
 fun camp classic in the  Clash of the Titans  mold, but instead of delivering anachronistic thrills, 
 Legendary piles poor gameplay mechanics onto overused shooter cliches, drying up all the juicy 
 possibilities and leaving a dull, lifeless husk in their wake.  

           Evil fairies called Nari leave the same claw marks as werewolves. Go figure.      

 
  If you want to get the most out of Legendary's story, it's best not to think too hard: It's pure 
 frivolity. As professional art thief Jack Deckard, you're hired to steal the mythical Pandora's 
 Box from a New York City museum. But, as an entry on Murphy's Law in Jack's own PDA reminds us, 
 what  can  go wrong  will  go wrong. Soon enough, griffons clog the skies and a gigantic golem 
 constructed of cars and concrete is terrorizing a panicked public. Meanwhile, the incident brands 
 a mysterious signet on Deckard's arm, which lets him absorb the life energy, or animus, from fallen 
 creatures. The next step is obvious: Discover the truth behind his employer and kill some werewolves 
 and minotaurs in the process. The concept has potential, but the story is insipid and doesn't always 
 make a whole lot of sense. Why would Pandora's Box unleash such a limited collection of creatures? 
 Why are the subways still running when the city is under siege by winged beasts? How does a mercenary, 
 in one of many scenes featuring Legendary's cringe-inducing dialogue, forget that he's looking 
 for a minotaur?  

  But coherence doesn't matter when the whole thing's just an excuse to grab a few guns and take 
 aim at the nefarious beasties. To developer Spark's credit, a few of your mythological encounters 
 are mildly fun, such as a boss fight versus a gigantic kraken that feels appropriately epic. Even 
 some of the regular enemies have a strong concept behind them: Werewolves lithely jump from wall 
 to wall, and the ghostly Nari can possess inanimate objects and use them as weapons (for example, 
 a Nari uses a soda machine as a weapon during one of Legendary's more hysterical encounters) . Some 
 of the ensuing battles are legitimately fun; this is particularly true when werewolves are involved 
 because their behavior is so unpredictable. In another interesting scenario, a Nari steals a handle 
 from the wall just as you are about to turn it, forcing you to go retrieve it. Unfortunately, most 
 of these scripted scenes are simply annoying, such as one in which you have to shoot the blades 
 of an industrial fan before you're carved into a bloody pulp. And every battle -- the good and the 
 abysmal -- are absolutely littered with design elements so atrocious, it's amazing that they could 
 have made their way into a modern-day shooter.  

  The problems start with simply moving from one place to the next. Deckard can only hop a few inches 
 off the ground, yet when sprinting, he leaps forward as though he's competing in the long jump. 
 With such terrible jumping mechanics, it's a wonder that Legendary would even include platforming 
 sequences, let alone the awful one thrown at you early on in the game. Should you even find a spot 
 you think Deckard can easily hurdle, you'll discover countless invisible walls, or even worse, 
 you'll get stuck on the various objects littering the cramped levels. The ease with which you can 
 get hung up on the environment is rather astounding, and it's a big frustration in such battles 
 as one in which you fight off a minotaur in a crumbling graveyard.  

  This is also one of many examples of Legendary's poor level design, which is not just highly claustrophobic, 
 but also overflowing with ridiculous cliches. For a good half of the experience, your objectives 
 consist of going some place (like the ever-popular sewer) to turn a handle so that you can go some 
 other place (like the ever-popular warehouse) to open a door. Every closed door in the game that 
 you can open is controlled by a security panel, and opening it is as simple as touching two wires. 
 To do so, you dutifully hold a button down for six seconds or so; you don't need to enter a code, 
 find a keycard, or perform a minigame. Why not just let the player open the door without the unnecessary 
 padding? As for the handle-turning and lever-pulling tasks, even other shooters lend these mechanics 
 some type of puzzle elements. Unless you count the few occasions where you glimpse a green-glowing 
 object above or below you (hint: shoot it) , there's nothing thoughtful about Legendary's non-puzzles. 

  At least the weapons are decent, which is to say, they work. But even here, it's flabbergasting 
 that so many basic flaws are held up for display. It's really cool that you have to lop off a werewolf's 
 head to kill it lest its lifeless body reanimates a moment later. Why, then, do you have to pound 
 on its head and neck area with your axe countless times before you hit the magic spot? This might 
 be the only game on earth where a flamethrower is a more effective instrument of decapitation than 
 a fire axe. In addition, there are numerous flaws that make you realize how much we take for granted 
 in most shooters. Why can't you keep the trigger held down while you automatically reload, so that 
 shooting continues once reloading is finished? When you load a checkpoint, why do you automatically 
 wield the weapon assigned to right on the D pad, rather than the one you were carrying? Aiming 
 sensitivity and turning speed while firing certain weapons also feel off.  

  Legendary's sole spark of originality comes from the life force known as animus, which leaks from 
 fallen creatures. Deckard slurps it up with his signet and uses it to power various objects, as 
 well as heal himself. He also uses it to let loose brief blasts of energy, which makes ghostly 
 enemies corporeal and knocks some foes back. This comes into play a few times during the single-player 
 campaign, such as an infuriating sequence in which you have to power up a device that the fluttering 
 Naris keep picking up and moving around. Its use in the game's single multiplayer mode is more 
 interesting. Here, two teams of four must kill werewolves, collect their animus, and use it to 
 charge up generators back at the team's base. Again, there was potential here, but all of the problems 
 of the single-player campaign are out in force, and four uninteresting maps all but ensure that 
 the game's tiny online community will soon disappear entirely. As it stands, matches just aren't 
 much fun; teams usually rush werewolves and animus without bothering with each other, so the game 
 is often over before it really begins.  

           Werewolves. Why'd it have to be werewolves?      

  Legendary uses the Unreal 3 engine, 
 though it's only obvious because of that engine's telltale texture-popping, which is particularly 
 noticeable here. Aside from a few set-piece moments, such as the sight of the impressively towering 
 golem looming above you, it's hard to look at the game. Human character models stare blankly ahead 
 and look like porcelain dolls, the geometry count is low, and the overall art design is dull and 
 muddy. Nothing looks crisp or detailed, and some visual peculiarities, such as the way rubbery 
 werewolf corpses get stuck in the geometry and jitter around, may induce a few laughs. You also 
 might giggle when you shoot at a window and hear the sound of glass breaking yet not actually break 
 any glass. That isn't to say that Legendary's audio is terrible, and it has a few bright spots, 
 such as the eerie effect you hear when sucking up animus. The best thing that can be said about 
 the rest of the sound design, from the generic rock soundtrack to the mediocre voice acting, is 
 that it isn't particularly offensive.  

  Perhaps the most fascinating aspect of Legendary is that it prepares you for a sequel, which in 
 this case is less of a tantalizing tease than it is a full-on threat. Memorably, the game's lead 
 designer apologizes in one of the Xbox Live achievement descriptions for giving another achievement 
 such a cheesy name. Unfortunately, a game as bad as this one calls for more than just one apology. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kurohubby
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Yea not the best graphics not alot of weapons but it's fun so much chaos going on if 
 sorta epic. very grandoise griffins killing cops golem destorying everything so much chaos. I like 
 this game yea it's glicthy but what game isn't. You know if you write a reveiw on this game and 
 say the same thing thing that GS reveiw said than why do you even bother. I have to say I wasn't 
 expecting to much from this game, and than I played it and I have to say It suck me in to it. ok 
 so it not a sandbox game who cares. It's not the best game ever made but It's really worth a play. 
 The human AI is dumb as a box of rocks but the fire spitting frog things and werewolfs are a little 
 bit smarter. I think if you liked turning point you'll proably like this game as well.
  just imagine when gamecock and codemasters gett a little better at making games there going to 
 be a force to be reckoned with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolscope
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  I personally thought this game was really good! The first level is absolute chaos with NYC and 
 its citizens getting torn apart. I liked the pacing of events too, you don't typically sit in one 
 spot for too long ( because you'll get hit by debris ) . If you enjoy linear paths and great big 
 visuals this game is definitely worth a look for the price. It seems to me that so many reviewers 
 (and snobby fanboys) cant enjoy anything but a 9+. Are people so spoiled now that expectations 
 have outpaced reality? I've been playing games as long as anyone and reading reviews just as long. 
 Don't be afraid to like a game just because it doesn't get a 9 in G. I.! I can't be the only one 
 who likes a good-looking girl with nothing to say. I did wish she had more guns though. Not typically 
 a common wish of mine. I have a great time blowing through a FPS with little or no concern for 
 any story. Good stories are nice but thats why I read books for stories and play games for fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe32
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:39 am PT
Review:  ... because if you don't you end up writing reviews like the one Gamespot did for Legendary.
  
  Okay.... game of the year it's not but...3.5???? NO freaking way. Yes, this game IS linear. 
 Yes, your character can jump about 2 inches off the ground and yes there are your typical sewers 
 and subways.... but, ya know, the game DOES take place in NYC and there ARE subways there. Does 
 it break any new ground - no. However, if you like your FPS game fairly straight forward (no sandbox 
 here) , with LOTS of stuff going on all the time, even if it is scripted, then is the a certain 
 thumbs up for you. I can't help but wonder if the reviewer for Gamespot just gave it the score 
 he did because he went into it thinking it was going to be a Gears of War or some ground breaking 
 FPS. It's straight forward, fun, scripted (think Half Life 2 on roids) with big assed bosses. The 
 story is shaky at best but.... when you have crap flying all over the place and bullets flying - 
 do you really care about the story THAT much? 
  
  The downer? It IS short. Finished it in one session of about 7 hours on normal setting.
  
  
 If you can find this for $39 or less, it is an easy buy. If not, then decide if you want Game of 
 the Year material of a straight forward, fun, shooter.... if so, then Legendary is a good hook up 
 for ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Five0-
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Standing in my local blockbuster gazing at the wall display of the 360 games Legendary had caught 
 my eye and unfortunately also stole $8.99 out of my wallet. Skeptical at first I had asked one 
 of the workers about the game and he told me he has heard nothing bad about it. So I thought to 
 myself maybe it will be worth it and tried remaining optimistic. I popped it into the disc tray 
 and off I was into New York City about to face hordes of mythological creatures (sadly that was 
 the peak of my excitement for the game) . Hearing the rockin theme song only made chuckle and assure 
 I was about to experience some serious cheesiness. Seconds into the game I'm already thrown into 
 a situation I have no background information about. Pandoras box? It wasn't hard to reckon that 
 this box was going to stir up a lot of trouble for me. So before I leave the basement I took the 
 liberty and walking around the room to get a feel for the control mechanics of the game. Slightly 
 disappointed I wasn't about to ditch the game yet. Perhaps an intriguing story or original features 
 would make up for the lack of control I thought I had on my character. It only went downhill from 
 there. Escaping the museum was a thrill (haha) now I must make my way through the terrorized streets 
 of NY to continue my story. By this time I'm confident in my bte-noir for the control and feel 
 of the game. Why does my character have a vertical jump of only a few inches but when it comes 
 time to jump across a gap I leap like a frog on steroids plus a jetpack. This didn't make sense 
 to me. On top of very bad mechanics such as that the little fire dragons were really pushing my 
 buttons. I'd shoot one and would try to absorb its energy mean while fending off other fire toads 
 but couldn't absorb and stay alive at the same time. Sweet button layout. Not. Only shortly after 
 completing episode one I was done with journey of restoring New York and slaying mythological creatures. 
 I agree I didn't play the game long and perhaps I didn't give it enough time but I couldn't see 
 how it could get much better. It took the first level to prove to me the levels were clustered, 
 the control mechanics were awful, the audio was very unimpressive, I was not grabbed by the story 
 line, and the creatures didn't even look that great which is why I rented it in the first place. 
 Boo. Absolutely nothing legendary about this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  They sure are harsh on games that aren't just absolutely amazing. Legendary isn't amazing by no 
 means, but its not god awful either. A basic shooter with decent graphics, fairly interesting story, 
 & hell of a lot of fun to play through doesn't deserve a 3.5. I score it a 6.5 just because the 
 campaign was enjoyable & wasn't really all that short or nothing. For the price you can find this 
 game its definitely worth it. I picked it up for $20.00 and played it off and on for nearly 2 weeks 
 & was entertained all the way through. I heard in one review it saying that the best weapon in 
 the game was the axe, what the hell can these guys just no shoot or something because I hardly 
 ever used the axe. It was either the shotgun or heavy machine gun for me, not sure where they came 
 up with that garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I think there's something to be said for games that see a drastic price cut soon after their release 
 date. Usually that something is "This game isn't that good." That pretty much sums up the game 
 Legendary, a game with a decent premise that ultimately falls flat in every gaming aspect. I'm 
 starting to think there's a curse of mixing mythology with modern or future themes that Too Human 
 seems to have started.
  
  At a $30 price point, saying Legendary flat out sucks would be far too harsh of a statement, but 
 I'm sure that description will be tossed around quite a bit by people who have paid full price 
 for the game. $30 seems perfect for an average game, a discount game in which Legendary definitely 
 is. It may reach Half Life action proportions occasionally during the eight hour play through but 
 this game isn't even close to a blockbuster title.
  
  The graphics are merely serviceable and they do most of what someone would expect. There's no slowdown, 
 really no clipping but on the positive side there's really nothing beyond that to say. On the bad 
 side there are some collision detection issues, some floppy physics and just all around okay quality 
 to textures and character designs. Shots may be lined up perfectly with the sight of the gun but 
 may not register on the target because they are hitting an invisible portion of a wall. Werewolves, 
 the main thing Legendary likes to toss at the player, sometimes get caught in walls after death 
 or just seizure on the ground. Take into a count that the werewolves in Legendary look hairless 
 and way too elastic, and the twitching effect just looks poor. The developers of this game didn't 
 take too much creative license with the creatures they borrowed from different mythologies and 
 I think that was a major flaw.
  
  Speaking of creatures, there's simply not enough of them to make a mythology geek excited. There 
 are Firedrakes, Werewolves, Golem, Gryphon, Kraken, Minotaur, Blood Spiders and the rest of the 
 game is padded by a large amount of special ops soldiers. The writers seemed to have taken a little 
 bit of liberty with the Pandora's Box legend but again, the copy and paste design on most of these 
 creatures just show a lack of creativity. That's not to say that fighting these creatures aren't 
 exciting the first few times you encounter them. Werewolves tend to be the largest crowd and are 
 implemented fairly well in the game but there comes a point that they just feel overused. Gryphon 
 and Minotaur serve as minibosses and a decent challenge but I found their AI patterns and number 
 of animated attacks rather limited. The Golem and Kraken are bosses proper and are actually the 
 ones most different from their legends.
  
  The story is mostly TV miniseries quality in that everything is quite predictable, most of the 
 characters are forgettable and the voice acting is of bargain quality. The lead character is a 
 master thief that is sent on a job to open Pandora's Box, which just shows how unintelligent the 
 main character is, and then double crosses, destruction and ancient warring military factions come 
 into play. It's all a race to find out to control Pandora's Box and save the world. 
  
  The story starts in New York City, goes to London and back again with the only major difference 
 in environment is some landmarks. Actually the best parts of the game are far away from the city 
 portions and in places like underground bases and ancient church grounds. It's at these parts that 
 the game achieves frantic and exciting proportions but these adrenaline rushes and changes of gameplay 
 are dispersed too far apart to be nothing more that high lights of the game. The Golem fight, the 
 science lab, the fight with the Kraken and some werewolf encounters are encounters that stick out 
 far more than anything else in this game.
  
  This is a First Person Shooter so there has to be talk about the weapons and all I have to say 
 about them is that they aren't that good. There are two pistols, a shotgun, a SMG, an assault rifle 
 with zoom capabilities, a flamethrower, a bazooka and some Molotov Cocktails and grenades with 
 the most useful weapon being, and get this, a fireman's axe. Yes. A melee weapon is by far the 
 most useful item in the game when you're not running into bosses or minibosses. 
  
  Health in the game is handled by a life bar and health replenishment is done by killing beasts 
 and absorbing their life force. It's a nice little ability that the player character gets for being 
 dumb enough to open the box. My problem with this is that absorbing and replenishing health is 
 done with the same button. There were a few occasions while playing the game that I found myself 
 low on life and trying to recover some only to find out that there was a life force too close to 
 me and I ended up absorbing it rather than recovering health. Pointless death occurred and some 
 swearing at the game followed my reloading of the game. It's a poor design and the only other use 
 of this life force is a radial blast that pushes enemies away. Overall this gameplay element is 
 broken and hardly useful. 
  
  The only other variations of gameplay come in to play by interacting with glowing keypads, levers 
 or other aura encrusted objects that direct game traffic. Legendary's level design reminds me of 
 the days when level design wasn't taken into consideration. There's simply just one way, one route, 
 to do everything in this game just like in First Person Shooters of the mid 90's and ends up supporting 
 the feeling that this is just an average game and nothing more. 
  
  Strangely there's also something wrong with turning that I almost forgot to mention. It seems that 
 turning the character to the right goes at a slow pace but turning to the left gives the fluid 
 response one would come to expect. I thought that maybe I had the analogue sticks pressed to the 
 side which would give the game a false default but that wasn't the case, so I tried another controller 
 and still had the same experience.
  
  The music is probably the only other part of the game that has hints of excellence but those are 
 also dashed on the rocks of monotony on occasion. There were a few portions where the music stuck 
 out because the tune was kind of catchy while the opposite can be said when some songs seemed nothing 
 more than four second drum and guitar loops.
  
  So at the $30 price tag I found this game at, it was a decent and somewhat entertaining game but 
 still obviously derivative of everything in the FPS market. At a $60 price tag this game surely 
 would deserve a little bit more hate and disgust so I would be understanding of that. I guess I 
 just have to wait for a game that actually uses mythology and is mind blowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Spark Unlimited shows their commitment to making a first person shooter that casual gamers can 
 pick up and enjoy.
  Their last outing was the harshly criticized Turning Point : Fall Of Liberty which received a 4.5 
 from Gamespot and a 6 from me. I defended it as an old school corridor crawler. That had some poor 
 design choices and technically glitches, It was short and somewhat unsatisfying but it was far 
 from unplayable. 
  
  This time around Legendary does offer many improvements, but it is done in by some incredibly frustrating 
 moments. of game play and two levels which serve more to establish the mood of the game than offer 
 up any challenging game play. Woody Allen once commented that the food here is terrible and served 
 in such small portions, and that sums up legendary pretty well. 
  
  The graphics and story are much improved this time around theirs a wider selection of weapons but 
 that is irrelevant since the Axe is one of the best and most useful weapons in the game. Hit detection 
 still seems off even with the Axe. The health system makes some sense this time around with you 
 siphoning off the life energy from the various creature this time around. Enemies are made up of 
 mythological creature and human soldiers from the Black Order a secret society that once to control 
 Pandora's box.
  
  The set pieces are great but the variety of enemies and objectives are limited most often they 
 include finding three of something. and the environments while not as boring as the typically WW2 
 battlefield. Seem fairly limited consisting of wrecked buildings and sewers. There is also a subways, 
 A graveyard in London and the roof of the British parliament before we head back to New York to 
 destroy the Black Order Tower. This is something of a theme it seems in Spark Unlimited games as 
 Turning Point began in New York and went to London only making a brief stop over in Washington 
 DC. Its a path and frankly reminds me of a side scrolling beat em up kill enemies move forward, 
 kill more enemies. All without the aid of a giant flashing hand. Although you can press the left 
 stick in and a marker will tell you which direction your supposed to head in.
  
  The music is top notch once again and the story sets itself up for a sequel, which honestly I would 
 like top see since the game has a lot of potentially that might be best served by making a more 
 polished game. That being said I like the fact that Spark Unlimited's IP Makes games of some originality. 
 If not for some truly frustrating enemy encounters "Legendary" would surly rate better from me. 
 Rent this game first.
  
  Let me leave you with a description of the Kraken Boss encounter You are on the roof of the British 
 parliament you have rocket launcher and a big enemy ahead of you. Running around you wait for the 
 missile to lock on to a tentacle then you fire The mouth opens and you fire inside. Then you run 
 over and blast his other tentacle and then fire into the mouth some more. Repeat until its dead. 
 It felt fairly old school while a was playing it, it became incredibly frustrating as while running 
 to retrieve more ammo (you can only carry 4 rockets at a time) I was repeatedly hit by a giant 
 tentacle which instantly killed me. Making me start over again and again and again. When I finally 
 managed to kill it I can't say that I felt rewarded, it certainly wasn't as rewarding as killing 
 a minotaur or a griffin. And thats what I'm left to think about the game is that often times its 
 just not that rewarding. 
  
  It was a better effort than their last outing but it still comes up short. Hopefully the team at 
 Spark continues to make unique first person shooters and improve upon their efforts in doing so 
 because for all the negative reviews and low scores their are still people who appreciate their 
 effort at doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  Legendary is made by spark unlimited and their previous games to put it nicely have not been so 
 great and their last game turning point fall of liberty is the prime example on how not to make 
 a shooter with a good idea behind it. But im not here to talk about that im here to review legendary.
 
  
  Gameplay: Legendary has fun and solid FPS gameplay with iron sights and a decent selection of guns, 
 you have your pistol, SMG, assault rifle, shotgun and a few more but the guns handle well compared 
 to previous games. The story is great when you, Charles Deckard open pandora's box creatures spurt 
 out and start to wipe out civilization and all that jazz but the best thing is the creatures, there 
 are many and my favorite are the werewolves who behave how you expect in pack running up and down 
 walls clawing your face and throwing objects but its not the only breed of creature that behaves 
 as you expect they all do, this list includes the minotaur, Griffon, Nari and many many more. But 
 the only real problem with this is that every non important character that is with you always seems 
 to die in a gruesome and horrible way, at first its distressing but after a while you just know 
 they are going to die sooner or later.
  
  Sound: Legendary does fine here, the guns all sound great especially the SMG and the shotgun making 
 it feel like you actually fired the weapon and the creatures sound excellant too with werewolves 
 howling and minotaur roaring in your face adds to the atmosphere.
  
  Graphics: Legendary falls a bit short here with some ugly characters like Charles Decard and his 
 ally Vivian Kane all look pretty ugly but the environments look great and all other models do too 
 and the creatures look awesome to. The only real problem here is that at a distance the animation 
 get quite choppy and sometimes the framerate drops but they are not frequent enough to be a pest.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Legendary has a pretty standard multiplayer with death match team deathmatch and capture 
 the flag but one major difference, there are creatures everywhere adding to the intensity but there 
 are only a few maps which is a let down.
  
  Conclusion: Legendary is a great game and should be enjoyed by more people but it received bad 
 review from some sites which it did not deserve I. E: Gamespot, IGN, OXM UK, 360 magazine all got 
 it wrong so dont listen to them just play if you want to and if not you'll just miss out on a great 
 FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly excited for this game. I liked the idea of Pandoras Box and fighing big mythical creatures. 
 Apon playing it i realized all it was is a good idea and cool story, the shooting mechanics feel 
 broken too. 
  When you 1st start out its pretty cool. The museum you are in is falling to bits all around you 
 cuz you just opened pandoras box and all hell breaks loose. Then you go outside and these big Griffins 
 are eating people all around. Its kinda cool. Then you get a gun... 
  The big problem I had with it was that aiming was diffficult. As you are targeting and shooting 
 an enemy your crosshair moves all around. I guess they tried to maybe make it more "realistic" 
 with the shaking of the gun as you shoot. I dont know, i didnt like that at all. I ended up wasting 
 too much ammo just trying to hit! And enemies never seemed to freaking miss you! Uh! I hated all 
 the fire drakes! 
  And on top of that the game has no exploration. I wanted to see the destroyed New York and see 
 what happened but you are set on such an exact path its stupid.
  Anyway, The shooting was a bit difficult, the enemys were kinda tough, and almost no exploration. 
 Sound fun? 
  I mean, dont get me wrong. Its playable. There are just WAY better ones out. If your looking for 
 a good creature killing shooter, pick up Fallout 3 or Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrfly07
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game delivers absouletley total letdowns with evrything possible.
  i havent really played the game but i tried out the demo and was a total dissaster. Tell this day 
 i reggret ever playing the damn thing. So my word to you friend is dont even think of looking at 
 the thing. to conclude my review i advise all of you if you like hardcore motherf****** games that 
 like to make it almost imposible to deafeat one guy and give you no way of help or any way of tutorial 
 than this game is for you. so in the end for the average gamer who injoys a just right game i strongly 
 rocemmend a more simple and cooler game like left 4 dead or gears of war 2 and also if there was 
 any way in hell i could give this game less than a 1 i woud do it faster than you can say legendary 
 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I say with great regret and dissappointment that this game wreaks of failure. Since its announcment 
 in early 2007, i have followed it production and previews with great interest but once the game 
 was released i just did not have time to play, i do now. After months of Expectations and Hopes 
 it was rewarded with a Half-Finished, almost Broken game suggering from a horrid story as well 
 as gameplay that would bafle Einstein.
  
  The idea of Legands come to live is a great one if not genious game idea, but the games presentation, 
 story and gameplay make a possible best seller a complete futz. I have always wished for a game 
 where i can fill a werewolf with silver bullets or take a Minatour haed on and while this game 
 has plenty of both its just not enough to quench the thirst.
  
  The one thing i could not stand was the controls layout. Now i use a 360 so i cant review the PC 
 layout but i was dissappointed with the overall setup as well as another big downer, the Graphics. 
 now a game released in late 2008 should have if not close to cutting edge graphics but i have noticed 
 that many developers have become sloppy and regressed some what. Call of Duty: world at war for 
 instince cant hold up to Call of Duty 3 when played side 2 side. Whay this is, production sacrafices 
 for better release dates. Sure i understand launching a game at peak selling Time, but please finish 
 it first. Legendaries graphics use the Unreal 3 engine but lacks its best performance ability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Legendary is a game that may look like a truly great game, but it turns out to be a good game or 
 even just an okay game. The game comes with its faults but it is still a game worth playing even 
 if you don't buy it. 
  
  The gameplay may seem a little old-school to some people and that might turn them away from this 
 game but I think it's a perfect for this game. Legendary decided to get rid of the regenerating 
 health system found in games like Halo 3, Gears of War, Call of duty and uses a health bar. You 
 get health by picking up "Animus" from dead creatures. You can then use the Animus energy to either 
 heal yourself or use it as like a force push against creatures. But other than the health system 
 the game plays like any other fast paced run and gun.
  
  The game often switches between shoot outs between enemy soldiers called the black order and "run 
 for your life!" (as I like to call them) confrontations against creatures that come from within 
 Pandora's box. The combat against other humans in the game tend to be a little boring since they 
 can be dispatched quickly. But that changes when fighting the otherworldy and mythological creatures. 
 Werewolves are agile and must be taken out with a head shot or they will just get back up. Minotaurs 
 are very fast for their size and take many bullets to take them down. 
  
  Legendary was a little hard for me even when playing on hard and I'm not a newcomer to FPS games 
 either. The main reason is because in most areas of the game creatures will keep on spawning and 
 attack you until you have reached a certain point of the level, finally triggering them to stop 
 spawning. Because of this you are not given very much time to rest and heal yourself and are rushed 
 to get to that invisible "switch". 
  
  The Graphics of Legendary are nothing great but still manages not to look like a last-gen game 
 considering it uses the Unreal Engine 3.
  
  The Soundtrack is surprisingly good for a game like this. When I first played the game I expected 
 to hear some kind of orchestral score like in Halo 3 to truly make the game feel like the title 
 says itself is, Legendary. But instead the developer went for a more action movie soundtrack. Each 
 song is filled with heavy tuned down guitar riffs and loud drum beats that give each level a feel 
 like you are watching a movie. The soundtrack was so good (IMO) that I bought the soundtrack and 
 I am listening to it right now.
  
  The game didn't have very many memorable "OH SHI -- " moments but there are some. The kind of come 
 and go throughout the game but they seem more frequent at the beginning and the last levels of 
 the game.
  
  I couldn't review the multiplayer portion of the game because I found it hard to find a match. 
 
  
  If you like a good shooter and like a cool single player experience than rent it first or maybe 
 just wait till the price goes down. This is a must play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xurtch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I liked Legendary a lot and the game was incredibly fun. First off the animus idea is pretty sweet, 
 with blasting enemy's away and healin and stuff like that. Basically this stuff you get when you 
 kill a creature and then use it for later use. Online is also pretty fun, but not many people play: ( 
 IK don't like though that you don't heal regularly but have to always heal, it gets kinda tough. 
 The weapons are cool and most are powerful, but the sub-machine gun is quite terrible, takes a 
 lot to kill but is good if there is a ton of guys to weaken. The story makes sense if you WATCH 
 THE CUTSCENES! DONT SKIP THEM! I liked the story, but sadly i hated the ending, but i won't tell 
 you just buy it or rent it and you'll find out. Anyway also the Achievements are good, but kinda 
 funky. Like one achievement "I Owe You An Apology" apologizes for giveing one achievement a bad 
 name.... little weird. Well if your planing on buying a quality game rent this first then buy it 
 just in case:) 
  
  Also this game is very cheap for being new, only $30 so if you got spare money and don't want to 
 rent it for $5-$10 the buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Oh.... OH.... why didn't I listen. I rented this because I played Turning Point: Fall of Liberty 
 which was a good game even though it wasn't perfect and though this game would be a worth a rental 
 too. WOW.... this game is beyond words. I only gave it a rating because 1. They tried. 2. Its a 
 good idea for a game.
  
  First off let me say I really love the idea for this game. Its perfect. Sadly something like this 
 I don't think should have been tried yet for this gen of systems... its to big still yet for this 
 gens systems to handle..... hence the crappy.... well.... everything. But regardless I appreciate 
 them trying.
  
  So on with the review.
  
  Graphically this game is not the worst I have seen. But this is pretty bad. Graphics aren't everything 
 but in this case it would have helped. Whats sad is I found out this game uses the Unreal 3 engine.... it 
 does? At what point?
  
  Controls? They are good if what you had to do wasn't stupid with them.
  
  Audio.... hmm... well 
 the music wasn't to horrible. As for sound. Its was glitchy at times. I like shooting a wall and 
 hearing it break like glass. 
  
  Gameplay.... well.... run around.... turn valves, hit buttons.... run more... turn more valves... hit 
 more buttons... Pretty crappy. Oh and trust me its just not occasionally. Every door has some button 
 you need to bypass or find a card for or code or something. And there's always something in your 
 way that needs a valve to be turned.
  
  And the enemies either were easy or just down right impossible. Alot of the time aside from all 
 this you were still confused as to what you were doing, how things worked and where you were going. 
 Its a giant ball of chaos. You can't jump or duck for crap which constantly gets you killed.
  
  Then theres the fact that things that should make sense don't. Like to kill a werewolf you 
 get rid of its head. Well since your gun can't seem to blow its head of even when standing next 
 to it you'd think your axe would work. Nope. You stand next to the Wolf whacking away at its neck 
 and head and it STILL won't behead the thing beacuse the clipping or whatever is so bad.
  
  Overall DON'T buy this game. Don't rent... don't even stare at it on accident. You will have wasted 
 precious time you won't get back. Heck you wasted time reading this review... sorry. This game was 
 so bad I quite about 40 minutes in... not even I think. The only thing more painful then this game 
 is the fact they want to make another one. WHY?!?!
  
  BTW Oh I can't leave out the MP end of it. Oh wait... yes... yes I can.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  The Good: Huge bosses, decent graphics, cool enemies, decent story
  
  The Bad: Terrible level design, extremely difficult, lame weapons, weapons are never powerful enough, 
 retarded healing system, story isn't done justice, there's going to be a sequel...
  
  Legendary is yet another game this year that has been released and has totally let all of us FPS 
 fans down, but what a surprise right? FPS games are probably the most prone to failing terribly 
 due to lazy level design, bad story, bad physics and anything else you put in an FPS. Unfortunately, 
 Legendary does almost everything wrong and hardly anything right, but you can still squeeze a few 
 drops of fun out of this weekend rental. Legendary puts you up against Pandora's Box's creatures 
 that starts taking over and destroying the world while trying to be controlled by the evil LeFey.
 
  
  While the plot sounds semi-interesting it takes a face dive right into a mud pit once you start 
 playing since you don't really give a crap after about thirty minutes. If playing the game is hard 
 enough as it is the mechanics the game is built around are totally slapped together and not very 
 well done. Even when I saw videos of this game I knew it didn't look complete and they actually 
 shipped the game unfinished. First and foremost, the main culprit is the Unreal 3 engine. Now I'm 
 not bashing the engine at all its just many developers tend to think U3 will MAKE the game for 
 them and they just have to tell it what to do and that is not the case. There are a lot of similarities 
 to BioShock, in fact, from the Animus powers shooting out of your hand (with almost exact animations) , 
 to the same glowy look on everything you interact with. While the game looks half way decent everything 
 looks like it was copied and pasted into the game instead of built there. You're wondering around 
 a war torn London and New York and you don't even feel like you're there since the game doesn't 
 replicate the cities at all not even famous landscapes for Christ sake! On top of this the physics 
 are way off and everything seems to stick like glue or something and it's just really weird. There's 
 terrible collision detection to where enemies will go through walls and stick there and start flopping 
 around like some kid with Down Syndrome.
  
  This is also coupled with cramped levels, linear levels, and everything just looks the same. Turn 
 this wheel here, kill these creatures here, shoot these wire suspensions here, bypass this keypad 
 here. The game is very tedious and just completely retarded and put together so poorly. Even moving 
 your character is even a pain since when you get hit on one side you stop moving that way for some 
 strange reason and I have no idea why. You'll be strafing left and then get attacked by your left, 
 but you just stop dead in your tracks and you have to jam the stick left a few times before even 
 moving again. The guns don't feel powerful at all and are just completely retarded with almost 
 no recoil, they are all standard such as shotguns, machine guns, a rocket launcher, and a weak 
 pistol that does NOTHING. The most original weapons is probably an axe but even the more powerful 
 weapons take awhile to tear down foes coming after you. The enemies are just absurdly difficult 
 to bring down even on the easiest setting. For some unknown reason the weakest enemy (Blood Spiders) 
 just swarm after you and you have to find the sac holding them and getting there can be a pain 
 since this leads into the lame healing system. Other enemies range from werewolves, minotaurs, 
 griffons you name it.
  
  These are cool enemies and shouldn't have anything go wrong but it does anyways! They throw so 
 many enemies at you and you never feel powerful enough to take them down so you're constantly scrounging 
 your health with the difficult healing system. You have this power from your hand called Animus, 
 so you take Animus Clouds from dead creatures and you use this for health. You hold down Y to take 
 it, but it takes so long to absorb it all and this is NOT good when you have a ton of guys shooting 
 at you or creatures clawing at you. You hold down Y again to heal yourself, but as you can see, 
 using the same button to heal and absorb is not going to work very well. When you're near clouds 
 you absorb them instead of healing and vise versa. If you double tap Y (why are we double tapping 
 with so many buttons!) you can do an Animus Push to stun enemies and this does absolutely nothing. 
 Now when it comes back to the combat you can't use any melee attacks, no cover system NOTHING, 
 ZERO, ZILCH, SQUAT! You have to hide behind everything and peek out like a stupid old PlayStation 
 game from 6 years ago. This makes things ridiculously annoying during the unbalanced levels that 
 are badly designed.
  
  This game just has so many things wrong you wonder what there is to like? Well its for the sheer 
 epicness that game seems to pull off with 300 foot Golem, a HUGE krakan you fight in London, and 
 even the giant Griffon's are cool to kill. If you can bear through this 6-7 hour campaign you can 
 find some fun in this game. With a different story, decent graphics, cool enemies, and lots of 
 big bosses you can have fun once. Legendary, this definitely, is not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is not an overall review; simply put, I am playing Legendary for free (uh, I got it as a gift, 
 maybe, uh, yeah, that's it...) , and in this freebie context, the game is fine, fun enough, has 
 lots of sparkly effects, and etc (since it is using the newest Unreal Engine and all) . If I had 
 paid full price for the game... well, that would be another (VERY disappointing) story. BTW, the 
 NPC character models and movement are the worst. Most of the (darker) environments and textures 
 aren't entirely crap, however. The water is fluid enough, the sparks are shiny enough. The gameplay 
 is swift enough, with many scripted events that jump out at you (sometimes successfully) to make 
 you grin. There is a skyscraper-sized Golem created from various pieces of destroyed buildings 
 and subway cars being held together magnetically, and the Golem goes crashing through NYC and you 
 have to find a way to destroy it. Made me think of some of the more cinematic elements in the most 
 recent Alone in the Dark game. Pretty neat... but this alone doesn't make a great game. Oh, and 
 continuously spawning enemies (monsters) are in every level -- you simply can't clear a room and 
 take a breather. I hate cheap shots like this, and Legendary does it constantly. What gamer on 
 earth finds this sort of neverending-spawning-monsters gameplay appealing? Everyone I talked to, 
 when I mention this, they grimace. Y-U-C-K.
  
  But the reason I am writing: If you play, early on when climbing through the destroyed subway system, 
 after a particular fight that you and Vivian undertake with the Black Order, make sure you look 
 up at the ceiling to read the subway track-destination signs when the fight is over. Instead of 
 stating a particular location (say Long Island or Queens) the track signs say something like "Name 
 Location Placeholder." Ooops! They forgot to finish that detail -- actually precisely this sort of 
 lack of finish and polish is what plagues the entire game.
  
  But play it for free, like me, and you're good to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennethwc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Others have said it sucks and etc. i bought it before i read the reviews and couldnt believe how 
 low of a score it got. first off,
  
  the mosnters are cool. each one with its better way to kill it and weapon to shoot it with. graphics: 
 isnt left 4 dead good, or gears of war or call of duty. but still good graphics with blood everywhere! 
 graphics do not make a game. but it does help. and its soild to me. i loved the begining of the 
 game, where you see all of newyork crush and burn to the big dude (forgot what they called him) , 
 werewolfs, Kraken, firey dudes, the birds (cant spell their name) , and much more! i found myself 
 stopping in the middle of the game just to look at the bodys and damage that they caused (or causing 
 infront of you) .
  
  
  gameplay: fast, and cool. not as many diff guns as i hoped but eoungh to keep you playing. The first 
 few times you see a new type of moster you will say "holy ****" its only a soild first person shooter, 
 but i will say its fun with the guns they have and it sets itself apart from other shooters that 
 you just shoot ppl or zombies (which is undead ppl anyway) . so its easy to forgive the controls 
 and etc. OOO MAN I LOVE HOW YOU CAN GET THE MOSNTERS TO FIGHT/KILL THE DARK OLDER (group of humans 
 that started this whole thing) . watching the mosnters kill them (and even your buddies and allies) 
 is really fun. your allies do seem to die to fast, but they do TRY to help unlike other games. 
 the powers you get are fun to mess with but nothing really (just to heal so you can keep your butt 
 alive and to push back strong mosters that have you in a conor) . its even funner when you play 
 with a buddie by your side, me and my friend were laughing the whole time, watching how the ppl 
 died and how bloodie things got. and how monters looked. ppl have complained about the levels and 
 etc. its great! ive never felt like i was doing the same thing over and over and over. it may be 
 simple, but simple isnt always a bad thing.
  
  sound: loved it all! the crushing, the screaming, the calling for help... all done wondorful. and 
 the music (unlike most games ive played) i liked!!!! i found myself NOT playing linkin park or 
 three days grace or another band playing while i play or turn off the music of the game because 
 i coudlnt stand it. and the music fits in well with whats happening
  
  storyline: it says the storyline doesnt make sence. thats because they didnt even listen!! its 
 real easy to follow. just listen to the begining and not jump into the game, also its real easy 
 if you know ANYTHING about the pandora's box. like other things its soild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Legendary starts of with a great idea. You are an art thief who is hired to steal Pandora's Box. 
 You inadvertantly open the box unleashing all kinds of myhtical creatures on the world. Legendary 
 stands as the greatest example of the old saying, great idea bad implementation. Virtually one 
 of the only things that grants it points is the storyline, which is generally nicely in depth and 
 somewhat engaging. However on most other aspects the game falls badly short. For a game using the 
 Unreal 3 engine, Legendary graphics are anything but, which is really disappointing. The gameplay 
 mechanics are shotty, the guns never seem to fire accurately, and the slashes you get across the 
 scree are as necessary as ever. I could name every little problem but theres no point, the review 
 on gamespot says it for itself. Legendary is a gane that falls deeply short of what it could be, 
 ending up as a dissapointing game that you would only play for the sake of achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:44 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game from the first day it became available for pre-order, and despite the many 
 negative reviews I paid it off and brought it home with the hope that maybe this was an undiscovered 
 gem, harshly judged for its new ideas .................... How wrong I was
  
  THE GOOD - Flamethrower that Rocks!
  
  The Flamethrower actually works!! This is the one thing 
 in the game that works perfectly. I have played many games that have a Flamethrower available, 
 but they never seem to deliver, either due to their range being too short or b/c they lack the 
 stopping power to be effective against powerful enemies, and I normally end up running from them. 
 But in LEGENDARY the Flamethrower has sufficient range and killing power to make it the weapon 
 of choice, and is simply a pleasure to use ........ and it looks GOOD
  
  
  THE BAD - Everything Else
  
  Everything every other negative review critics is completely true 
 ........ this cannot be stressed enough! The level designs are Horrible, especially in the first 
 few chapters. It is often hard to spot what trivial handle, tap or ladder you are supposed to shot 
 open, while constantly re spawning enemies obstruct your view and prevent you from exploring the 
 environment in the manner the level design is forcing you to do. Whole chunks of this game feel 
 like no one has ever even played through them once to test their play ability during the production 
 process. (I'm especially refering to a later part of the game where there is a bunch of the Bloodtick 
 producing creatures hanging everywhere sending a rapid flow of their offspring at you while you 
 frantically run around trying to workout what you are supposed to do, there are so many you can 
 hardly keep yourself from being hit even if you stand on the stop let alone if you need to walk 
 around and search for the irrationally placed trivial handles that need to be turned or shot at, 
 at the same time ......... you'll die at least half a dozen times just to workout what needs to 
 be done .......... irritating beyond belief ...... but we are just scratching the surface) 
  The environments feel baron and lack any interaction
  The jump function simply doesn't work, 
 YOU CAN'T JUMP ONTO/UP TO ANYTHING! Not even a single step on staircases. This makes the movement 
 around the environments very labored. The monsters, especially the Werewolves, move too fast and 
 you never see the damage your attacks are making. It also makes it impossible to kill them from 
 any distance except when you are face to face with them. 
  The grenades can only be thrown a very shot distance and there is no aim function for them. 
 
  When Vivian speaks to you, whether during Clips or Action scenes her face remains blank. 
  WHERE IS THE ARMY???? why are armed gangs running freely around an invaded NY City without an Army 
 intervention?? 
  The whole game feels like the decade old Duke Nukem 3D FPS, except with inferior level designs 
 thrown in and a broken jump function. The whole time I played this game I felt like I was playing 
 something made by a couple of Uni Students who were designing their first game rather than a professional 
 design team working full time on a commercial project. 
  The game is really short, which is a blessing as by the end of it I felt like a tortured prisoner 
 who just wanted to be put out of his misery. 
  
  Conclusion: The fact that this game is retailing for $99.95 AUD in Australia is an insult to the 
 consumer .......... especially when Duke Nukem 3D is  
 for $5.00 on XBOX LIVE and is a much better game. 
  
  If you have played HALF LIFE 2 (or play it directly after playing LEGENDARY) it will become plainly 
 obvious that much of the game design of LEGENDARY is a direct copy of elements which appear in 
 HALF LIFE 2. I am astonished just how of much has been directly copied with little effort made 
 to hide this (WHY HASN'T GAMESPOT POINTED THIS OUT IN THEIR REVIEW?) . Here are 5 examples; the 
 GIANT propeller bit, The look and explosions of the Grenades, the rocket launcher and the refill 
 cases that never run out of rockets, End of the game which takes place at LE FEY's Tower looks 
 almost identical to the Citadel of HALF LIFE 2 including the 3 generators that need to be shut 
 down! The Black Order soldiers look very similar to the Combine soldiers with the Black masks in 
 HALF LIFE, The story structure is the same - you start in one place travel to another place and 
 come back to where you started for the final showdown. .......... I could go on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  So, a few months before the release I laid my eyes on this game and thought it looked pretty freaking 
 amazing! But was it really all that great? Here's what i thought in my usual Good vs. Bad review:
 
  
  The Good:
  ~ The graphics and textures in the game rock! During the first level... I would literally always 
 look up at the sky and stare at the Griffins... Why? Its just so... cool for some reason...
  
  ~ The story for this game also rocks, sure its not the best, but it starts making sense after 
 awhile
  
  ~ There is actually a pretty nice weapon selection, and the inventory is the usual 2 Ranged Weapons, 
 1 Melee, 2 Different Grenades
  
  ~ All the creatures in the game have life-like movements (Ex: The Minotaur at first acts as a barbaric 
 human would on 2 legs, but after taking a lot of damage he of damage he changes into a rampaging 
 bull on all 4s)
  
  ~ The achievements are all pretty easy to get except the "Find all PDA" one of course...
  
 
  
  The Bad:
  ~ The games campaign is VERY dull and boring until about the middle of Episode 3.... Then things 
 get way better... If your just starting to play give it some time
  
  ~ The frame rate for this game is off at times... which pretty much makes the game look like its 
 lagging, even when your offline
  
  ~ There is no melee button, but instead a melee WEAPON button, which really is a let down
  
 
  ~ Uuuum, here's a thought... FLASHLIGHT!? Yeah this game gets pretty dark... A LOT... and there 
 isn't a flashlight at all... Just the way point button which is still hard to use in the pitch 
 black darkness.... Unless you turn up the brightness all the way
  
  ~ There are some parts in this game that send an unlimited amount of enemies at you until you reach 
 a certain spot in the level, this is VERY annoying and can make the game a lot more difficult, 
 but that doesn't make it impossible 
  
  ~ The Multiplayer is REALLY boring... and very repetitive... wasn't even worth unlocking achievements...
 
  
  I'd say this game is ONLY rent worthy... The story isn't that long and it gives a fair amount of 
 AP so consider it a day of easy points... A 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Oki I heard that there was a new "great" game from spark unlimited then I started to get suspicious 
 and here is the reason why:
  After the turning point fall of liberty game (i did my own review on that too) I promised myself 
 that any game they produced in the future by spark unlimited would be rented first and thank god 
 I did that with Legendary.
  
  The starts of with an art dealer that gets tricked into stealing pandoras box and when he opens 
 it it unleashes many horrible creatures (yeah sounds like blockbuster to me too) ,anyway it seems 
 that the writers of this game came together in a brainstorming event and just decided that this 
 and that should be in the game.
  
  And without giving serious thought of how they should put this together it just ends up being a 
 total mess, we have werewolves, ghosts, magical powers and "intense" firefights.
  And to me they could have done better ALOT better this game like turning point seems to be a good 
 idea poorley executed and when I read who developed the game it didnt surprise me at all.
  
  So allthough it may be a little harsh I am pissed that I wasted the money renting it.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _phonz_
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I've played many FPS games in my day and the best games of this genre are exciting , flashy, immersing, 
 and story driven. This game barely meets any of the requirements to stand on its own.
  The idea behind the game itself is actually very appealing to me but it seems like they couldn't 
 execute it in a fashion that portrayed the element of game play they were trying to unfold to the 
 gamer.
  It's almost as if they sloppily mixed up a low-brow adventure game with broken FPS sequences. The 
 outcome is awful, and leaves you asking yourself "Why?".
  If all games were like this, I would have got my my butt off the couch years ago and took up racquetball.
 
  
  This game has two cool things about it: Monsters and the descent introduction into the game. Once 
 you've experienced these two things, you might as well set the game down.
  
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Controls: 3/10
  Substance: 2/10
  
  Enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Legendary is actually pretty good, despite the fact that the evelopers are horrible.
  PROS-
  +Decent Graphics
  + Good creature variety
  +7-9 hours long
  +Ok bosses
  +Good 
 framerate
  +Ok voiceacting and other sounds
  +Great story, but not fleshed out
  +Ending is ok
  +First level is awsome
  +Monster AI is great
  
  CONS-
  +Too much ammo
 
  +Not enough frantic battles
  +End is 2nd easiest part of game
  +Not enough guns, no variety
  +Strange etremely-hard spots on Normal
  +Enviornments are not 
 varied, but are detailed
  +Human AI sucks, Allies are crap
  FINAL THOUGHTS-
  Legendary is an ok game overall, worth a rental, and it's amazing that it's not entirely crappy, 
 unlike other Codemasters/Spark Unlimited games. It may only have 8 levels, and be overly hard in 
 some spots, but this game is easily worth a rental, if not a purchase when its $15-25.
  See some of my other reviews if you like this one.
  Oh and I dont get why the review has to be 
 800 words long, I mean, im doing this during my own free time, so it should be however many words 
 long I want it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  From the outset I just want to say that "This is a fun game!" As far as combat goes, it's nothing 
 really new, but hey... it works!!! The story is an interesting one and is used effectively to move 
 you through the game. Levels are very linear, but they're fast-paced which keeps the action going. 
 The graphics are average, except for the creatures, which I think are actually done very well. 
 The sound is very good and I love the background music (my only disappointment was that there was 
 not more of it) . There are a few very challenging moments (like fighting Minotaurs) that will require 
 some real effort and strategy to defeat. A pretty good variety of weapons (pistol, shotgun, assault 
 rifle, machine gun, rocket launcher, flame thrower, grenades, and molotov cocktails) help to keep 
 combat interesting and varied. Again, this game is just plain fun and will keep you interested 
 from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaigan
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Spark has again proven they can take a great idea and ruin it.
  
  Legendary should have been at least an average shooter. Big guns... explosions.... killin werewolves... thats 
 all fun. But they ruined the experience in the details.
  
  Most of the game you are spent running around in corridors. This game is so linear and yet they 
 give you a waypoint button which you will never use. Some of the levels take place in the New York 
 streets, but instead of being given the freedom to move around and explore, you are forced to follow 
 a single dull path. 
  
  And since when has turning a valve been intriguing for the player? Every five minutes you are stopped 
 for reason to turn a valve to open a door. They probably did this just to slow the player down, 
 make the game a little longer... and so the rest of the level can load. This is some of the worst 
 level design i've seen.
  
  There is one part in particular where you can see exit which is on a 1 foot ledge. But your character 
 (who must be wheelchair bound) can't seem to jump higher than 11 inches! So you must find all the 
 ramps (wheelchair accessible) to get up to the door.
  
  All the characters are forgettable and there is no emotion to the game. Your only friend in the 
 game is Vivian who plays the supposed sexy female character, yet she looks like a creature from 
 the box. The developers really messed up these character models.
  
  Multiplayer is a total waste. There isn't even a deathmatch or team deathmatch mode! One really 
 lousy gametype.... and only 4 maps. 
  
  Please don't play this game... don't reward these developers for making such a poor excuse for a 
 shooter. There are many other far superior games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is basically hiding no secrets. Its fully playable in easy, medium or hard. There are 
 no hidden secrets at first glance or highly specialised features that will lure you into what Atari 
 are selling. But the game loooks and runs good. It is immmersive in the fact that the monsters 
 come frequently and the storyling jostles things up a bit, some times when i was fighting i did 
 feel incredibley happy with what was going on around me, and it reminded me of Half Life, being 
 a Half Life fan I would have loved to played this game to the end, there was enough there to want 
 to. If you are buying because of the Unreal engine, well you'll be left wondering what is it this 
 game resembles to unreal. Definately a Half Life spin off. 
  The controls are simple, and the throw in style of mythology rearing its apocolypse styled head 
 into the Big Apple is cool enough for me. The 3d modelling of the soldiers to wrong, and that felt 
 kind of odd. I also had a problem at first loading my auto save points as I just did not see the 
 "continue" option. I even replayed the whole 2nd level because of it. But I was not angry. Cool 
 game, worth renting, probably a bit expensive and short to buy. But wait till it goes down in price 
 if you are going to be having your 360 in a year might be worth buying then when the price drops. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib31
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  I like the graphics and the atmosphere of the game. The AI on the werewolves is pretty good, and 
 the concept that you have to decapitate them or else they regenerate is a nice feature to the gameplay. 
 My biggest issue is the cut scenes framerate is awful. Also, when you are doing something that 
 involves noise, it temporarily downs out the surrounding noise. I think it's a fun game, but certainly 
 not revolutionary in any aspect. Really enjoyable for you gamerpoint freaks out there! Tons of 
 easy to get achievements. I'm not even through the second mission completely and I've gotten 7 
 achievements completed. Just as a side note, the Firedrakes are easiest to kill with the ax, and 
 the werewolves are easiest to kill and decapitate with the automatic rifle. There's also some small 
 puzzles to figure out in the game, which adds a nice little element to it as well. Overall, the 
 creatures are well done and thought out. Just wish the framerates were better and smoother. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
