-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/legostarwarstheoriginaltrilogy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun use of both the <i>Star Wars</i> and Lego licenses.
 Seamless co-op play.
 Longer, more challenging than predecessor.
 More vehicle sequences give better variety.
 Loads of unlockable content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera occasionally obscures the action.
 No online co-op.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,770 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gameplay hasn't changed dramatically, but better source material makes Lego Star Wars II a better 
 game than its predecessor. 

  Right around the time of the theatrical release of  Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith 
 , Traveller's Tales released the surprisingly enjoyable Lego Star Wars, a kid-friendly action adventure 
 game that inexplicably rendered the exploits of young Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi to look 
 as though they were made out of Lego building blocks. It was a curious combination, but it worked 
 because the gameplay was novel enough, the combined nostalgia for  Star Wars  and Legos was potent, 
 and the experience was delivered with a humorous, lighthearted flair. Lego Star Wars II is an even 
 better package than the original, due almost entirely to the fact that the emotional connection 
 to  A New Hope ,  Empire Strikes Back , and  Return of the Jedi  is much stronger for most people. 

          It works best as a nostalgia piece, but Lego Star Wars II is good fun on its own.     

 
  You start out in the Mos Eisley Cantina, which serves as a hub from which you can access all three 
 episodes, as well as a counter where you can purchase extras like cheats and additional playable 
 characters, and a new character creation counter. Initially you'll have access only to A New Hope, 
 though you'll gain access to Empire and Jedi after beating the first chapter. The game hits nearly 
 all of the most memorable sequences from all three films, and it does it all with a goofy sense 
 of humor. Since the game will no doubt attract some hardcore Star Wars fans, it's also worth noting 
 that Lego Star Wars II seems to be taking most of its cues from the original theatrical releases. 
 This means you can expect Han to shoot first, Darth Vader to have eyebrows, and  Return of the 
 Jedi  to end with the classic "Yub Yub" Ewok song. They're all minor points, but it's the kind 
 of stuff that fans will definitely appreciate.  

  Lego Star Wars II is still primarily an action adventure game in which you control a group of characters 
 as they blast their way through enemies and do some light puzzle-solving and the occasional platform-jumping. 
 The size of your group expands and contracts regularly, growing as large as seven characters and 
 shrinking down to a mere two characters at times. You control only one character at a time, and 
 you can switch characters easily on the fly. Your artificial intelligence-controlled companions 
 are pretty worthless, save for a few specific scripted sequences. There's also a small loophole 
 where enemies rarely target droid characters, which makes it easy to walk right through certain 
 areas unscathed. Usually, though, the characters you're dragging around are there for a reason, 
 as there are several different classes of characters, each with unique abilities that you'll need 
 to progress. Jedi characters sport lightsabers, can perform double-jumps, and can use their Force 
 powers to manipulate certain objects in the environment. Regular hero characters like Princess 
 Leia and Han Solo pack blasters and can use special grappling hook points to reach areas other 
 characters cannot. C3PO and R2D2 can open special doors and activate certain equipment, and R2 
 has the added bonus of being able to hover short distances. Short characters like Jawas and Ewoks 
 can access special ducts that lead to otherwise inaccessible areas.  

  These character classes were all in the original, though they've been tweaked slightly. All nondroid 
 characters are able to assemble random piles of Legos into usable devices, something that originally 
 only Jedi were capable of; many blaster-wielding characters will now auto-dodge incoming blaster 
 fire; and most characters now have unique melee attacks -- it's great to watch Chewie rip a stormtrooper's 
 arms right out of their sockets or to see Lando pull off a rising dragon punch as if he were Ryu. 
 Not only do all these refinements make non-Jedi characters more useful, they also lend the game 
 a bit more personality. New to Lego Star Wars II are doors that can be accessed only by stormtroopers 
 or bounty hunters. Since you'll never have either in your party when playing in story mode, you'll 
 have to rely on special helmet machines, which will give your character the appearance of either 
 a storm trooper or a bounty hunter. It's a fragile ruse, though, because one shot from an enemy 
 causes the helmet to fall off. The bounty hunter disguise also grants you the ability to toss out 
 thermal detonators, which can be used to eliminate certain otherwise indestructible objects.  

 
  Lego Star Wars II puts a greater emphasis on vehicles than the original. You'll happen upon small 
 carts, landspeeders, and AT-STs that you can pilot in the action adventure chapters, though there 
 are also chapters dedicated to memorable sequences like destroying both of the Death Stars, fighting 
 off imperial forces in your snowspeeder on Hoth, and racing speeder bikes through the forests of 
 Endor. These dedicated vehicle chapters make the game feel more epic and break up the action nicely, 
 but Hoth has been done to death already, and some of the sequences aren't as visceral as you might 
 like. This is due largely to a stiff camera, something that occasionally hampers the action adventure 
 levels as well. The camera usually stays in a fixed position, and though you're allowed a little 
 wiggle room, there are a few specific points where it's easy to get stuck because the path is obscured. 

  There's no dedicated multiplayer component to Lego Star Wars II, though it does offer cooperative 
 play, and at any point a second player can just jump right in. It works seamlessly and reduces 
 the number of generally useless AI companions, but it's also disappointing that no version of Lego 
 Star Wars II features online co-op. Whether you're playing alone or with a friend, Lego Star Wars 
 II is easy. As long as you're pointing in the general direction, blaster fire has a way of finding 
 enemies on its own, and death is barely punished with a small loss of money. It should probably 
 take you around six hours to make your way through all three episodes the first time around, but 
 there's plenty of additional content to keep you coming back.  

  Once you play through a level in the story mode, you can play it again in free play mode, which 
 gives you some control over which characters you'll play as, and you'll find that each chapter 
 is absolutely packed with secrets and areas that you simply couldn't get to with the story mode 
 characters. You'll unlock plenty of additional characters simply by playing the game, but there 
 are others that you'll need to purchase in the shop, and still others that you can unlock with 
 a game save from the original Lego Star Wars, if it appeared on the system you're playing on. The 
 free play mode also lets you use your own custom-made characters, which you can build using pieces 
 of other playable characters. It doesn't affect the gameplay, but there's still something really 
 funny about putting Darth Vader's head on Princess Leia's body when she's in her slave costume. 
 Several different types of collectibles, an unlockable series of bounty hunter missions, and time 
 trial mode all help to create some good lasting value.  

  Though the game is appearing on no less than eight different platforms, most of these versions 
 are virtually indistinguishable. Featurewise, the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360, and 
 PC versions of Lego Star Wars II are nearly identical, and the PSP version is awfully close, though 
 it takes a slightly different approach to certain unlockables, and it also has much more pronounced 
 loading times. The current-gen console versions all look slightly better than the original Lego 
 Star Wars, while the PC version looks a bit better than those, since it can run at much higher 
 resolutions. By default, the PC version implements a kind of goofy keyboard only control scheme, 
 though its easily modified. Theres also gamepad support, and we found that a wired Xbox 360 controller 
 automatically mapped all of the controls to the appropriate buttons.  

          The character creation system allows for some pretty comical combinations.     

  The 
 Xbox 360 version has the most graphical flair, with better reflections, better explosions, and 
 a cool lens-focus effect that makes objects too close to or too far from the camera appear slightly 
 blurry. It's definitely the best-looking version, but it's also got a very minor frame rate problem 
 that crops up when there are a lot of particle effects. The achievement points in the Xbox 360 
 version are pretty well balanced. Youll probably get almost 200 points just by playing through 
 all three episodes, though there is also a string of achievements that require you to complete 
 entire chapters without dying once, which in some cases is no small feat.  

  Regardless of the platform, though, the visuals have a ton of charm. Getting to see recognizable 
 Lego pieces mingling with recognizable  Star Wars  characters and locales is just really endearing, 
 and Lego Star Wars II does it quite well. A vast library of recognizable sound effects and that 
 unshakably rousing John Williams score make the experience feel that much more authentic, and even 
 though there's no real voice acting in the game, some miming and appropriate-sounding mumbles make 
 it apparent what's going on.  

  As much fun as Lego Star Wars II is, it's unfortunate that it had to come second. Some of the novelty 
 of the gameplay, as well as the concept itself, isn't quite as potent as it was the first time 
 around. The original  Star Wars  trilogy just seems more deserving of this nostalgic treatment 
 than the prequels. Still, anyone with even a sliver of nostalgia for  Star Wars  will find this 
 to be a fun, good-natured romp.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (138 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: krackley
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  I saw this game in the $19.99 and thought it would be fun after spending time with the Iron Man 
 game. It didn't disappoint. I loved going down memory lane with the cutscenes and who needs dialog 
 when you can quote the entire movie anyway.
  
  My kids loved watching and playing along as well (7, 4 & 2 years old) . they didn't know what they 
 were doing, but they liked it. It actually got us to sit down and watch the original trilogy again 
 (and that's never a bad thing) .
  
  As for the game, it wasn't too difficult, but not a pushover either. Trying to obtain undeafeted 
 is really a hard job. But I could play this thing over and over. The puzzle solving keeps you on 
 your toes and the overall gameplay is quite invloved. Re-playing the missions to attain accomplishments 
 is fun too. I would recomend this game to any Star Wars fan, as well as the Complete Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Overall, dis game isn't all that bad here are the good things and bad things about this game:
 
  
  The Good
  
  1. Good graphics
  2. Funny storyline
  3. Large choice of characters
  4. Awesome sound
  5. Eventually grows on u
  
  The Bad
  
  1. Cumbersome view
  2. Lousy 
 controls
  3. A little too short
  4. A little too easy.
  
  
  So, as you can see, this game has more good than bad, truth be told. Don't buy it if you don't 
 like lego video games, buy it if, well, you simply do. Especially lego star wars btw. Well, thats 
 my review. See ya later gaming  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2 follows the plot of the first 3 movies. So Episode IV, V and VI. You take control 
 of an arsenal of characters to swing, jump, fly, and light saber your way through 18 levels of 
 Lego Mania.
  
  The Graphics for the Lego games are always awesome, and this one does not fall short either. The 
 main reason it probably looks so crisp and colorful is because... well... everything is made out 
 of Lego.
  
  The Game is jam packed with short puzzles and a load of hidden area's and hidden features which 
 gives this game a really great reply value. I'm still to unlock everything in the game, but I know 
 that it will still keep me busy for days.
  
  I did find that the game is a little easy. Defeating enemies is pretty easy, and you could probably 
 finish the game is super time if you were not bothered to find all the Lego coins.
  
  Great fun game. Awesome for multi-players as well. Well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashfan10
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  I found that while playing the game, the controls were very easy to get used to. I started playing 
 story mode by myself with my girlfriend watching, and she immediately wanted to play as well. So 
 we got her controller and soon we were both running around as either Luke, or Han solo, or even 
 Leia trying to release the Millennium Falcon, or defeat storm troopers. Is a very fun game to play. 
 Overall, for the price it is now, this would be a great game for a fan of the original star wars 
 to pick up. It has some pretty funny accessories and surprises to it, such as a hat machine in 
 a secret place that puts a top hat on your character. Plenty of hours to be enjoyed by lego star 
 wars. I have only done I think 4 of the chapters in episode 4 and I have about 3.5 hours racked 
 up on time of gameplay. There are some other interesting elements strewn throughout the game as 
 you use the force to dig up lego parts and then put them together to create an imperial walker. 
 If you happen to die, you just pick up right where you left off with no in between time, or going 
 back to a certain spot. So no worries there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  well this one by far has the best graphics on all the ones so far and for good reasons  however 
 is the same as all the others and therefor is nothing that special!
  
  Now I know your like oh crap the bad man is back. Well guess what I am and I have to be hoenst. 
 This one is a great addition to the saga and no doubt even better then the first. However the problem 
 lies within the game itself. It is just boring after a while, witch is my biggest complaint for 
 the first one. Now dont get me wrong kiddies, this one was ambitious and was onto something, however 
 it just lacked that certain uummph that im looking for as a star wars fan. Dont cry, come on. I 
 SAID STOP CRYING! Ha ha ha. 
  
  Seriously this game is rendered with great graphics, and a pretty interesting story line. After 
 all it is star wars. However that doesnt make up for the fact taht it is just repeitive and boring 
 just like the first. It is somewhat of an improvement over the first. Non the less it just doesnt 
 do it for me and I dont think you hardcore star wars fans and serious gamers will find that I am 
 pretty much right on with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is a game that any star wars fan should not miss out on. Now I wont go into detail 
 on the story, because quite frankly you should know it by now. Anyways the main progression of 
 the story is told by cutscenes featuring everyones favorite characters. though there is no dialog 
 between characters other than laughs and grunts, Travelor Tale's has managed to provide a good 
 deal of humor to the game. The game is split into three or episodes which themselves are divided 
 by six chapters. Each episode features a mix of vehicle and ground missions. After you beat each 
 chapter you unlock it for free play. In free play you can re-do each mission as any character that 
 you have unlocked, though you do have to sacrifice the story aspect of the game. You can unlock 
 characters and vehicles for use in Free Play by either gaining them from completing chapters or 
 by purchasing them. There is a huge amount of characters reaching over 50. You can also create 
 your own character though it is fairly limited. there are also cheats, hints, and golden bricks 
 that can be purchased. Golden bricks are used to create areas for secret bonus missions. You gain 
 golden bricks by doing different things in each mission, with a total of 4 per mission though you 
 can also purchase 8 of them. The features drop in co-op so that you can enter and leave whenever 
 you wish easily. The only dissapointing part about it is how co op doesnt work over Xbox Live. 
 The graphics in the game are fairly good [though they dont have to try that hard] and the audio 
 of course features the classic John Williams soundtrack. The game should take you around 5-7 hours, 
 though with the huge amount of unlockables it'll probably take more like 30 without some sort of 
 guide. In the end if you are a star wars fan you should play this game, even though it looks like 
 its for kids. If your a parent this is a great game to give to your kids, and an even better one 
 to play with them. And for everyone else, its just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After the first Lego Star Wars game, I was really hyped up about this new installment to the series. 
 The game's missions aren't as fun to play as the original, but nevertheless it's quite enjoyable. 
 The game takes you through the original episodes of four, five and six, except the game is recreated 
 into legos and doesn't take itself all that seriously. Star Wars fans will recognize key characters 
 such as Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader that you'll be able to play as throughout the game. You 
 play as one character, but you can also switch between characters, as you'll always have at least 
 one other beside you. Each character has basic attacks, and you'll be able to attack with a lightsaber, 
 a blaster or by using the force. The plot follows that of the movies', but also adds humorous moments 
 from scenes that were in the Star Wars films. There isn't any voice acting, but the sound during 
 gameplay replicates the sound in the films. Visually, the game looks good. Legos are detailed, 
 and so are the environments, but again it's all based off of legos. Adding to the gameplay are 
 these puzzle elements that give you a break from the combat. When comparing the mission designs 
 to the original, they're not as fun to play through. While the game won't take you any more than 
 five hours to beat, there's lots of hidden items, unlockable characters and extras. You can play 
 through the campaign with another player, adding even more enjoyment to the already good campaign. 
 The game isn't quite as well polished compared to the first, but by itself it's an enjoyable adventure 
 that anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cell_dweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  The first Lego Star Wars game, brought a whole new level of fun and enjoyment to the Star Wars 
 franchise. Lego Star Wars II continues that fun, and adds a bit more excitement and enjoyment to 
 a story that dates back 30 years. It makes it a great experience for both kids, and adults such 
 as myself.
  
  The cut scenes in Lego Star Wars II are brilliant. They were able to keep the story intact, while 
 adding a bit of Lego fun to the mix. We all know what happens in the original trilogy, and being 
 able to put a new element of fun on it definitely worked to their advantage. Plus, who doesn't 
 love seeing a star destroyer in Lego form!?
  
  They made a few new improvements to game play since the first game, that I think enhance the fun. 
 Most noticeably, characters have specialized melee attacks. Who doesn't love seeing Chewy rip arms 
 off of Stormtroopers? I know I do! Leia also slaps the heck out of people, so don't get in her 
 way! Also, all characters that are not droids can assemble Lego pieces now, with the exception 
 of the ones that take Jedi Powers of course. Jedi powers are fantastic. Choking someone out with 
 Darth Vader, or electrocuting someone with the Emperor is a great way to relieve stress.
  
  Your AI partner still has its issues though. The biggest gripe that I have is that your companion 
 can not kill anyone. To make matters worse, they are usually getting in the way of your battling. 
 Half the time, when you aren't blasting Stormtroopers, or slicing them up with your light saber, 
 you are hitting the others. And speaking of light sabers, hitting an enemy can be a pain sometimes. 
 It looks like you are doing this fantastic light saber dance, while enemies shoot you at will.
 
  
  Achievements aren't too hard to get either. Several can be achieved by playing through the game 
 the first time. Obviously, you will have to spend a bit more time to get through 100% of the game, 
 but it's worth it for 180 gamer points. The hardest achievements to get would have to be the undefeated 
 ones. Free playing is the best way to get them, but the levels with vehicles are a pain.
  
  The replay value of Lego Star Wars II is pretty darn good. They have placed canisters and red bricks 
 in places that you can see the first time around, but have to go back and play again in free play 
 to get. Brilliant move, and it actually turns out to be quite fun. The extra mini-games can be 
 a bit annoying, and collecting 1,000,000 Lego studs in under a certain amount of time, can be quite 
 frustrating. Other than that, Lego Star Wars II kept drawing me back in, and I was happy to oblige.
 
  
  Overall, Lego Star Wars II is a great game for all ages, and definitely lives up to the Star Wars 
 tradition. So, what are you waiting for, go play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I've played the first LEGO Star Wars in 2005 which turned out to be one of the most enjoyable games 
 of that year, The Original Trilogy is also highly enjoyable as well.
  
  There's no doubt that the LEGO Star Wars games are better than most of the other Star Wars games 
 (excluding Battlefront of course) and with more characters, more unlockables and collectables there's 
 a lot to like about this second game in the franchise. The levels span across the original episodes, 
 IV, V and VI in case you hadn't gathered by now, with roughly 6 levels per episode. Though the 
 first playthrough may not be entirely long there are opportunities to play through the levels again 
 on 'free play' mode, earning points to purchase new characters can be fun especially with a friend 
 whom can also play the story mode with you as well.
  
  The big downfall however, is that the game can get unbelievably frustrating at frequent times, 
 even I, a relatively clever teenager had trouble overcoming some of the puzzles that had solutions 
 that young children (who I believe are the target audience for this game) will have to be very 
 patient. 
  
  Despite that major negative this sequel still includes some fun amusing cut scenes, mostly fun 
 levels and neat recognisable gameplay make this a great game for parties, star wars fans (and for 
 very very patient children) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is a must own for any gamer.
  Its simple but highly addictive fun. In fact it's easy to complete this game in one sitting if 
 you felt like it. 
  
  But if you thought that this is the end of the game then you would be wrong. There are so many 
 more things to do on repeat visits. And although I am not usually one for replaying games or collecting 
 everything that you can, I find myself going back for some more quality gameplay.
  
  The makers have got the mix of comedy and story detail down to perfection. You'll find yourself 
 laughing out loud to moments of the plot that, although still true to the film, has been given 
 its own unique lego twist.
  
  You 'll run, jump, laser and lightsaber your way through all 3 of the original trilogy, picking 
 up new characters as you progress. You can use each of these characters to open specific doors 
 and use 'the force' to move and build objects. But as I said before, it's not until the second 
 play through that you will have the right hand picked character to achieve even half of what each 
 level has to offer.
  
  If you are looking for a game that, although is quick to play through the first time round but 
 which will keep coming back for more, then Lego Star Wars II is your man. 
  Especially as you can pick it up for about 6 ($12) from ebay.
  
  Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is the sequal to Lego Star Wars. This time you play through 
 the "Classic" Star Wars Trilogy instead of the "Meh" quality prequals. This game is better than 
 the original because it is longer, harder, and it comes from a better source of material. 
  
  In Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy, you go through the original Star Wars Movies, each 
 with a couple of stages. Gameplay in this game is still easy. Most of it can still be played with 
 only one button, you can't fail a level unless its a timed one, and most of the puzzles are easy. 
 Making the game a little more difficult than the original, however, is the adaptable A. I. This 
 means that as you do better, the enemies get tougher, and as you do worse, the enemies get easier. 
 The vehicle stages return, but are no longer on rails, making them more fun. Sometimes you can 
 use vehicles in the regular levels too.
  
  The game has all the music from the movies. The graphics are good too. The game is also very funny. 
 Both in Gameplay and Cut-Scenes.
  
  This game also has many unlockables. There are over 50 characters. There are also a couple of Bonus 
 Stages. The Mini-Kits from the previous game return too. There is a Bounty Hunter Mode. You can 
 even unlock a Lego CIty.
  
  In conclusion, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is a good game. I reccomend it over the 
 original as a rental or buying used.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics:8
  Sound:9
  Value:8
  Tilt: 8
  
  True Score: 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mssrulez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  well, why is this game so god? first off, there is many improvements over the first game. compared 
 to the first game, the difficulty level is a little higher, the game is longer, tons more unlockables 
 and characters plus a few rewarding challenges to increase the game's longevity. also, although 
 this game was made for kids, most adults will also have fun and a laugh.
  pros:
  -encourages thinking and exploration for kids
  -very funny
  -quite charming at times
  -unique 
 levels that SWs will recognize
  -lots and lots of cool unlockables
  -everyone will like, no matter how old
  -co-op multiplayer exact same as single-player (no hard-drive 
 needed)
  -even non-SW fans will like it
  cons:
  
  -nothing to do when you have done everything that's offered
  -some useless characters that seem 
 to have been thrown in just to increase the roster of available ones
  
  
  so there you have it. lego starwars is awesome and may seem pathetic-sounding, but it's just too 
 fun for anything less than a purchase. (not even a rental!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colnel-turtle
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I played the first lego star wars game, and i liked it a lot, the cute animations, and the funny 
 movies were the characters would mime everything. I think that the second game took the original 
 formula, and expanded on it i a good way. Lego people able to build things an not give jedi all 
 the fun made me want to play more characters. And the bounty hunter and storm trooper areas are 
 neat.
  It still fells like the first one at times, but that is not bad all the time. Han solo able to 
 shoot and dodge blaster shots is fun. I enjoy repeatedly tapping X so i can see him flip. If you 
 are a parent this is a fantastic game for you children, and even adults. My whole family enjoys 
 playing this game. I think some people don't play it because its for "little kids", but it is fun 
 to play and will make you laugh. And even if you still think that its for kids, well at least you 
 can get some easy gamer score points form it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiomedMS
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  How I did it
  
  I went through the game using Syonyx's Guide, at GameFAQs, which is actually for the PS2 version 
 of the game but works just fine for our achievement gathering purposes because of the absolutely 
 insane level of detail this guy put into the guide. It really is kind of scary how much effort 
 he put into the walkthrough as it covers everything you could ever want to know about Force wielding 
 Lego pieces.
  
  Time Spent to Complete
  
  Now as with all "Family Games" on my Gamercard, I Gameflyed LEGO Star Wars. It is not a buy unless 
 you have late fees associated with your rental as it took me exactly 35 hours to get the full 1000. 
 Your mileage may vary. Quite a long time for a kids game if you ask me. 7/10
  
  Annoyance Factor
  
  I've mentioned this is supposed to be a kids game right? Cute lil aspiring 
 gamers are supposed to enjoy hitting the buttons and watching Luke jump around the screen shooting 
 baddies and while the game itself isn't hard but the achievements are pretty damn annoying to complete. 
 My favorite are the "undefeated" series of achievements, where you basically can't die in the level. 
 Now for the ground based missions this can easily be cheesed by using a ghost character like Obi-Wan, 
 who cannot be attacked. However, in the vehicle missions, the slightest error results in a search 
 for a 2x4 with which to stab yourself. In the eye. It is seriously enraging at times. In addition 
 to this, the game is BUGGY. It loves to freeze at critical times (such as the final stretch on 
 the Death Star II mission while you are trying to go undefeated) and on one mission where I had 
 to fight Vader he simply did not appear, which meant the mission could never be finished. All the 
 studs, mini kits and power brick had to be recollected. 7/10
  
  Difficulty to 1000
  
  This game isn't as difficult as it is annoying. The sheer number of off the wall bugs and undefeated 
 achievements make the game a thing of luck more than skill. If you can get past the bugs, and have 
 a good amount of time, 1000 points of gooey Lego goodness can be yours without a terrible amount 
 of effort 5/10.
  
  This game is for:
  Hardcore Star Wars fans
  Lego Lovers
  People who love mindless hours of collecting items 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Lego SW2 is a great game. Sure there is a tilt factor because it is based on Star Wars, but omitting 
 that fact still makes it fun to play.
  
  Travelers Tales has done another bang up job on the second installment in the Lego SW series. They 
 have continued the great humour they perfected in the first one and captured some of the key moments 
 from the film in both the cuts scenes and game play. Playing the iconic characters in this game 
 just adds to the nostalgia.
  
  LSW2 has been enhanced quite a bit over the first installment from the gameplay perspective. Characters 
 are a little more unique in their combat (Leia Slaps enemies up close while Chewbacca rips Stormtroopers 
 arms out of their sockets) . The addition of Boba Fett is a dream since he throws TDs, has a jetpack 
 which shoots rockets and he has a badass gun. Combat is simple, shoot, shoot, shoot! The vehicle 
 based combat is the same (again capturing key elements of the movie suchs as Hoth, the speeder 
 bikes and the attacks on the Death Stars) , simple and fun.
  
  The game is really easy as you can't die and end the game, you simply respawn. The challenge is 
 meeting all the goals such as collecting all the studs, completing all the mini-kits, finding all 
 the power bricks and finishing all the levels. This might sound easy, but it can take a lot of 
 time and replay to get 100% completion. When you factor in Xbox Live and it's achievements, you 
 add a little more time.
  
  Here comes the bad. The camera can be annoying at times when you are trying to do things. In 2 
 player moving around the board can be difficult if you get separated or if you stray to far from 
 each other (i. e. one person jumps up and the other is thrown into a chasm by the scroll of the 
 camera) . The lightsabers are a little weak and I found sometimes I was swinging in the wind or 
 around my enemies instead of cutting them up.
  
  Overall the game is simple and fun to play with nice presentation, simple controls and a slick 
 re-telling of the movies. I highly recommend it for any original series Star Wars fan or for anyone 
 who just wants an easy to play game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvfan14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star wars II has to be one of the best family games I've ever played, It's pretty fun and 
 funny with the cut scenes most of which are hilarious. The gameplay is still like its predecessor 
 with some minor alterations, that doesn't mean it's a bad thing change is good even it's a little 
 different, Blasters can dodge (Very useful) and humannoids characters can build and ride classic 
 vehicles which adds a new a level of fun and variety. The whole story is that you play through 
 'key' moments from the movies some are pretty easy others like the space battles can be frustrating 
 at times, Also it gets repetitive a little. The graphics well they're not great as some of the 
 other games still the design is unique and true to the Lego and Star wars atmosphere and also it's 
 kind of cute, (don't tell anyone I said that) They're some glitches with the game which if you 
 encounter you need to exit the level and do it all over again. 
  No online multiplayer which effects this review a little but not a whole lot to where the scores 
 needs to be lower, It's still a pretty fun to play and with it's unlockables add replay value to 
 it.
  
  Overall it's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Here a combination that makes from some of the biggest debates. And most people need to let go 
 of some myths. Yep you don't have to like Star Wars. And you can agree Legos are for kids.... well.... I 
 disagree. 
  
  BUT.... this game breaks those myths. Even if you hate Star Wars or think Legos are for kids this 
 game will get you biting that hook and reel you into the boat! This game is 100% pure comedic action 
 packed fun. I was expecting your typical silly lego game made for 10 year olds. And Lego I think 
 was expecting that too. 
  
  For starters you can play through the orignal trilogy. Along the way you shoot, saber, fight, fly, 
 crush and build your way through the movies! As you go through each section of the episode you 
 can do lots of things. Such as collect little "coin" like legos that let you buy things after (more 
 on that later) . Or find hidden pieces that let you build minikits or unlock special items (they 
 are hidden on the level) .
  
  Between each level you return to Mos Eisely. Think of it as your homebase. From here you can view 
 everything you've done or collected. You can even choose episodes you want to go play including 
 past episodes. Which in some cases with hidden pieces require characters that need to be unlocked 
 first. Unlockable characters you say? Yep. 
  
  From Mos Eisley you can unlock cheats, new guys and some other carious things using those little 
 coin lego things you collect in each episode. And don't worry theres no limit to this "lego money" 
 you can back in episode and keep earning as much as you want! Theres also a free a "Create a character" 
 section where it uses pieces from all the guys in game you've unlocked or seen. Which makes from 
 some really awesome creations. I always wondered what Darth Bobabader looked like. Theres so much 
 stuff unlock and to do you'll be busy for for weeks. And don't think just because the game is legos 
 its easy either. Some if its easy but not all of it. 
  
  There is also coop so at ANY time, even at Mos Eisley your friend can join up which makes the game 
 even funner to play.
  
  In general the gameplay consists of two players going through out a level (you choose the two from 
 a list at the beginning) . You will be solving puzzles and fighting. Some times even using vehicle 
 which I didn't expect to be much fun until I used one! The levels really play diffrent depending 
 on who you are. If your a jedi you do up close saber stuff and have the force power. If you are 
 Han Solo for instance you have great fire power and can punch... etc. However some charecters once 
 again like Han solo have grappling hooks to get one higher ledges. So this is all stuff to think 
 about as you progress in a level and get to puzzles.
  
  And alot of levels have doors that only certain guys can open such as droids. Since your "group" 
 may have more then 2 guys alot of the time you can switch at any time. So there might be a pit 
 that only R2D2 can get across, you switch to him, fly across, trigger a bridge to open and your 
 done. In some levels you might see a Boba Fett door. This means its a secret! You have to come 
 back later when you unlock him and see whats in there! Could be anything!
  
  Theres one thing that you need to know about this though. What really makes it appeal to everyone 
 and makes it so darn fun and charming is its comedy. Everything from its scripted moments to the 
 animations to even the scenery are made with the player in mind! There isn't a moment when your 
 not seeing something and going "ROFL thats great!" In one scene I happen to find a secret room 
 and there were strorm trooper sitting a tub with speedos on and they quickly jumped up and made 
 made funny sounds P (no one talks in the game, think the "Sim" language) and started shooting!
 
  
  Theres just so much comedic stuff in here it makes the game great. And with the announcement now 
 of a Indiana Jones version coming out I can't wait!
  
  Now for the general review (whats left to say eh?) .
  
  Gameplay. Er... I think I mentioned 
 it already.
  
  Graphics. Amazing. They were going for the plastic look and they got it. It feels like your in 
 some weird lego world! And by far the 360 has the best version, I was surprised how crappy the 
 PC version was. Theres really no glitches in the graphics except maybe the occasional lego coin 
 that ends up stuck in wall you can't get.
  
  Controls are really easy. At first it might come off as confusing but really simple especially 
 after you play the first level. 
  
  The music and sound are awesome. Its star wars music so obviously that end is great. The sound 
 is wonderful, not counting the SW sounds, the voices they characters make are funny. They use a 
 "Sim" like language that when mixed with this comedy makes everything seem even more funny.
  
  Overall this game is NOT worth buying. Yep you heard me. Why? Because theres a newer version 
 out "Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga". It has the new episodes too! Why settle for 3 when you 
 can have all 6! So forget this version and get that one! If your at least freaked out by either 
 the concept of Star Wars or Legos then rent it. But I guarantee you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy Review
  
  Scores:
  Overall Score : 8.5
  Gameplay : 8.5
  Graphics : 8
  Sound : 10
  Replay Value : Good
  
  
  Gameplay:
  This 
 version of the Lego Star Wars series takes you through the original three movies of the series. 
 Each movie gets 6 missions to play for a total of 18. Six of the missions are devoted to flying 
 in the different space ships from the movie so there is some variety in game play. Each mission 
 follows the events (somewhat) of an important scene in one of the movies.
  
  The game supports a drop in drop out co-op mode which is fun and an open play version of each mission 
 that allows you to take any of the numerous characters into the mission. You can even play as Darth 
 Vader when you face him in the cloud city from the ending of Episode V.
  
  Your main tasks in each mission are to break up things and collect Lego studs, which are the coin 
 used to buy things in the game, and to build objects out of Legos needed to complete missions. 
 Oh, yeah, you also get to blast the bad guys with your blaster and slice them up with your light 
 saber.
  
  Added to the 18 movie missions there are also 10 quick bounty hunter missions, a Lego world mission, 
 and 3 special bonus challenge missions that are associated with each movie.
  
  The one small drawback to the game play is that the camera angle used can sometimes hinder you 
 from seeing objects you need to collect, build, or destroy. It doesn't happen often, but it does 
 happen.
  
  Multiplayer:
  None. Might have been fun though to see if something could have been done with it.
  
  Graphics:
 
  The graphics are crisp and clean. The characters look great reproduced in Lego form and the little 
 cut scenes that help move the story along are both well designed and have just the right amount 
 of humor and slapstick that fans of the original movies will enjoy seeing again and again just 
 like they did when they went to the movie again and again.
  
  Sound:
  The game uses John Williams' original musical score from the movie, nuff said. The sound effects 
 of the blasters and light sabers are also taken from the movies and sound good. 
  
  Achievements List:
  Just the right blend of easy and slightly challenging tasks for a game that 
 is really more interested in nostalgia and humor. That said a perfect 1000 game score may still 
 run you nearly 100 hours of play time.
  
  Overall View:
  This game finds the perfect blend that allows both young and old to enjoy the game experience. 
 The missions are not so overcomplicated that a child can't complete, yet not so simple that an 
 adult will be bored after only a few minutes. For any Star Wars fan this is a must own game that 
 adds to the enjoyment we received the first time we saw these wonderful stories unfold on the big 
 screen so many years ago.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebender
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  INCREDIBLE! the perfect blend of freedom, customization, and comic genius in the star wars universe. 
 First off the ability to mix-match your own character is wicked awsome, I made one of Yoda's species 
 in tusken raider clothes with a wookie bowcaster! The movie sequences, although wordless, are humorous 
 and insightful of the story! A++!
  
  Graphics: 7
  Gameplay: 8
  Sound: 8
  Replayablity: 9
  Learning curve: 5-8 minutes
  
  This is a really cool game, especially for 
 a star wars fan. Check it out! 
  
  Ugh, my review isn't long enough! Don't bother reading the following, it's only here to take up 
 space in the review: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I guess the best way to make a game accessible is to make the meat of the game easy and add challenge 
 to the extras. The meat of this game is geared towards casual gamers and/or young children. There 
 is almost no challenge at all. And almost no achievements. Complete a level and you can advance 
 to the next level.. complete a level and get all the lego pieces and you unlock some additional 
 content. Complete a level without dying and you get an achievement. Sound easy? Sometimes, but 
 most of the time this requires a little practice. Overall I'm happy with this game. It looks cool 
 and controls are tight. Sound is spot on, and the sense of humor is... well... funny. I recommend 
 this game for anyone wanting a 10 hours of lighthearted gaming and anyone that loves star wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rorshac
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It is a simple game, but a fun one. It knows what it does and it does it well. My biggest complaint 
 on the game is the camera. Sometimes this can get int he way of finding lots of extras on any level.
 
  
  There are a few bugs, they are tough to come by unless you are playing the game for a 100% completion. 
 Even then it really takes some unique setups to get trapped in the areas.
  
  I highly recommend this for any parent who wants to get some quality game time with their kids. 
 It is fun and simple. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy takes up the job of conveying the original (That is episodes 
 4 through 6) Star Wars Trilogy, in a humorous form, with lego.
  
  The games humor is something that makes it stand out, it tells a shortened version of the story, 
 elaborating on many of the funny moments throughout the films and capturing many a smile during 
 it's course.
  
  The gameplay presented in Lego Star Wars II is something of a guilty pleasure, there is no difficulty 
 to it at all, as when you die you simply respawn after losing a portion of your collected lego 
 studs (currency) and to add to this, none of the levels have much difficulty even without infinite 
 lives. This said, it doesn't detract from the game at all, because those looking for a challenge 
 will find ample difficulty in figuring out where all of the minikits are hiding, each level contains 
 ten of these, they are used to build ships for the flying missions.
  
  In addition to this, each chapter has some bonus missions, and the ability to replay chapters multiple 
 times with any characters you unlock. The game has a vast array of characters to unlock, ranging 
 from greedo the bounty hunter, to the ghost of Obi Wan Kenobi. You can even use parts of these 
 characters to build custom characters. The games visuals do an excellent job of conveying the lighthearted 
 mood of the game, and are an asset to the games humor and style. However there are some issues 
 with widescreen displays, the image appears stretched and somewhat distorted. The core gameplay 
 revolved around jumping and blasting your way through the levels, some of the different characters 
 have unique abilities, for example bounty hunters can throw thermal detonators and blow up parts 
 of the scenery, or Jedi can 'use the force' in order to proceed through a level, while blaster 
 type characters have a grappling hook to get to higher areas. In addition to this, droids can open 
 certain doors, but cannot build lego structures, whereas humanoids can build. Throughout the game 
 you will be presented with piles of bricks which you must build something usefull with in order 
 to proceed. For example, one part quite early on in the game has you blowing up trash bins in order 
 to find enough parts to construct an AT-AT to blast your way through the rest of the level with.
 
  
  While the gameplay may not be particularly deep, or challenging, it is a lot of fun, and very humorous, 
 light hearted and enjoyable. While those looking for a challenge may still find one trying to get 
 100% of all the unlockables and items in the game. Those further still looking for challenge will 
 be appeased by the game achievement points, as well as the regular Finish this level achievements, 
 there is one for completing each level without dying, which can be quite tough, or very easy depending 
 on which characters you use. While the game itself can be completed in only a few hours, you will 
 spend a lot of time getting all the hidden bricks and items, and collecting enough money to buy 
 all the unlockables from the cantina. To do all this can rack up an impressive amount of time spent 
 playing the game.
  
  Overall, Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy presents an impressively indulgent experience filled 
 with humor and fun for all the family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is a hard game to rate. Its concept is creative enough, and for the most part 
 it's executed well. The game truly captures the spirit of both Star Wars and LEGO, both products 
 that I was once obsessed with when I was a kid. The cut scenes are humorous and so are some of 
 the puzzles, and the game has an overall charm that's appealing to kids. It basically does all 
 of the important things right, except for the controls.
  
  LEGO Star Wars II is a third person shooter where you have to blast storm troopers and solve puzzles, 
 a lot of which revolve around building and destroying LEGO pieces to make classic Star Wars creations. 
 The game is simple so that children can figure out what to do easily, and the challenge is kept 
 to a bare minimum since you are given infinite lives. Really, the game won't hold an adult's attention 
 for very long because there isn't much that's here that will keep you playing the game unless you're 
 a kid who just loves anything to do with LEGOs and Star Wars, and kids will feel a sense of accomplishment 
 when they beat each level while adults will just think they're blowing through a rather childish 
 and easy game.
  
  LEGO Star Wars II is only easy because of the fact you have unlimited lives and the puzzles are 
 easy to solve. The real problem here though is that almost every piece of gameplay in the game 
 feels anywhere from just a little bit clunky to very clunky. When you shoot your blaster, there 
 is no targeting system and there is no way to strafe, so basically the only way you can shoot at 
 enemies without getting yourself hit is if you jump-spin like a lunatic and press X, then pray 
 that the game directs the laser towards what you wanted to shoot. This could've been done a lot 
 better.
  
  Also, some of the flying missions are a lot messier to control than they should be. For instance, 
 in the Hoth Battle sequence where you're flying a snow speeder, your task is sometimes to down 
 an AT-AT using the classic tow cable maneuvre and circle its legs until it falls down, THEN you 
 have to go find a bomb dispenser on the side of a mountain somewhere, pick it up with your tow 
 cable then wait for the physics to register that you picked it up, so you're basically suspended 
 in air trying to pull the thing and it won't budge for a few seconds, then when it starts moving 
 sometimes it'll go the wrong direction and you'll have to turn around to get it going the right 
 way toward the AT-AT, and sometimes it gets so screwed up that the AT-AT has enough time to get 
 right back up and you have to start all over again. It's things like this that sort of tick you 
 off and after having to do these things enough times (especially when trying to complete missions 
 without dying for achievements) , it just becomes a real bother that things don't work quite as 
 well as they should.
  
  In the graphics department, the graphics are pretty minimalist. The game feels small due to some 
 clever depth-of-field effects applied to the game's engine for whenever something gets close to 
 the fixed camera. This lends to the effect of the game feeling a bit like playing with real LEGO's, 
 but mostly everything looks less than impressive. The graphics look like they probably could've 
 been done about as well on a regular Xbox.
  
  You can't have a Star Wars game without the classic John Williams soundtrack from the movies, and 
 you certainly get plenty of that in this game. If you're not already tired of hearing the Darth 
 Vader theme or the prologue music, then you'll have plenty to enjoy here. There is no true voice 
 acting in the game, some of the characters mumble occasionally but that's about it. The sound effects 
 are true to both Star Wars and LEGO's.
  
  As far as Value, you definitely can get plenty of playtime out of the game if you are so inclined. 
 LEGO Star Wars II features 18 levels, each with about four golden bricks to collect from getting 
 a certain amount of STUD pieces (coins) , vehicle pieces, and so on, and then there is the free 
 play mode which lets you go back through each level again with whoever you want as your character, 
 and the ability to unlock doors and solve puzzles that you couldn't on your first time through 
 in the story mode. In addition to that there are bounty hunter missions, a super story mode, 2-player 
 co-operative mode and a very large amount of unlockable characters and ships to collect. There 
 is plenty of value here for your $30.
  
  Overall it accomplishes what it set out to do, it successfully entertains kids and has the potential 
 to entertain some adults as well, depending on how much interest you have in Star Wars and the 
 like. There's plenty of content and it's a pretty enjoyable experience. If you want to entertain 
 some kids, you could do much worse than LEGO Star Wars II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Lego Star Wars but that never really bugged me since I never really 
 cared for the newer movies. When I got a chance to play Lego Star Wars II on the Xbox 360 I was 
 really excited because growing up I loved to play with Star Wars Legos. Lego Star Wars II: The 
 Original Trilogy is made up of eighteen levels, six for each movie. At the star the game has a 
 really fun and fresh feeling, but that kind of wears off about half way through the Empire Strikes 
 Back levels. The game starts to feel repetative and you feel like you are doing the same things 
 over and over again. By the time the story mode ended I felt that my time with Lego Star Wars II: 
 The Original Trilogy on the Xbox 360 was over. Then being the achievment point whore that I am 
 I went back to try to play through the very first level and complete it and not die. This is where 
 the game truly shines. After you beat the game you can play through any level that you want with 
 any character that you want and you can swap them in game, so all the places that you could not 
 reach the first time through the story mode you can reach and its a lot of fun. I spent hours playing 
 through levels trying to get as many bolts as I could so I could unlock even more stuff. I played 
 every level twice to get the highest score that I could get, sadly even after playing through each 
 level twice the game clock still said that I had only played the game for around nine hours. This 
 game is really short, and since it gets repetative towards the end chances are you will only play 
 through it twice. The camera in the game is cumbersome at times as are the flying controls. The 
 soundtrack is nice, but its really the same music that you have heard a thousand times before, 
 but in a way its pretty much timeless. This game is pretty much geared towards the younger kids 
 especially because when you die you just respawn in the same spot you died so the challenge is 
 very little. For those too young to fully aprreciate KOTOR and the Battlefront series Lego Star 
 Wars will satisfy. For the others the short, repetative story mode is a rental at best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceafer
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Now i'm gonna and try and sound not to disappointed with Lego Star Wars 2 because i was waiting 
 to play it seeing as this trilogy was more my era. I had played Lego Star Wars on the PS2 and had 
 sort of forgotten number 2 when it was released but when i bought my 360 a couple of months ago 
 i got the urge to buy it, I Booted it up as soon as i got home and had a good 3 or 4 hours on it 
 and it was good all new characters and the classic story line it was after this four hours i started 
 to get bored not 'cos it was a bad game but maybe because i felt i had played it all before it 
 just seems to close to the original i have played on since but only an hour a time. All in all its 
 a good game and if you haven't played the first game it might seem like an excellent game but if 
 you have played it the it might just seem a little to close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mel4teza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I was a little unsure about how well this one was going to be. But I was pleasantly suprised. And 
 so were my wife and son. Wtih the inclusion of being able to use your old save from the previous 
 game. Only expanded an already replayable games value. All of the little missions you must complete 
 really don't seem all that tedious. especially when you8're left with a smile on your face with 
 some of the games comidic insertions. I'd say it's a great addition to your library if your a fan 
 it these type of games. If not buy try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2 is the sequel to the original block building adventure. This game is good not 
 because of the fact that it's Star Wars, the reason it's good is that it has stunning level design 
 and fiendish puzzles to tax the brain (but not too hard) and the silly humour found in every level. 
 In all of the levels there is some secret nook to be found or a joke of some sort. The amount of 
 things to do here is staggering, finding all the secrets, money and other fun stuff will take awhile 
 but it's fun to figure out a very tough puzzle. The graphics have been upgraded from the first 
 game as everything really looks like it's been bulit out of Lego from the Death Star to R2-D2 everything 
 looks like someone spent very long with a huge amount of buliding bricks. All the levels are designed 
 with careful thought all manner of secrets can be found with a little time and thought. What else 
 is good is the need to find, swap and collect characters. While some games with team swapping used 
 it rubbishly it is handled superbly here. What's obvious is that each character has special abilities 
 you will need to replay each of the levels with a different repretoire chracters unlocked to collect 
 all of the hidden nuggets here. Even when you think you have finished a chapter there is the bonus 
 gates. These give you some challenges like finishing the challenge within a set time and collecting 
 enough money. The level variety here is good in the blink of an eye you'll be going from rescuing 
 princesses to blasting ships to small LEGO pulp. LEGO Star wars 2 is a hilarious game with a great 
 realistic unrealistic look and with stunning level design and a truckload full of extra bits. Once 
 you start to play you won't want to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  i picked up this game a few months after its release. its generally not the type of game i would 
 be excited for or even buy. with the past few months being slow for my gamer type, i decided that 
 i would pick up this game to get me through till the on slot of games would be coming out and it 
 was under $20. after playing this game a few hours i found myself a little addicted. its not flashy 
 or full of things you've never experienced in a video game but it doesn't present itself to be. 
 the game is simple in every way and it works. the boards are fun and well put together to resemble 
 the first three movies, lego style. the characters are corky and very funny and they have every 
 character from the movies (and i mean everybody) . if you want to you can also create your own character 
 to play in free play mode. the sound is amazing, the reason i say this is because if someone was 
 in another room while you were playing this game they would think you were watching the movies 
 because its that identical to the movies. the game itself isn't that hard or that long to beat 
 but there is enough in the game to give it replay value. after you beat each board you unlock different 
 characters that you can use in earlier boards to unlock new areas that you couldn't go through 
 previously. i think they did a great job with this game and i was very surprised. i hope they come 
 out with more because its just a fun game, there's no other way to describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elraptor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  To many young people, Legos represent the building blocks of childhood fantasies. These versatile 
 toys have pioneered the Wild West, defended medieval castles, and sailed through pirate-ridden 
 waters. In Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy, the player ventures for the second time into 
 the magical universe of the classic Star Wars films. Although slightly simplistic, this third-person 
 adventure offers a good balance of combat, platforming, and puzzle-solving. Fans of either Star 
 Wars or Legos (or better yet, both) will find added value in the realistic Lego physics and delightful 
 Star Wars comedy. The game has several single-player modes, ranging from the usual story line (Episodes 
 IV -- VI) to special bounty hunter missions and vehicle challenges. Multiple single-player modes 
 and plenty of unlockables translate into extra replay. A majority of the levels will see the player 
 exploring recognizable Star Wars locations on foot, but there's a nice variety of machines to drive 
 on air and land, as well.
  
  Carefully scrutinizing and probing the environment will yield almost endless rewards; there are 
 many hidden areas, some of which can only be accessed by certain character types (e. g., stormtroopers) . 
 As levels are completed, new characters will be awarded, others will be unlocked for purchase, 
 and they can all be used to play through completed levels again in free play. Dedicated players 
 will want to visit every level at least twice, just to discover all the secret areas and the treasure 
 they contain. In fact, this will be necessary in order to find all the Lego studs (the basic currency 
 used to buy extra characters, vehicles, cheats, etc) . For multi-player, a second person can join 
 the main player at any time. (I have not personally tested this feature.)
  
  Gameplay is fairly smooth, overall. The basic controls are easy to master, and the camera rarely 
 causes problems. Some of the land vehicle controls could have been more precise, but more of the 
 player's vehicle-time will be spent in the air, where the extra space makes up for a bit of sloppy 
 handling. The level of difficulty is below-average for action adventure games. On some levels, 
 you may have to die a few times before you figure out the best course of action, but the only penalty 
 is a deduction of Lego studs. Ease and accessibility do not have to be drawbacks, though, as long 
 as the player realizes that completing the basic story mode will not be a major challenge. The 
 game simply takes a forgiving approach, and if you thrive on difficulty, you may want to look elsewhere. 
 Graphically, this product won't compare to the prettiest 360 games available (e. g., Gears of War) , 
 but it's far from ugly. The simple color schemes and textures are well-suited to a game built from 
 Legos, so to speak. The sound is everything you would expect from Stars Wars, no less but unfortunately 
 no more. In a word, it's predictable. The familiar musical score will be frequently punctuated 
 by the sound of lightsabers and blasters, and that manages to enliven the audio somewhat. Still, 
 most of the sound effects could have been plucked from half-a-dozen older Star Wars games. On the 
 bright side, the game's sense of humor is fairly original and successful. Fans of the movies will 
 pick up on more of the jokes, but even newcomers to Star Wars (do such benighted mortals still 
 exist?) can enjoy the whimsical touches of humor that pop up during cutscenes and regular gameplay. 
 The game currently retails for around $20, a very reasonable price. If you have the slightest interest 
 in Star Wars, Legos, or casual action-adventures, pick it up and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg25lax
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  If it weren't for the Legos, the game would have been terrible. But seeing Lego Luke and Vader 
 run around makes the game amusing to play. Hack and slash your way through every level is basically 
 the concept of the game. Destroy enough junk, and you get rewarded. Gameplay could not be simpler, 
 making it an easy game to pick up and play. But because of that simple gameplay, it took away from 
 the game. With maybe some combo moves or some other kinds thrown in, it could have beeen better. 
 But you either shoot, slash, or pound, depending upon who you are.
  
  Of course, there are many who's, which makes up for some things. The characters are fun to play 
 with themselves to see how they behave. All play the same, but some have their own personalities. 
 The graphics are decent, considering it was one of the early games. Sound is fine with explosions 
 and gun shots. Where voice acting is missing, the game makes up for it with mindless babble, which 
 at times can be amusing. The story is what you expected, just playing through the original movies. 
 Although with force and other things, you can access secret areas in levels to help you along your 
 way. If you want something that is a decent game that you can play more than once, Lego Star Wars 
 is that game. Of course, you should wait for the new one which was both the new and old, just to 
 save some money :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Lego and star wars is a decent mix up, this game is better than the original, with that said it 
 isn't amazing. Gameplay wise it's pretty good, but it's pretty easy though and can get boring. 
 Graphics are pretty good, but doesn't look much different than the Xbox version which is pretty 
 dissapointing. It sounds good enough, but no voice acting is kind of a rip off. You might want 
 to go back and play the game over, but I don't see why you would. Anyway Lego Star wars 2 really 
 isn't an amazing game, but it isn't a terrible game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost_Soider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to the first lego star wars. This edition focuses on episodes 4-6. You 
 will play as all the classical characters from the movies like Luke Skywalker, Obi- Wan Kenobi, 
 and much more. Like the first one its have the same features like unlockables with a buying fell 
 with the lego studs. And they still have the very usful Drop-in and Drop-out co-op.
  
  Some new things they added to the game a the use of vehicles without the being on tracks (going 
 in one direction) so you can move freely with them. This feature sounds great at first but in reality 
 all you get is like a hovercar, a walker (AT-ST i think) , and a speeder bike for ground vehicles. There 
 are the ocassional rinding vehicles, but they don't really change anything. The space vehicles 
 just look different but they all pretty much do the same thing. This adds new gameplay, but in 
 some levels you can be riding the same vehicle for awhile in the same level.
  
  For me personally i enjoyed the first one. Lego Star Wars II changes almost everything. The sequel 
 adds more of a puzzle solving aspect to the game. In the first game all u had to do was to worry 
 about just destroying the robots. LSW2 can get a little frustrating because the game keeps throwing 
 enemys at you especially when your trying to complete one of the games mindless and usless puzzels.
 
  
  In conclusion, LSW2 has the same name as the first LSW, but it doesn't bring the same experience 
 we like in the first game. With sloppy controls (you can keep hitting X and still miss an enemy 
 up close) , weird and repetitive puzzels, and frustrating level designs, LSW2 just feels like a 
 unpolished game and is only for hard Star Wars fansor little kids (like my brother) ................. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammy_Dodger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  The original Lego Star Wars game (based on movies 1-3) was refreshingly original, looked great 
 and was a lot of fun.
  
  The sequel sticks to more or less the same template as the first game, in that the levels are structured 
 along the lines of the films (episodes 4-6 this time) and can be played through in Story or Free 
 Play mode. Story mode is a straightforward run through using set characters, whereas Free Play 
 allows you to change characters (that you have unlocked elsewhere) during the level in order to 
 access previously locked areas to get to various items.
  
  Playing through the levels to just finish the story mode is fine and good fun, but the real challenge 
 in the Lego Star Wars games is collecting all the minikits (little Lego vehicles such as X-Wings 
 and so on) , studs (the games currency) and so on to unlock characters and other extras and eventually 
 reach 100% complete.
  
  Lego Star Wars II is, in both presentation and gameplay terms, very similar to its predecessor. 
 There are tweaks here and there but overall it is very familiar. There is more to do and more to 
 collect, meaning the game will take longer to complete, and this makes a lot of replaying necessary, 
 which can become a bit tedious. Graphically there are some nice effects but were talking Lego 
 here so by and large the graphics are simple but effective. Its a fun game but a bit repetitious 
 and not a huge leap over the original. What saves it from being a bit of a disappointment is the 
 obvious care that has been put in by the developers and the improved subject matter of the original 
 trilogy. The levels cover all the main plot points and action scenes from the films and the cutscenes 
 are rarely short of very funny. The game has a very tongue-in-cheek humour running through it.
 
  
  There are unfortunately a few problems: when equipped with a lightsabre, I found it quite tricky 
 to hit enemies, which was very frustrating. The cutscenes, although entertaining, cannot be skipped 
 when replaying the level. And finally, the Xbox 360 version has bugs that cause the game to crash 
 at certain points during chapters 4 and 6 of Return of the Jedi, which LucasArts are not doing 
 much about. Check out the forums on Xbox. com for lots of advice in getting around these glitches.
 
  
  The game does get past its shortcomings and is great fun while it lasts, so I think it is well 
 worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The second Lego Star Wars game has, for some reason, a different feel compared to its predessor. 
 While the core gameplay is still the same at most parts, the game has made a lot of changes since 
 Traveler's Tales' first Lego Star Wars game. The puzzles seem much more challenging and sometimes 
 the game can get very confusing. There can be multiple paths to go and only one will take you to 
 where you need to go. And that one may even be evily hidden where the bad camera won't immediately 
 go. Some camera control would be nice and helpful at many sections of the game and some of the 
 puzzles need to be a little easier for the game's kid audience. The achievements are also extremely 
 hard and require lots and lots of dedication. You probably only get a few in one playthrough. I'm 
 saying a lot of bad things about the game but that doesn't mean the game isn't fun. 'Cause the 
 games a lot of fun to play. It's just sometimes too challenging and confusing. Still, it's most 
 fun to play with the game's co-op mode like original. However, this feature is sadly missing online 
 support. So, Lego Star Wars II has its bad parts but that doesn't mean you shouldn't buy it; it 
 just means that Traveler's Tales used to be better in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boromirbeauty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  I'm not your average gamer. I enjoy playing games, but let's face it, I'm not one of those people 
 who is automatically good at all games. This game makes me fantastic! Following the story from 
 the original Star Wars trilogy, Lego Star Wars II is a fun way to get into the Star Wars Universe. 
 To me, this game is wonderful and a great way to spend quality time with your children. Even if 
 you've never played a video game in your life, you'll shortly be hooked on this romp into the Star 
 Wars Universe. For children of all ages, even 35 year old mother's of teenaged boys. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2 is a really good game with a good story, especially since it came right from Star 
 wars 4,5, and 6. There are three parts to this game one for each movie. Then inside inside each 
 of those parts are six levels.
  
  There are a lot of unlockable things in this game: characters, weapons, cheats, and other things. 
 I suggest you buy the money multipliers first so that when you have them all it is over X1000. 
 Then there are the golden bricks which alow you to build very important things like extra doors 
 in the levels, a door to another world, and a fountain of money, which is really cool if you have 
 all the multipliers.
  
  The achievements are very easy once you get the Invincability cheat you can get almost all the 
 achievements which are to complete each level without dying. And they are each worth 20.
  
  So I would rent this game, but not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The good: lots of characters, fun vehicles, character custimization, excellent co-op, its the original 
 trilogy :)
  the bad: short, camera can be frustating, no online co-op : (
  
  To give a fair warning I will be biased because I love star wars. Anyway this game is and may seem 
 really childish and it is, but quite frankly you wouldnt exactly expect for it to be as fun as 
 it! The graphics are not so hot (they are legos) and the game is rather short. Other then that 
 it was a thrill to blast my way through the death star, escape hoth, and kill the rancor! One thing 
 I like about this game is its humor. Its very amusing how youre enemies die soemtimes. At the price 
 of $20, its definitely worth a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The Lego Star Wars combination while at first might seem a bit out of place is actually right at 
 home this time around on the 360. With solid gameplay, unlockable achievements, custom character 
 creation, and nicely legofied graphics this game is a definite pick up with its current price tag 
 of 20 dollars.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game includes a variety of character types for the player to chose from such as Jedi, Bounty 
 Hunter, and Dark Jedi to fix your dark side cravings. The difficulty settings are just right to 
 challenge players of all skill levels while allowing for younger audiences to have fun and challenge 
 the older at the same time. However, camera angles and iffy controls at times hinder the game for 
 possibly being fun for all.
  
  Graphics:
  Nicely done graphics are smooth and Lego sharp for the best looking version between the PS2, PSP, 
 Gamecube, and DS versions.
  
  Sound: Good sound quality as you can hear individual blaster sounds coming from the blasters of 
 the Lego characters, however, the lobby music does at times get annoying and repetitive to listen 
 to through a full play through.
  
  Value:
  With the once old 60 dollar price tag dropped to a whopping 20 dollars this is a really good deal 
 considering the amount of unlockables available for you to discover with multiple play throughs.
 
  
  Tilt:
  I myself personally enjoyed this game, and spent a lot of time with the create a character option, 
 and played through this game multiple times to find all the hidden secrets and achievements...
 
  
  Good game: 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that doesn't take itself seriously, and can appeal to fans of all ages. 
 After bumming out on the fact that the original lego star wars covered the more recent Star Wars 
 movies, fans can rejoice that now you can play though the original movies. And this game is loaded 
 with unlockable extras to find and discover. Graphics are very good, if not great. The music and 
 sound are awesome, taken right from the movies. It's also easy to pick up and play this game, with 
 not much experience playing games needed. Control is pretty smooth, as well. It may not change 
 your world view, but Lego Star Wars 2 is a worth game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars was an awesome game, except for one problem, it was based on Episodes 1, 2, and 
 3, and that didn't go down well with me. But, to my pleasure, Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy, 
 is all the first one, and more.
  
  No matter what age you are, there's something fun for all in this game. There is the simple Drop 
 In and Drop Out multiplayer gameplay, which helps a lot. You can play as any character from the 
 4, 5, and 6 movies, even Santa Claus, though I'm still trying to unlock him. All the characters 
 from the movie have been faithfully re-created in Lego versions, and each of the main characters 
 has a special ability, like Chewbacca being able to pull of Lego people's arms, or Leia being able 
 to slap other characters. There is plenty to keep you returning, from new vehicles you can build 
 by collecting special mini-kit pieces, and the gameplay is just so simple, it's fun. Another great 
 aspect, is designing your own Lego man, using pieces of other Lego men you've defeated in levels. 
 The levels are not completely made of Lego, though things you can interact with are Lego pieces. 
 The missions are basically get from one end of the level to the other, though there are some side 
 missions, like the Bounty Hunter missions, which help you get gold bricks, another new additions 
 to the games.
  
  There is basically no bad stuff about Lego Star Wars 2, though people who are for more serious 
 games, you don't have to play it, so don't bash it.
  
  Lego Star Wars 2 is the pick of the crop in terms of video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelman5674
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Who wants to just run around the story, already knowing what it is, and just plain try to run your 
 way through. Hell No not me!!!! I was hoping for some kick ass new vehicles and maybe some better 
 characters. I wanted it to be more difficult, this is more like a child's game. It was fun at first. 
 Once you beat it, you might as well sell it cause you are never going to play it again. AND THERE 
 IS NO GOOD MULTIPLAYER!!! What the hell! Why can't there be versus or some fun stuff like looking 
 around the area. Hey how about building your own ships and vehicles and weapons. Why can't you 
 do that?! I would've made this game even if my balls were dangling in front of my face and a gun 
 was shooting me repeatedly in the leg. (I love my job.)
  
  See ya next round! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You can pick from an assortment of characters each with different abilities: Jedis with 
 lightsabers, Bounty hunters and such with blasters, and protocol droids with zappers. Most of the 
 time you'll be playing as a Jedi or Han Solo of the sort, and you will find yourself blasting Stormtroopers, 
 using the Force to solve puzzles, or picking up large amounts of studs to reach True Jedi. This 
 game is somewhat linear in the fact that you're just going from point A to point B, and as such 
 you may feel that many breaks are required playing through this game just because it has such a 
 repetitive nature. In terms of fighting you can swing your lightsaber or shoot your blaster, use 
 your force powers, or hop in a vehicle. A majority of the game is platforming and running to collect 
 studs, following the movie's exact storyline with a more humurous approach as well as building 
 (sorry, pun) on the idea that this universe really could be made of Legos. The gameplay is really 
 a simplistic approach that could of really been expanded, but since it takes the Lego feature so 
 seriously it tends to gear toward a wider audience (kids as well as adults can enjoy this game) .
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics on the 360 from the PS2 version, or any other version, all look identical. 
 Sure you can't really make Legos look more realistic than a pile of blocks but I would have liked 
 something different from the other versions and it isn't present in the graphics department.
  
  Sound: What this game does really well with the Star Wars license is it uses all the music 
 associated with each area of the story, and it really makes the game immersive and feel like the 
 Star Wars movies while at the same time being a Lego adventure. When battle erupts, epic battle 
 music begins and you just hear blasters whizzing by as well as lightsaber swings, even richochets 
 off of some of the more metallic objects. The sound is probably the best part of this game.
  
  Value: Lego Star Wars becomes your basic collect every gold brick, red brick, and Mini-Kit 
 canisters to achieve 100%. It isn't hard to achieve 100%, and it can be done in 2 days, but it 
 isn't always fun to go back to a previous level just to collect some Mini-Kit you missed or couldn't 
 grab before, or to get True Jedi on both Story Mode and Free Play. When you do get 100% you're 
 treated to Lego City, where you have to destroy everything (which can become quite hard in the 
 late run) . Once you do finish Lego City you'll find you may not want to play this game ever again 
 because of the repetivity. Achievements are focused on completion (20%, 40%, etc.) , episodes (IV, 
 V, VI) , and beating levels without dieing (each level completed without dieing is an achievement) .
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy does what it can do best, follow the story, 
 use the same great music from the movies, and add a humurous Lego-style touch. In the end, it can 
 become very repetitive, but it achieves in most everything it tries to do. Here's to hoping a 3rd 
 Lego Star Wars can encompass replayability and expand itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VSBurner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  If ur a Star Wars fan, its simply a must have and a must play. Histerical to the end, Entertaining 
 to the last drop, extremely fun, and best of all my son and i can sit together and just have an 
 awesome experience while both getting in our 'gaming fix'. please Dont get me wrong here, this 
 is typically not my kind of video game. id rather play CrACKDOWN, GOW, Rainbow 6, or Oblivion, 
 etc.. but i found myself one day handed a controller and playing lego Obi Wan and havn't played 
 my main games since. its simply a blast to play! this game is top ACES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is basically u playing through the first trilogy of star wars and its great becuz 
 who doesnt want ot do that and it keep up with the story pretty well adding in there own thing 
 every onece in a while becuz the lego dont actaully talk. But this keep is actaullt fun to play. 
 Although some of the acheivements are redicualous. For the kids is a great game and for the fans 
 even better. I liked it alot but it alwaysot fast of a game. I beat it faster then i learning how 
 to play it.. Overall this is great game i def. recommend this for any star wars fan and any regular 
 old gamer. rent buy it do w/e ur going to have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaster299
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Ok, first thing vets of LEGO SW 1 will notice is this game is not just meant for kids any more. 
 Sure, kids will have tons of fun running through level after level slashing and blasting SW characters 
 into tiny Lego Blocks, but it is a whole lot tougher to actually unlock everything this time through. 
 Also, there is a lot more content for you to unlock as well. This game will take a lot longer to 
 fully complete than the first... but with games costing $50+ dollars I prefer games that take longer 
 to fully complete. Rent the game to see if you like the style of game play, but it will take longer 
 than a long weekend to lick this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  First off, this defintely a kids game but somehow its just plain fun. Who would have thought lego's 
 and Star Wars would go together quite like this. Its definitley a nice change. It's very funny, 
 the creators must have had alot of fun creating this game. Although, there were some things that 
 i was a little picky about. first off, you can't toggle the camera, this makes it sometimes difficult 
 to see things when you need to jump. secondly, saving in this game is kind of silly you can't save 
 during the game you have to complete the whole chapter your on or face loosing all the stuff you 
 just collected. So if you have to go out all of a sudden, and you don't have to finish the chapter, 
 tough luck you have to do it from scratch if you leave. Finally, there's some game content on the 
 XBOX Market place for this game. for 200 MS Points you can purchase the characters from the oringal 
 lego star wars. Is it just me, or are game deveolpers deliberatley starting to leave scontent off 
 games in order to swindle some extra dough out of you by making you buy things that should have 
 been included in the game in the first place? All in all if you like games that are so demanding 
 and are just a nice realxing change of pace and alot of fun. This game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue-fish
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 25, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, even when Han Solo is Lego he is still cooler and a better role model then myself. 
 The game 'aint bad either. If you don't know what the game is, look at the cover art and title. 
 It covers it pretty well. But to the game itself: It's fun, for a kids game. I rented it and had 
 a good time, lots to unlock and it's totally great to see such classic (and cool) movies acted 
 out by Lego dudes. The presentation is probably the best part, watching guys fall apart, the wonderful 
 cut scenes and the animations of each character are just a joy to see. But that only goes so far. 
 Eventually you will have to admit the combat is just pressing X as fast as you can, particularly 
 with the gun-wielding guys and gals. Its entertaining for a good while but by the end I found 
 myself just wanting to see the story finish. And it' not grating or will make you bored as a plank 
 but it gets a little bland is all. Co-op is fun too, and it's so simple a game that literally anyone 
 can pick up the controller and know what is going and be appropriately amused. One odd point about 
 the game is though, no matter how many times I do it, destroying things and getting little Lego 
 bead things is always satisfying... I have no idea why... Anyhow. Star Wars and Lego were both 
 staples of my childhood and go together like glue and toes. I had a perfectly enjoyable time, laughed 
 and smiled at a Lego Han Solo and Luke. It's fun to shoot stuff for a good handful of hours but 
 ultimately this is a very very shallow game (as of course one would expect from a kids game, so 
 I don't really mean to knock it) and is not worth the price of a purchase. I'm happy with my rental. 
 The achievements are easier then some games, but not a pushover. If you want em, it will take some 
 time. Just letting you know.
  
  cheers
  blue-fish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is the sequel to Travelers Tales Lego Star Wars. Its a kiddy beat em up game 
 that is very fun to play. The original Lego Star Wars took place in Episodes I, II, and III. In 
 Lego Star Wars II you get to play through the original trilogy which consists of Episodes IV, V, 
 and VI. Since the game isnt long enough to take everything from all three movies they instead 
 take the best moments. These are usually the best fights, space battles, and more. Each Episode 
 has six missions so you get the six best parts. Some people might be upset that some of the other 
 great moments are missing but the way they chose to do it works fine.
  
  The gameplay in Lego Star Wars II is very simple but still very enjoyable. During the course of 
 the game youll have the ability to play as many different characters from the Star Wars universe. 
 During a level youll usually have a small party following you around. The size of your party can 
 range from two people to seven people. Youll need all the characters you have to get past certain 
 puzzles. Each of the character classes has some sort of special ability. Droids can open special 
 doors that humans cant but humans can build stuff out of Lego blocks. Switching characters is 
 very easy all you have to do is walk up to the character you want to switch with and press the 
 Y button. The combat is very simplistic and boring. All of your attacks are done by pressing the 
 X button but there is one annoying thing about that. The X button is how you dodge attacks. So 
 lots of times youll try to attack but instead you dodge. What character you are using also plays 
 into the combat. Blaster characters are probably the best because its a one hit kill and they 
 easily dodge laser fire. Lightsaber characters SUCK! It takes about three hits to kill an enemy 
 and almost every time you try to attack your character instead starts blocking attacks. One of 
 the good things about the combat system is that every character attacks in a different way. When 
 you get super close to an enemy you character will melee attack. Each character does this in a 
 different way Princess Leia slaps, Han Solo punches, and Lando Calrissian kicks them. The diversity 
 between characters is a really nice addition.
  
  The graphics in Lego Star Wars II are pretty nice. There isnt a huge difference between the last-gen 
 versions but the 360 version definetly looks nicer. The character models look nice and the buildings 
 that are close to you look good but all of the backgrounds and items that are far away look very 
 jagged and ugly.
  
  The sound in Lego Star Wars II is very good. There is no voice acting but the game makes up for 
 this with fantastic sound effects and a very good soundtrack. The soundtrack is made up of songs 
 from the original movies but they are slightly redone. The best song is probably the hard rock 
 version of the Imperial March.
  
  The story mode in Lego Star Wars II will probably take you about six to eight hours. But once you 
 beat the game you can play through it again in Free Play mode. In Free Play mode you get to choose 
 any character you want and play through the level again. Of course you get to swap places with 
 a bunch of other characters so you can actually beat the level. Free Play mode and the fairly challenging 
 achievements both really help the replay value. You can get about 250 gamerscore by beating the 
 game but the rest of the achievements will take lots of time to get.
  
  All in all Lego Star Wars II is a very fun game and also provides as a humorous recreation of three 
 classic movies. So if you can find a cheap copy of this I highly recommend you buy and if you cant 
 find a cheap copy and dont want to spend a lot of money on it then go out and rent it.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 14, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most entertaining games of the year, an epic Lego adventure where you will be 
 called upon to swing lightsabres, fire blasters, pilot ships and use the Force to stop Darth Vader 
 building his evil empire.
  
  Based on the beloved original film trilogy, Lego Star Wars II is a significant improvement on its 
 delightful predecessor, which sold more than four million copies.
  
  Few will be able to resist the game's incredible charm. The dinky characters are packed with charisma 
 and the retelling of the story over 18 levels along with the hilarious film clips is both a loving 
 tribute and a side-splitting parody.
  
  Thanks to simple controls and the inspired decision to not penalise mistakes harshly, anyone can 
 pick up a joypad and instantly have fun. But in response to the original's popularity among hardcore 
 gamers, levels are now significantly larger and the puzzles more complex, which might mean youngsters 
 need an occasional helping hand.
  
  Fortunately, this is a perfect game for parents to enjoy with their kids. It fosters teamwork, 
 lets players jump in and out of the action and it does not matter if one player is more skilled 
 than another.
  
  Other improvements include a lot more secrets to reveal, more Lego building elements, new (and 
 amusing) melee attacks, the chance to dodge incoming fire, animals to ride and vehicles to pilot, 
 such as X-wings, Snowspeeders and the Millennium Falcon. Vehicle-based stages are now more in keeping 
 with the on-foot action and plenty of ships are available, ensuring young players don't get frustrated.
 
  
  The number of secrets to unlock makes the prospect of replaying levels even more appealing, especially 
 with such a large cast. There's also a new character-combination feature that lets you mix parts 
 from different characters to make new heroes, such as Han Vader.
  
  Endgame: A wonderful game that rewards experimentation and co-operation. Great fun for all ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozitt
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  OK so I know that Lego Star Wars II is generally meant to be a kids game, but to be honest I really 
 really enjoyed it. Not being a huge fan of the Star Wars movies, I was a bit dubious to actually 
 try this game. But I thought what the hell and gave it a blast. As soon as I loaded it up, that 
 was it for me. It had me hooke for the next month! So the camera angles can cause you to die if 
 your not concentrating sometimes, and the graphics do not make the most from the 360, but the gameplay 
 and addictivness makes up for this 10x.
  With each movie broken down into 6 levels each and three bonus levels for each movie, plus the 
 Bounty Hunter missions and the Lego City, there is loads to keep your little fingers busy.
  Loads of fun little extras and humerous story lines and characters, this game would have anyone 
 release their inner child for an hour or so a day!
  The only annoying thing is that there are two glitches in the game that cause your 360 to freeze, 
 these however are easily avoided. When you encounter them just consult xbox. com forum and then 
 you'll be back on your way to 100% completion.
  
  Buy it - dont rent it - buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 2, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I really am truly sorry for turning against Star Wars like this, but this is ridiculous. The graphics 
 and funny commercials don't show the real Lego
  Star Wars II. The actual truth? Disappointment. That's all that's there, pal. The
  spaceship controls 
 are even worse than its predecessor, the sound is dull
  and unexciting, and the gameplay overall is a total lack of effort. Not to mention the camera is 
 terrible. The controls are even worse. There are glitches in this game that are more than common. The 
 only thing I found
  enjoyable in this game was the outstanding graphics. Don't get me wrong;
  this isn't the worst 
 game on the market. But believe me. Any Star Wars fan
  will be disappointed at the lack of effort in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II may look a little kiddies' game but it is pretty fun. In the oringal Lego Star 
 Wars you played in the first 3 movies (Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones, Revenge of the Sith) . 
 In this one you play in the first movies (yearwise) but the last four (numberwise) thats confusing 
 enough. So here is my review!
  
  Gameplay: Lego Star Wars II's gameplay is much like the oringal Lego Star Wars fun and short. You 
 start the game as Princess Leia on the Rebel ship and you end the game in a happy celebration. 
 You can play as anybody in the movies (well almost) and fly in a whole lot of vehicles. You can 
 even make 2 of your own chracters mine is a mix between Chewbacca and the Slave Girl Leia (yes 
 its strange looking) but its cool. There are a whole lot of extras to get which make the game even 
 funnier. But the only thing i don't like is the shortness of the game. Plus the achivements are 
 pretty easy and fun to get. ;)
  8 out of 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very colorful you can even see yourself in the floor (sometimes) . Good 
 job imperial janitors cleaning the floor :) I was gonna give a 7 but its a Lego game so it gets 
 an 8.
  8 out of 10
  
  Sound: This game will not win any voice acting awards they just mumble the gun shots and lightsabers. 
 But there is Star Wars music but still the voice acting hurts you Lego!
  6 out of 10
  
  Overall: 8.0 great
  
  This game is pretty fun and is always fun to play!
  
  A good buy 
 for anybody but it is short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is an easy, pick up and play which has houes of play time. Even though this was 
 designed for children it has found an audience of older gamers. Graphics are actually pretty good, 
 controls are easy and the music is still good. You can even customize new lego characters. The 
 story takes place at the start of episode 4. So luke must stop the evil darth vader and bring peace 
 to the galaxy. This is a must have for any bodies collection. When do you think there will be a 
 lego Lord of the rings game. As long as they stop making that crapy bionicle game, their should 
 be more good games featuring legos. MINIMATES  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_cheater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is a pretty solid game, with lots of collectables and many things to do to clear 
 the 100 percent tile. Still its not quite as good as other action platformers out there. There 
 were a few things in the game that just seem to make it more frustrating or tedious. Like sometimes 
 whenever I used a Lightsaber, the hit detection was way off. I would notice my saber going though 
 enemies and then finally hitting them. There was a glitch in super story mode on Ep.6. Where it 
 freeze up during the 4th chapter. Sure theres a way to avoid it but cmon it shouldnt even be 
 there. The flying levels would have been better if they put a u-turn button in there instead of 
 you having you push the opposite direction to do it. But my biggest gripe about the game would 
 be the fact that you cant have the studs automatically come towards you when youre near. What 
 I mean by this is I want them to come to me just like the bolts do in Ratchet and Clank. Also finding 
 a lot of studs in the levels got tedious after awhile. Having to use the force on every nook and 
 cranny gets really boring.
  
  I like the look with the legos and stuff. The music was good but I dont know how you could screw 
 up the music when you take it from the movies. The gameplay was a bit average, but it took me 30hrs 
 to complete everything so it has some value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  For most of you who played the first game on the XBox, you'll probably be disappointed. The game 
 is still good, but it's almost exactly what you can get on the XBox, only a little worse. The game 
 can get addicting quick, but you will eventually get burnt out of just spending all your time collecting 
 little plastic blocks (Legos) . The co-op can be quite fun, but when me and my brother play it together 
 its always, THAT WAS MY BLOCK!!! 'BEEW' 'BEEW' ARGH! ... You get the point. For those who buy this 
 game, you were better of renting it or not even going near it, so don't expect much of anything 
 new......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottPut
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Following up the first Lego Star Wars this second installment adds the satisfying link between 
 the first three episodes and the last three. Playing though the levels was fairly straight forward 
 with a few confusing spots. With some added twists it made the game play more enjoyable. With tons 
 of points to score completing certain things (ex: complete 100% of game = 180 points) Although 
 I was disappointed with the graphics of some of the star destroyers and other star-ships. This 
 game really felt like the first one with just a fresh coat of paint. None the less, it's still 
 fun... suggest renting it not wasting the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Last year I picked up Star Wars Episode III, and reluctantly shelled out $50 for Lego Star Wars, 
 expecting it to be simply a nice addition to my wide range of Star Wars video games purchased. 
 It just turned out that Lego Star Wars turned out to be completely superior to the Episode III 
 game (with more realistic graphics) .
  
  Lego Star Wars II does a very nice job building on the success of the past game, putting in some 
 new features, and well utilizing the much better source material of the original Star Wars series.
 
  
  This game is a pretty easy pickup for anyone who enjoys beat'em up games OR Star Wars. You should 
 note the game IS pretty easy, but the achievements and unlockables put throughout the levels will 
 likely keep you busy and is really the main part of the game's challenge (not the fighting) ... which 
 I would also argue is its biggest flaw.
  
  So if your not into collecting coins or secrets, you will probably just find the game to be fun, 
 but extremely easy, so to really enjoy it you have to get yourself into a bit more of a treasure 
 hunter mindset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first heared the announcment of the Lego Star Wars games, I like so many other diehard wars 
 fans snubed my nose up thinking it was going to be some dull childs game. I couldn't have been 
 further from the truth, and I'm honest in saying that I judged this game way to quickly.
  
  As with the previous game you can switch from character to character, depending on the level your 
 on, so if you have a favorite its just a push of Y away to get them. Now what makes the game so 
 great is the co-op play. Its fun to invite a brother or sister, even friends or parents to jump 
 in and play with you, and since the game is easy to play and family friendly anyone can get into 
 it. The storyline follows the movies very well, but what makes that aspect of the game so great 
 is that every chapter has some great gag or joke that'll make you laugh and talk about it with 
 your friends for a while.
  
  Overall Lego Star Wars II is a great (if simple) game that anyone can jump into and enjoy, I myself 
 'am a Star Wars fan who as a child played with Legos... so after giving it a try it realy spoke 
 to me.
  
  The only real downside I can say is that the game does have an odd camara system, often times if 
 your playing with someone who is pushy they can actualy get the camara to force you into one of 
 the games many pits of death... thus hurting your stud rating for the level.
  
  On the upside though the game has tons of content, and though you may play through the game in 
 a mater of hours (about 10-12hours for us, I wasn't counting but thats my guess) you can return 
 to the the levels and play through with new characters, this unlocks whole sections of the level 
 that you couldn't play from the start. The best example is the first level where you have no jedi 
 characters, you come back with a jedi character and the level literaly doubles in size. Now not 
 every level is like that but the point is the game has a ton of hidden content you can search for, 
 and with Xbox Lives acheavements its always fun to add more badges to the profile.
  
  Over all Lego Star Wars is a low stress high fun game that I would recomend to just about anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game with a really fun angle on the star wars trilogy. The huge downer on the 
 game is the length - it plays like the movies hence takes 4.5 hours to complete on story mode leaving 
 only to achievement grind. Those 4.5 hours are probably the best game I ever played and I did the 
 whole lot in co-op mode with my brother who loved it to. The levels are challenging but clear - 
 if you see something you have fun trying to get it right. The game stays true to the movie and 
 avid star wars fans will love being in the thick of it - you dont just stay as luke either, you 
 can participate in every good character including stealing AT-STs and then in freeplay (achievement 
 grind) you can be anyone you want. There is an invincibility mode &amp; the forum on gamespot is 
 full of great hints to ease the grind. The lego element is excellent and heavily dominates the 
 game providing much fun - its not just lego &amp; star wars either - the two are combined seemlessly 
 taking the right parts from each.
  Definitely worth a blast but wait til it hits the bargain bucket or rent it so that you dont spend 
 &pound;50 on 4.5 hours fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagusMaleficus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I never got around to playing the original Lego Star Wars game, though I really wanted to... I'm 
 a pretty big Star Wars fan (not enough to sleep overnight for tickets, though) , so it had instant-appeal 
 for me. There was one slight turn-off, though: it was set in the prequel trilogy. Now, I'm not 
 one of those people that just straight-up hate the prequels; in fact, I like them quite a bit. 
 However, they just don't hold a candle to the Holy Trilogy. Naturally, I was really excited to 
 hear about the newest Lego Star Wars game - set during the original trilogy! A fun-filled romp 
 through Tatooine, Hoth, the moon of Endor, etc, controlling little Lego versions of Han, Luke, 
 Leia... Squee!!! Honestly, I'm extremely biased in this instance. I love Star Wars so much, I'm 
 sure there's quite a few issues with the game I just didn't notice. OK, well, I did notice a few...
 
  
  The framerate is pretty much solid, but there were a few issues with v-sync here and there - though 
 nothing major. Some of the platforming is hit-or-miss now and again ... literally, in some cases. 
 The game also gets a bit too repetitive after a few hours. If you're as big of a Star Wars nut 
 as I am, these problems might not seem so bad. If not, well, they might just piss you off. Then 
 again, what kind of person rents a Star Wars game if they don't like Star Wars?
  
  Wait... Here's a better question: who the hell doesn't like Star Wars? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that 'Traveller's Tales' was making a game that combined Legos and Star Wars...... I 
 was skeptical, to say the least. It sounded like a horrible marketing nightmare gone wrong. Of 
 course, the first game was a minor hit and could have been better if it had better source material 
 (Episodes I &amp; II suck) . But when they announced that they were making a game based on the original 
 trilogy, I had to have it.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LSW) is one of the most addicting, collect-a-thons I have 
 ever played. The game itself has it's annoying points (the camera is terrible) , but there is no 
 denying the charm that this game exudes. You start the game off in the cantina from Episode IV. 
 This will serve as your hub to get to all of the levels you will play on. You then play through 
 all of the main parts of the trilogy, Lego style. Basically, this means that you run around shooting 
 a lot and kicking butt with your jedi. The action and gameplay are very simple, yet very addicting. 
 Almost everything in the game can be destroyed for 'Lego Studs'. This serves as the currency in 
 the game and enables you to purchase (at the cantina) additional characters, secrets, and other 
 neat stuff.
  
  The characters in the game are all very 'cute'. It's even hard to look at Darth Vader and not crack 
 a smile. The combat itself is very simplistic to the point of this being a game aimed towards a 
 younger audience. This isn't a bad thing, however. The combat isn't why you are playing this game 
 anyways. You will be playing this game to collect a bunch of stuff and play through the Episodes 
 IV, V, &amp; VI universe. Traveller's Tales has also added quite a bit of humor to the game and 
 it's cut-scenes. Even the most important moment in the whole trilogy (when Vader tells Luke that 
 he is his father) is done in an amusing way that will have you laughing at your screen.
  
  Each level also has TONS of secrets. This game has been designed to be played through several times 
 &amp; it shows that very quickly. The game has a few different 'character classes', so to speak. 
 There are the 'blasters' (basically every character that doesn't fit into the next three classes) , 
 force users, droids, and bounty hunters. While playing through the story mode, you only have access 
 to the characters that were actually there in the movie. After you beat that level, however, you 
 can return with a different set of characters and open up a bunch of secrets. Obviously this makes 
 the game highly replayable and you will have to do this if you want to find most of the game's 
 hidden goodies.
  
  And that is where the addiction comes in. The game keeps track of your overall progress with a 
 percentage meter in the cantina. Almost everything you unlock in the game increases this meter. 
 In another genius move, Traveller's Tales made many of the achievements tie into this and it's 
 VERY addicting to try to get them all. They could've taken the easy way out and just plopped the 
 1000 on completing the story mode and some extra stuff. But since there is so many secrets and 
 game modes (there are several you open up after beating each epsiode) , making the achievements 
 based on full game completion was a great idea.
  
  If you only play the story mode, the game won't last you very long. I didn't keep track of the 
 exact time, but you could easily beat it in a weekend. Like I said before, the true fun comes from 
 using all the different characters on the levels to discover previous unlockable areas. Even though 
 this is a great game or all ages of gamers, it does have it's annoying problems.
  
  The camera is the main problem you will encounter in the game. For some reason, they didn't feel 
 the need to give you full conrols over your view of the surroundings. Some of the forced views 
 are annoying and you get blasted from off-screen WAY too much. Another problem I had with the game 
 stems from the difficulty imbalance. In general, the game is very easy. You never really 'die' 
 or anything. If you run out of hearts, the game just forces you to drop some cash and revives your 
 character. The problem is that you only have four hearts and you get attacked from all sides quite 
 often. There are parts that there is really no chance for survival no matter what you do. It's 
 not a big deal, since you can't really die, but some of the achievements are tied to going through 
 a level without being defeated . Thankfully, three of the characters you can purchase are the ghost 
 versions of Anakin, Obi-Wan, and Yoda. They can only die by falling off a ledge. Which brings me 
 to another minor problem......
  
  The controls are very loose. This isn't a problem most of the game, but there are few parts where 
 you have to platform jump and it can be frustrating. Even more frustrating are the re-spawning 
 enemies. There are many times in the game where you have to build lego versions of doors or platforms 
 to progress further in the level. Some of these situations are hindered by the fact that you can't 
 build while being hit by enemy fire. It's very annoying when you are trying to build a door and 
 you keep getting hit by some re-spawning stormtrooper off-screen with a blaster.
  
  My last problem with the game is the fact that you are stuck with some very useless A. I. characters 
 through most of the game. Now when I say useless , I mean more useless than any other game in the 
 history of mankind . It's not a game-killer because your companions can't die either, but in some 
 of the bigger firefights in the game...... it's mind-boggling annoying. There is an instance where 
 you run into a room FULL of stormtroopers (it's also a scene in Episode IV) , and your other character 
 literally just stands there watching you get fired at. And most of the time, the computer A. I. 
 focuses it's attention on you no matter what.
  
  Other than those minor faults, this game is great. It is obivous, however, that this was designed 
 with the Xbox/PS2 generation in mind. The graphics aren't up to par with the rest of the 360 library 
 of games. What it lacks in technical prowess, 'LSW' makes up for it in sense of style. The levels 
 all look nice and are laid out perfectly to have fun in. The characters all look great and are 
 definately interesting because...... well....... they are lego characters in the Star Wars universe.
 
  
  Another plus is the music and sound effects. If you have ever seen these movies (which I assume 
 if you are playing this game that you have) , then you will know what to expect here. All of it 
 is in excellent quality and for some reason I never get tired of hearing that Star Wars theme. 
 There isn't any voice acting in the game and that's a definate plus. Spoken dialogue wouldn't have 
 fit in the style of this game &amp; probably would've been horrible anyways.
  
  If you want this game to last, it will definately take you awhile to fully complete. There are 
 so many gameplay modes and secrets that this could have you busy for 40+ hours or so trying to 
 unlock everything. There isn't any multiplayer, but it doesn't really need one. Like I mentioned 
 before, this is one of the better games I have seen in the way it distributes it's achievements. 
 And if you want to play as the characters from Episdoes I, II, or III........ you can purchase these 
 characters over Xbox Live and play them in the game. It was very fun to use Darth Maul to take 
 on his master, Darth Sidious. Or you can just bring Jar Jar along with you to kill him over and 
 over like they should have done in the movies.
  
  For any Star Wars fan, this is a must purchase. There is a ton of content here, if you want to 
 put the time in. And it's a very fun game that takes a lighthearted approach towards one of the 
 best film trilogies of all time. Even though the game has several annoyances, there is no denying 
 the charm that run through almost everything in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puppiemaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  One of the game's greatest assets is how easy it is to play. You only need to press two buttons 
 throughout the entire game, and you'll re-spawn instantly if you absorb too many blaster shots. 
 The challenge is in finding everything the levels have to offerthere are more secrets to uncover 
 than in Boba Fett's backstory. While the flying missions aren't as fun as they should be, and navigation 
 in some levels is confusing, few games bring as much unadulterated joy as this. At the end of Episode 
 V, Darth Vader explains, non-verbally, that he is Luke's father. When Luke resists, Vader doesn't 
 argue. (He can't, since the game features no dialogue.) Instead, he produces a picture of himself 
 with Queen Amidala. Brilliant.
  
  Frustration sets in when: The enemies ferociously attack whatever character you're controlling, 
 while your sidekicks are borderline useless. It'd be nice if their blaster fire could put away 
 a few storm troopers.
  
  Final judgment: It certainly isn't gaming's greatest challenge, but it's absolutely fun. If you've 
 seen the original trilogy, don't resist! Join the LEGOside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Both Lego Star Wars games are great fun. The characters are charming, the scenery clearly recognisable 
 from the films (and as lego pieces) and full of fun anims and cut-scenes that will have you chuckling.
 
  I play both games with my 6 year old on the GC and 360 and he plays with his friends and our neighbours' 
 kids - the games have brought hours of fun.
  Gripes include occasional bugs, like characters getting stuck on the scenery (or spawning on the 
 edge of a ledge, only to immediately fall to their death over and over) , the fact that it's not 
 always immediately obvious what you should be doing on some of the puzzles and the rather nasty 
 greedy streak that sometimes crops up, which has you competing with your younguns for the studs!
 
  All in all, great entertainment for kids and adults alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I really don't understand why this game did not get a higher rating. I absolutely loved it. Here 
 were the things to love. Number one is the fact that you can play in the star wars universe with 
 a partner in the same game co-operatively. I want my wife to play Gears of War on the split screen 
 with me. Nothing doing. But she will do this game. Number two is the over all attitude of the game 
 play itself. I loved the way that when some things got shot, they would make little ugh sounds 
 or the way that the over all slap-stick element was implemented was great. Third was the hilarious 
 attempt at trying to personalize your character. Today's games are absolutely filled with character 
 building, face creating, body shaping and the like. In this Lego Star Wars game you get to pick 
 out the lego pieces that build up your character. - Hilarious. Bottom line is - it is a cute fun 
 game for all ages. Cool. Need more games like this one. Good Job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the first one, but I probably will now! If I can find it for the 360, that is. 
 This game is great fun for my daughter and I to pick up and tool around in for an hour, and easy 
 to put away whenever . The levels aren't overly huge (so far... we're not done yet) and even at 
 4 she is perfectly capable of doing everything that needs doing. Well... there are some flying 
 sequences that she's not enchanted with, but that's where the drop in/drop out play is _really_ 
 sweet. She just drops herself out when things get too crazy and I finish the sequence without her 
 dragging me down. Then she hops back in we continue on.
  
  I've not played alot of platformers (generally I'm a PC gamer, FPS and .. well.. er... tactical 
 FPS :) but I've enjoyed some of these on the 360 because my kids can play, too. Star Wars is one 
 of my favourite movie series of all time, IV-VI in particular, and this game plays through the 
 best scenes of each movie. The characters are lego, but with fun personality twists in the cutscenes 
 and it's all good fun. The graphics are fine and the sound is great (love that musical score!!) . 
 The levels are easy enough to just get through , but I've sometimes more than an hour apiece hunting 
 around for the little extras to really complete them.
  
  All in all, this is a great family game... actually it's just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  The first thing that you notice when you play this game is how deceptively simple it is. Is is 
 designed to keep playing through the stage no matter how many times you die.
  
  In this regard, it is a perfect babysitting game, but don't resolve to leave it in the kiddie collection, 
 this game offers so much to the adult gamer that you can't help but want to do as much as you can 
 in it.
  
  There is something about playing through the game that brings out the child in you. I played with 
 my cousin and we screamed and fought and absolutely had a ball. Playing through the various stages 
 and their Lego themed environments, you can't help but enjoy the nostalgic material on offer.
 
  
  The game itself offers heaps of gameplay and various challenges, all done with tongue in cheek. 
 The game is a great example of what can be achieved for a universal target audience using an original 
 idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kintzer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this game, I was admittedly skeptical. I could hardly envision myself blasting 
 stormtroopers in Lego form. I was pleased to discover that my worries were for nothing. This game 
 is one of those that can only be described as Fun. The cinematics and wordless dialogue are cleverly 
 scripted to provide gamers with a level of immersion that is not only recognizable to hard core 
 Star Wars fans, but also to those who have never seen the movies. The game play works for this 
 game. There are no controls out of place or clunky. The sound is a match to those from the movies. 
 As for graphics, It's Lego! One cannot expect realistic graphics where Legos are concerned. Therefore, 
 gamers should recognize the game for what it is, a Star Wars spoof using Legos as the medium with 
 which the story is told. Of particular note is the blur effect on near objects while viewing distant 
 objects and vice versa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2 is a game based on the star wars movies 4,5,6. The game is very easy, but the 
 annoying space battle controls and the frustrating camera angles can get in the way of what is 
 otherwise a fun game to play. The graphics in this 360 version are good, with detailed reflections 
 off of the armor and detailed environments. The sound in this game is awesome, because, of course, 
 it contains the classic star wars soundtrack. There is no voice acting, though. Value is ok, with 
 being able to go back and play the levels to collect minikits, and gold bricks which unlock bonus 
 levels. One of the funnest things for me was unlocking all the different characters. And don't 
 forget, you can mix and match their body parts to create new people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunicom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was originally designed to be a family game ... but whether you have kids or not, it's 
 fun to play just the same. The video clips are hilarious and poke a lot of fun at the original 
 trilogy. The gameplay is pretty good given that it's geared to be pretty easy to understand and 
 accomplish. You can finish the Story Mode for all 3 Episodes in less than 10 hours. But if you 
 want to be hardcore and accomplish everything there is in the game, it's gonna take you about 20-30 
 hours to get everything. I've finished everything with the Story Mode and the Freeplay Modes and 
 got all the extras to accomplish everything at 100% in about 25 hours. Some achievements that I 
 didn't bother to get are the Undefeated Achievements for each mission.
  
  All in all, if you want to play something cute and funny without too much trouble, pick this up 
 and give it a go. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac81
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game can be loved by just about anyone. From a 4 year old to adults, to die hard Star Wars 
 fans.
  
  This game is very simple in nature, as a third person shooter / driving game. It follows the storylines 
 of the old Star Wars films with every tiny detail included in full Lego style. Every character, 
 vehicle and set is made entirely of lego pieces, that some people would remember playing with during 
 their childhood (I know it brought back many happy memories for me!) The colourful visual style 
 can be enjoyed by the youngsters and the game also adds in it's own little flavour with comical 
 actions and cheeky suggestions from the characters during the course of the game that adults will 
 find humorous.
  
  For the gamer addicts there are many side missions and objects to collect to finish the game with 
 100%.
  
  Hats off to the developers of this title, a job well done. Definitely worth a play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjserkland
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Simple yet absorbing game play, clean and detailed graphics, and ample humor make this game well 
 worth its asking price. In a nut shell this game is all about exploration and problem solving. 
 It reminded me of the adventure games of yesteryear where finding all the treasure was the goal. 
 Here the treasure is achievement points wrapped up in classic Star Wars goodness. The puzzels are 
 not overly hard or frustrating and the many things to find and do give this game a great amount 
 of re-playability.
  
  Best of all it has a very adequate co-op mode that may be invaluable to some of you. Girlfriends/wives 
 may find they actually enjoy video games while playing through the original Star Wars alongside 
 their significant other. Granted at times it can cause some tension and frustration, but with a 
 little patience she'll be begging to co-op with you on Gears of War.
  
  This is a very fun game and I am eagerly looking forward to future Lego games. I've heard The Batman 
 may be the next in line for lego treatment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game, you deserve it. That may sound a little odd, but if you're a Star Wars fan, you 
 should buy this games because it is true to the whole expanded universe. If you're not that big 
 of a Star Wars fan, then why are you reading this? Just joking. The game is a lot of fun for absolutely 
 everyone. The graphics in the game aren't mindblowing, but they are subtly great. They completely 
 immerse you in the Lego/Star Wars environment. Sound is Star Wars. What more needs to be said.
 
  
  Gameplay is great. I really enjoy the ability to fight both on the ground with characters, or in 
 space with the ships. The replayability of this game is great, especially if you want to get all 
 of the achievments. In fact, you've got to play levels over and over in order to complete every 
 achievment. That's a good thing though since almost without exception, the level design makes you 
 want to play more. Bottom line, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game plays the same as the previous Lego Star Wars. The graphics are a little better on the 
 XBOX 360, but not by much. The game is perfect for kids, adults that don't know how to really play 
 video games, or just Star Wars fans. It is not much of a challenge, but the idea is just to play 
 through the Original Trilogy we all grew up watching. It does offer replay value going back through 
 in free mode so you can play all the unlocked characters and find the rest of the lego pieces. 
 It is pretty cool playing as Han Solo, Darth Vader, and pretty much anyone you can think of except 
 Jaba. Co-op is a lot of fun.
  
  Overall, it is better than the last game but mostly because it is the original trilogy. Unless 
 you are a huge fan, I wouldn't really buy the game since it is too short. Better to rent it, or 
 you will get bored with it fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy continued the trend started with Lego Star Wars, and 
 applied it to the original trilogy.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy was essentially identical to its predecessor, the key 
 differences being the playable characters and the settings of the videogame.
  
  At its heart, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy took two incredible properties, namely 
 Legos and Star Wars, and combined them in what can only be described as a fanboy's dream. Following 
 the successful release of Lego Star Wars, the next logical step was to produce a videogame featuring 
 the settings from the original trilogy.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy allowed the player to essentially play the scenes from 
 the final three films in a Lego setting. Everything appeared to have been built out of Legos, and 
 when destroyed appeared as a pile of Legos. Jedi characters could even use the Force to form piles 
 of Legos into useful items like platforms.
  
  The videogame game allowed the player to switch between any allied characters on the screen, as 
 different characters had different abilities which would have to be called upon in order to advance 
 through the levels; for example, droids were necessary to open many doors.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy was clearly designed for children; the puzzles were simplistic 
 and the player was granted infinite lives which assured game completion. However, the game was 
 still a joy to play for the older generations, raised on Star Wars and Legos alike, in the days 
 before Episodes I, II, and III, who yearned for the two properties to be combined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Unless you dont have a brain, which some people don't, you have heard of Lego Star Wars 2, but 
 now you will hear if it is any good. So in the first Lego Star Wars video game, you got to play 
 all of the adventures of the second Star Wars trilogy. Which is great and all, but it left a lot 
 of people thinking Hey, We want to play the original trilogy also! So their wish was granted, when 
 Lucas Arts Games released a sequel to Lego Star Wars called Lego Star Wars 2: The original trilogy. 
 The game added a lot of comedy to the game, to make it that much better, and you know what, I think 
 it is even better than the first.
  
  So first we take a look at the gameplay. The story, most people are familiar with because they 
 saw the movies. You will be able to play most of your old favorite Star Wars characters such as 
 Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, R2 D2, and even Chewbaca. The gameplay mechanics are very similar to 
 the first Lego Star Wars game. The controls were basically un touched, as they are about the same 
 as the other Lego Star Wars game. And of course at the end of every story, there will be a light 
 saber fight. Which actually aren't that much fun. But they weren't that much fun in the first game 
 either, so I wasn't very dissapointed. Heck, the light saber itself isn't very fun to use. Sometimes 
 whenk I was in a lightsber fight I just thought Ga! Why cant I just shoot him already!? In most 
 Star Wars games I have looked foward to using my lightsaber. Well not in this one.
  
  Dont come into Lego Star Wars II expecting a huge weapon set, because you will be dissapointed 
 a lot. But noone really expects a big weapon set from the Lego Star Wars games, or from almost 
 any pick up and play Star Wars game. But depending on which character you play as, you might get 
 a diffrent weapon. Like Chewbaca has a diffrent weapon, as his weapon resembles a Cross bow with 
 bullets, just like in the movies. And if you play as any jedi in the game, of course you will have 
 a light saber and a couple cool force powers, which will be a key factor in completeing the game. 
 The game is also very short, and can be beaten in 5 to 10 hours at the most.
  
  Well overall Lego Star Wars 2 is fun at times, but it is missing some things. The puzzle solving 
 is quite fun also. The gameplay is flawed, and not even close to perfect, but is enjoyable at times. 
 The gameplay gets a Seven out of Ten.
  
  The graphics in Lego Star Wars II are a lot better than what I had expected. I mean, the Lego Star 
 Wars games aren't exactly known for having amazing graphics or anything. But I have this to say 
 to Lego Star Wars II: Welcome to the Xbox 360.
  
  The Xbox 360 really improves the graphics a ton from the original Lego Star Wars. The lighting 
 effects in the game are actually pretty good. But they will not blow you away or anything. And 
 you can see all of the shine coming of of the characters that you are playing as, or fighting against. 
 I was really surprised by how well the graphics were. Like I said they're not gonna blow you away 
 or anything, but they are a lot better than what you would come to expect from Lego Star Wars 2.
 
  
  Other than what I have just mentioned, everything else is just like the old Lego Star Wars. Cartoony 
 and goofy looking. But that really isn't a bad thing, because that is what Lucas Arts was trying 
 to do. I mean seriously, they weren't trying to blow people away with the graphics or anything, 
 which im pretty sure they didn't do to anyone, but they just tried to make it look funny and really 
 cartoony. And you know what, I think that they did a very fine job doing that.
  
  Well overall, the graphical presentation is heavily improved thanks to the fact that it is on the 
 Xbox 360. And the lighting effects are actually pretty solid. But the rest is basicly cartoony 
 which is perfectly fine by me. But like I said, they were just trying to make a cartoony looking 
 game. And I think they did a pretty good job. Which is why I give the graphics of Lego Star Wars 
 II: The Original Trilogy a very solid Eight out of Ten.
  
  The Sound in Lego Star Wars II: The original Trilogy is also done quite well. The game is very 
 funny to tell you the honest truth. This game made me laugh a lot. There is a scene were all these 
 storm troopers are in this hot tub with drinks and things. And a lot of why that is so funny has 
 to do with the sounds presentation. There are no voice overs in the game. Which is no big deal 
 to me, since I wasn't really expecting there to be any voice overs. But you still have all of the 
 classic Star Wars noises that we have grown to love. Like for instance, The gun shot noises coming 
 out of the blasters that you use sounds like it came right from the original movies. And in case 
 you are wondering, that is a good thing.
  
  Also, you have the same old noises from the lighsabers that everyone loves so much. Ok, I dont 
 know about everyone, but I like it. But just because of this doesn't mean there are no flaws at 
 all. There are some flaws with the sound. Like usually when you fire your blaster or what ever 
 gun you have the noise of the blasters sounds off too late, or in some rare cases to early. The 
 same thing happens when you interact with the inviroment. Sometimes the correct noises will happen 
 either to early, or to late. Which is not so great.
  
  Overall, I think that Lucas Arts really did a good job with the Sound in Lego Star Wars II, but 
 it feels rushed at some parts like the noises not going off at the correct time. But I like all 
 of the old classic Star Wars noises that you get to hear in the game such as the blaster noises 
 and the lightsaber noises. I think that giving the sound in Lego Star Wars II The Original Trilogy 
 a Seven out of Ten seems fitting for a game like this. It has its ups and downs.
  
  Overall, it's not like Lucas arts was trying to get a game of the year award from this game. They 
 were just trying to make a fun game that everyone would enjoy. And I think they did a good job. 
 The game is fun, it has fun puzzle solving and cool powers, but is cut down by the fact that the 
 game is way to short and not really that hard. And the game looks really solid aswell. The lighting 
 is surpriseingly good and I like the cartoonish look. And the game sounds ok. But the noises not 
 happening in time or to early cuts it down. Overall, Lego Star Wars II The Original Trilogy is 
 a fun game, but is more fitting as a rental rather than a purchase. If you are just looking for 
 a fun game to keep you occupied for a few days than look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusedbird
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Fun game, graphics are good, but just a little better than the reg. xbox and ps2 versions. funny 
 at times, and cool if you follow starwars. only bad thingis that they don't talk, but other than 
 that, great game. Can be hard, at times. There are puzzles and stuff you have to figure out. Tons 
 of playable characters and levels. Lots of extras. There's alot more space battles than the first 
 lego starwars. :) In coclusion : good game. Great   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, in a galaxy not so far away, a man named George Lucas brought a story to life 
 that would profoundly touch and dazzle movie-goers, young and old. Soon after that, the motion 
 pictures would spin off countless games, on every platform imaginable. Toys derived from the movies 
 were also sold throughout the world. So, what was the next logical step for Sir Lucas? Combine 
 both, of course.
  
  In 2005, this became a reality. Publisher LucasArts and developer Traveller's Tales introduced 
 Lego Star Wars, a videogame that incorporated the wonderful world of Lego with the Prequel Trilogy 
 movies. The game was such a success that they decided to do it again, this time with the Original 
 Trilogy.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (clever name, huh?) is the name of the game. In this sequel, 
 you play through A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back &amp; Return of the Jedi as the characters 
 of the movies. The premise is exactly the same as the first game: you navigate through the levels, 
 shooting or striking down enemies while doing some platform jumping and puzzle solving.
  
  Although the premise is the same, the gameplay has been tweaked up a little bit since the first 
 installment. You now have the ability to ride the vehicles you build with your Legos (X-Wings, 
 TIE Fighters, the Millennium Falcon) or, in some cases, the beasts that lurk around. This is a 
 neat addition, but the vehicle riding can get really clunky at times. The camera angle is very 
 bad in some instances and hinders the gameplay a lot.
  
  The camera angles are the biggest problem with this game... again. Sadly, it has not been fixed 
 since the first game and can get very frustrating and annoying at times. For example, in the first 
 level, the camera is on the outside looking into the Star Destroyer as Leia fights her way through 
 a couple of Stormtroopers. When she gets close to a wall, you can't see her anymore, even if you 
 try rotating the camera.
  
  Playing through the Original Trilogy is a blast and will quite possibly attract more people to 
 the game, since these movies are usually well received and quite endearing. You'll get to play 
 through and witness every memorable moment from the movies, with a comical twist added. The comedy 
 has to be the best part of this game as it will have you laughing very often.
  
  You start the game off in the Mos Eisley Cantina. This is where you'll get to select your missions, 
 buy your characters and vehicles and build your Lego City with the golden blocks you'll have picked 
 up in your missions or bought at the store. Also located in the Cantina is a machine where you 
 can build your own custom-made character. Example: You can put Chewie's head on Vader's body, and 
 so on and so forth. This is a pretty cool feature and you'll have fun just seeing what the game 
 comes up with when it automatically mixes up the pieces.
  
  This game plays almost the same way the first one did. Pretty much everything in the environment 
 is destructible and will offer you some studs when they are destroyed. Studs are the currency you 
 use in the game to buy stuff from the Cantina store. Your party can vary from 2 to 6 characters 
 at times, and you can take control of them whenever you like. There are 3 character classes in 
 the game: the ones who wield guns (Han Solo, Lando, Leia, Chewbacca) , the Jedi (Luke, Yoda, Obi-Wan) 
 &amp; the droids (Artoo, Threepio) . Each character has a special move, as Jedi will move objects 
 with the Force and gun slingers will have grapple hooks. But the best one in the entire game is 
 Chewie's. He rips off Stormtroopers' arms when they get a little too close, bringing to mind the 
 coined phrase Yeah but droids don't rip people's arms out of their sockets when they lose .
  
  The game is once again incredibly easy. You can't adjust the difficulty in the game, but there 
 is an option you can select in the title screen that adjusts it while you play. Still, the game 
 remains easy. Aiming is as easy as pie. You can shoot in any general direction of an enemy with 
 a gun at you'll hit the target. The Lightsaber wielding is still a little bit iffy though, as you'll 
 often find your Jedi slashing through thin air while the enemy is attacking him. The artificial 
 intelligence of your computer controlled companions is very dumb, as they will just stand there 
 shooting at nothing while you do all the work.
  
  The story is a little longer than in the first game, but you can still finish it under 10-12 hours. 
 Of course, if you want to complete 100% of the game, you can go back and do the Bounty Hunter missions 
 and use other characters to reach certain places you couldn't go during your first play through. 
 There is still co-op gameplay here... but not online, which is a damn shame, especially for the 
 XBox 360 version. Online co-op would've been a very welcome and exciting feature here, but sadly, 
 it's absent.
  
  The graphics are pretty stunning for this type of game. You'll see light reflect off of the characters, 
 just like it would for a Lego figurine. The colors are sharp and the explosions are very well done. 
 There are a couple of framerate issues here, especially when there are a lot of things happening 
 onscreen, but nothing too major.
  The sound is pretty awesome and is what you'd expect from any Star Wars game. The orchestral soundtrack 
 is taken from John Williams' repertoire and sounds great... and you'll be happy to know that they 
 kept the original Yub Yub Ewok song at the end of Return of the Jedi.
  
  Lego Star Wars II is a pretty good game, albeit it's camera angle issues. If you're a Star Wars 
 fan of any kind, you'll love what they did with this game, as it ties in incredibly well with the 
 movies. Every kid from 8 to 88 years old will enjoy it and laugh most of the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBpacker888888
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Very fun game Must buy for Star Wars Fans Especially in Co-op They did a very good job making everything 
 look like the Movies but with Lego's The Graphics are decent, free play mode where you can use 
 diffirent characters in all the Levels is pretty cool. If you like Star Wars you have to have this 
 game. wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry 
 wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry 
 wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry 
 wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry wry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerado
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  After completing the original xbox version twice i was looking forward to this sequal gracing my 
 360 and was more than delighted when i first got hands on it. The humour is spot on. I dont know 
 who has worked on the video intervals but they are first class, funny for both kids and adults 
 alike. Now the gameplay : the only awkward part of the game is that you have a fixed camera and 
 cant really pan around when your going the platform part of the game - this is something though 
 that you get used to after a few minutes. The Graphics are the brilliant, absolutley spot on and 
 the developers have gone to great lengths to bring lego to every part of the game, much like the 
 original. All the characters look like the real life (starwars is real isnt it ?) counterparts 
 although Darth Vader does look like Rick Moranis in Spaceballs ! which makes it even more enjoyable. 
 If your looking for a game which brings fun when ever you play it, isnt difficult but is large, 
 with graphics that are brilliant then look no further than this beauty. One for the christmas list 
 Boomer
  
  www. boomersweb. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Following in the footsteps of its mega popular predecessor, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy 
 is another genuinely entertaining trip to that old familiar galaxy far, far away. While questionably 
 directed at the younger audience with its Lego themed world, Lego Star Wars II manages to attract 
 gamers both young and old with a perfect balance of charisma, humor, and difficulty. Just like 
 the original Lego Star Wars game where players played through the Star Wars prequel trilogy, 
 players are now able to play through the immensely more mature sequel trilogy that includes Episode 
 IV: A New Hope, Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, and Episode VI: Return of the Jedi.
  
  This means that instead of controlling the likes of the slapstick caricature Jar Jar Binks or the 
 annoyingly young Anakin Skywalker, gamers will be able to play with characters such as Luke Sykwalker, 
 Han Solo, or even the notorious Boba Fett. Not only are characters available to play with on ground 
 based levels, but spaceships like the Millennium Falcon and Tie fighters are also available to 
 fly with in numerous aerial and space combat levels.
  
  Depending on the age of the gamer, these old trilogy characters and ships will most likely leave 
 a warm nostalgic feeling rather than the nauseating feeling that the new trilogy characters and 
 ships tend to inflict.
  
  All three movies are broken up into six different levels that highlight the major plot points of 
 each film, such as escaping from the Death Star in Episode IV, flying in the snowy battle of Hoth 
 in Episode V, or finally confronting Darth Vader and the Emperor at the end of Episode VI. The 
 levels are then linked together with humorous beginning and ending cutscenes that not only helps 
 the story flow, but also keeps the game in a lighthearted perspective.
  
  As gamers run through and complete levels, there are many things to collect and places to explore. 
 Lego studs and Minikit pieces are placed throughout levels, and when collected can later be used 
 as a currency and exchanged for numerous other bonus characters or extras. By using these bonus 
 characters with their distinct size or power characteristics, players can access new areas in levels 
 that were previously unavailable in order to collect even more secret stuff.
  
  While the original Lego Star Wars was certainly packed with extras and secrets, this new game 
 offers quite a few more additions to the mix. A neat create-a-character mode has been added for 
 anyone who has ever wanted to see what Darth Vader would look like with C-3POs head or Chewbacca 
 with the arms of Princess Leia. It is a fun little gimmick, but the other aspects like two player 
 co-op and extra bounty hunter missions keep the game playable.
  
  Lego Stars Wars II is unquestionably a good game, but it is not without its drawbacks. The biggest 
 one is the stubborn camera that tends to frustrate rather than help, especially in two player mode. 
 Another drawback is the massive length of most levels. It might have been less exhausting if the 
 game had smaller, but additional, levels instead of six 15-20 minute levels in each chapter.
  
  With these few flaws overlooked, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is a great sequel 
 to the original game. It is packed with originality and entertainment that may appear geared toward 
 younger fans, but is smart and challenging enough to be enjoyed by any aged gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II brings a strange breed of humor into the Star Wars universe. Set in the realm 
 of Episodes IV, V, and VI, youll guide the Lego band of rebels against the force of the evil Empire, 
 smashing apart Star Destroyers and stormtroopers as you bring peace back to the galaxy. The game 
 offers a lot more content than its predecessor, although the majority of this extra content involves 
 running through the same areas, searching for the elusive minikits. Each episode also features 
 a bonus mode, with additional challenges such as breezing through the entire episode in a certain 
 amount of time and the character challenge, which has you collecting 1,000,000 Lego studs in under 
 five minutes! Once you reach a certain point in the game, you also unlock the Bounty Hunter missions, 
 where you lead a gaggle of bounty hunters through various maps, searching for characters to capture 
 for Jabba the Hutt. The different levels are a lot longer this time around than were featured in 
 the original Lego Star Wars! It takes a good 15-20 hours to breeze through the main story campaigns, 
 more so if you search for the Lego studs that act as the games currency. As in the first game, 
 acquiring a certain amount of studs earns you the exalted Jedi status, which will also earn you 
 a Golden Lego brick, which is used to build structures around the Mos Eisley Cantina. (oooooo) 
 The game provides an additional challenge by offering this Jedi status in Free Play mode, where 
 you wander around the same level, but with access to all your unlocked characters (or, rather, 
 an assortment of your unlocked characters.) Once again, getting the Jedi status earns you a Golden 
 brick, as does finding all the hidden minikits. And since the amount of Jedi you can play with 
 in these episodes is rather limited, every character (other than the droids) can build with Lego 
 bricks. Youll find piles of Lego bricks all over the place, and they can build everything from 
 consoles to vehicles. You can pilot various vehicles around, from tractors to X-Wings. In the Cantina 
 mode, you can also construct your own custom characters!
  
  The game isn't without its cosmetic flaws, the largest of which is centered around its sound. Quite 
 often, the sound effects will completely drop out, which tends to rob the game of a lot of its 
 impact. What's a Star Wars game without its customary blasts and lightsaber hums?
  
  This game is best experienced with two players, although some sequences do cause the other player 
 to have to drop out for a bit (mostly because the fixed camera will cause Player A to fall to 
 his doom if hes  by necessity  higher up or lower than Player B) . For one thing, its good to 
 have someone watch your back while youre building or Forcing Lego bricks around. Also, its a 
 lot of fun having someone to experience this wacky game with.
  
  While the game may not feature a lot of replay value, it is a lot of fun to go through at least 
 once, if for nothing more than to see a different view on the Star Wars universe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. It is really fun. It is also, in my opinion, way better than the predecessor. 
 Not only because the movies its based on are better, its also just a better game. Just buy this 
 game no matter what, it works for everyone. Don't ask me why, it just does. I didn't think i'd 
 like it at first, but i ended up liking it, but i need 100 words so i will explain why.
  
  1.) It is imaginative and fun
  
  2.) Fun Gameplay
  
  3.) Lots of extras and things to unlock 
 The only thing that i would say is wrong with it is that it is way too short and easy. So far i 
 have been playing for about four hours and i am half way through the 6th movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdZero54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is the sequel to the current gen game Lego Star Wars. Lego Star Wars II focuses 
 on the original trilogy of the Star Wars Universe of episodes 4-6. The game is pretty faithful 
 to the scenes of the movie, so even if you have not seen the films, you can still learn the story 
 from playing the game. While focused more for the younger audience that plays games, Lego Star 
 Wars is still a really fun game, despite some of its issues.
  There are a few problems with the game, but nothing that destroys the game play. There are some 
 camera issues that make it a little difficult to see some enemies, and sometimes your character. 
 Some of the levels also lack direction in certain areas. In a few of the levels, I was wandering 
 around for several minutes fighting an endless stream of enemies until I figured out what the key 
 was to go further.
  The graphics for the Xbox 360 look better than the PS2 and the Xbox versions of the game, however, 
 it is not leaps and bounds and what we have come to expect from Next-Gen. The controls for the 
 game are fairly simple and easy to learn within several minutes of playing the game. The game also 
 adds many secrets that will keep you playing through it several times over with different characters 
 in each level just to unlock certain extras.
  All in all, Lego Star Wars II is a good addition of the 360 and Star Wars universe. The few issues 
 that is does have does not stop the game from being fun, nor impossible to play. If youre a fan 
 of Star Wars or need a game to play with your kids, you can not go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Good- Very very funny; no talking, but can understands whats going on; fun and challaging puzzles; 
 many collectables; tons of characters; mix and match a character; co-op is fun
  
  BAD- graphics are good, but not realy good; cant understand story if you've never seen the movies.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Not much has changed since the 1st lego starwars, apart from that Normal people like Han Solo and 
 chubaka can build things, not just Jedis, gameplay can get abit repetative but the challaging Puzzles 
 brakes the ropes from Repetative, during the game you can collect collectables like rare golden 
 an red bricks and ship parts, try to get 100% true jedi story and many more
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The difference between the Xbox version and the 360 version is noticable, you can see this by the 
 360 version blurs out the edges and things close to the screen making it look better, but there 
 is'nt no difference on other hands
  
  SOUNDS-
  The original sounds from the movie is in here, from crackaling light sabers to blasters firing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic85044
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is the sequel to LEGO Star Wars, and is a great game, with 
 a lot of things to do in it.
  
  The gameplay of this game is very good, and the game has a very good story mode, because it's just 
 like the movies that it's based off of, even if te game has many little flaws with things like 
 graphcs and sund, but they certainly don't mare the enjoyable game that is underneath them.
  
  The game has a littl it of replay value, because you can play through each level again in Free 
 Play mode with a team that you make all on your own, where as you have a preset team of characters 
 when you play through on Story Mode.
  
  The raphics are good in thisgame, they definetly have a few flaws in them, and it all depends on 
 what game system you play on for ho sharp the graphics will look.
  
  The sound is very good and the music sounds just like it was taken directly out of one of the Star 
 Wars movies, although it has several flaws with the sound, the quality of it is very good.
  
  So if you are looking for a good gaming experience, you should definetly try this game, because 
 this game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Lego star wars 2 is a better game than number 1. it gives each characters cool new abilitys and 
 lets you play on tons of classic trilogy locations that any retro star wars fan would love. Lego 
 star wars 2 just isnt the game i myself could c owning. I mean i did buy it yes but its the kind 
 of game were u pick up for 1 hour and play. One of the nagging problems in Lego star wars 2 is 
 the annoying camera, when u walk around it goes totally off track and makes the gameplay somewhat 
 frustrating. Once the game has been beaten theres nothing really 2 do. After u beat it it becomes 
 one of the games that sits on your shelf and collects dust. Lego star wars 2 does make significent 
 improvements from the first one such as fun vehicle modes that were quite lacking i the first game. 
 Overall Lego star wars 2 is a fun game that will entertain u for a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars surpasses the first game just by the fact that is the original trilogy which is 
 loved by everyone, unlike 1-3. a very entertaining game using legos to create characters, vehicles, 
 weapons, and even levels. a fun mixture is I might add.
  
  gameplay - in story mode you are given specific character mainly featuring characters that apply 
 to the story and chapter. in free mode you are allowed to play characters you unlock from, passing 
 levels or buying them, or even unlocking them by passwords. overall - the game is extremely fun, 
 so those who look for something serious, go somewhere else. the is a challenging game though as 
 half the achievements are not dying in each level which is incredibly hard. if you enjoy the story 
 you will appreciate the similarities it has to the actual movie.
  
  MUST RENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdesign
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I won't go in depth about the lackluster.... hurry let's get this game out the door animation problems 
 in the game, but if you can overlook that, you can get some achievements, be the Emperor with lightning, 
 and destroy 3/4 of everything you see in every level and get rewarded for doing so.... plus you 
 get to fly the Millennium Falcon/X-Wing/, drive an AT-AT and other vehicles and play 2 player the 
 entire time while either in Story Mode or Free Play mode.... it's really a fun game! Too bad there 
 is NO CO-OP!!!!
  Either way, I like this game because I really like Star Wars and Lego's.... so having the 2 together 
 in a video game is fine with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_0f_Enigma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Never in my life had I played such a fun game. I never got to play the first because I'm not a 
 big fan of the newest trilogy, but thank God for this game, it made me go out and buy the first. 
 First, I have to say I am disappointed in many of the reviews I read around the net. This game 
 may be easy and repetitive, but it's damn fun, and thats all that matters. The humor in this game 
 actually made me laugh, which by all means is a good thing.
  
  This is the type of game that I was able to sit down and play with my 5 year old nephew without 
 him getting upset because something was too hard for him, or it being too mature for him. This 
 game is perfect for just the situation, not to mention it's also fun to play with friends.
  
  The graphics are sweet for them looking like Legos. I just can't get over the lightening and 
 texture of it all, exactly what I had thought it would be. Not to mention the animation of the 
 cutscenes are great too.
  
  The sound effects were great and all, but I wouldn't mind hearing a few voices in the game as well, 
 but that may have taken away from the humor, so all in all, it's fine the way it is.
  
  Gameplay is simple, very simple, but it's fun to swing around the lightsaber at oncoming stormtroopers 
 or shoot the blaster at whatever object can blow to bits. Something that I could personally do 
 for a long time.
  
  There isn't much else to say except get out there and buy or rent a copy and try it yourself. I 
 just love this game, and I know the average gamer would as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is a superior game than its predecessor for no other reason that it is a new 
 take on the original Star Wars trilogy, and not the rather lackluster prequels. Other than that, 
 everything good and bad from the first game reappears here.
  
  That means that the game's core sense of humor is in full bloom, in many ways far more effective 
 than in the previous game in the series. It's pantomimed action evades the weak link of most video 
 games these days -- attrocious voice acting. And the choice stands up. After all, fans of the original 
 trilogy already know the words by heart, and we don't need to hear them again, voiced badly by 
 some unknown actor.
  
  The presentation is excellent, even if the graphics themselves are just so-so. Partly this is due 
 to the Lego nature of the world, where things are mostly boxy. But there is little here, other 
 than the high resolution, which seems to take advantage of the 360's hardware. The game looks fine, 
 with a few glitches here and there, but aren't anything spectacular.
  
  Controls, on the other hand, remain a bit spotty. The game-controlled camera can be a bit irritating. 
 While it does lower the complexity for playing the game, more camera control might have made some 
 levels a bit less irritating. The game also does not take full advantage of the controller -- probably 
 another move to make the game easier, but which often just confuses things, and sometimes making 
 characters behave in unexpected ways. Irritating, but not a game-breaker.
  
  The gameplay is, for the most part, excellent. But there is very little variety. A few flying levels 
 add some, but not enough, texture to the game. The gameplay relies on the license. If it wasn't 
 the Death Star I was escaping from, I wonder if the gameplay would hold up.
  
  As it is, the length of the game (and it will take while for players to find every hidden item, 
 etc.) relies on replaying levels. The wide variety of characters to use makes this somewhat more 
 interesting. Still, some will find themselves a bit bored with the game after making it through 
 the story mode. The 360's achievement points will help push some to play the game more completely, 
 of course.
  
  There are a few irritations.
  
  First, each level has the trademark Star Wars scroll at the beginning, which cannot be skipped. 
 And with each level being replayed so many times, this gets very, very, very irritating. Perhaps 
 a patch could fix this problem.
  
  Second, the Jedi characters seem underpowered. Blaster characters are far more useful, particularly 
 when there are a lot of enemies on the screen, than Jedi are. And that just feels wrong to me. 
 But, as you're traveling with a group of characters, it's not really an impediment. It just feels 
 untrue to the Star Wars universe.
  
  Third, you really can't die. When you die in a level, you simply lose some Lego studs. But, given 
 that there is no in-level save feature, this is perhaps not the worst element of the game. The 
 result is that a great deal of the challenge is gone, even if it also eliminates a certain amount 
 of frustration.
  
  But for the most part, Lego Star Wars II pays off. The license itself is enough to keep most playing, 
 especially with its hilarious cut scenes. And for those obsessive compulsive gamers out there who 
 must find every secret and explore every nook and cranny, this game will keep you occupied for 
 quite a while.
  
  Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Some people with the first Lego Star Wars might have said it wouldn't work. But it sure did the 
 first time and it does even better the second time. The gameplay is still the same. You run, jump, 
 and gun. Yup, that is it. But remember it is a child-orientated game. The action in the game is 
 satifisfying enough, but it has a lack of challenge to it. Most of the lasers and lightsabers home 
 in on enemies and kill them in one hit. But to keep it from becoming a bore to play you only have 
 four health hearts, meaning in four hits you are dead. The graphics are nice and certainly have 
 the distinct Lego-style to them. Blocks make up most of the environment and even give off an explosion 
 of small lego pieces when you destroy the many destructible containers. My only gripe with the 
 graphics is that there isn't much to distinct between versions. From what I have seen, the Xbox 
 and the Xbox 360 variants look similar. But they get the job done. Sounds in the game are taken 
 straight from the movies, which isn't necassarly a wrong thing but is a little disapointing. The 
 game also doesn't have any voice acting but that also helps the lego charm and it is quite humorous 
 to see familiar Star Wars characters nodding and making grunting noises. Bottom Line: This an above-average 
 action game, and an incredibly good childrens game. I would highly recommend getting this for a 
 Star Wars loving kid, or a Star Wars loving adult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadcow1977
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  One of my earliest childhood memories is of burying Yoda in my mums rockery and losing him. Once 
 when I was off sick from school for a week I watched Episode IV no fewer than nineteen times, then 
 the tape broke. I was a member of the Star Wars fan club. I have an AT-AT in my loft and I own 
 an original Darth Vader and an Obi-Wan. Not the ones with the cloth capes, mind, the first releases 
 with the vinyl capes. I know Star Wars.
  
  When the first of these games came out I absolutely played it to death, it completely ate my life 
 for weeks on end, like no other game before it. I desperately needed every stud, every character, 
 every secret, like tiny plastic drugs, until I had all 100%. This one is no different. Those tiny 
 plastic people, I am relieved to say, are no less addictive than they were in the first game. If 
 you were expecting a radical departure from the first game, then prepare to be disappointed, and 
 delighted in equal measure, for Lego Star Wars is back and it is just as brilliant and in turns, 
 slightly more brilliant, than the last game.
  
  For the three people out there who didnt play the first game, a recap. Its Star Wars, but Lego. 
 Its the stupidest sounding, and most brilliant game youre ever likely to play, if you havent 
 bought it, then go buy it, and if you have bought it, then why are you buying games and leaving 
 them in the wrapping? Do you like the smell of them? Weirdo.
  
  On first glance, the basic format of the game remains unchanged, you start in the Mos Eisley cantina 
 with three large doors which represent the three movies, and behind these doors are a further nine 
 per movie, eight episodes and a further ninth door (which must be unlocked) which contains mini-games. 
 Behind each episodes door is either a platform level or a ship level, each door must be completed 
 in story mode to open up the next. Also, it initially appears that the game play itself hasnt 
 changed much, the platform levels still employ the same team dynamic as the first game, only certain 
 characters can perform certain actions, for example, droids cant build things out of the Lego 
 blocks that are scattered throughout the level, but they can open doors that the others cant, 
 so you need to use each characters unique skills to complete objectives within the level. You 
 still have to collect a certain number of studs in a level, there are hidden minikits to collect, 
 the free play mode is still here. It all feels familiar and on the face of it, possibly too familiar, 
 maybe a little lazy. But its the subtle nuances of this game that make it genius, that elevate 
 it so far above the original game.
  
  I suppose we should talk about the graphics. There has been some criticism that perhaps Lego Star 
 Wars doesnt push any boundaries, and that would probably be right, but lets be honest, this isnt 
 Gears Of War, these are tiny little plastic people, and generally plastic men dont have much call 
 for displacement-mapping, or real time self shadowing. Thats not to say that there arent some 
 nice touches, on the Xbox360 there is a brilliant depth of field effect that adds an extra layer 
 of solidity to the graphics, and princess Leias bobbly hair is superbly realised, and lets be 
 honest, the most important thing is Leias bobbly hair. In fact, each of the characters is brought 
 to life brilliantly by Travellers Tales artists; Han Solos permanently fixed lopsided grin is 
 genius. Also the story is told magnificently through the game graphics. The little Lego men cant 
 speak, so they convey emotions and plot entirely through body language and expressions, which for 
 a plastic figure with four points of articulation, is no mean feat; the moment in episode five 
 where Darth Vader reveals his secret to Luke, is realised with such utter hilarity that I had to 
 go and wee.
  
  Sound, equally has been created with the same attention to detail, all the usual are there, the 
 rousing Star Wars soundtrack, the hum of lightsabers the PEOW of the blasters and the screech of 
 passing TIE-Fighters is all present and correct, but again, what Travellers Tales has managed 
 to do is add emotion to the characters, without using actual voices, they all converse in a series 
 of grunts and other sounds, but all of these are matched to the characters, from the characteristic 
 click of a Storm troopers communication equipment, to the menace of Darth Vaders baritone asthmatic 
 breathing.
  
  The changes to the game play have been many, but subtle, enhancing what was already there rather 
 than major rewrites (with the exception of the space battles) , theres more stuff to build in this 
 one, including new vehicles that can be flown, or indeed stomped, around the platform levels, and 
 new doors that can only be opened by bounty hunters or Storm troopers, and disguises that allow 
 you to sneak round levels unseen. There are now many more subtle differences between the various 
 characters, some are slightly faster than others, but cant jump quite as far, for example, and 
 in this way you are encouraged to experiment with the different characters in free play and the 
 other modes, instead of just using Boba Fett all the time (come on, we all did that) , levels are 
 larger and slightly more freeform than before, the puzzles are slightly more complex, but only 
 in the way that felt tips are slightly more complex than crayons, and Travellers Tales have obviously 
 listened to their customers and discovered that collecting stuff is the main draw of this game, 
 because there are now more things than ever to collect, minikits, red bricks, gold bricks, studs, 
 cheats and characters. The space levels have seen the largest overhaul of all parts of the game. 
 Originally they felt like they were just tagged on last minute additions, whereas now they are 
 valid levels. Travellers Tales have opened up these levels so that you can now fly in pretty much 
 any direction you choose to, but theyve done this without compromising the simplicity of the games 
 controls, instantly making you feel like an expert as you flick your X-wing around the screen like 
 youre Luke damn Skywalker himself. Now you actually want to play them, rather than just having 
 to do them to get to the good bits of the game.
  
  Now, thats not to say that this is the perfect game, although, to be honest, its probably close, 
 but sometimes your teamates can be as dumb as a bag of spanners, and it can be a little irritating 
 to get halfway to find that R2 is stuck behind a tree somewhere near the beginning of the level, 
 and you have to trek back to fetch him. Also, there are points where the game spawns a huge number 
 of enemies, and your little extruded plastic buddies are no help at all, as the only one with a 
 working gun is the one that you are currently controlling, which isnt too bad, until youre up 
 against the clock, then it can be a little frustrating; but these are small gripes in an otherwise 
 brilliant piece of software.
  
  In conclusion? This is a game that you can play for an hour at a time, or for weeks on end, its 
 never going to tax you, and itll rarely frustrate you. The more you play the more it gives you 
 and the more it gives you, the more you want to play it. I can honestly say in my 20 odd years 
 of gaming that this is one of the most fun forty hours Ive ever had, and during the time Ive 
 spent playing this, Ive never once thrown down my pad in anger, which, at the end of the day, 
 is what playing games is about, isnt it? Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  About the time Star Wars Episode III came to theaters, a kid friendly game came to Xbox, PS2, Gamecube, 
 and a couple other systems including handhelds. The game was simple, but fun. In used the first 
 3 episodes in the Star Wars trilogy to create a game where the characters didn't speak, and were 
 made of legos. Lego Star Wars 2, based on the second and main trilogy, definintely improves on 
 the first Lego Star Wars. For example, a new create a character system adds some depth to the gameplay. 
 You can create some pretty cool combinations. The game has a hub on Mos Eislely, just like the 
 last game in Dexter's Bar, in which you can access all three episodes in the second trilogy. Each 
 episode has about 6 doors, which serve as the different levels you'll go through. Each level is 
 long and detailed with enough obstacles to make use of almost every one of the characters in your 
 arsenal to pass. Like the last game, collecting the $ lego studs can get repetitive, as the gameplay, 
 but the puzzles and use of the force help make it a little more exciting. Creating your own character 
 with your own weapon can also make the game a bit more exciting on some levels. The graphics are 
 amazing, and way better than the last game. There's also a cool camera effect where the characters 
 that are closer to the screen are kind of faded, like a real camera.
  
  The music and sounds are also better than the last game. Every swing, and gun shot sounds just 
 like the movie (s) .
  
  The game lasts a pretty long time due to an impressive amount of unlockables and free play mode, 
 where you can play a level with any character (s) you want. Altogether, the game succeeds in surpassing 
 its predecessor and making a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is really aimed at a younger crowd. The gameplay is simple, the story is cutesy, 
 and so is the humour.
  
  So i think with that in mind, it's a great game with quite a bit of content, if you're into doing 
 extras and finding secrets.
  
  I actually think this is a sleeper hit. A game that girls will love to play and that friends can 
 play co-op rather easily. And it's not just for girls and kids, it's actually a solid game. Sometimes 
 the camera angle makes it difficult to jump in platforms and collect items, but generally, the 
 game is very simple, easy, and with infinite lives, you never feel like you're being defeated. 
 It's a feel-good game.
  
  It's also a plus that it's a pick up and play game.
  
  But that's not to say there isn't something for the hardcore gamer. There's tons of secrets to 
 unlock and discover here. Some of them rather difficult.
  The story is, well, Star Wars, so it's good. And it's probably the funniest game i've ever played.
 
  
  Gameplay: good and simple. Secrets make this game worth playing over again and add depth.
  Sound: 
 excellent.
  Story: Great
  Value: If you have kids or women who will play, it's worth buying. It's also worth just renting 
 if you're a hardcore game and are just looking for some action title on a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impulse101378
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  me and my 6 year old son had so much fun playing this game together. we just beet it this morring 
 we have the first one on the reg xbox , and this one looks so much better on the 360 its scary 
 . lots of extra stuff to get after u beet it worth the cash.
  
  me and my 6 year old son had so much fun playing this game together. we just beet it this morring 
 we have the first one on the reg xbox , and this one looks so much better on the 360 its scary 
 . lots of extra stuff to get after u beet it worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  LEGO AND STAR WARS!!!!
  Great fun to play
  Finishing the story is only half the adventure
  Great puzzles and vehicle sequences expand on 
 the excellent third-person shooting gameplay
  
  CONS:
  Fixed camera angle usually obsures action
  Gameplay gets slightly repetitive in Episode V and 
 the early levels in Episode VI
  No online co-op
  
  The original LEGO Star Wars was an excellent game, and it's sequel upholds it's excellentness ... 
 yeah.
  Of all the versions, the 360 version is by an inch the most desirable, with better graphics, blur-and-focus 
 effects and unlockable achievements. While the gameplay is fun and LEGO-tastic, certain episodes 
 get rather tedious and repetitive, mainly in Episode V, but every mission is fun and well thoughtout. 
 With many many unlockables, the gameplay will continue way after Sony goes bankrupt and starts 
 smothering first-born children. With additional vehicle sequences, the gameplay varies from third-person 
 shooter, to puzzle solving, to spaceship riding. The vehicle sequences are all pretty linear, but 
 fun none the less. The best parts of the game are the boss fights from the strange elephant man 
 on Tatooine, to the epic I am your father confrontation with Vader, to the final battle with Sidious.
 
  
  Customizable characters add more fun to the co-op, if only it were online. Finding hidden Gold 
 Blocks will unlock new vehicles, gateways and contraptions, and even more hidden Power Blocks will 
 unlock sever extra features.
  
  With more gameplay than a paedophidliac hunter with a minigun, LEGO Star Wars few minor flaws don't 
 drag down the game's excellent fun shooting and LEGO building. For ages 3 to ... well ... whenever 
 you die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The original Lego Star Wars was a brilliant idea and a whole lot of fun to play. Where it fell 
 down though was in its longevity. 100% could easily be achieved in a few days. This same problem 
 haunts the sequel.
  
  There can be no denying that while it lasts Lego Star Wars 2 is a great game. The cut-scenes are 
 hilarious, the graphics can't be faulted the different varieties of characters are all fun. Problem 
 is that this is essentially the same as Lego Star Wars 1, only with different source material, 
 namely the original Star Wars Trilogy.
  
  Not all that many features seem to have been added other than new character animations and the 
 ability to take full control in vehicle missions. On current-gen I imagine this would have been 
 more of a worth-while purchase. On 360 though your hard-earned would be much better spent on a 
 more in-depth title.
  
  For Star Wars fans though, there is great fun to be had with Lego Star Wars 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lathenca
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I'm a big fan of Star Wars, or should I say, I'm a big fan of the Original Trilogy, so 
 maybe I am biased, or maybe this is a great game, we'll see.
  
  I'm also a big fan of the first Lego Star Wars game, despite it being of the newer Star Wars movies, 
 and when I say a big fan, I mean really, I played it over and over again, it was an astonishing 
 game, so you could say I had high hopes for this game, yeah? Well, you're right, I did. On with 
 the review, eh.
  
  Graphics: Well, what can I say, nothing revolutionary, but this game's not trying to do that. It's 
 full of cute characters, nice backgrounds, and it does the job nicely, and everything's so damn 
 shiny! Awesome.
  
  Gameplay: It's much the same game, gameplay-wise, as the the first game, although it is improved 
 on quite a bit in certain areas, which is nice to see, simple controls, and easy to play, while 
 mind-numbing at the same time. Sound: Well, it's the Star Wars score right? Nothing else to say.
 
  
  Value: If you really give this game a good play through, you'll have hours of fun, especially if 
 you want all the achievments, good solid, long game.
  
  So yeah, for &pound;30 you can't go wrong with this, you'll have fun and stuff, and the reply value 
 is amazing, try and get a friend round too, Co-op's the real highlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the first lego star wars game and don't to, after playing this one I think 
 its safe to say that these games are more of a in the moment type of thing. If anything is to be 
 said about this game its that once you finish the game and spend a few hours going for extras you 
 will realize how much you can actually get for your money here.
  
  Gameplay: The worst part about the game, very basic in its design you will spend most of your time 
 dodging the bullets that are shot at your and randomly mashing the shoot button hoping to hit some 
 enemies since the auto-aim is very very strong making it very hard to miss. The biggest disappointment 
 here is the fact that jedi's are terrible with normal saber attacks, not only do you need to be 
 up close to attack but unlike blasters that do not kill in one hit so you have to hit them more 
 times. However there jump attacks are nice and useful and can be fun if used correctly.
  The plus side here is that practically every different char. in the game is different and plays 
 with a different style, some with different melee, weapons, jumps, actions, things like that. For 
 instance chewbacca's melee will actually jump on the enemy and rip of his lego arms. Not to mention 
 the fact that there are over 50 chars. making for a lot of purchasing to get them.
  
  Graphics:
  
  What can I say? There lego's your not going to see anything far to special but 
 you will still see a nice looking Lego game.
  
  Style:
  
  Here is where the game shines is its sense of style. All of the cut scenes in the game (generally 
 1-2 per mission) have there own little quarks added in for amusement. And because all of the scenes 
 are well known from the movies they generally add a nice laugh. When obiwon and vader are dualing 
 to the death for instance they both turn and wave to luke before realizing their mistakes. Once 
 the game is done and you are just unlocking things however this style does not fully go away you 
 will see it all throughout the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Eh, nothing special but expect all the regular star wars sounds.
  
  Overall:
  
  Well worth 
 the cheap purchase considering you will get more out of this game offline then most other 360 games 
 besides maybe saints row and oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadorome
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars 2 is one of the best games i have played on my Xbox 360. The graphics are good, 
 the gameplay is good, the sound is good, and the characters are good. I'm a bit dissapointed at 
 not being able to play as Ja Ja Binks, but hey, i'll get over it. Obi-Wan's ghost, for me, is the 
 most kickass character i have played in a game so far for the 360, and the Jawa's are the most 
 irritating things in the world. I loved playing as a semi naked Stormtrooper in episodes 4 and 
 5 of A New Hope, and i hated playing as a Jawa on episodes 1, 2 and 3 of A New Hope. The controls 
 are relativley easy for anyone, basically the same as Lego Star Wars. The cameral angle can get 
 annoying at times, but it's usually fine.
  All in all, this game is great. Rent or Buy? Definatly buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludubbz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this: I love co-op play in games. Going back to my days playing the 
 TMNT, Final Fight and X-Men games at the arcade, I always loved some good co-op action. Contra 
 anyone? These days, however, it is a feature often neglected, or implemented poorly.
  
  Lego Star Wars II not only includes co-op play, but they do it right. You don't have to beat the 
 game on single player to unlock it, and you can jump in and out of the game on the fly. Due to 
 the lackof co-op play almost across the board when it comes to games these days, the inclusion 
 of this feature brings up my score for this game quite a bit. The combat is pretty simple, as are 
 all the other controls in this game, although they can be quite fun at times. I like the way you 
 can uncover various piles of legos by destroying things, until to can put them together to build 
 a bridge or a vehicle in certain areas, or the way you use your force powers to moves blocks around 
 to create a path. Although not complex, it's all done well, and varies the gameplay enough to make 
 the game feel not too repetative, which could easily happen when you have combat controls as simple 
 as this game does. The flying levels are also quite simple, but can be pretty fun as well, although 
 I enjoyed the on foot levels more myself. The other thing I like a lot in a game is unlockables. 
 It gives the game a sense and record of progression, and gives you a reason to replay levels. This, 
 coupled with the achievement system of the 360, make this game last a lot longer than the relatively 
 short time it will take you to finish the story mode. They have a huge selection of characters, 
 and vehicles, as well as a character customization system and a selection of cheats that should 
 keep you busy unlocking things for awhile. All in all the game is a pretty good game, that was 
 made great by it's replay value and co-op gameplay. The gameplay is simple but fun, and the humor 
 is usually on target. I would love to see a more complex, serious and graphically advanced action 
 oriented title come out of this license, but this game does do justice to the source material. 
 If there were more co-op games available I would have been tougher on this game, but sadly, there 
 are not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! It finally brings a sense that you don't need Mario, Metriod, or any other exclusive 
 title from nintendo. The game brings that feeling of one great character series like a Mario, but 
 with the beloved Star Wars Characters. I think if you are a fan of Star Wars it is a must own. 
 I believe it is a must own for people looking for the Mario fix and don't want to fork out the 
 extra $250 for the new Wii. The Wii is innovative now, but wait until special controllers hit the 
 new systems for certain games. Like the steering wheel for racing there are better concepts than 
 the new controller. I think if you need a game to overcome the fix for Mario then buy this game. 
 It will not be a let down.
  
  Pros:
  Great adventure game for the 360. Good characters to choose from and a lot of interaction with 
 the boards. Well thought out concept. Gameplay is great with some glitches of camara angles ( but 
 not everything cab be perfect) . Great story line.
  
  Cons:
  The graphics could have been a little better for a 360 Game. Sound is a little dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye22002
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is definitely worth playing if your a fan of star wars, as I am. You'll enjoy 
 seeing all your favorite scenes recreating with legos which is awesome. (My favorite cutscene is 
 when Luke's being pushed into the sarlac pit and he does trampoline aerobics on the plank) Gameplay:
 
  Either you use a blaster character or a lightsaber character like the 1st one. The gameplay is 
 tailor made for people of all ages to enjoy it from kids to adults (or casual gamers to hardcore 
 gamers) . Although hitting X collecting coins and moving on can get very repetitive, for me it didn't. 
 The minor puzzles and cheesy moments can be a very good time. The main problem with the gameplay 
 is (of course) the fixed camera. You can get frustrated easily because somethings in your way or 
 you couldn't see around a corner or missed a doorway. One last complaint, the vibration from the 
 controller can get annoying especially on the Escape From Hoth level. It's likely you'll turn it 
 off after this level in the start menu.
  
  Graphics:
  I played this on the 360 and there are some very good blur and focus effects, but for whatever 
 reason when you blow up or destroy something it lags a little. Which I just don't understand. How 
 can next-gen hardware lag while current-gen is fine.
  
  Sound:
  The sfx and sound are good. John Williams scores are really great, the lightsaber effects are great. 
 It's just, if you are a star wars fanboy like me, you've heard these a million times over, and 
 to hear the same 5 min. music loop over &amp; over it's possible it could get on your nerves.
 
  
  Value:
  It's another great star wars game to add to your collection because there's lots of unlockables 
 and silly things that can be done.
  
  Tilt:
  This game is an own in my book because it's fun, better than the 1st and more LEGO goodness :)
 
  
  If only there were online Co-op (sigh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMutantX3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  I LOVE this game, but I really hate the camera control. No 360 degrees rotation, that sucks.
  
  I would gave Gameplay a Perfect 10 it's really good, but since the camera control issue. I 
 am going to give it a 9 instead. It's not that much of an issue I still enjoy the game.
  
  I mean, graphic wise it's not really Next-Gen, but I can forgive it since it's a LEGO game (Comon 
 How good looking do you want Legos to look?) and gameplay is absolutely AWESOME! So, even if I 
 say the Graphics is 1 it's still a Great game, but I am going to give graphics a 6.
  
  The levels are longer and more challenging than Lego I.
  
  Tons of Unlockables, making the 
 Single player replaybility strong, I don't really need Multiplayer, The sound effect is Awesome, 
 as well as the soundtrack by John Williams! If you don't like the gameplay of this game, just means 
 it's not your style, but doesn't mean it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The good.
  The game is amazing. It took everything good from the first game and made it better. I love the 
 jump in jump out coop play, though it needs an online component to this aspect. The game has enough 
 to keep you playing it after the story is over, such as bounty hunter missions, hidden blocks used 
 to unlock stuff, character unlocking, etc.
  
  The bad
  The graphics are not bad, but not enough to justify $10 more compared the xbox, ps2, etc. The fixed 
 view gets annoying at times especially during the flying levels.
  
  the low down
  GET THIS GAME, it is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  LEGO SW II delivers just what fans were anticipating and craving for over a year. A game just like 
 the first LEGO Star Wars installment, but based on the Original Trilogy. The gameplay is very extensive 
 and simple but at the same time quite fun to play. You'll be hacking away at Stormtroopers with 
 your elegant lightasaber and blasting away TIE Fighters in the space battles in no time. Opening 
 up all of the extras is challenging yet not impossible to do. One will strive to obtain all of 
 the unlockable characters, ships and cheats this game has to offer with fierce determination. Most 
 of the levels are simple side-scrolling 3D platformers with a few space battles mixed in. The learning 
 curve is not steep and kids and adults alike will enjoy this game very much. Graphically, the game 
 is also very simple looking but at the same time gives you enjoyment out of watching little LEGO 
 versions of your favorite SW characters. The sound is also good, with all of the music being straight 
 from the movie scores. The game's difficulty is very easy, but if you want to obain all of the 
 achievements without dying, it can be somewhat very hard on the flying stages. Overall, I recommend 
 this game to anybody who likes Star Wars or LEGOS whatsoever. I also think people who like the 
 old-fashioned platformers from the SNES/SEGA Genesis era will appreciate this game, too. And anybody 
 with kids that are over 5 or 6 must simply get this game for their little ones. It's one of the 
 few 360 titles that is enjoyable for all ages. Huge thumbs up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmjones
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great humour  every level is interspersed with Cut scenes made by a genius, instantly 
 lovable game play, drop in drop out Co-op at any time during any level, a vast variety of tasks 
 to undertake. You simply cant help but love a game that lets you walk into a room full of Storm 
 Troopers bathing in a Jacuzzi wearing Lego thongs blissfully unaware of their impending doom.
 
  The Bad: Sometimes on Co-op the camera can force your partner of ledges. But this is easily avoided!! 
 Easy  but then thats also a plus for me, it means anyone of my mates can join easily in and have 
 a laugh.
  
  Dont buy this game if all you want to do in a shooting game is blast through each level in a hurry 
 to get on to the next. There is so much more to this game. The first time around you complete everything 
 in Story mode  you will hardly scratch the surface of the collecting part of the game. You can 
 then come back later in Free play mode with different characters and try your hardest to access 
 all the extra doors, nooks and crannies in order to collect Lego Packs and Red Bricks which give 
 you access to cool vehicles and more bonus levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Releasing demos on the market place works. Im not a great SW fan and and being quite old with no 
 kids, its a title i missed the first time around and if it wasnt for the free demo i would never 
 had played it. I am a retro gamer and this game has that retro feel in the way you just collect 
 stuff and try to find hidden extras. The game isnt hard at all and its very easy to see what to 
 do next but i can see it will have you playing it through a few times if you wanna get 100% completed. 
 When you complete an episode you get 3 different modes added so this will keep you busy for a bit. 
 Its very much like the original game (i bought that as well and had a quick go before playing this) 
 and seems to pick up where it left off.
  
  The thing what strikes me most with this game is the humour, its very subtle and very kiddie but 
 its right up my street. For ages games have been coming out that are too damn serious and its games 
 like this and kameo that give you a little bit of diversity, mostly im fed up of killing aliens, 
 going against massive corporations or being caught up in conspiracy . . wait . . this has some 
 of them : /, but u know what, is all good
  
  I have played so far 7 hrs and the game is just under 25% complete, this is already longer than 
 a lot of the games ive played recently. There isnt an on line option with this game which is a 
 shame as there is like a 'get as many studs as u can mode' which could be goodas a 2p multiplayer 
 and online score compare, maybe theyll do a kameo and release a coop later. I hope so cos once 
 you get to 100% in complete i really cant see any reason to play this game again.
  
  Anyway, bottom line i was really impressed with this game and if you have a sense of humour, love 
 SW and like retro feel games then you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassjean
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  The game may look stupid but it is really fun.
  
  Gameplay: The game is a little bit on the easy side but you are going to be playing it over and 
 over and over again.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. Sound: It is the great Star Wars Music that we all know 
 and love. Value: The replay valu on this game is amazingly fun. You are going to be wanting to 
 play the game over and over and over again. Overall the game is a fantastic game and no game can 
 have a better tilt than this. The camera angles is the only letdown. So you must buy this gam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siggidesert
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  One of last year's more pleasant surprises was undoubtedly LEGO Star Wars. Eighteen months later 
 we have it. LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy improves on its predecessor in just about every 
 way. Its stage design, source material, musical score, visual presentation, and jokes are all of 
 a higher quality than they were before. There are even a number of additions that are new for the 
 series altogether and some extra mini-games thrown in just for the heck of it. In other words, 
 The Original Trilogy is almost the perfect sequel.
  
  Explaining how LEGO Star Wars works is actually quite simple. The main gameplay mechanics are essentially 
 the same one dimensional bits that make up most actioners out there with an attack, jump, and special 
 button available. Using basic strikes and defensive skills, players will regularly chop or blast 
 their way through an unending army of Stormtroopers, Sand People, and Bounty Hunters while fighting 
 the occasional boss or mid-boss every couple of levels. But that's where its similarities to other 
 titles ends.
  
  What makes LEGO Star Wars truly unique is that players will be in control of at least two characters 
 at a time, and sometimes as many as six. Using a quick tap of the button, gamers can hop back and 
 forth between anybody in their party -- be they Jedi, Rebel, Droid, and each of these archetypes 
 play entirely different. So while Luke Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi may be ideal for taking out 
 large groups thanks to their jumping lightsaber attacks, only droids can access certain areas that 
 allow you entry to the next section. Moreover, the standard blaster characters can mean the difference 
 between life and death when fighting enemies from a distance and Traveller's Tales has done an 
 excellent job of balancing things so that you'll have to rely on all these styles to succeed.
 
  
  Yeah, the game is absolutely worth buying. You will have a lot of fun with it. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Man, when i first saw Lego Star Wars back a couple of years ago, you know what I said, what a pathetic 
 looking game... Well, almost 3 years later, i'm playing this game so much, that its an addiction. 
 Lego Star Wars 2 follows the older/ better movies from long ago. Such as Empire Strikes back, Return 
 of the Jedi and A new Hope... Well guess what, you get to play all of them in less time than it 
 takes to do the mission. If you haven't seen the movies, the movie is about a young boy in a galaxy 
 far far away, who stumbles on the path of the force... Push comes to shove, the evil second hand 
 ruler of the galaxy is his father, a Jedi Knight from long ago, who fell to the dark side. Well, 
 you play that whole story, but much shorter, no words and a more humorous side. You get to play 
 an amazing amount of people from the movies, like Princess Leia, Han Solo, Luke, C-3PO and much 
 much more. Along the way you must collect studs that count up as money/points that you can use 
 to unlock hints, cheats, and characters. Well, much aside this games graphics don't separate much 
 from the first. The graphics are solid and not many glitches in this game to really annoy you. 
 The environments are pretty spectacular. It gives you the feel like your that 5 year old kid playing 
 Lego's with the kid next door. Everything looks like a Lego creation. When you see the ships, you 
 can see the blocks and how there neatly put together. This game makes that noticeable, but at the 
 same time, you really don't reconize them when your playing. The A. I. in this game is about medium. 
 They never really reinforce on you and you don't really have a problem messing with them. You shoot 
 them and well thats about it. However you will cross some fuzzy parts where you have no clue what 
 to do and are totally frustrated by the A. I. (which all of sudden can get super hard) . Some of the 
 missions, are very very tedious and when you die, you pretty much quit for the day. The puzzles 
 are very challenging and add a different kind of feel to star wars. Which is what I like. Now, 
 the music is tremendous. I really love the soundtrack, its basically from the movies but tuned 
 a tad different. The best part is when you build items, sometimes you can come over a radio that 
 plays the imperial march, in rock form. Nothing like killing baddies as there rocking to that song. 
 The sounds from the blasters arent really anything. They just sound kinda like the movie but only 
 a tad cheesier. The lightsaber noise is about the same, but nothing like hearing the noise pop 
 up and slicing someones no good head off.
  
  This game has surprised many. Now everyone i have talked to say that this game is to kiddish, well 
 if it's kiddish why is my parents playing it. This game is no doubt probably one of the funniest, 
 easiest Star War games to get into, anyone can play it, and they can have fun while playing it 
 and thats why it is so great. If your a Star Wars fan you MUST pick this game up, only a minor 
 $49.98. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjohnwil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  To start with, the story isn't that long, as it only takes about 6-7 hours to complete. However 
 there is plenty of other things to go back into the levels to collect, such as mini kits, gold 
 bricks (used to build useful stuff both inside and outside the cantina) and power bricks (which 
 unlock extras, such as invincibility) . In the videos, both before and after the levels, the lego 
 characters can't speak, but they use other things to get the point across (such as when Darth Vader 
 tells Luke that he is his father, he shows him a polaroid!) . This game is a deffinate improvement 
 from the first game and i would definately recomend anyone (esspecially Star wars and Lego fans) 
 to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandKing203
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars II is areally good game and is made for liittle kids, but I'm 17 and I liked it! 
 Also the game is great for the sample controls.
  
  Look at the bullets
  
  On the plus side:
  -Sample and easy to easy controls
  -Great way to to spend a weekend
  -Great 
 for little kids
  
  On the down side:
  -Camera really sicks at times
  -a little too short
  
  Should you rent or buy:
  You should rent-
  Cause it's great and 
 all, but too short for me and there goes $50 of my money.
  
  I liked this game a lot and I'm 17 so there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  To the average non-gamer, Id have to imagine that no series of words in the English language could 
 sound as nerdy as LEGO Star Wars. If they think LEGOs and Star Wars are nerdy, theyve got to 
 think that a videogame based on this concept is the absolute epitome of geektitude. What they dont 
 know is that its actually a great gaming experience.
  
  The original certainly sounded like an odd idea when most gamers heard of it, but it ended up selling 
 extremely well and earning some critical praise. LEGO Star Wars II features all the great gameplay 
 and humor that the first exhibited, but is based on much stronger source material (the original 
 trilogy) .
  
  Its amazing how much of a difference is made by basing the game on A New Hope, The Empire Strikes 
 Back, and Return of the Jedi. Its all here  Jabbas Palace, the Death Star trench run, Han and 
 Chewie on Endor, even a boss battle with Boba Fett. Playing through the movies we all know and 
 love is exponentially more entertaining than recreating sub-par moments from the tremendously disappointing 
 prequel trilogy.
  
  Once again, the gameplay is extremely simple and mainly relegated to the face buttons. Characters 
 can attack, jump, use the Force, and build LEGO structures. Its certainly nothing fancy, but the 
 simple control scheme actually lends itself to a more old-school feel.
  
  This installment features a few more puzzle elements than the original, but dont expect any Zelda-level 
 complexity. Theyre mainly of the push this block over here variety. Some missions (Hoth, both 
 Death Star battles, speeder chase, etc) place you in control of a vehicle, and a couple are the 
 weakest points in the game. The Battle of Hoth, for instance, features a very odd camera angle 
 and initially awkward controls. The only vehicle-based area I truly enjoyed was the speeder chase 
 in Episode VI.
  
  While I dont quite understand why its not available over Xbox Live, the co-op play is certainly 
 the most rewarding aspect of this title. A second gamer can just pick up a controller mid-game, 
 play for a while, and drop out with no disruption to the gameplay.
  
  In some areas, its fairly hard to tell exactly what youre supposed to do or where youre supposed 
 to go. One area might require you to build a structure of some sort, but its not even remotely 
 apparent how to go about this as necessary blocks are occasionally hard to see. There was more 
 than one occasion in which my character fell into some sort of glitch or inescapable area and I 
 had to restart.
  
  There is absolutely nothing that needs to be changed with the art style of LEGO Star Wars. The 
 characters and vehicles look like authentic LEGO models, and the backgrounds are pure Star Wars. 
 There is, however, some graphical issues that are made even more confusing thanks to the fact that 
 its powered by the Xbox 360. Slowdown and graphical glitches are not something I expect from such 
 simplistic graphics on such a powerful system. If the 360 can handle the photorealistic face of 
 Muhammed Ali in Fight Night, theres no excuse for problems when the faces are yellow squares with 
 black dots for eyes.
  
  It would be hard to mess up the audio in this game, as they clearly had access to the vault of 
 sound effects weve heard in every goddamn Star Wars game for the last decade. Lightsabers sound 
 like lightsabers. Blasters sound like blasters. The unmistakable John Williams score is still here. 
 Voice acting isnt present, however, as its replaced by mumbling and grunts (much funnier) .
  
  Equal parts nostalgia act, comedy routine, and solid videogame, LEGO Star Wars II is a very 
 entertaining title. Id have to imagine a lot of the experience would be lost if youre not a big 
 Star Wars fan, however. So much of my fun with this game was based on how they re-imagined all 
 the scenes Ive seen countless times. Regardless of whether youre a fan or not, the gameplay (especially 
 co-op) makes it a worthy title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is something I have been waiting for since I beat the first LSW. Lego Star Wars II: The Original 
 Trilogy is longer, funnier, better looking, and all around just better. There is better material 
 to work with, characterwise and storywise. It's got A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return 
 of the Jedi. You have Han Solo, Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker, Vader, C-3PO, Chewbacca, R2-D2, 
 and Good ol' Ben! Can't go wrong with the all-so-very nastalgic Ewoks! The gameplay mostly stayed 
 the same, but only 5 Jedi, instead of like 15 in LSW1 and a Character Generator, where you can 
 fullfill your dream of making a Stormtrooper Stripper (Slave Leia) May my review give you knowlege 
 of the force, hmmm! I give Lego Star Wars II, an 8.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  There are few things that many people our age can all relate to from there childhood, and that 
 is LEGO's &amp; Star Wars. Well, after playing the first epic LEGO Star Wars game, I felt 8 again. 
 I loved the way the story was put together with the little witty skits throughout the game played 
 on by little LEGO men. It was a fun game to play. The graphics were phenominal. The game was genius 
 to be exact. Then I heard about the making of the sequel, and was a little skeptical. How can a 
 game so good be sequelled ? Grant it that it would be brought to the next-gen era, I just could 
 not help but feel doubt that the game would be much different from the first game, minus the story 
 of course. I was very wrong. The game has all the greatness of the old game, but with the right 
 tweaks and gameplay to make it an awesome game. I had some friends over playing it with me, and 
 its great that they can jump in and out of the game at a whim. The graphics are more amazing than 
 ever! The game play is more complex, with much more destructible environments, making it even more 
 enjoyable than before. Of course, no game is perfect so here are the cons. Aiming is one of the 
 most difficult things in the game if you ask me, can be very frustrating at times. The camera angles 
 are also one thing that I wish that they had changed from the first one. Also, when jumping from 
 ledge to ledge, the structure of your character feels really soft, like your guy is walking on 
 water of something, which can be tedious when jumping over pits and stuff. Where is the co-op online 
 play?!? I was looking forward to that!!! LEGO Star Wars II is a great game with great replay value. 
 There are plenty of items to unlock and secrets to find to keep this game going strong for a long 
 time. I would definitely recommend getting this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, don't get me wrong, this is not a bad game. But I have so many unanswered questions with the 
 release of this game.
  
  Graphics: Cute is the only word that can describe these graphics. It's an ingenius idea to mix 
 Star Wars with the fun of Legos. I really don't have any complaints here, all-in-all this game 
 has very solid graphics.
  
  Sound: Back in true Lego Star Wars fashion, this game somehow draws players in with absolutely 
 no voice-overs whatsoever. Light sabers sound great, and the voice-overs (grunts) the characters 
 make are solid lol.
  
  Gameplay: A nice change of pace from recent Star Wars titles, good ol' hack 'n slash action game. 
 It's nice to have the option to choose either a jedi or a character with a ranged weapon. As a 
 long-time Star Wars fan, I naturally prefer the jedi characters. However, in most instances in 
 this game, it pays to be using a character with a blaster due to the ability to evade enemy blaster 
 attacks. The vehicle battles are probably my favorite part of this game. The battle on Hoth was 
 just solid fun.
  
  This game has it's flaws, that's for sure. The inability to control the camera, hard to control 
 vehicles (land vehicles) , and a few other minor things. But this is still a very solid title and 
 I highly recommend renting it. The only thing I keep asking myself while playing this game is, 
 why can't LucasArts make a game about the original Star Wars movies that doesn't involve Legos? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa45
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't all that surprised when I picked up the controller and started playing the first level 
 which is Secret Plans of Lego Star Wars the oringinal trilogy. You start out as Princess Leia and 
 her companion. You take down squads of Storm Troopers with basic blaster attack and the new melee 
 attack which is very helpful in certain situations. As I progressed through the level and the game 
 I was astonished how the gameplay kept me playing the game, the variety of different characters 
 although most of them have the same abilities but each character can serve a purpose to unlock 
 somthing in Story Mode or in Free Play. A detail that Traveler's Tale improved on in the second 
 installment of Lego Star Wars was the vehicle missions. Unlike the first Lego Star Wars in which 
 you had limited freedom in the vehicle missions and very few levels included vehicle missions. 
 But in this game you have much more freedom in missions that invlove vehicles. Although the camera 
 for the vehiclesis sometimes a little frustrating you can get use to it as you improve your skills 
 as a pilot. Another thing that I like about this game was some of the missions intertwined vehicles 
 and on foot parts ino one mission, so you just won't use a vehicle in some of the missions or vice 
 versa. Overall this a great game to play and replay because of its vastness and variety of things 
 to do in every level whether its Story or Free Play. I recommend this game to anyone who just wants 
 to have plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Achievements, great humor, solid gameplay, drop-in and drop-out co-op.
  
  The Bad: No online (yet) , a bit too many puzzles.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Bring out those lightsabers and Stormtrooper outfits, Star Wars is back, but in Lego form. Lego 
 Star Wars 2 is the sequel of the most underrated game of 2005, and makes the already winning combo 
 of Lego and Star Wars better. The first major improvement is that it is based on the original Star 
 Wars Trilogy instead of the prequel trilogy, so the storyline is more significant and enjoyable. 
 The other improvements are small, but they sure as heck add more enjoyment to the game. First off, 
 there is melee combat for all characters, so Princess Leah can slap her opponents... All humanoid 
 characters can build Lego structures and use them to solve puzzles or get more studs. There are 
 much more character exclusive puzzles including Stormtroopers and Bounty Hunters. There is also 
 the addition of the custom characters, where you can build your own wacky character using other 
 character's parts and use them in Freeplay mode. Overall, Lego Star Wars 2 is a great entry in 
 the series and improves on the already winning formula.
  
  Gameplay: Everything you loved about the original Lego Star Wars is back in this one, with a few 
 minor tweeks to make it better.
  
  Graphics: Although it doesn't really show off the power of the 360, it doesn't look half bad either...
 
  
  Sound: No VOs, but that's just part of what makes it so funny...
  
  Value: It's $49.99, which isn't too bad...
  
  Final Thoughts: Luke, I AM your father... Darth 
 Vader 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  The game is good dont get me wrong but seems like its missing sumthin idk wat but theres sumthin 
 I was WOundering Were is the sound in this game like no lego talks but the game is fun for me and 
 my sister very good .. LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy takes the fun and endless customization 
 of LEGO and combines it with the epic story, characters and action from the original Star Wars 
 movies that revolutionized pop culture forever (Episode IV A New Hope, Episode V The Empire Strikes 
 Back and Episode VI Return of the Jedi) . With a unique tongue-in-cheek take on the Original Trilogy, 
 LEGO Star Wars II follows the Rebel Alliances crusade to dismantle the Galactic Empire and rebuild 
 a galaxy in pieces. Build and battle your way through your favorite film moments, from Darth Vaders 
 pursuit of Princess Leia aboard her Blockade Runner to a showdown on the second Death Star, as 
 the game includes even more of the family-friendly LEGO action, puzzles and humor that earned the 
 original LEGO Star Wars such popularity and acclaim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is obviously the sequel to Lego Star Wars, but with tweaks. This game is intended 
 for the younger folks, but is still a great game that would be enjoyed by the older folk.
  
  This game takes place in episodes IV, V, and VI. It follows the story, but adds to it to make 
 it more lengthy, since if they followed the story straight-forward it wouldn't be quite as long. 
 So for the sake of the game, they added to it. The characters are all there that are in the film. 
 Which is fun to see them in Lego form. You think that since these guys can't talk, it wouldn't 
 be funny at all. Well you're very wrong. Since no one can talk, they have to tell the story with 
 they're actions and they do it so well and so great, its incredible. Watching Han Solo take out 
 Greedo is funny along with many of other Han Solo moments in the game especially. I kid you not, 
 this is probably the funniest game I own. The game also has some challenging puzzles that may trouble 
 you but when you do finally figure it out, you'll wonder what the hell you were looking at.
  This game isn't done after you beat it either. There are so many unlockables, its crazy. There 
 are, I think, about 60-70 playable characters in the game to unlock. So if you want to go for the 
 100% completion achievement.
  
  Do not look over this game at all. It's kiddish looks are just a perk for this type of game. It 
 adds to the humor, style, and action of the game. The co-op makes it a great game for a friend 
 and you to play. This game is at least a rentable for you to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woollykillerz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets start with the graphics, Very good especially on the X360 version, Good looking explosion 
 effects, the way the lightsaber looks when it swings, all great
  And the sound guality is also great, with all the lightsaber clashing sounds, explosion sounds, 
 and blaster sounds and everything else that makes sound in the game. The cutscenes are pretty comical, 
 with many references to the movies. even though none of the lego star wars charactors dont actually 
 speak you get what they are saying, or the jist of it at least. Alright onto the gameplay, with 
 all the extras, charactors, levels and customizableness this game hardly has an end, great to play 
 witha friend even though sometimes the camera goes wierd or in a bad angle. too bad there isnt 
 online co-op available though. and you can play as any of your favorite star wars charcters as 
 legos, like Han Solo, Ben Kenobi, and Luke Skywalker. some advantages over the game before this 
 are the space levels, better graphics and gameplay overall. Well thats my review and overall i 
 gfiev this game an 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game uses really only two of the face buttons and the left analog stick to control the game. 
 The X button is used for attacks and to draw the character's weapon and the B button is used to 
 interact with the environment. The game includes fun puzzles that are solved with the combination 
 of the Star Wars universe and the Lego universe. Many times the character will have to build a 
 doorway or a ramp (not actually build it, but only press the B button) out of legos and the jedi 
 in the game will use their force powers to move the diffferent pieces around the environment. However, 
 there are some key problems with the controls in the game. You would think that the Jedi in the 
 game would be the ultimate characters to control; however, the controls in the game give the game 
 many problems and render the Jedi among the weakest of the characters. The Jedi can block the lasers 
 shot from the enemy, but it is the same button as attack and thus the Jedi will get hit if the 
 timing is not perfect. The Jedi also seem to miss many of their enemies if you are swinging the 
 lightsaber and it really makes some aspects of the game unnessecarily hard. Personally, I feel 
 that everyone will find that Han Solo or some of the other fast firing characters will be the best 
 choices to completing the levels. The game is easy if you are trying to just beat through it. The 
 reason for this is that you have unlimited lives. However, the penalty if you die is that you loose 
 some stubs (or coins) which are important when buying extra characters and other optionals to be 
 used in free mode. The games achievements are very hard especially if you are going to try to beat 
 the game without dying. The biggest problems are in the co-op. First of all, the co-op is just 
 on one console and not online (which damages the value of the game) but the co-op makes the game 
 harder rather than easier. The difficulty does not increases but the camera is incredibly frustrating. 
 The user has no control of the camera and the camera can only zoom out so far before the people 
 on the screen can no longer move if two far apart. Sometimes when there are ledges in the game, 
 the camera results in multiple deaths. Graphics: The graphics are not much better than the past 
 generation of consoles. Besides the achievements the game does not boade many extras over the other 
 options while it does have the $60 price tag. Sound:
  The game's sound is the best quality of the game. The John Williams score is amazing and it is 
 fully included in the game as well as all of the recognizable soundeffects from the movies. No 
 real complaints here. Value:
  The game has some replay value because of the achievements and the unlockable characters and special 
 lego pieces that need to be found within all of the levels. However, the lack of online play make 
 the game really a game that you will only play through once. Final Thoughts:
  If you really love Star Wars I would suggest renting the game, but this is not a game that you 
 should buy under any circumstances. It seems as though they should have spent more time and included 
 other features and fixed some of the key gameplay flaws before they released it. However, they 
 had to make the deadline of when the DVD of the Star Wars trilogy would be released and the result 
 was a poorly made game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is another addtion to the lego star wars series. In this 
 game there is so much more to do and i personly think it's a hell of alot more fun than the first 
 one.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics for this game are amazing even though i think really the xbox could handle this even 
 with the 360 graphics. The detail in this game is pretty good. Even though it's the 360 engine 
 you can still notice some pixelation. There are no problems what so ever with the frame rate thats 
 is the smothest i have ever seen it.
  
  Sound 5/10
  One problem with this game no voice acting what so ever just some stupid groaning noises. This 
 is seriously the only downside for this i was really dissapointed wit the first lego star wars 
 game with no voice acting and was hoping to see it in this the second one i was sadly mistaken.
 
  
  Gameply 9/10
  The game play in this game is amazing its so addicting! Seriously thats all i have to say about 
 it i might add more once i finish this last level so check back ok.
  
  Overall 10/10
  Overall i love this game to death and is my all time favorite game. If you like star wars and legos 
 this is the right game and should try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I never got a chance to play LSW1, so this is my first experience with this series. I'm glad that 
 the original trilogy version made it to 360, and not the prequel version (episodes 1-3) . The first 
 thing you'll notice is the graphics, since everything is rendered in legos and basic textures. 
 Graphically, the game keeps a simple, clean and basic look to it... it's not really impressive from 
 a technical standpoint, but for Legos, you wouldn't want it to be. There are some low res and pretty 
 ugly still shots (occasionally used for backdrops etc.) , so the game wasn't given a whole lot of 
 dressing for the 360 release. However the graphics look sharp in HD, supporting 480, 720 and 1080, 
 which brings out the Lego style much better. If there is one major flaw with the game, it's the 
 camera. At times, it borders on Resident Evil, and you can't rotate it. So there will be a lot 
 of times where you fall off an edge you couldnt see, or miss an unlockable that was hidden because 
 of the camera. It would have been nice to see a free camera instead of a fixed one that seems to 
 prefer cinematic views rather than functional ones. However, the game is still quite playable, 
 and fun. The humor shines, which is impressive on its own since the game has no voice 'acting', 
 instead using muffled voices and sounds. To anyone who's seen the movies (and I'm sure most of 
 the people playing this game have) , you'll know whats happening anyway. Controls are alright, basic 
 attack/jump/use layout. The B button will holster your weapon, and the X button will draw it... since 
 the X button is also the attack button, you will often try to draw your weapon only to suckerpunch 
 your teammate in the face (both in the game and out of the game) . Controlling vehicles and creatures 
 can sometimes be frustrating as well. The gameplay is all straightfoward, you shoot, grab different 
 collectables, collect Lego studs (keep in mind this is an E10 game) and work your way to the end 
 of the level. This isn't always easy, not because the game is overly difficult, but because the 
 camera often shoots from an angle that makes it impossible to see a certain path you may need to 
 go down. There are several different characters, and you will need to switch which you control 
 in order to activate many control panels in the game. Some even require you to have a Bounty Hunter 
 selected, or require you to wear a Stormtrooper helmet. And initally, some of these may not be 
 accessible because you don't have the characters unlocked. It's just too bad that your teammates 
 AI is terribly stupid at times, often standing in front of an enemy and not firing a shot, or falling 
 off a narrow walkway. They do respawn, but it's more of a babysitting job to keep them around, 
 as they will frequently stand in your feild of fire, causing you to shoot them and often kill them. 
 Really, it's an achievement (I'd say worth at least 1000G) that anyone could take a classic movie 
 like Star Wars and successfully translate it into such a weird-humor style game. It could have 
 used some more work, but it's still great for kids and adults alike. And it's still one of the 
 best Star Wars based-on-a-movie games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonee
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Seeing that there isn't much out there worth playing for the 360, I decided to pick this game up. 
 After playing through the game's stories, it dawned on me, that i've seen these stories a billion 
 times on screen. The unlockable characters (there's a ton) seem like a cool feature, considering 
 that you can't get all the secretly hidden stuff until you unlock a good portion. That's when you 
 realize that all the cheats and stuff, kind of stink, and don't do much to make the game any better. 
 Playing with other people is a good way to kill a half-hour or so and slowly becomes monotonous. 
 It's an O. K. game to have around, but you'll be sick of it quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyLeviticus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Hi! I found Lego Star Wars II good, I have to say I was really surprised about the high quality 
 graphics on Lego Star Wars II. I also there was a slite AU in ROTJ due to Darth Vasder joining 
 forced with his son Luke SKywalker to defeat the emperor as if he never got hurt, it was nice to 
 see a slite AU in LSW II. I was amazed by the 3D type graphics. Soem of the moves on the lego characters 
 were a little sluggish, I found with a few Jedi characters that it was not as Jedi like when fighting 
 against normal storm trooper due to slow movement. I was impressed with the Hoth level and the 
 Cloud city level I have to say confronting Darth Vader on Cloud City was my favourite in LSW 2. 
 So my finally score for LSW 2 is 7.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcarrington
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II is a perfect example of how to correctly make a sequel. By taking all of the 
 great elements of the original, improving the lesser elements, and adding new concepts, Traveller's 
 Tales has managed to make a must-have for Star Wars fans. The addition of a better story and more 
 memorable scenes also helps to make the game a whole lot more interesting this time around.
  
  Graphically, the XBOX 360 version of Lego Star Wars II is a visual Lego treat. As was the case 
 with the first Lego Star Wars title, the game design company has done an excellent job of making 
 the whole Star Wars universe out of Legos. Expect to see all of the major (and numerous minor) 
 characters, along with settings and scenes that remind you of their film counterparts. Dont let 
 the Lego-ness of Lego Star Wars concern you in the graphics department, the visuals are all-around 
 sharp and pleasing. My only main issue with the game is the lack of discretion when using all of 
 the various eye candy, including fog effects. The effects look great but have the unfortunate ability 
 to make the frame rate stutter and crawl, which can make the game feel distinctly unpolished at 
 times. The gameplay featured in Lego Star Wars II is absolutely top-notch. Travellers Tales has 
 managed to imbue most of the levels with an excellent mixture of puzzle solving and action. Furthermore, 
 Lego Star Wars II allows two people to play cooperatively in any game level or mode, which adds 
 a great deal of entertainment to an already slick package. The addition of in-game cut scenes is 
 also a great asset to the title, giving familiar Star Wars fans memorable scenes with a Lego twist. 
 In terms of actual levels, the game features approximately 20 levels that go along with the three 
 films, additional bounty hunter levels, and a bonus Lego level that can be unlocked. In short, 
 each stage is filled to the brim with various types of puzzles, enemies, and often times vehicles 
 to build and ride in. One of the great strengths of both this Lego sequel and the original is the 
 re-playability of each level in the game. Beyond the main objective of collecting as many Lego 
 studs as possible, each level features 10 hidden mini-kit pieces and numerous red blocks (which 
 allow you to purchase new cheats and hidden features) . In other words, expect to run through these 
 levels quite a bit to find and collect everything each level has to offer. The only real negative 
 gameplay aspect in Lego Star Wars II is the absolute lack of XBOX Live connectivity. Given Travellers 
 Tales relative inexperience with the XBOX 360 and XBOX live, it comes as little surprise that the 
 game lacks any type of online play, competitive or cooperative. The flying levels of the game are 
 also a tad weak in regards to controls. Despite the free roaming nature of the flying levels, the 
 vehicles are confined to relatively small areas so you spend a great deal of time turning around 
 or better yet, bouncing off of walls or barriers. One of the greatest strengths of the Lego Star 
 Wars line is the authentic audio experience. The music is crisp, convincing, and generally matches 
 the mood of a particular level. The memorable scenes of the movies are also punctuated by specific 
 audio cues, providing a fun experience that sounds like Star Wars, there is no confusing this game 
 with any other franchise. Travellers Tales took particular care in using extended and remixed 
 versions of your favorite tunes, so despite the long length of some levels, you arent all that 
 likely to get sick of the music. The sound effects are also excellent, every major and minor sound 
 effect that you know and love from the films is present. Expect to hear the slice of lightsabers, 
 the whine of blasters pretty often, and the clattering of Lego pieces quite frequently. In terms 
 of value, Lego Star Wars II packs a fair amount into the $50 sticker price, especially if you have 
 local friends who are Star Wars nuts. The main story line levels can finished in as little as 3 
 or 4 hours, but completing additional tasks like finding mini-kits and unlocking all of the characters 
 can demand a lot of additional time. The additional $10 for the XBOX 360 version is a tough call 
 though, since the 360 version features slightly better graphics, achievement points, and the possibility 
 of new downloadable content. At either the $50 or $40 (every platform besides XBOX 360) , this game 
 is an excellent gaming investment.
  
  After looking at the entire package that is Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy contains, the 
 game is ideal for both Star Wars fans and action-fans alike. Near-perfect graphics, gameplay, and 
 sound effects along with a ton of activities makes for a hellishly enticing game. Self-professed 
 Star Wars geeks will love the game, since all of the major events in the story arc are present, 
 along with a smattering of little touches and extra characters. Even those who have little interest 
 in Star Wars will find a lot to enjoy in this game, given the solid gameplay and superb presentation. 
 Despite everything being in Lego form, Travellers Tales has managed to capture the essence of 
 the timeless awesomeness of Star Wars and Legos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscontrol489
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a break of all the usual games coming out these days, this one is worth 
 picking up.
  
  This game has a huge replay value. You can always go back w/ a different character and do it all 
 over and differently at that. Bonus levels can be a little tough and teadious. My only peve about 
 the game is the camera. Especially when you and a friend are having a conflict of intrist in which 
 way to go. But who cares. Don't let it keep you from buying it.
  
  Acheviements come around pretty easy too.
  
  I enjoy Star Wars, but Lego's.... Hell yeah! To 
 bad I can not leave it on the floor for my dad to step on, like the good 'ol days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard about the first LEGO Star Wars game, I thought about how low the franchise has sunk 
 since the first films. I couldnt have been more wrong. Not only did LEGO Star Wars bring new life 
 into the franchise, but it also gave a new outlook on it.
  
  Now I have eagerly been anticipating the release of LEGO Star Wars 2 much like a child might look 
 forward to presents on their birthday. Everything I loved about LEGO Star Wars is even better the 
 second time around. As Yoda would say: Better source material, a better game does make.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  LEGO Star Wars has always been a kid friendly game, but now they have improved 
 it so adults can get more out of it. Whereas in the first game, the Jedi were hands down the best 
 characters in the game, LSW2 balances this by making non-Jedi characters not only useful, but down-right 
 fun to play.
  
  Playing Han Solo is a blast. With the ability for gun characters to dodge incoming fire, plus being 
 able to perform unique melee attacks (Leia literally has a **** slap) makes it even more fun. All 
 characters except droids can assemble LEGO blocks into useful objects. You can even build and ride 
 in vehicles during regular missions now too.
  
  Speaking of vehicles, gone are the riding on rails flying levels of the first LEGO Star Wars. 
 Now the levels are more open, and also allow you to use other ships (like TIE fighters) to access 
 hidden areas.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics on the 360 are impressive. Granted, theyre going to be a little blocky because of 
 the nature of LEGOs, but they character animations are very fluid and add a character of their 
 own to the game. Shiny surfaces abound, and the levels have very high-resolution textures. I like 
 how objects in the foreground fade, and become blurry as you focus on objects in the background.
 
  
  SOUND
  Even better the second time around thanks to the better movie licenses. All the classic game sounds 
 and music are here. I even caught myself saying lines out loud during the memorable sequences. 
 All the sound effects are great, and have a nice thump in the bass. My only gripe is that the characters 
 still dont speak, and instead just grunt or utter other vocal expressions. But in a way, this 
 adds to the light-hearted style of the game.
  
  VALUE
  The lasting value in LSW2 comes from the hundreds of unlockables to get. Everything from hidden 
 levels and characters, to cheat codes can be found via hidden items in the game. This is how Travelers 
 Tales is trying to get adults into the game more. Give them tons of things to find and do.
  
  The only thing thats missing is an online co-op mode. The kid friendly two-player mode is 
 back, and its still just as well designed. There are many achievements to unlock, and they are 
 well balanced between being easier to lock and unlock.
  
  LEGO Star Wars 2 is even better the second time around. This is largely due to being based on the 
 better movies, but many game play improvements also help. This is an easy game to recommend. Its 
 still a little too easy for adults, but the hundreds of unlockables make it more enjoyable. If 
 you have a child that plays games, you must buy this to play together. Even if you arent a Star 
 Wars fan, you can still find many hours of enjoyment here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewitnesss
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Some might say Star Wars has had it's day. I say Star Wars ... ok it has had it's day, but the modern 
 day merchandising has only just begun. Lego Star Wars II brings the story of Luke, Leia, and Han 
 to the Lego universe for the first time. By telling the original story you get a great, comical 
 experience that can captivate casual fans as well as hardcore fans. This game is fairly easy, but 
 holds some difficulty in it's achievements. I would recommend this game for purchase if you are 
 really into Star Wars, but if your not it's still worth a rental. Now if we can only get Timothy 
 Zahn's books made into games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rzayas28
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Your review says alot of the same as the first, but since I refuse to play the first because I 
 hate episode 1-3, guess what? This game is totally perfect and awesome. What a surprise... Can't 
 stop laughing on some parts... hysterical! GO BUY THIS GAME! IT'S A MUST! Very true to episodes 
 IV - VI... Didn't even read the instruction book, it was that easy to pick up, but challenging... they 
 really need to add an on-line mode though... maybe it will be an add on for the PC version you can 
 download... Since I got it, I've been playing 10 hours of 2 days. I can't put it down! HELP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  One of my new all time favorite games. Yes it looks like a kids game and it is legos but the lego 
 part makes it fun. You have to use the legos to build certain objects to move on in the game and 
 you can manipulate lego piles into bridges and what not. I like how each character type has its 
 own ability to use. The blaster is an amazing tool and some combat is a must with them considering 
 some enemies hit real hard and fast so the saber is not affective because of the close range combat. 
 Over all I would have to say I think the game is a must in all star wars fans and hard core gamers 
 library. I started playing it yesterday and every spare moment I get I'm on that game heh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  After playing a couple hours of this game I am fully hooked. The game is just like the first LSW 
 in that if provides a simple yet engaging format of play that will not force the player to abandon 
 the game simply due to indifference or play difficulty. The level settings for the game allow anyone 
 from the green to the veteran player to enjoy it's fun. Hat's off to Traveller's Tales for knowing 
 the difference between players and being able to provide a game to fit all. Not only does the game 
 give a decent feel for the story, but it follows the original Star Wars only enough to be recognizable. 
 From that it takes the original triligy into new areas and keep your interest alive by allowing 
 you to continue at your pace, rather than a predetermined pace set by the programs who probably 
 could play it in their sleep. Not an easy task to accomplish, but this game does. Both this game 
 and the original LSW should be in ever gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing this game (missed the first lego star wars) and I must admit it really 
 is pretty fun. I picked it up on launch day and played for about 7-8 hours pretty much straight 
 through. The gameplay consists of a story mode based three episodes with 6 levels each totaling 
 18 playable levels. Each one varies greatly and there are many vehicle based levels such as the 
 battle on the deathstar and the battle of hoth against the giant walkers. The gameplay puzzles 
 are simple to solve (it isn't majora's mask here boys and girls) and consist of you switching between 
 different characters in-game to use their different abilities to reach new places. For being legos, 
 the graphics are very well done and can be amusing to see how many possible environments, vehicles, 
 and other star wars items were rendered throughout the game. Its just really funny and entertaining 
 to be playing as a Yoda lego figure that even moves and jumps just as good as he did in the Star 
 Wars movies.
  
  In addition to the awesome lego graphics, the sound is on point with Star Wars to the very last 
 bit. When you retract your light saber it emits an ongoing electric buzz until you should retract 
 in. The sound of laser fire from blasters is identical to the films. I swear if you were to close 
 your eyes and play this game you would think that you were watching the flick! The only bad thing 
 that I could say about this game is that its simplicity would be its greatest weakness. Simplicity 
 meaning that there isn't much depth to the gameplay or levels once you get the hang of what you 
 are doing. I would assume this was done to make it easier for younger people to play without them 
 getting frustrated. Once you master the 3 hit combo with the light saber thats pretty much it. 
 There are no ridiculous combos or tactics that you could use in this game besides attacking and 
 simple manuevering. Also the level design is very simple and getting all the extras is simply a 
 matter of employing the correct character with the correct moves to reach a hidden item. Unless 
 there's a change in the latter half of the game this is what I have seen so far. Overall, this 
 game is pure fun in my opinion. Despite its easy levels and simple design, its the originality 
 that makes this game a winner. I mean come on, mixing legos with Star Wars and then putting it 
 in a fun game, now thats what I call creativity. That alone gives this game enough merit for any 
 gamer to just pick up and at least give it a try. If its just a one time deal to get a few laughs 
 and kicks, or if its to unlock every hidden secret and beat the game at 100%, Lego Star Wars 2 
 for the 360 is something every true gamer should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  There are many sides to any sequel, even though it is a new game on a given console. First of all, 
 it has to be better, second it has to have more, three, it needs to rock. Well, if you consider 
 the past ghost, then this game has a a big shadow to fight, and guess what:
  
  THEY DID IT!
  
  This game rocks all over the place. There is more and it is all bigger, and 
 there is more of it and so much more detail and finesse in this game. This is one of these rare 
 gems that truly outshines what has been before. Not just that but the two player option just adds 
 to all the wonders. There is more to find, more to resolve and other hidden littke parts that makes 
 this game actually bigger then good. It follows the Star wars saga in a LEGO way and the graphics 
 are quite awesome too. you get additional abilities (like assemble) and you have two modes for 
 every level. The satorymode where you have to reach the exit, and the freeplay mode, that lets 
 you wander around any level. The second part requires you to unlock different styles of characters. 
 Bounty hunters and stormtroopers now have there own doors to open, so you will revisit levels more 
 then once. Finding golden and red LEGO blocka carry additional rewards (like unlocking additional 
 modes and levels) . One of them requires you to get through six levels in 1 hour and you have to 
 collect over 100.000 credits, so racing is the way to go, especially if you wanna meet both targets. 
 You also get to dogfight in this game, so there is loads of new things to do.
  
  In the end this is a game that offers no-nonsense gameplay and that is something a lot of the other 
 game designers still cannot offer.
  
  Overall it is the same game and the same gameplay, but that shouldn't stop you. This game is in 
 that regard an absolute must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huniper1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually the best star wars game I have played, behind SOTE for the 64 back in the 
 day, I played the first one and it was addicting to collect every single stud, but this improves 
 greatly on the first lego star wars. Vehicles, more unlockable characters, and achievements, add 
 to the addicting nature of this game. When people first hear about this game people normally pass 
 it off as a childish game, but it is a fresh breath of air on the 360s lack of original games. 
 It follows the story of star wars pretty well, but there are some parts that just make me and my 
 friends laugh out loud (I'm not going to spoil any of the good parts for you.) There are some downfalls 
 to the game though. The camera angle can get a little anoying after a while, and during co-op you 
 need to stay close to eachother or you get pushed into a hole and lose your precious studs. Also 
 the AI needs a little improvement, the computer controlled characters get in the way most of the 
 time and it is anoying having them follow you around when you are trying to activate a sequence 
 of sensors. All together though it is a great game to break the monotomos similarity of games on 
 the 360 and is definetly worth a rent, if not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars originally started out as an expansion to LEGO. I never got the thing about it personally, 
 as I spent much of my childhood chewing the pieces. The first game didn't really call to me for 
 two reasons. One, Lego wasn't my cup of tea, and two, it wasn't based on the Original Trilogy. 
 The sequel however is.
  
  If you know the trilogy, then you know what exactly's gonna happen in the game. There are no voices 
 in the game, except for the usual sound effects from Star Wars related things. You'll get things 
 from R2D2's screams and bleeps to Darth Vader's sinister breathing. This gives the game a very unique 
 style, that is surprisingly acceptable to every age group. There are also some things unique to 
 the game, that add to its charm. It helps that although it is Lego (and supposed to be blocky) , 
 it is very good looking. The score for this game sounds as wonderful as it did in the original 
 films, and suits the action when neccesary.
  
  The gameplay is easy to pick up, but hard to master. This is very important to the Xbox360 version 
 (reviewed) , because of the achievements. I'll pick up more on that later. The level design is pretty 
 good, with many areas that require thought into how to tackle them. Each of them feature different 
 environments, which are presented beautifully. The only problem with the visuals lies with the 
 camera being fixed, but it shouldn't get in your way too often. There have been reports of slowdown 
 in frame rate on the 360 version, but thats something I've not noticed.
  
  There are two types of levels, Human and Ship levels. The human levels are pretty large, with hidden 
 areas. These are very well thought out, and in the story modes, you can do the levels as they were 
 supposed to. The game also unlocks Free Mode once you've done a level, which means any character 
 set you've unlocked, can be used. For example, during Luke's Jedi training mission can have you 
 playing as Han Solo and whoever else you like. This lets the player decide for themselves who they 
 want. The amount of character skins does underlie the fact theres only a certain number of styles 
 of play. This includes Jedi, Blaster, R2D2, Jawa and C3PO. The two you'd use most often would be 
 Jedi's and Blasters. Both are easy to control, with helpful things, such as Jedi's being able to 
 deflect attacks with lightsabers, and Blasters lock on to enemies, etc. All these things help the 
 games mechanics hugely. There are of course variations on these, including Yoda with his unusual 
 lightsaber style, and Boba Fett with his jetpack and more powerful gun, etc.
  
  The Ship levels aren't as nice as they could have been. The controls seem a little crazy and you'll 
 be thinking when first playing with a ship, "Holy mother of God, I'm outta control!" Once you get 
 used to them, it gets a little easier, but it is impossible for me at the moment to not die on 
 these levels, because theres so much going on. There aren't as many ships as there are characters, 
 but the variety of ships is still impressive.
  
  For non-360 owners, this game might be too easy, what with no incentive to keeping alive. It is 
 still massively fun to play though. The 360's achievements are nicely balanced from completing 
 levels and story scenarios (which are easy to do) , to completing the levels without dying once 
 (which in some cases is insanely hard) . Because of this, the 360 version gives more of an incentive 
 to play the game than any of the other formats this game appears on.
  
  In short, the game is fantastic fun, that shouldn't take too long, but if you strive for perfection, 
 you might get more of a kick out of it on the Xbox360. It captures the charm of both Lego and Star 
 Wars franchises and has a certain unique feel to it. If you've got kids, they'll probably want 
 this game. But even if you don't, its no reason not to give this game a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
