-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/legostarwarscompletesaga/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Introduces online play to the series.
 Gameplay still varied and friendly.
 Original Lego Star Wars graphics upgraded .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nearly all of the content is recycled from previous Lego Star Wars games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,406 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: TT Games
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if the new bells and whistles aren't enough to bring back established fans, this is still Lego 
 Star Wars at its finest. 

  LucasArts and Traveller's Tales happened upon an alchemical combination of nostalgia with the 2005 
 release of Lego Star Wars, a jovial action adventure game that mined a pan-generational affection 
 for both George Lucas' space opera and those colorful Danish building blocks. Its 2006 sequel was 
 better, largely because it was based on the original trilogy rather than the prequels. Now Traveller's 
 Tales has wrapped the contents of both games into a single package with Lego Star Wars: The Complete 
 Saga. That's a great deal of content, and if you haven't played either Lego Star Wars games, this 
 is a solid package made even better by improved graphics, new levels, and online cooperative play. 
 If you  have  played either Lego Star Wars games, though, you'll be getting a lot of recycled content 
 here, which makes The Complete Saga harder to recommend.  

           The Lego re-creation of the famous scene where Darth Vader says 'Sit on it, Potsie!'  
     

  The basic appeal of Lego Star Wars is that it lets you act out some of the more memorable Star 
 Wars moments with cute little Lego people, a concept that hits so many different nostalgia triggers 
 with such precision that it almost seems sinister. The game itself is an action adventure with 
 a heavy focus on puzzle-solving and cooperative play, often at the same time. You'll make your 
 way through the Naboo palace, the cloning facility on Kamino, the streets of Mos Eisley, the corridors 
 of the Death Star, and other distinct locales, with a small party of various characters in tow. 
 While there are literally dozens of characters that you can unlock and play as, they all fit neatly 
 into a few different character classes, each with unique and appropriate abilities.  

  Though you can control only one character at a time, you can switch between which character you're 
 controlling on the fly, and much of the game is deliberately designed to force you to switch back 
 and forth between characters often, making full use of their various abilities. Of course, all 
 the characters and vehicles, and large portions of the environments, are made out of Legos, which 
 creates a surreal, playful kind of aesthetic. It also figures into the gameplay pretty often, as 
 you often have to build objects to progress. The game breaks away from the action adventure format 
 on occasion for a vehicle sequence, such as the pod race from  The Phantom Menace  or the attacks 
 on the Death Star. They're rarely as polished or intuitive as the action when you're on foot, but 
 they work well enough and break up the action nicely.  

  The group-based format has always made Lego Star Wars ideal for playing with another person, and 
 in The Complete Saga for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, you can finally play the game cooperatively 
 over the Internet. This is far and away the most significant addition to this package, and it's 
 been nicely integrated, making it easy for another player to jump into the game at almost any point. 
 In addition to online play, The Complete Saga features a number of other upgrades, mostly pretty 
 minor. A few new gameplay sequences, such as the pursuit of bounty hunter Zam Wessell through Coruscant 
 from the beginning of  Attack of the Clones , have been added. Other sequences have been changed, 
 such as the gunship cavalry chapter near the end of  Attack of the Clones , which now has less 
 of a gun-blazing shooter feel and features some puzzle elements.  

           If you've played a Lego Star Wars game before, be prepared for some dj vu.      

 
  Since this is the first time the content from the original Lego Star Wars has appeared on current-generation 
 consoles, all of the visuals have been enhanced for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. It makes the 
 whole game look about as good as Lego Star Wars II did when it was on the 360 last year, with sharper 
 textures, a nice plasticized shine on the characters, and loads of focus effects. Save for widescreen 
 support, the Wii version doesn't look much different from the original releases, nor does it make 
 much use of the system's motion controls. Without the improved graphics or the online play found 
 in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions, The Complete Saga on the Wii is a bit less appealing. 

  Many of the changes and additions in The Complete Saga are the types that only those who've played 
 through Lego Star Wars I or II would notice, and that's the rub. For those who've already played 
 one of the Lego Star Wars games, a full half of what The Complete Saga has to offer will be recycled. 
 The online co-op play in the 360 and PS3 versions helps, since playing the game with another person 
 can change the dynamic and pacing of the game quite a bit, but otherwise it would be much more 
 cost-effective to just pick up a used copy of the one you haven't played.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Allicrombie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  When George Lucas first unveiled his Star Wars trilogy on the world in the late 70s, there was 
 shock and awe. You had a modern western, where good guys wore black and bad guys wore white. Then 
 Lucas unveiled his next trilogy and there was more shock and awe (but not in a good way, sadly) . 
 Luckily, Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a lot more fun than watching Lucas' newest efforts, 
 and may even get you nostalgic for the days when the films were interesting and even a pleasure 
 to watch.
  
  The Complete Saga is essentially, all six movies, each movie split into six stages. You'll get 
 preset characters when you play through story mode, that represent the characters used in that 
 part of the movie. (You cant take down Darth Maul with Luke, for instance, in story mode) . In free 
 play, however, you can choose any character you've unlocked. There are 36 story levels, 20 bounty 
 hunter missions and 6 bonus levels.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. You'll go through the stages, and solve puzzles, and take down enemies, 
 ranging from stormtroopers to various droids and everything in between.
  Each character can jump, shoot, or swing a lightsaber/use force powers, or toss timed explosives. 
 There are also piles of Lego blocks scattered around the levels that you can assemble into vehicles, 
 or staircases, or levitate with force powers.
  
  There are over 150 characters to unlock and for the most part, the main characters like Yoda and 
 Luke and Leia, look pretty much like their real life counterparts ... you know, if they were really 
 made out of Legos. (mmm... Lego Mark Hamil) . Many of the characters are just clones, however, like 
 the different types of battle droids seen in Episode I, and the different kinds of Imperial Officers/Troopers.
 
  
  Whats neat is that a lot of the Jedi feel different, as they have different ways to swing their 
 saber, and jump around differently from Jedi to Jedi. Yoda is his Episode II self, with flips and 
 spins and Mace Windu has devastating combos with his signature purple lightsaber. (I'm not gonna 
 go as far as saying that he uses his signature Vaapad style, but each Jedi feels like a unique 
 character) . Many of the characters have their signature moves, as well. Lego Palpatine has his 
 force lightning and Lego Vader has his patented choke. Even Chewie, if in close quarters, can rip 
 the arms off of Lego enemies. (Now that's style!)
  
  Gameplay in story mode has its moments, as well. There are little in game cut scenes that poke 
 fun at the movies, and most of them arent bad at all.
  
  The graphics are pretty standard fare, for the most part, but some levels definitely look better 
 than others. The forest moon of Endor, for instance has light streaming in between lush trees, 
 which is kind of a nice effect in a Lego game. Similarly, the area underneath the base on Hoth 
 has a lot of chasms and deep blues and light shimmering off icy surfaces that really dont look 
 all that bad.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty much the standard Star Wars stuff you get in almost any Star Wars game. 
 Not that its bad stuff, you've just heard it before (about a thousand times) .
  
  There's also the option to play story mode, or a battle mode in an arena online, which is pretty 
 fun as well. The battle mode can be one sided, depending on who you choose as your character, but 
 you can easily flip through several characters using the shoulder buttons, like in the main game.
 
  
  Whether you're a casual fan of the movies, or own every single action figure ever released, and 
 keep them in pristine, perma mint condition in vacuum sealed bags, Lego Star Wars: The Complete 
 Saga is still fun. Its a game that can be played with almost anyone, making it a rare treat for 
 families and hardcore gamers alike. The Force is definitely strong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  Like the Star Wars movies, this creation can be targeted to just about any age demographic. It 
 looked a bit silly and childish when I first got it, but I was instantly hooked. The graphics are 
 so sharp you really feel like you can put your hand in the screen and pick them up. Gameplay is 
 extremely smooth, accompanied by brain teaser puzzles along the way (Not very hard puzzles, but 
 enough to keep it interesting) Characters and their abilities are pretty well designed. There are 
 many humorous moments that even got a battle scared grouch like myself to smile. The option of 
 playing levels over in free play to both enjoy the use of multiple characters, plus access secret 
 areas that you couldn't do with the assigned characters in story mode is just brilliant. It makes 
 playing levels over like playing a whole new game. And of course the two player feature closes 
 the deal. If they can do it, how come hardly anyone else can? Great fun for all, don't knock it 
 till ya try it (regardless of your age or what games you normally play) I'm hoping for Lego Lord 
 of the Rings next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I didn't give Lego Star Wars on the Xbox a very high rating. It was a 6.7 in fact. So, what exactly 
 changed in the nearly two years since the original game came out. Well, the Xbox 360 happened and 
 in swooped achievements. Adding well timed and event worthy achievements to a lukewarm game can 
 push it from average to great. That's exactly what happen here. 
  
  The Complete Saga is just that... all 6 Star Wars movies crammed into one really long Star Wars 
 adventure. You play through Lego Star Wars and Lego Star Wars II and along the way you collect 
 numerous hidden objects which all lead to other un-lockable and purchasable items. This formula 
 has been used a lot in gaming and Traveler's Tales hit the nail on the head with LSW: TCS. With 
 all of the collectibles tide into the achievements system, this game gets addictive really quickly. 
 Obviously I didn't play it on any other system, but I can't imagine myself playing through the 
 levels numerous times if no overlying is given like on the Xbox 360 (no achievements or trophies 
 in the PS3 and Wii versions)
  
  Aside from a few minor changes, the gameplay is identical to that of it's source material. All 
 of the platform stereotypes are here. The number of un-lockable characters is amazing and with 
 the levels set up to force replay you end up learning a lot about the characters that you've unlocked. 
 You learn who exactly in the SW universe are bounty hunters vs those that are Jedi. The game is 
 still mad easy, but this time it feels like you are accomplishing something by replaying each level. 
 
  
  Also, the first LSW was ungodly short, and I never played LSW2, but after playing them both in 
 the same game, more time can care was put into the later. The Original Trilogy levels are much 
 longer and in some cases required harder puzzles and tasks. Nothing in either game is too terribly 
 difficult, but with both of them strung together, you feel like whatever amount of money you spent 
 on the this game was well worth it. 
  
  I ended the game with about 860 achievement points, before finally saying "dude, I am not putting 
 anymore time into the freakin' game". I suggest anyone that is remotely interested in Lego and/or 
 Star Wars pick up this game and start slashing away. It's also great for kids and the numerous 
 side quests and additional content makes it well worth your time. I would stay away from the online 
 features, but you really can't go wrong with Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a combination of both LEGO Star Wars I and II, with additional 
 content and some refinements. The concept behind LEGO Star Wars is watching some of the most epic, 
 awe-inspiring Star Wars scenes in LEGO form. Strange at first glance, but immensely ammusing thereafter. 
 
  
  The levels are well varied, ranging from vehicular to ground, from Tatooine to Endor. It pretty 
 much sumarizes all the Star Wars films with LEGOs, which is quite ridiculous and very funny. My 
 personal favorite moment is the scene with Luke Skywalker is on the balcony of Cloud City, mutely 
 showing his anger towards Vader, who has chopped Luke's hand off. Vader then pulls out a picture 
 of him and Padme together and points at Luke, as if to say,"No, Luke. I am your father." The most 
 amazing scene of Star Wars (or tied with the begining of Episode IV) is rendered in LEGOs, and 
 I was dumbstruck, both LMAO and mulling through how absurd it was. The most emotionally provoking 
 scene in Star Wars history, perhaps movie history in all, was made humorous and silly. 
  
  The gameplay of LEGO Star Wars is simple. Its an action/adventure, with extremely easy to grasp 
 controls and seamless drop-in, drop-out co-op, which is how this game was obviously meant to be 
 played. Vehicular levels are either one altitude or guided flight sims, similiar to the Reaver 
 flight scene in Gears of War 2. These are not as strong as the ground missions, but they do their 
 job well enough. Another cool part of the game is called Free Play. In Free Play, you can redo 
 a chapter as any character or any vehicle you want, thus allowing you to access secret areas an 
 collect hidden extras you wouldn't have been able to achieve in Story. Collectables are the real 
 incentive to play through the game again, and complete it 100%. Collectables can be from minikits, 
 ten of which are in each level. When all ten are collected, a vehicle or structure from Star Wars 
 refering to the chapter you completed is made as a trophy. Another are these red bricks, which 
 unlock cheats that can be bought in the game's hub (the Cantina) . There is also characters and 
 vehicles for Free Play, Gold Bricks, and bonus levels.
  
  Visually speaking, LEGO Star Wars is crisp and clean. The real catch is the LEGO aspect, as mentioned 
 before. The camera is the only potential enemy here, as it is fixed and keeps players in co-op 
 from mild seperation. The sound is perfect with all the music and sounds from the Star Wars movies, 
 which adds another degree of absurdness to the game, with very serious and perfectly orchestrated 
 music while crazy LEGO guys run around in the silliest of ways.
  
  In a way, LEGO Star Wars reminds me of LittleBigPlanet. You can tell that this game is created 
 for your pure enjoyment and delight, and you know the devs had fun making it too. The value is 
 great, and any kid or Star Wars fan, or anyone looking for a good laugh and relaxing time shoud 
 check it out. This is how casual games are meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorback6189
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  While the idea of Lego Star Wars still seems kind of funny to me, the game has been surprising 
 fun and addicting to play. I've typically leaned towards sports and action games in the past, but 
 I took a chance with this game and I am glad that I did. I picked it up for $20 at Best Buy a few 
 weeks ago and have greatly enjoyed it. While much of the action and game play is very repetitive, 
 the addition of more and more characters throughout the game helps add to the fun. The game has 
 a little bit of everything for every character, from Jedi to stormtroopers to droids. The game 
 follows the Star Wars saga through all six episodes, staying true to all the movies. There are 
 only three complaints that I have with this game, and these may be considered small details. First, 
 the characters in the game can go around and collect silver, gold and blue studs that tally up 
 as a sort of currency. Collecting these studs can be frustrating. There are times where a character 
 can open a hatch or a vent and studs spill out all over the floor. After so long they can begin 
 to disappear, and for a player who is obsessive complulsive, collecting these can be annoying since 
 the studs go everywhere and you must cover a lot of ground to collect them. My second complaint 
 is that it can be very difficult to play with a non-Jedi character. The Jedi can use the force 
 to deflect laser blasts which makes them sort of easier to use in some cases since you can preserve 
 their health longer. Third, some of the vehicle scenes can be frustrating. You have to be careful 
 in regard to how you move some of the flying vehicles. They do not turn left or right very quickly, 
 but they can flip around and fly the other way very quickly. This can be a problem in some levels 
 where there are other vehicles and obstacles in the way. Despite these minor "problems", the game 
 play is still very fun and the game can become highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately I've only played this one, and I can tell you I'll never play another Lego game again. 
 I'm not saying that this is completely terrible, it just isn't good enough to make me want to do 
 it again with a different backstory.
  
  From the start you better not be too serious about gaming, and sitting on a game rated "E for Everyone", 
 you probably aren't. A downfall that might stab you unexpectedly is the lack of sound in the cutscenes. 
 It wouldn't have been hard to put that in, even if they sounded nothing like their real versions. 
 Hell, I wouldn't have had any problem with Leia sounding like a stuck up racist black chick if 
 it was funny, and the game trys hard to spoof and goof; too hard, in fact. Where's Chad for Darth 
 Vader? They got him for The Force Unleashed, so you can see where the money is going and where 
 it isn't going. Some of the cutscenes just overkill and aren't funny for that fact, but for the 
 most part they are entertaining to watch. With no character audio other than some combat sounds 
 or sighs, you are left with the music and sound effects you will have heard a million times. The 
 good news is that the game runs absolutely flawlessly, and you'd hope so, when so little of the 
 consoles horsepower is put to use to run this Lego universe.
  
  Combat in the game is simple, you either hack and slash at them, be it with a lightsaber or the 
 melee attack of any character (Which both do the same damage, sadly) , or shooting with a blaster 
 character. There's more to it, but not much. There are a few exceptions, such as force pushing 
 a driod, shocking or choking with an evil jedi, or throwing a grenade as a bounty hunter; but for 
 the most part, its about either mashing X to melee, or mashing X to shoot. The real problem is 
 how fast you die, you have next to no health, and hearts disappear in seconds. You need the Regenerate 
 Hearts Bonus to avoid dieing constantly, I recommend spending your first 100,000 Studs on that, 
 and using a site to Unlock it. It brings life to the games failed Health system. That should be 
 on by default, only not so quickly that you are damn near unkillable. But trust me, its more fun 
 to be overpowered than die repeatedly because hearts are either too rare, or vanish too quickly.
 
  
  The puzzles that populate about a third of the rooms in the game, are usually simple, if they are 
 a problem, its almost always because its hard to see with the camera or know what you can interact 
 with. But they aren't more complex than you'd expect for a kids game. Still, some of them are just 
 plain too easy, but most of them fit right, especially with the games unique usage of characters, 
 giving them all some kind of ability. For example, only a small droid such as R2-D2 can reach ledges 
 very far away due to its hover ability. Your unwanted Jar Jar pal can jump higher then you, even 
 if you are a Jedi, so you will use him for that reason. Then there is of course, the force, you 
 will need to use it for a million things in this game; from doors to puzzles, the list goes on, 
 and not just anyone can use the force.
  
  But the environment comes with more problems. For example, there are some objects that only a Bounty 
 Hunter character can destroy with his grenades, but these objects look exactly like countless other 
 objects you can hack apart with anything. So there is too much "trial and error" to find out what 
 you can do, when you should be able to tell from just glancing at an object if you've seen it before. 
 Then there is the platforming, where you will die repeatedly trying to jump with a camera you can't 
 zoom in or adjust properly for the jumps. It wouldn't be as hindering if the game helped you in 
 these areas, forcing you to land on certain platforms if you jumped at them from another platform, 
 since that is where you want to go anyway, obviously. Countless times you'll slide to your death, 
 falling an inch short of where you wanted to go or land, due to hindered vision. The camera is 
 the only drawback for 2 players, but I found it to be not much a problem if you learn to share 
 it and stay together. When you split up, the waiting character needs to move with the scouting 
 character that is venturing off in order to keep the camera accessable.
  
  The good news is that it doesn't really matter how much you die. The penalty for death is simply 
 losing some Studs and only on your first run through in Story Mode; a currency you use to buy hidden 
 characters or power ups. You don't actually need any of it to complete the games story mode, so 
 unless you plan to replay with friends in the future, its all pretty pointless. So basically, theres 
 no penalty for death at all, you respawn half a second later right back into the fight or on whatever 
 platform you jumped from. Now me? I'm not too happy with this setup. I'd rather have a stronger 
 character that doesn't die in seconds, and just eat a real penalty for death, such as losing far 
 more studs or having to start a level over if I died one too many times. (Levels are really short) 
 But my main dispute is the constant rush for everything that drops, as you only have seconds before 
 those desperately needed hearts or studs vanish on you. Why do they have to vanish so fast, or 
 at all for that matter?
  
  Where the game shines the most is in its co op playability. By yourself the game is basically a 
 waste of money. You'll be bored quickly running through by yourself as your bot ally does nothing 
 to help you in combat, other than powering up his lightsaber to look pretty. (And never hurting 
 an enemy with it) . Bot allies do not fight, at all, at any point. They appear to, but they never 
 do any damage. This basically destroys any benefit of playing the game by yourself, since you are 
 never alone and are always outnumbered by enemies. You can kill them all alone, but thats not the 
 point, it just isn't as fun to witness a fellow Jedi or Soldier sit there and look stupid. When 
 did Obi Wan ever say, "Sit here and watch Anakin, I'll handle this,"? Do you ever remember a Star 
 Wars character sitting back from a chance to fight to mumble, "Ya you take care of it, I'll just 
 stand here and look pretty." The bots do a good job of following you and helping with puzzles when 
 a second person is required to proceed, but beyond that, they follow you stupidedly and do nothing 
 else. If I'm standing in front of a door that requires my droid pal to open, why can't he just 
 go ahead and open the door for me? Why do I have to switch to him and do it myself, just to switch 
 back 2 seconds later since I can't fight with him? The AI is pretty terrible, which is why you 
 want a friend. You can get a partner over Xbox Live, but you won't always have one, and they'll 
 join/leave as unexpectedly as you'd expect, best you get your own with a second controller.
  
  There are extra modes, but for the most part, they are basically copies of the same runthrough 
 of Story mode, but without the scenes and with the ability to do any level as any character. I'll 
 admit its fun to fool around and do things like kill Maul with Luke, kill Dooku with the Emperor, 
 fight Vader with Anakin, and so on. You can also make your own character, but you'll find it isn't 
 very customizable, you can run up an outfit with pretty much any skin/face/clothes in the game, 
 but you can't choose how he'll fight. It won't let you use 2 sabers or a dual one like Maul, for 
 example. So even this feature feels tacked on, needing work. Pretty much the only thing I made 
 was a Dark Jedi with C3 P0's head naming, it Darth C3-PO. Saying over Xbox Live, "C3 turned to 
 the Dark Side, whois laughing now?". But the extra features in this game make no sense. There are 
 a ton of hidden characters ok? And like, 20 of them, have no attack at all. What... is the point 
 here? Why would I want to run around as a character that can't possibly fight enemies? I don't 
 get the joke.
  
  This game is very short, taking only 5-10 hours to complete, but you'll find that its short Story 
 Mode is only about 35-40% of the complete tag. You can throw in anywhere from 10 to 20 extra hours 
 if you run back through for stud farming or secrets, and then the alternative modes. I have over 
 25 hours on mine (and only about 60% complete) , so don't doubt my experience. Between the partial 
 run throughs with several friends, stud farming to buy every single character, power brick farming 
 for extras, the hours added up. I do know what I'm talking about before I post things, and I always 
 get my moneys worth if I buy a game. The game has replayability if you ever get new friends to 
 get into it or want to secret grind, but I just don't assume this to be true for everyone. Don't 
 ever say "A kids game", because my idea of kids games is Gears of War and Bioshock. Kids games 
 aren't kids games, their loser games or comedy games.
  
  For 20$ its hard to recommend over other better 20$ games (Perfect Dark Zero $$$) , but if its what 
 you want, it'll probably end well. It can be a must for Lego, Star Wars, or CO OP happy fans. This 
 is the type of game you'll either greatly like, or just not want much to do with. There isn't a 
 middle ground here. Don't play it alone though, one way or the other. I had Lego's as a kid, probably 
 more than you'd want to know. If anything, its funny. But one way or the other, the cost leaves 
 room for risk, and if you bought it used, that'd cut it down even further, to like10$.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) B (Acceptable)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: 
 Star (Perfect)
  Multiplayer: A (Good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediJon77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  This Lego Star Wars game is totally amazing, astonishing, excellent, mind-blowing and incredible. 
 Just like the other 2 Lego Star Wars games, Lucasarts did so much more than anyone even thought 
 was possible. Each of the Lego Star Wars video games has let players play through different adventures 
 in the Star Wars universe. Now Backtrack from the beginning; 2005: Lego Star Wars The Video Game 
 took players through the three prequel movies in the saga, (Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace, 
 Star Wars Episode 2: Attack of the Clones and finally of course, Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of 
 the Sith) . Then in 2006: Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy took players through the three 
 original Star Wars movies, in the saga (Star Wars Episode 4: A New Hope, Star Wars Episode 5: The 
 Empire Strikes Back and finally of course, Star Wars Episode 6: Return of the Jedi) . Then in 2007, 
 for the 30th anniversary of Star Wars, Lego Star Wars The Complete Saga takes players through all 
 six movies in the entire saga. My only complaint is if Lucasarts would have put in Return of the 
 Jedi, the victory celebration song from 1997. Overall 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga combines all 6 episodes into one package. For those who ask if 
 it is worth it for previous owners of Lego Star Wars to buy the TCS, the simple answer is no. Now 
 if you asked if this game was worth a rental to obtain the 42 achievements? You bet!
  
  Those of you who have played Lego SW before will know the basic run-thru of this game. You play 
 through some of the greatest moments of George Lucas' saga from the perspective of little Lego 
 people. The gameplay is simple and straightforward, making it impossible to die. You must navigate 
 familiar characters through everything from the annoying moments of Episode 1 to the legendary 
 trench run of Episode IV. The main focus is not to survive but to gather as many "studs" as possible, 
 which is the game's currency. You then use these to buy upgrades, cheats, and unlockables.
  
  After completing the main story for each episode, you can then run through the game again on 
 a variety of different game modes. There is free mode, which allows you to play as any character 
 in a past episode. The game assembles a team for you to gather secrets which would have been impossible 
 in story mode. Once you have completed all requirements of free mode, you can then run through 
 the game again on time attack to obtain kits. Then there is super story mode, which makes you play 
 through the game once more in order to gather up a percentage of total game completion. All of 
 this is important and must be done if you want to unlock the 100% complete achievement, which I 
 did in about 40 hours total play time.
  
  With lots of different ways to experience Star Wars in the Lego universe, this collection should 
 keep you busy for a good week. There are also some online modes on Xbox Live, which add some additional 
 value. TCS is a great game that can be enjoyed by not only children, but adults too! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fentloozer1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  its very funny and hilarius if you play it with your little brother haha... you also get to remember 
 the great Star Wars saga and i think the best part of the game is that you can break yayar binks.
 
  some levels may need to be done twice cause of the things you have to recolect but if you only 
 like the history its a very interesting way that lego has to express it (i mean without voices) 
 just like someone playing with the little toys.
  
  i only complained about the achievements its very difficult to earn some of them specially the 
 ones that you have to do some things several times otherwise some of them you just achieve them 
 by playing it.
  
  if you are a big fan of Star Wars i will definetely say its a "must have" game.
  
  i just loved 
 the part where you can design your own jedi or sith or monster or even droid.
  
  its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  As with any franchise that becomes popular, it eventually gets its own video games, and the Star 
 Wars franchise has seen far more Star Wars video games than anyone can count. A couple years back, 
 a new Star Wars game was released by blending an entirely different brand with it - Lego. The first 
 Lego Star Wars game was based on episodes 1-3, and then shortly after, Lego Star Wars II: The Original 
 Triology was released continuing on with episodes 4-6. It was a great game, but there was one small 
 problem, though. No online co-op.
  
  Now the very best of the Lego Star Wars games not only contains all six episodes in one package, 
 but online co-op as well. 
  
  So how does a Lego Star Wars game play out? Well, the game's hub takes place at the Mos Eisley 
 Cantina. You only have one episode to start out with, but once you've completed it, the rest of 
 the episodes unlock. You'll also find other things in the hub, like a bar where you can purchase 
 power ups and characters, view cutscenes, check your progress, etc., bonus rooms, bounty hunter 
 missions given by Jabba and many other things to do. There is also a very robust create-a-chracter 
 station where you can try to remake characters not found in the game, or make up your own ridiculous 
 looking Lego man.
  
  Each episode is broken into six chapters, and each chapter has three modes you can play it in: 
 Story Mode, Free Play, and Challenge. Each chapter will only have Story Mode available at first, 
 and you can view Traveler's Tales' hilarious spoofs on some of the more integral scenes of the 
 Star Wars films. You'll also notice that there will be certain areas you can't access or certain 
 items you can't reach. That's where Free Play comes in. Free Play allows you to replay the level 
 while being able to select to different characters at will. Some of theses characters can do things 
 others can't, so if you see something you can't do in Story Mode, don't fret. You can always go 
 back in Free Play. Challenge simply has you gathering 10 canisters in a time limit, and if you 
 are successful, you get a stud bonus.
  
  And the game is all about studs, those little round Lego pieces. Not only does it serve as the 
 game's currency, they can be collected during chapters for what is called True Jedi. If you collect 
 enough studs during a chapter and you achieve the True Jedi completion status, you are awarded 
 with an extra gold brick. Gold bricks are used to build doors to open up bonus levels, among other 
 things.
  
  The game's also loaded with many other collectibles. Each chapter has ten mini-kit cannisters that 
 can be achieved in either Story Mode or Free Play, as well as ten mini-kit cannisters for the Challenges. 
 If you collect all the cannisters, then a Lego model is built and you're awarded a gold brick. 
 You also have red bricks that you can find, which are power ups that you can buy at the bar and 
 turn on to use in future play throughs.
  
  The levels are full of things for your characters to do. For starters, just about everything you 
 come across can be blown up into a spray of bricks, and since just about everything you break dispenses 
 studs, you're encouraged to try to destory everything you see. If you see a pile of bricks that 
 are jumping up and down, you can put them together to build numerous things such as vehicles, doors, 
 and push blocks. 
  
  The Jedi can also manipulate blocks with their Force powers. Of course, they can also use their 
 light sabres to deflect blaster bolts back at the enemies. Other characters like bounty hunters 
 can throw thermal detonators to destroy metallic blocks. Small characters like Anakin and the ewoks 
 can crawl in tiny doors and come out the other side in places only they can reach. Jar-Jar can 
 double jump higher than any of the other charactrs, while the Fetts can use their jet packs to 
 fly and hover. Also, certain doors can only be opened by using specific characters.
  
  Not every chapter, however, has your characters running all over the place destorying things. There 
 are also flying stages, but unfortunately, most of them aren't as fun as the levels where you run 
 on foot. A lot of times, you are pounded so relentlessly, you cannot go more than 30 seconds without 
 dying. 
  
  Even though there are an unlimited number of lives, dying can still be frustrating if you are trying 
 to collect studs to achieve True Jedi. When you die, a good chunk of your studs spill out, and 
 you have to collect as many of them as you can when you respawn before they fade away. Sometimes 
 collecting the studs themselves can be an arduous affair when they bounce all over the place causing 
 you to cover much more area than you should, and nothing is more infuriating than seeing a couple 
 thousand studs worth cascading over the edge of a cliff. 
  
  If you're going to collect studs, the preferable choice is to play with a friend, and if you don't 
 have a friend to come over and help you, you can now play online with one on Xbox Live. Unfortunately, 
 on-line play has its own problems, the most notorious being glitches that can cause your character 
 to get stuck and have them drop out. The game will also disconnect characters who are in idle for 
 too long, and these pose problems for those accompanying the host to finish an episode, because 
 if for any reason the person who's invited to play along drops out and comes back, they will not 
 get the achievement for finishing the episode when the host does. Also, you have to share the same 
 screen and this creates its own series of problems, the most common being when two players argue 
 amongst themselves over which direction to go. Still, being able to play this game with a friend 
 online can be fun. Just remember to be patient and exercise communication.
  
  The game's graphics are wonderful. The characters look exactly like Legos, and the environments 
 are terrific. Some of them are even stunning, like the Ewok's home on the moon of Endor. Traveler's 
 Tales really spent a good amount of time in making sure the game's aesthetics was packed with charm, 
 and it shows. Just a quick glance a screen shot will grab the attention of any Lego fan.
  
  The audio is also pretty complimentary. As can be expected, the game's soundtrack is composed of 
 classic Star Wars pieces, and every Star Wars enthusiast will get those shivers again when they 
 fire up it up for the first time and see the prologues scroll upwards along the screen. When pieces 
 are being put together and studs are dancing all over the ground, they really do sound like those 
 little plastic blocks everyone loves. Although there are no spoken words in the game's cutscenes, 
 the characters are adorned with mumbling voices instead to help deliever those chuckles home.
 
  
  For 50 dollars, this game offers tremendous value. Remember, not only is this two games in one, 
 it also has online co-op. Just playing the story mode alone will take up quite a few hours, and 
 then there is still so much more to do for the perfectionists out there. Is this something that 
 should be purchased if you already own the other two Lego Star Wars games? Well... that really 
 depends if you have friend online you want to play the game with. If you do, then don't wait any 
 longer. Go out and buy it, and if you don't have any Lego Star Wars game at all, then this is the 
 definative version to get.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Lego star wars returns but with everything on one disc this is the complete experience right here 
 and its well worth checking out if you love the lego games.
  
  Single player
  
  You play through all 6 episodes and like the previous games lego star wars provides humour fun 
 and just about everything you would expect from lucasarts the big scenes lke vader vs luke empire 
 strikes back has been redone to make you laugh and i admit i could not help laughing when i saw 
 it.
  
  C0-OP
  This is the new addition to the series but this time you can play online with a friend and im happy 
 to say its great.
  
  Create a character
  I personally love this its great making a storm trooper look like a sith and its a great addition 
 to the game.
  
  Graphics
  They look great for what this is and thats about it.
  
  Pros
  All 6 episodes are great and have some surprises..
  Nice hd graphics
  funny most of 
 the game
  
  cons
  Very easy you can't lose
  don't expect anything amazing just light hearted fun
  
  Verdict
  
  Lego star wars the complete 
 saga is fun addictive and has nailed film adaption pretty much perfect so if you have never played 
 the lego star wars games then this is a very easy game to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that I'm not a huge fan of Star Wars. In fact I haven't even seen 
 all of the movies, but still I found Lego Star Wars to be a fun gaming experience. It's simple 
 and accessible enough for kids. And older fans will have fun seeing their favorite scenes, all 
 recreated in Lego graphics. As you may already know, this version has both the original trilogy 
 levels and the prequel levels. The original trilogy ones are better, in my opinion at least. They 
 also have the most humour added in them as opposed to the prequel levels.
  
  There's not much of a challenge in any of the levels for experienced gamers, but I wasn't expecting 
 there to be any either. There's also an option to play the game co-op, either online or offline. 
 Definitely a nice addition. The game does get a bit repetitive when playing for long periods of 
 time. But maybe that's because I'm not a hardcore Star Wars fan. Anyway, if you happen to be a 
 fan I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Traveler's Tales brings it Lego Star Wars game to the 360 and brings both Lego Star Wars games 
 together letting you play all six saga on one disc. the game looks amazing on the X-Box 360 and 
 Traveler's Tales adds new characters not in the first two games. the new online co-op is fun and 
 can be fun at times, you can also play co-op with two people. a few stages from the first game 
 have been redone and add some depth to the game and makes it more fun to try to unlock the new 
 red blocks hidden in the game and the gold bricks are now more fun to find as the game has 160 
 gold bricks to find. the Bounty Hunter missions are back and there are now 20 missions to complete. 
 the game is long as trying to get 100% is not easy and trying to unlock everything can be a little 
 frustrating at times.
  Lego Star Wars also adds the redone stages in there original forms as bonus stages that help you 
 get gold bricks and playing the original stages from the first game are fun to play.
  overall, Lego Star Wars is a fun game and has a lot to unlock. so if you like Lego and you like 
 Star Wars, then you should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  In this game you take all the episodes from all 6 movies and they are all combined. The place that 
 you can customize characters and buy characters is really small. You do all the episodes from the 
 prevoius chapter to get all the characters. When you are done with all the episodes and you buy 
 all the Bounty Hunters a door will be unlocked. There is also a door that leads you outside and 
 there is also a door that shows you previews of some of the Star Wars games and lego indian Jones 
 trailer.
  
  The good of this game is that there are alot of new features to do.
  
  The bad everything is from the other Lego Star Wars games.
  
  Overall I rate this game 8.5 
 outta 10 because it gets to boring after a little while and everything in that game is from the 
 other Lego Star Wars  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is brought to us by TT Games and Lucasarts. It has combined the previous Lego Star 
 Wars games into one enjoyable package which offers plenty of gameplay for both adults and children.
 
  
  The Complete Saga fuses the whole Star Wars story together from the discovery of Anakin, through 
 to the epic fight with the fallen Emperor. The game doesn't have any of the original character's 
 voices, therefore characters and cutscenes are played out much like a silent movie where character's 
 emotions are expressed through body language and grunts. While it is not ideal, it does still allow 
 you to follow the story well and it is still understandable.
  
  The game does still retain its recognisable soundtrack from the movies along with excellent sound 
 effects from blasters and lightsaber clashes which sound just like they do in the movies. The graphics 
 in the game is also excellent, but while not technically outstanding, they compliment the Lego 
 theme very well with clean, colourful animations.
  
  The gameplay element of the game is also great. The game has adopted the standard platformer with 
 added elements to it. Throughout the game you collect coins which give various amounts of credits. 
 These credits can be used to purchase new characters, extras such as invincibility and hints. You 
 can also collect other various objects that further add to the replayability of the game. The fact 
 you can play though the whole Saga means that there are 36 story levels, 20 bounty hunter missions, 
 and six bonus levels which adds to the amount you can get out the game.
  
  The game's story mode is the mode which you will most likely play through first but there is also 
 a free play mode where you can choose to replay any level with any unlocked character. In free 
 play mode you can also switch between a set amount of AI generated characters along with the one 
 you chose so you can use each character's abilities to reach collectables which you could not in 
 story mode.
  
  The number of characters in the game is quite unbelievable. The game includes 162 playable characters 
 ranging from Yoda, Darth Vader and Indiana Jones which are all fully playable in the game along 
 with various other characters from all episodes. You can also fully customise two characters from 
 scratch. While there are few opportunities to great something completely different, as most options 
 are just taken from original characters, it's still a great feature to have.
  
  Another great feature is the newly introduced online co-op which can be used through Xbox Live. 
 It has been integrated well into the game and it's easy just to jump into a game at any point. Despite 
 all these new features and improved visuals, the game has not changed very much from previous games 
 giving people who have played Lego Star Wars I or II and odd sense of deja vu meaning people who 
 have will be running through familiar territory.
  
  While The Complete Saga is very much a more polished version of the previous Lego Star Wars games, 
 it is still a great buy for any newcomers to the Lego Star Wars franchise and a truly enjoyable 
 package.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  I've been a Star Wars fan my whole life, and I loved the first lego star wars game when it came 
 out. Though this game doesn't really offer anything new, it still is worth a buy to any star wars 
 fans.
  Story -- The story relates with the whole "Star Wars" trilogy from episodes one trough six. The characters 
 don't actually talk during the game, but make grunts and have humorous moments throughout. If you're 
 a Star Wars fan and have seen the movies or read the books, you'll understand the story very well. 
 Though for anyone else, the story in this game may be difficult for you to understand. Despite 
 this, it his humorous and is pretty basic to follow.
  Graphics -- The graphics aren't really anything special on the Xbox 360. There is very little difference 
 between this and a ps2 version of a lego star wars game. The legos themselves -- Obi-Wan Kenobi, 
 Luke Skywalker, Anakin Skywalker, Darth Vader, etc.. -- do have some detail that resembles themselves. 
 As for the environments, they look generally good, but they obviously weren't them main focus of 
 the game. Lots of objects, like plants, boxes, and ridable vehicles are all made out of legos. 
 Though the graphics look similar to the two ps2 versions of this game, they hold up well.
  Gameplay -- combat generally consists of pressing X as a three hit combo, then starting over again. 
 Pressing A will have you jump up and you can (if you're character has a lightsaber) smash the enemies 
 from above. There are tons of characters to play as throughout the main story missions of the game. 
 The game's length itself is a good 10-15 hours if you want to collect all hidden items for achievements. 
 You'll generally roam around levels that look similar to the movie's and are exactly the same as 
 previous versions. All six episodes are included, making the game longer. There are 36 missions 
 altogether with six episodes, with six levels in each. You can play with a friend through the missions, 
 as well, making it more fun. There's money to collect, so you can unlock more characters, extras 
 and secrets. The controls work well, the level designs are good, and there's lots of content to 
 play through, including extra missions. 
  Story: 7.4/10 -- it ties in well with the plot of the star wars trilogy and has many humorous moments, 
 though if you don't know the story of star wars, then it'll be tricky for you to understand.
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- the graphics hold up well for the most part, but isn't much better than earlier 
 versions of the game.
  Gameplay: 6.9/10 -- playing with another person through the game's long missions is fun, but the 
 combat gets repetitive and it's nothing different from earlier versions.
  Final Thoughts: If you're a Star Wars fan and haven't played any other lego star wars games, definitely 
 pick this up for a rent or buy it at a low price. This game does have easy achievements if you 
 like those, and I would recommend this for younger children anywhere from 6-13 if they like star 
 wars. But for anyone else who's played previous versions of this game, there's nothing really new 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oranges0
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Legos. Particularly Star Wars, and when I heard they were making a lego game 
 with LSW I and II together with new add-ons, I was very excited! Having played both Lego Star Wars 
 I and II, I pretty much knew what was coming. Complete Saga however, is no disapoint. Although 
 there are only 2 new levels added. (Vehicle levels, which really aren't the most fun.) There are 
 a lot of new characters! Including Indiana Jones! I really like the online co-op play, and the 
 fact that you get to see the LSW I levels with current-gen graphics is really cool! Gameplay is 
 fun and addicting, however there ARE some levels when you just want to beat at the beginning, but 
 still very fun. The cutscenes are hilarious, and just plain funny, and the levels are all just 
 like watching the movies for the first time! (If this is your first lego game.) All in all, you 
 can't go wrong with this funny lego game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caddy06_88
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars and Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy were both successful Traveller's Tales 
 games that sparked a lot of interest in turning popular film franchises into lego games. Lego Star 
 Wars: The Complete Saga is a package game that combines both of the Lego Star Wars games, and it 
 does so in a very smooth and effective way.
  
  Lego Star Wars follows the story of all six Star Wars films and retells them using it's charming 
 gameplay and even more charming cutscenes. The basic story follows the Star Wars films, but minor 
 details are changed, for comical effect more than anything and it certainly works in creating a 
 fun game, that is definitely not just for children. The story is told through cutscenes which are 
 incredibly charming and easy to love. All of the characters have voices and express their emotions 
 by a series of grunts and actions. You will find yourself laughing and smirking throughout every 
 cutscene.
  
  It is not a bad thing that there is no voice acting; it actually makes for a more enjoyable experience 
 when playing through the story. All of the biggest moments of the saga are featured in the game 
 e. g. the fall of Anakin, the birth of the Empire, the moment when Darth Vader reveals he is Luke's 
 father, although it's slightly different in the game as he shows Luke a picture of him and his 
 mother and grunts a few times. Overall, any part you can think of, Lego Star Wars includes it somewhere, 
 and puts a nice twist on it to remind you this is a light-hearted game.
  
  One of the most important things in the Star Wars films, alongside the great story, is the fantastic 
 soundtrack, which is certainly not missing in Lego Star Wars. The most memorable tracks are ever 
 so present throughout the game and the game does well to integrate tracks, for example, when you 
 use the force on some tables and chairs, the infamous bar tune plays or when you build a jukebox 
 in Jabba's place, his minions come running to rock out to the dark side tune. The sound effects 
 are great too. From the swinging of the light sabres to the firing of the blasters, everything 
 is perfect. The sound does well to enhance the Star Wars experience. Not only does the game sound 
 great, the game looks great too. Running in HD, the game looks very crisp and very clean. It is 
 not a technical achievement by any means, but for this basic game, the graphics are very nice.
 
  
  Lego Star Wars isn't just about pretty graphics and a great story though, the game plays great 
 too. It's a pretty standard platformer, but standard isn't a bad thing. There are many playable 
 characters, and many character types. There are jedis and siths, droids, stormtroopers, bounty 
 hunters, and more. Each character type can do different things and for most levels, you experience 
 a good mix of characters. Once you have played through the story on a level, you can re-play the 
 level on freeplay and pick your own character as well as change between several other characters 
 in the middle of the level, which is useful for collecting items that would otherwise be out of 
 reach. Throughout all of the levels, there are several items that you can collect. Collecting things 
 can be both fun and irritating as you may go through an entire level just to collect something 
 near the end of it, and not have the right character to be able to collect that item which means 
 you have to play through it again. The story line is quite lengthy due to there being 6 levels 
 in each of the episodes which means 36 levels in total. Most players will find themselves completing 
 the game in around 12 hours.
  
  A big problem with Lego Star Wars is replay value. Once you have finished the story, there are 
 some things that you might want to go back and collect if you are into that sort of thing, but 
 other than that, there are not that many options. There are a few extra side missions you can do, 
 but they are pretty minimal. There are many extras that can be unlocked by finding Red Power Bricks 
 throughout the levels, but they aren't really worth it and in some places, make the game too easy 
 and boring. You can play online with friends, but only friends, which limits the online experience 
 more than it should. The Xbox 360 achievements are worth a mention due to them helping the game 
 in terms of replay value, and also in terms of the humorous nature of a lot of them e. g. 'Let the 
 Wookie Win' involves ripping off a certain number of enemy arms with a wookie
  
  Lego Star Wars: Complete Saga does a great job of combining both Lego Star Wars games and updating 
 them. The games, at their core, are still the same, loveable games that they were before. The story 
 humour is fantastic and well worth seeing. The soundtrack is perfect in terms of the Star Wars 
 franchise. The gameplay is fun enough, but the lack of real replay value is a big let down. It's 
 fun collecting things, but it gets tedious after a short time. For newcomers into Lego Star Wars, 
 the game is great value for money as you are getting a lengthy and enjoyable game but for anybody 
 who already owns or has played through both games previously, it's not really worth buying this 
 one again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBaybulz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for people that have not played one but have played the other. If you have both 
 LS 1 and 2 then don't waste your money on this one. You'll just be playing the same game over and 
 over again. It gets really boring. Don't waste your time and go get Indiana Jones TOA. It is way 
 more fun then this if you have Lego SW 1 and 2. I also really wish that the lego people could talk. 
 That would have gotten my review up at least 1 or 2 points, but I think this game I think deserves 
 a 6.0 out of ten but I'll cut LucasArts and TT Games some slack and I'll give the game a 7.0 out 
 of ten. P. S BEEN THERE DONE THAT DON'T BUY IT IF YOU HAVE LEGO STAR WARS ONE AND OR TWO. 
  P. S. S What I am really trying to say is its not a good game and you shouldn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Lego games have been around for a few years now, and these games have really had plenty of family 
 appeal. LucasArts and Traveler's Tales merged to create Lego Star Wars, something that would appeal 
 to those with affection for George Lucas' space opera, as well as those colorful building blocks. 
 This game revolved around the modern movies, from episode one to three. The 2006 sequel was even 
 better, based on the original movies from the eighties.
  
  With "The Complete Saga", Traveler's tales has glued both of those games into one, long and valuable 
 package. This solid package is made better than its predecessors with improved graphics, new levels, 
 and online cooperative play. If you have played either of the two previous games however, there 
 will be a lot of recycled content and therefore makes this harder to recommend.
  
  The essential and basic appeal of Lego Star Wars is that it lets you act out the most memorable 
 Star Wars moments as a colorful Lego people. Environments are inventive and cute, colorful versions 
 of the movies locations. Naboo, Kamino and parts of the Death Star are included. You play as either 
 Jedi's, Droids, soldiers, or child-like people that all play slightly differently and are all significant 
 in their own ways. All enemies slain break-apart into little pieces. To mix it up, there are a 
 few racing missions that involve the driving of Pod racers and Star Wars spaceships.
  
  The main changes of The Complete Saga will only be noticeable for those who thoroughly played through 
 the first two games. For those who have already played these older games, there is perhaps not 
 enough new to keep you tagged, but for those select few and those who have never played the series 
 but enjoy Star Wars, The Complete Saga is a worthwhile game and is simply fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star wars: The Complete Saga is just like the two Lego Star Wars games combined together. 
 There's are some improvements but no major ones. You can do multi-player dual and still make a 
 custom made lego built character. You will find nothing new if you'd played the original Lego Star 
 Wars games before. The story is just Starwars except in Lego version. I personal like the Starwars 
 story. The progession of the game is based on how many "gold bricks" you collect throughout the 
 game. There are over 120 characters. The various amount of characters is the strong part of the 
 game. You can experiment with different characters and each are unique. The gameplay is action/ 
 puzzle/ platformer game. The Mos Eisley Cantina the game's main HUB where you can replay all the 
 levels. Each episode is broken down into 6 levels. There is a total of 36 levels.
  
  Story- 10
  Graphics- 8
  Gameplay- 7
  Enjoyment- 8
  
  Final Score- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Just_a_peep_21
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. I mean if you played Lego Star Wars before you might not be as excited 
 but I got a bad rent copy of the Original Trilogy so this was fantastic. Plus you get to play as 
 Indian Jones. The controls are simple and sweet. The humor is more aimed toward kids but might 
 make you chuckle at times. Just an all around great platform game. Can't wait for Indian Jones 
 and Batman to come out. Lego is the best platform game out right now and I can't say anything bad 
 about that fact. I highly recommend this game as a must buy as it is addicting and you just seem 
 driven to get 100% completion, it will take you a bit of time to do everything. So enjoy it and 
 I'm sure if you can't afford it right now, it's destined to be a 360 Platinum game in the near 
 future. From the solid controls, to the vast amount of things to do including Bounty Hunter Missions. 
 It's a game for a wide variety of gamers. If you never played a Lego Star Wars game in the past. 
 Get out from under your rock and play it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Probably one of my favorite lego games its funny play all the episodes from 1to3to4to6 the game 
 is all lego darthvader anakin 3p0 the game is fun build stuff rides and mix and match funny ways 
 so this is a fun game and its a goood colletion of the lego collection the lightsabers are cute 
 so are their heads this game is pretty classic and it is very fun if you have a friend you can 
 play coop the action is pretty good and the combat the humor is really good and you can explode 
 all the neat stuff in the game. The lego starwars complete sega is a colletion to the first lego 
 starwars and the second i hope there is a third probably not done with starwars but this game is 
 like a chip off the old block this is such a must buy game or you can buy them seperatly witch 
 is pretty cheap but the weapons you can build ships and all other lego stuff you can freeplay mode 
 if you complete the mission you can play different characters this is a must buy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiraxander
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I'm like o its gonna be just another kids game. WRONG.... sort of. It 
 is a simple game that a little kid could play but it also has great features that most can get 
 in to. Its mainly a collectors game, where you run around collecting Lego studs. Which you can 
 use to buy more characters and upgrades. You go through all the different Star Wars episodes and 
 after you complete it once you can go back through with with characters of your with 1 character 
 you chose and random one s that you have unlocked. Action is pretty fun with blaster bolts flying 
 everywhere and jedi's lightsabers. Pretty much all of the environment can be destroyed to send 
 Lego studs flying. Theres also some cool space battle stages and the pod race stage from episode 
 1. Music is from Star Wars so if like that you like the music in this game. The game also has a 
 pretty good sense of humor, so if you laugh easy you should enjoy this game the never take things 
 serious. This game also has lot of stages and other options so if your going for 100pct. completion 
 you gonna be playing awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Lego Star wars the complete Saga is one of the best games out there if you want some one's opinion 
 on should I buy it, you should if you are a star wars or just like great games. The drop in, drop 
 out feature is great for multiplayer. I give a 9.5 because there so many character to choose from, 
 but some are a little over priced, but still it is a great game, and I'm glad to one of millions 
 of proud owners. Also the replay value is high, it gives you the chance to replay a level and get 
 all the items that you didn't get before. With over 30 characters to choose from you can replay 
 a so many times, but you'll never have the same experience. The characters include old and new 
 faces like, Zam Wesell, Boss Nass, Captain Tarpals, and R2-Q5. Old characters are Jango and Boba 
 Fett, Padme, Darth Vader, Yoda, Mace Windu, and Count Dooku. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitulu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I have LSW2 for PS2, and my son has LSW1 for the DS, so getting LSW: TCS for the 360 was a no-brain-er. 
 The content did not change, with the exception that, on the 360 with a 50" plasma screen, the colors 
 are 100% sharper. If you are in the mood for a 3-hour power gaming session, or a quick half-hour 
 to kill time before dinner, you can do both with this game, and the addition of the Achievements 
 adds yet another level of strategy... while it may be one thing to blow through Clone Troopers with 
 Yoda and his lightsaber, it is a whole different strategic approach to use Chewie to pull off arms 
 on trooper after trooper in order to get the "let the wookie win" Achievement... or send Artoo in 
 to take out a Droideka to get the "not as helpless" Achievement. Run through once to beat the game, 
 again to get all the stuff you need a bounty hunter or sith to get to, and get the 100%. Both of 
 my younger kids (6 and 10) love to play together and separately, as well as play it with me, and 
 my wife laughs out loud at some of the stuff we do in the game! While some things may seem hard 
 or impossible to do, once you spend a little time in the level you can generally figure it out, 
 and all the little comical animations make you look everywhere for the little things that are not... quite... Star 
 Wars-y, but fit in the genre like, well, a Lego brick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is like the universal video game which anyone can be good at. It has easy controls 
 to master and it is pretty simple to understand what you are supposed to do at any point in this 
 game, run and destroy anything that is not in your party. Lego Star Wars also has a great sense 
 of humor and is amusing to any Star Wars fan (without even saying a word) . However, if your like 
 me and won't stop playing a game till I have every single achievement, you will find yourself playing 
 this game for quite a while and making very little progress after hours of playing it. This is 
 because once you have finished with all of the episodes, there is little else to do but get lots 
 of studs to buy things from the shop. However, this game is fun to play and amusing if your looking 
 for a game that you can play to relax and feel nostalgic about the golden days of Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StaticSoldier7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  When playing Lego Star Wars the complete saga, it is important to remember that both of these games 
 have been released years ago, so don't be expecting any major surprises. Although this game is 
 technically nothing more than a mere bundle, it manages to add in more levels, more characters 
 and one hell of a lot more lego!
  
  You must know that you are playing a child's game, so it is designed to be simple and not too complicated. 
 If you're looking for something more Gears-of-War, i would steer clear of this game. Has anybody 
 out there seen that advert in magazines where it says "Play with your family this Christmas", or 
 something like that? No? Well, Lego Star Wars the complete saga, is below so i'd say it falls into 
 the family category, so if you're planning to spend the next 3 days in your room, playing nothing 
 but video games, hide this game downstairs so you don't make a terrible mistake as this game is 
 best in small doses.
  
  In conclusion, even though this game is kiddy it is a lot of fun. Where it lacks in graphics, speech 
 and complexity, it makes up for in humour, lifespan and unbeatable gameplay and co-op. A respectable 
 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  There's just something about Lego Star Wars that never gets old. It's a great game for anyone at 
 any age. If you have someone over your house or going to someone else's house this is a great game 
 for playing with others (others meaning 1 other person) . If you have a girlfriend, or girls if 
 you have a boyfriend this is a great game for having fun together. Back to the game. The game takes 
 every Star Wars movie and puts it into a nutshell. The game adds clever moments to the game, but 
 to be honest the first 3 Star Wars episodes seemed to be drained of their entertainment that the 
 4th-6th Star Wars episodes have. Nevertheless the story works.
  
  Graphics - The game's graphics are more simple than detailed. Saying that, the game runs a very 
 smooth framerate and the characters look great. The lines are fine around the characters and the 
 models are smooth and high def.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very simple. Press X to attack, B to hook onto ledges, A to jump, RB 
 or LB to switch characters and so on. Within a matter of minutes anyone should be able to figure 
 out every control with ease.
  
  Sound - The music is of course the Star Wars music, which sounds good as usual. The sound effects 
 sound real and nice. Explosions feel just right. Overall the sound quality is good.
  
  Online - To be honest I do not like the online whatsoever. It's actually somewhat pointless if 
 you ask me. I mean it's great they gave you the option to play online, I just feel that this game 
 should be played with someone next to you. Besides the online is actually quite boring and if you 
 join a match with someone who is annoying and childish, prepare for frustration because YOU will 
 have no control and the camera angle will mark your boundries if you want to go to another point 
 in the level and the person you're playing with decides to go the other way.
  
  I strongly recommend buying this game. It's great to have when you're bored and great to play when 
 others are around. Remember.. take my advice and use this game to your advantage when you have 
 a loved one around, they will enjoy playing this game with you.. even if they hate playing video 
 games. Kids will love this game and so will teens and adults. Who knows, maybe even grandparents. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomster98
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Lego star wars has been a legend among videogames but when you combine them both it's just the 
 same for old players but involves more gameplay which could mean about 2 hours more to play on.
 
  
  it's good but not great. it's got plenty of room for improvement but it needs more levels and better 
 gameplay. it's the same for old users you might disagree but because i have all 3 i've got to say 
 it is just the same as the other two.
  
  But there is a brand new 2 player arcade which is really good where you can fight your mates or 
 just leave the arcade and play co-op.
  
  it's good to play single player but you might get bored by Episode 2. so beware but it's worth 
 it if you haven't got any others. but the multi-player is great to play against your mates
  
  Overall 9.0 - with seen it before but thanks to multiplayer it scrapes through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Say hello to one of the funnest and halarioues games ever. This game is fun, simple, easy and great 
 to kepp you playing. The gameplay i great, the storyline is the same as the movies but they add 
 some humor inoto it to make it more entertaining. The cutssceanes are great and the unlockables 
 just make the game seem easier and enjoable. There is a mountain of characters to unlock and play 
 as.
  
  The best thing about this game is that once you beat a level you can replay it with your favourtie 
 characters and go do things you can do in the usualy story mode. Although the character custamization 
 lets this game down, it is still heaps of fun.
  
  Even though im more of an oblivion and halo guy thiss game really had me laughing. This game is 
 as good as even the normal star wars games. The complete saga is truly a classic to add to the 
 lego series. If you see it cheap in a bargin bin-buy it now-its good on every console even ds exept 
 wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz86
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of both the Lego Star Wars games. I spent hours on each and finished both games 
 on the PS2. I now have a 360 and saw the the complete saga was coming out on the one disk. I thought 
 that I shouldn't buy it as I have already played them but I bought it anyway. Am I disappointed? 
 Not at all. I love this game. It is the kind of game that is always going to be fun. 
  
  The extra levels and players featured in this version of the game aren't all that great. They are 
 not worth buying this version of Lego Star Wars for. But if you are a big fan of Lego Star Wars 
 or have never played the games then this game is great. 
  
  Imagine all your favorite Star Wars characters running around as Lego men in a big Lego universe. 
 This game is very entertaining because everything is made with Lego. 
  
  Whether you're a fan of Star Wars or just Lego, this game will have you having fun for many hours. 
 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustlegg
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best star wars game the has ever been on the market.
  From the crazyily funnyness of lego to the extremness of Star Wars this
  game is almost as good 
 as winning the lottery or driving a BMW. The only bad thing in this game is that the game has already 
 been released! just in two seperate games. Yes I is talking about the repeated content. The new 
 content and features make up for the repeated content almost about making the game funnier and 
 better! So if I was a chump like you then I
  would go out and buy this game today for your Xbox 360 or Ps3.
  
  For me this game gets a 10/10 
 because of the amounts of fun and the best replay value I have seen in a game besides Bioshock! 
 So buy it today!
  
  ps-I have recieved many emails if the gaem is better on the xbox 360 or ps3, like a true xbox fan 
 and a tv quality inspecter, this game is best on the Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Some might claim this game as rehash and replay through the same two games, but that shouldn't 
 stop old fans from returning to this underrated gem. The humor is still intact even if you've already 
 played through the series numerous amounts of times, and the storylines, while licensced and deep, 
 are wonderfully transitioned into Lego form.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game's gameplay is simple, yet in an eloquent kind of way. A simple push of the X 
 button is all you do to attack and block against the nearest enemy. While this still is fun, it 
 may reult in a few upsets when you accidently kill your partner in co-op play. Force powers are 
 the same, but slightly moe enhanced so you can push battle droids into each other and twist stormtrooper's 
 heads around XD. The game also provides a new power-up that enhances your speed and your attack 
 speed. The podracing lvel is less punishing and now becomes a highlight of the game instead of 
 a dreary, arduous chore. Not to mention the new level designs for the shipbattles. Now you can 
 play the prequel's flying levels (besides episode 3's) the same way you played the ones from LSW2, 
 bad camera and all.
  
  GRAPHICS: The prequel trilogy looks better on the 360, but still looks dated compared to the original 
 trllogy's level of detail. How good can Lego's look anyway? Pretty damn good!
  
  MUSIC: Josh William's score is translated nicely. Plus they actually include Episode III music 
 instead of episode VI music. And they thought we'd never notice. Well we did, and they fixed it 
 =3.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: Definitely feels worth it to unlock all of the characters and bonuses, trust me. 
 You'll love revisiting old levels as new friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeilBarnett
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  I can't help but find playing this game is just like watching both trilogies on DVD. You get the 
 same slight disappointment with the first three chapters, then delight with the last three. 
  This is how I felt with the films and I can't help feel the same with the game.
  
  However, 
 it is great fun to play and quite addictive . Certain bugs that were present in the Lego Original 
 Trilogy Xbox 360 game have been corrected so you can now complete certain level.
  
  You can also buy and use the Indiana Jones character, very useful if you want to crack your wip 
 at the Stormtroopers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtWhiskeyjack
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The game looks sharper and the characters are a lot smoother. The new levels I've reached so far 
 have made me say Wow! and are really welcome additions due to their instant recognisability from 
 the films.
  The game feels a lot more polished than its predecessors and even though I've played them all, 
 playing The Complete Saga is a pleasure not a chore, with just enough new elements to make it feel 
 fresh.
  Online co-op would be awesome if only more people on my friendlist bought it, but it's still as 
 great as ever in 2 player mode with the battle to go the way you want to go and not the way your 
 playing partner wants to go, still raging on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything lego and starwars put together. The graphics havent really changed but 
 they added more stuff in like more new cutscenes that are really funny. In the lego Starwars 1 
 portion of the game there are new vehicles that you can build and play, there are more character 
 customization options this time, new missions and secrets to find, and best of all online play. 
 The online play really makes the game better than past lego starwars games. The only bad thing 
 about this game is the gameplay has not changed nor the combat style. I give it an 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Why would i buy this game? i have one part on my PSX2, one part on my 360. The reason is quite 
 clear. This game has a few extra's. It's heaps fun, and you can play with two players.
  
  Yes, i remember the first day i saw it. Looked like a kids game. looked nice, but that was all. 
 So, as i waited my turn for the cash register i decided to play a few minutes. Soon it was 1 HOUR 
 later and i realised that this game has something. 
  
  Quirky, funny, simple and highly addicitve. It does two things. it makes a little fun of star wars 
 and it is a homage at the same time. All this adds up to playing your Star Wars moments and finding 
 all kinds of ways to find hidden objects. 
  
  Graphically it is genious. it is all done in LEGO style, and even though it looks simple. to do 
 it in this way takes guts, sweat and determination. 
  
  It is a good achievement, and it will remain to be the stuff of joy for many families in a galaxy 
 near you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKBrad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat I have to say that I never owned the original Lego Star Wars or Lego Star Wars 
 II. Therefore, the fact that much of the content is recycled doesn't bother me at all.
  
  This is one of the most clever, funny games out there. Having grown up with both Legos and Star 
 Wars as the two major timesinks, this hits a nostalga sweet spot. The game itself is quite fun 
 to play - they've done quite a good job at reducing each of the movies to 6 chapters. Not every 
 chapter is what you might expect, but all the highlights are there and they all play quite well. 
 In fact, I think what they've chosen to empasize works as a strength of the game, making the game 
 managable but providing all the moments you love. This game also looks great - bringing next generation 
 hardware along with the fact that it's supposed to look like Legos, and you have a real treat for 
 the eyes. And then there's the cutscenes, which are fantastic - both true to the original movies 
 but with clever new humor added into the mix.
  
  As for gameplay, it gets the job done. The ability to play multiple characters is quite fun, and 
 you can unlock a stunning range of Lego-ized Star Wars characters. The play is fun, with different 
 types of characters having slightly different abilities - so that while the game is easy it's not 
 boring. The only complaint I have about the gameplay is that the camera views aren't that great 
 - they are rather limited in your ability to spin around and see different angles and sometimes 
 you can have difficulty seeing what is going on.
  
  Overall, this is a fun addition to any game library. If you grew up as a fan of both Lego and Star 
 Wars, the amount of joy you'll get in watching the intro scenes to Episodes 4, 5 and 6 is hard 
 to underestimate. I didn't expect much when I purchased this, but now I can't wait to see Lego 
 Indiana Jones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widemouthedfrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I thought that the 7.5 awarded by Gamespot was a little rough. Yes the two games have 
 been released in the past but only one has made it to the 360 & this package is at a lower RRP 
 than most games & will give you a lot more for your money than some of the 'bigger' names. 
  
  The replayability within this is amazing. Unlike other games, you WANT to play through this 
 again & again. After unlocking the stories, the game comes into its own through Freeplay.
  
  I am a big Star Wars fan (original trilogy more so) & this game is ideal. My kids love it & 
 has great co-op options which include online. The sound in this game comes straight from the films 
 & the all round presentation is tremedous.
  
  I play alot of 'shooters' normally but it is great being able to pop this disc in, sit back, relax 
 & enjoy.
  
  AMAZING value for money in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey4uncw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I've said it before in another review but any game that gets my wife playing a good game. The main 
 reson is because it gets me playing. We both find it fun. We have both of the individual game and 
 are now playing this the combined version. It is as good as the first time and the graphics are 
 better and most of the glitches so far have been taken out of the game. There are different achievements 
 which is nice so you don't have ot rehash the same ole stuff completely. Some of my favorite achievments 
 are defeating different characters with specific characters thus changing in theory the movies 
 and the direction the movies would have gone had that been possible. It's a fun and easy game to 
 play that can be done with out much frustration. As always with these games you have to play the 
 game multiple times just to get 100% of the game accomplished. So I guess that makes it somewhat 
 a replayable game unless you consider the game only finished after 100% of the game is complete 
 but I look at it as going through the stages not the game completion. You can feel like you've 
 saved the universe with out having to get all the achievements and with out finishing 100% of the 
 game.
  
  Thanks
  Joey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzs1000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I played the other Star Wars LEGO games on a Mac and on the PSP. The HD graphics from the XBOX 
 360 make this game a much better experience. Episodes 1-3 are fun additions... I hated Jar Jar Binks 
 in the movies but he redeems himself here as he can really jump. The original trilogy episodes 
 do seem to be pretty recycled, but they are still fun to go through and there are a few new twists. 
 I like going through as Greedo in free play. I think the sound is underrated in this game series... they 
 do a great job of using the Star Wars sounds and music. All things considered, this is a great 
 game for any age player. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
