-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/legoindianajones/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great offline cooperative play.
 Fun puzzles.
 Tons of replay value.
 Very funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy friendly AI.
 Respawning enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,302 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The third time is the charm for Traveller's Tales -- logical puzzles and great offline co-op play 
 make this the best Lego game yet. 

  Now that Traveller's Tales has conquered a galaxy far, far away, it has set its sights on giving 
 a Lego makeover to a more terrestrial franchise. Lego Indiana Jones: The Complete Trilogy lets 
 you reenact the key scenes from the first three Indiana Jones movies, with a blocky twist only 
 Lego can provide. The idea of children's building toys pasted atop action-packed adventures may 
 seem strange -- and seeing a Lego monkey is rather unnerving -- but the enduring charm of the movies 
 is the perfect foundation for some small-scale tomb robbing. The surprise is, even without a nostalgic-powered 
 handcuff fastening you to these stories, the seamless co-op and clever puzzles should be enough 
 to draw even the Indy ignorant into the experience.  

  Like the Lego Star Wars games, Lego Indiana Jones is primarily a puzzle-solving game with light 
 combat and platforming elements. While the core experience remains largely unchanged from the previous 
 games, the puzzles are constructed in a much more intelligent and logical manner this time around. 
 Previous Lego games had bewildering sections that would stump even seasoned puzzle-solving veterans, 
 not to mention frustrate casual fans who were just looking for a Star Wars fix. Those tricky sections 
 still exist in Lego Indiana Jones, but now they have been relegated to the bonus missions. Though 
 you'll still spend the majority of your time trying to figure out how to open locked doors or cross 
 perilous pits, the pacing is never halted by overly complex solutions.  

           The mine cart will make your stomach churn -- in a good way.      

  Even though the 
 adventuring is more streamlined this time, the obstacles you'll encounter are quite diverse. Every 
 level seems to throw a new trick your way that will continually keep you on your toes. The most 
 amusing puzzles involve the severe phobias with which certain characters are cursed. Indiana has 
 no fear swinging across molten lava with his whip or leaping over spikes while being run down by 
 a giant boulder, but if you put a snake in front of him, he'll become nearly catatonic. The boss 
 battles also provide a unique twist in every encounter. From having to figure out how to hurt a 
 man who can regenerate his health to fighting against someone who won't stop jumping, these encounters 
 serve as a fun diversion you'll have to solve quickly, lest you find your Lego head popped clean 
 off. Other sections have you using elephants to cross mud, driving a motorcycle while being chased 
 by a group of bikers, and trying to get a monkey to part with some dynamite. There is also a nauseatingly 
 awesome mine cart ride in  The Temple of Doom  section that, though brief, is quite exhilarating. 

  Though the puzzle aspects alone are enough to make Lego Indy worthwhile, the humor makes it enjoyable 
 even for people just watching the action. The silent cutscenes take you through the journey in 
 a much sillier manner than Steven Spielberg originally envisioned. No, you won't see the Lost Ark 
 melt some unfortunate Lego person's face, but you will see Indy's father fall asleep (because he's 
 old!) and even the Harrison Ford look-alike donning a blonde wig to deceive a foolish guard. The 
 humorous touches go beyond just the cutscenes; there are funny nods all around you. If you have 
 time to marvel at the decor when trying to escape from a burning castle, you might see a painting 
 of the Sphinx with a Lego head. Traveller's Tales also included a few references to its previous 
 Lego games. You can see soldiers wearing Darth Vader masks, Belloq mocking C-3PO, and a clever 
 homage to Hoth hidden away in one level.  

  It's worth playing the levels a few times just to pick up on all the references, but there is a 
 much more tangible reason than that: They are jam packed with hidden goodies. It's actually impossible 
 to get all the bonus items your first time. There are a number of different character-specific 
 traits, so you'll have to unlock Free mode to see all that every level has to offer. The different 
 traits help keep the tasks varied throughout the game. Indiana has his trusty whip, which can not 
 only help him swing across gaps and grab objects from far away, but can also bring the ladies closer 
 (and steal a quick kiss) . There are also scholars who can decrypt hieroglyphics, smaller-sized 
 characters who can squeeze through tiny spaces, craftsmen equipped with a wrench or a shovel, and 
 bad guys who can enter secret Thuggie doors. You'll be lucky to finish 50 percent of this game 
 your first time through, so it's overflowing with replay value.  

  Not everything is perfect in Legoland, though. The artificial intelligence is particularly awful. 
 You'll need your AI-controlled pal to help you solve puzzles sometimes, but you'll find your pal 
 less than willing in a few cases. This can be solved either by inviting a friend to play through 
 the game with you (the best option) or plugging in a second controller to move both characters 
 yourself. Trying to coax the AI to do your bidding can be an exercise in frustration, though. The 
 fighting can also get repetitive, especially when a swarm of enemies continually runs at you while 
 you're trying to solve a particularly complex puzzle. Bosses are usually protected by a troop of 
 soldiers, making them more difficult to defeat. Finally, the jumping portions can be very inconsistent. 
 It's not always possible to judge how far away you are from a platform, which leads to many untimely 
 deaths and arduous retries. None of the flaws destroy the enjoyment, but it's disappointing to 
 see the same problems from the previous Lego games rear their head once again.  

           The floor's on fire. See? And the chair.      

  The three versions of Lego Indy are 
 nearly identical. The game looks best on the PS3 and 360, but the simple aesthetic works quite 
 well on the Wii. The Wii version does let you use motion controls, but you'll probably ignore that 
 option after it takes you five minutes to dig up a buried treasure. Though it can be fun to snap 
 the controller like a whip if you're feeling feisty. You really can't go wrong no matter which 
 Indy you choose.  

  Lego Indiana Jones serves as the expected progression from the Lego Star Wars games. The great 
 pacing, humorous cutscenes, and challenging-but-not-cheap puzzles make this the most enjoyable 
 Lego game yet. It's not the hardest game, but it has enough hidden goodies to make you play through 
 more than once. Both newcomers and diehard fans of Traveller's Tales' previous Lego offerings will 
 find plenty to enjoy here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (53 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: geoxionGS
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I dont know, i have played really deeply the Lego Star wars saga, and i like indiana jones movies, 
 but somehow just it isnt that funny, or interesting, and its reaaaly not addictive. i just wanted 
 to trade the game about 10 minutes from playing it (altough noody wants to buy me it) . 
  
  it just isnt addictive enough to be worthy of buying it; maybe the kids of the family enjoy it, 
 cause its very easy to control, and the puzzles arent so hard. Could it be the reason i dont like 
 it?
  I dont know,.
  
  The archievements are way too hard for a so childish game, its like finding that number of coins 
 (or lego pieces, whatever) or finding all the hidden characters, or ending all the levels, and 
 ending the game at 100%. I have no enough will to make any of these.
  
  
  Sorry lego, for me this game is sooo boring that it is all dusty on my closet. (togheter with the 
 kung fu panda, but at least i got all the panda archievements) .
  
  
  Hpe they make a Lego Harry Potter or a lego SPIDERMAN :) yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiABeasts
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones surprised me, but in a good way. Although Lego Indiana Jones is not a hardcore 
 gamer game, and I am a hardcore gamer, it is still surprisingly fun to play. In Lego Indiana Jones 
 there are 3 maps and in each of the maps there are 6 levels. As you go on in the game, you will 
 continue to unlock new characters and collect artifact pieces and coins. The adventure mode will 
 take a while to beat if you are playing by yourself, but if you play with a buddy it won't be as 
 hard, but will still be fun. I beat this game without playing with anybody else, but only because 
 I don't feel like I actually beat it if I beat it with other people, and I had a lot of fun. The 
 game isn't hard to beat because of the difficulty, but because of the length of the adventure mode. 
 Overall this game is pretty good and a lot of fun to play. If you are thinking it is not a good 
 game just because it is Lego Indiana Jones, don't think that, you may be surprised like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  For any one who has played any of the Lego games before (Star Wars, Batman etc.) you'll know that 
 what you get is an amusing and often witty re-telling of a classic story. But what doesn't seem 
 to change though, between each of these titles is the basic core gameplay. 
  
  Each level will have you jumping, breaking and assembling in a variety of different ways and to 
 be honest theres little else. 
  
  And here's the kicker, it never gets boring. 
  
  In fact, I'm not gamer who likes to spend extra time going back and collecting all the extra bonuses, 
 but with the Lego Indiana Jones, they've managed to find new ways of making the same levels you've 
 just played interesting. 
  And thats where the games playability comes from: Great humour, funny cut scenes, great level design 
 and simple, easy fun that any one can pick up and play.
  
  As I say if you've played a Lego game before you might find this similar, but you won't find it 
 boring. 
  And for anyone who loves the Indie movies, it's a must have.
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  So i get my 360 last Christmas and ive been playin it ever since. I see that it comes with Lego 
 Indy and Kung Fu Panda. I was like "are u serious? This isnt the hardcore gamer." But eventually, 
 after i took a break from Xbox Live playin Halo 3, i decided to put this game in. I was amazed!
 
  
  No i never seen any of the Indy movies, and no i dont really like Indy type stuff, but i started 
 playin this a couple of days ago tryin to get EVERYTHING and all the acheivements. I just couldnt 
 stop playin.
  
  First of all, at the beggining, i was thinkin "i like lego star wars a little bit better". The 
 fact that i seen all the movies, makes more sense. But i started playin this couple days ago and 
 like i said i just couldnt stop playin.
  
  Let me stop chatterin and talk actually about the game.
  
  U start out in this place called 
 Barnett College. Go look around, get some studs, or just start the first level. It's very fun. 
 The story mode isnt that confusing when u havent seen any of the movies. Now im not gonna write 
 a whole descriptive review, but ill summarize it as best as i can.
  
  
  The game has the same technique as Lego Star Wars games, which is a good thing. U go around collecting 
 studs, artifacts, and parcels. Studs let u buy kool stuff. Artifacts are like Minikits from lego 
 star wars, collect them to unlock kool-lookin statues in the museum and unlock 3 bonus levels with 
 them. And parcels are like the red bricks in lego star wars, collect them to unlock extras.
  
  Umm..... lets see.... i cant think of everything right now, but i can tell u that this game is 
 fun.
  
  Oh! The graphics are amazing, the sound is good, and the multiplayer isnt really a good part of 
 the game. I didnt play with someone, but i know how lego game multiplayers are. If u wanna get 
 this game, play by urself.
  
  My recommendations with be short and sweet.
  
  1. They should have put Xbox Live into this one, it would've been a little kooler if u could play 
 with a friend, or share ur custom made character with a friend. But this isn't a necessity i think.
 
  
  and 2. Lets get to the part where im at. This part really KILLED the whole point of playin this 
 game. Well not exactly the point, but u know what i mean. 
  
  *******Possible SPOILERS if u havent played the game*******
  
  After u find the 5 hidden star 
 wars characters, u can unlock Han Solo. But the thing is, i was waiting that whole time wondering 
 to see who that last guy would be. I was thinking that he would be the best character in the game. 
 Turns out, that all he has is his freakin trusty pistol. No moves or anything. It pissed me off. 
 The reward for beating the game 100%: u get Han Solo who sucks in this game, u get studs popping 
 out of the sky, and u get suckish this one bonus level that sucks so much. Its freakin pointless... its 
 called warehouse. Ur supposed to make ur own race track. (The vehicles in the game are sweet by 
 the way.) Its pointless and a waste of time. I dont like this part.
  
  ******end of spoilers**************
  
  Ok i guess thats about it, all i have to say is that 
 this game is worth getting. If u dont have it, and ur a fan of the Lego Star Wars series, GET IT! 
 Theres like 2 things that arent good about the game, but the good stuff overpowers the bad. Except 
 that the reward isnt worth getting... but anyways GET IT!
  
  Gosh i just wrote a freaking BOOK!!! Didnt mean to do that...... sorry guys. The game is fun and 
 just today i got every acheivement for this game and im off for Kung Fu Panda.... I dont like that 
 game very much. I will review it sometime but anyways.
  
  I give Lego Indiana Jones 8.5 whip swings outta 10!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOSTLEAD3R
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  The Story is about Indiana Jones and the original adventures he had and everyone liked, unlike 
 his 4th movie. This game covers all the good movies that Indiana has been from Raiders of the Lost 
 Ark to Temple of Doom, and finally Last Crusade, all in Lego form mind you. So if you lived under 
 a cave, rock, or just too lazy, like me, and haven't seen these legendary movies then you will 
 be a bit lost, as the scenes have no real dialogue, minus a few grunt and are sometimes altered 
 to include more family friendly themes, as well as humor, which may make you smirk from time to 
 time. Really though you would have to see the movies in order to get most of the scenes, or just 
 watch a lot of TV. So there isn't much to the story in this game, minus a few scenes so those that 
 haven't watch it will be at a lost. The Visuals, are all in its Lego Glory. For a Lego game you 
 think everything be made with Lego's well that's not entirely true. The environment and backgrounds 
 aren't made of Lego's which is kind of disappointing at first. At first I thought it didn't fit 
 very well, but with the thought that maybe the player is supposed to feel like they are playing 
 with the Lego's outside (an interesting place where something called the sun shines, your mother 
 may want you to go out there sometime) . it seemed to fit in quite nicely. Everything you do, and 
 interact with is a Lego though. So it still has a big Lego like atmosphere to it. Overall making 
 this game what it says on the title, Indiana Jones the original adventures, in Lego form. Which 
 all games really should make you feel like you are in their world, and you never should feel out 
 of place in this Lego world.
  
  The Sound of Indiana Jones and the movie soundtrack, much like the story is pretty much copy and 
 pasta on this game. However I find it to sound a lot more like the star wars movies then the Indiana 
 Jones movies. (probably because I actually watched those)
  
  Pretty much just the same thing from the movies. It plays at a constant loop in each section of 
 a level, and gets annoying after a while. I don't know about the rest of you, but this music isn't 
 the best for playing games, as the loops ruin the epic parts of the song by playing it over and 
 over again to what seems to only annoy the player. Unless you like that kind of thing (I then suggest 
 finding a mental hospital to stay in) . These songs may be great for the movies but not for the games. 
 There's also zero to nothing in Voice acting, then again Lego's don't really talk so it fits it. 
 The only type of voice acting you will get is the occasional grunt and "heheh" from the villain, 
 and the screams from women and people "dying". But most of the sound effects sound pretty much 
 the same and are hard to tell apart, or just don't fit. For pretty much everything you destroy 
 you get the same sound effect (save for destroying characters) which sounds like a gun shot (shotgun 
 to be more specific) , rather then something collapsing, exploding things also sound similar to 
 this. Some of the sounds such as Lego characters' getting "killed" actually sound like they are 
 falling apart which is pretty cool for the first couple of times. For the most part, sound/music 
 are nothing to really remember as its either generic or was copied from the movie, which makes 
 it lose its magic through the transition from movie to video game to Lego video game. Really it 
 just feels like everything was clipped on last minute, and everyone went home to their families 
 to celebrate just getting the average work done.
  
  The Gameplay is the standard get from point A to point B (so C your way out) . You go through each 
 level solving puzzles WITH LEGOS and you build things WITH LEGOS, and everything in the world is 
 LEGOS! Course just by giving a quick glance I'm sure most of you already know this by now. LEGOS!
 
  
  Lego's are, well you know, used to create and solve puzzles with in the game. Most of the time 
 you are just breaking Lego's to start getting them to jump around to build them from the ground 
 up. Once you see the pieces jumping around you hit the event button and start building the Lego's 
 to makewell Lego's. Some other puzzles involve making you use some type of tool (that's from a 
 Lego set of course) . Wrenches are used to fix broken Lego pieces often shown with a smoke to indicate 
 it's broken. A book thingy is used to solve Egyptian wall puzzles, a super easy 4 pattern puzzle 
 that lights up to what pattern you should follow. And Shovelsto uh. dig thingswith.. Of course 
 there is a array of weapons, from the whip that Indiana Jones is equip with (as well as your created 
 character [s] ) to handguns to swords to yes even bazookaswhich is really awesome, because lets 
 face it no matter what your blowing up its always cool with a bazooka. You also have the option 
 of using things outside of them that can be picked up by your character that can be used as weapons 
 such as torches, chairs, and bottles. But it's rather limited (pretty much everything I just listed) 
 and more often then not really annoying when you grab something you didn't want to in the first 
 place. Weapons aren't there just to destroy your enemies either, like the tools, they are also 
 used to solve puzzles, swords are used to cut ropes, explosive weapons such as the grenade and 
 bazooka are used to, well blow up things, well shiner things that can't normally be destroyed with 
 out them. The whip of course is your main weapon through out the adventure and is require for all 
 levels, as you will be swinging and grabbing things with your whip to help solve puzzles, and while 
 this does sound fun at first it gets tiresome after the first level. 
  
  Characters also have some interesting characteristics too. Other then the fact they have been Lego 
 sized. On top of using the tools and destroying Lego's to make more Lego's to help solve the puzzles 
 you will encounter, you use character abilities to help solve them too. For insistence shorter 
 character's such as Short Round from Temple of Doom are able to have their dreams fulfilled and 
 be a boy adventurer going through small tunnels to solve problems like flipping switches, stumbling 
 onto a robot factory, you know, that kind of thing. This game is also sexist and likes to say that 
 all women are nimble, at least in this game, and can jump higher then any other male character 
 can (sure it may be true but let's not rub it in their faces) . You usually use a female character 
 to hang on to ropes to active something or going up to higher places to active something. Also 
 when fighting enemies they will sometimes drop their hats which you can pick up with your character 
 to access areas that are other wise restricted, which sounds cool at first, but for the most part 
 it is more annoying then it is fun fooling the enemy as the drop rates are slim to zero most of 
 the time. Finally we have Thugees, honestly I have no idea what these guys are, just most of them 
 are brownish and have turbans (OMG racism) , their ability is to talk to their god and ask him for 
 favors, much like a magical genie, but their god is racist and is like, "no only Thugees can worship 
 me", so you have to use a Thugee to praise him and get his favors, and soon with time you may become 
 a true believer. Some characters are also hindered by Phobias, caused by snakes, spiders, and rats. 
 Of course Indiana Jones has the phobia of snakes, because it had to be them. Basically what phobias 
 do is hinder said character to not be able to move fast, unable to jump, and pretty much be a wussy, 
 so another character has to tell them to quit being one, and find a way to get ride of the phobia 
 causers, more often then not involving torches. 
  
  Now this sounds pretty cool right? I would think so too, but with more time and energy spent on 
 this game the puzzles become more annoying then interesting to do. It's all routine stuff in each 
 level. Beat up a bunch of Lego people, beat up a bunch of Lego stuff, dig stuff, fix things, whip 
 grab, and swing. It gets extremely repetitive repetitive repetitive. By the end of the game you 
 want to quit because your so bored with beating up Lego items and doing the same 7 puzzles over 
 and over again. Overall the puzzles just aren't creative enough and you will hardly ever have your 
 head scratching about how to figure it out. Even getting all the artifacts (10 in each level to 
 make one bigger one, which some unlock secret levels when they are completed) and parcels (things 
 you find to unlock "cheats") aren't that hard to find. The puzzles are not only not changeling 
 but are tedious too. So don't be looking for this game to help solve your puzzle cravings, by the 
 end you will be glad to no longer being doing these tedious puzzles. Of course this game isn't 
 that hard to begin with, but what really makes it difficult is the fact that the controls are kind 
 of screwy and frustrating more then they are helpful. With the event button acting has both the 
 event button and the whip button sometimes you get killed because you were trying to hit a enemy 
 rather then build something. Of course there is an attack button too , but if you are carrying 
 a weapon, say a bazooka and you press it a number of times you may just be on the floor in the 
 next few seconds. Something that really is frustrating, the changing button, sometimes you will 
 need to switch yourself with the other computer player in order to complete a puzzle; however with 
 the frustrating AI at times it's a real pain in the Lego. The AI for the most part is like your 
 kid brother, the universal one, the one that follows you around and doing what you want to do. 
 Which for the most part is OK, but some puzzles don't send the AI were you want it to so easily, 
 which can be very frustrating making you want to get a human player instead. Other times the AI 
 does things you don't want it to do, like automatically attack the enemy when you don't want to, 
 and if that wasn't enough the AI ally doesn't even fully "kill" the enemy, just hits it a couple 
 of times to stun her/him. Which is all well and good when you want to do off the enemy yourself, 
 but when you're trying to fix/build something you often get killed a lot because your AI counter 
 part doesn't even try to defend you. Another real pain in the Lego is the vehicles; they are simple 
 and annoying to use, and frustrating at the same time with only one direction to work withforward. 
 So when your trying to park it just right and miss it a bit you're going to have to turn it all 
 around again and try again, instead of just easily backing it up, if it had a reverse. Also the 
 fact that in order to get into a vehicle it's the same as switching a character, so when you want 
 to get in a vehicle you have to wait for the icon to appear, too fast and you will switch characters. 
 Not only that but to exit you press the jump button , you think by the logical choice that you 
 use the same button that you got in, out, but no, you use the jump button, so when you are trying 
 to get out you switch characters instead, which will happen, a lot a assure you. And with all these 
 minor flaws and problems it sometimes just doesn't make this game worth your time. But they are 
 only noticeable if you have been playing for a long time. 
  
  
  When all is said and done a Lego's charm can only last for so long in a game, and while LEGO Indiana 
 Jones: The Original Adventures may be fun at the beginning, the charm and excitement of being a 
 LEGO can only be fun for so long, and in time starts to become to repetitive. It's not a horrible 
 game, but you won't be coming back to replay it so often, if you played it to began with, of course. 
 And if you didn't get it in the 360 bundle, or used, it most likely isn't worth your money. I personally 
 like to rename it LEGO Indiana Jones: the Average Adventures. (subtitle: with lots of boring puzzles 
 and breaking stuff) . But maybe those that like Indiana Jones may find it more then I did. 
  
  3.4/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best and most entertaining for all the LEGO game series. This game is extremely fun 
 and follows along with the story of the movies. So anyone who is a fan of the movies will have 
 an enjoyable time reliving the experience as you control Indy.
  
  Pros: Funny cut sceens that help in the enjoyment of the game. Fun gameplay and easy to pick up. 
 Great co-op mode. Tons of different characters to choose from. Tons of unclockables which gives 
 the game very high replay value. Hard to get tired of the game, lots of fun and doesnt get old 
 quick like many games. Vehicles and animals are fun to ride.
  
  Cons: Terrible Friendly AI, they are dumb dont really help out, you need to play co-op with this 
 game. Lots and lots of respawning enemies which gets annoying. Camera can get sketchy at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC_Girl
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so it is only a Lego game but hey who knew it would be so fun. After playing the hard shoot 
 'em up games and the RPG's that takes forever to beat, the Game was a great way to "get away from 
 it all". I loved having the ability to have a game that is so simple yet so hard. 
  
  Having the ability to go through the level and beat it then go back on free play and obtain everything 
 I missed while I was killing some sort of Lego guard was sweet. It almost made the game seem that 
 much long, and I liked how just because you already beat an enemy you don't have a "free" chance 
 at anything and you still have to fight while in the free play.
  
  The ability to change characters when you unlock the ability though out the levels was great and 
 it helped out in the free play later on. However, I found the multi-player feature wasn't exactly 
 the greatest and could have used some more work and thought put into it. Not being able to move 
 to a certain area while on multi-player was frustrating and got a little annoying when trying to 
 do two things a once. I found I kept killing my partner because I would move before they had a 
 chance to come and stand right by me.
  
  The other thing that I loved and disliked at the same time, was the screen shot style of the whole 
 game. More freedom to look around would have been nice but at the same time I love how reminiscent 
 it was of the original TMNT for the very first Nintendo. 
  
  As much as I laughed at the whole lego concept of the game it has made me want more games exactly 
 like it. I am now on the path at obtaining the rest of the Lego style games in hopes that they 
 are as good or better than this game.
  
  To the game designers I tip my hat... You did a great job at this game and made it so everyone 
 could play it...
  
  I LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Lego Star Wars, you already know what to expect from this game. The gameplay 
 is basic but fun. The story follows the movies as well as makes fun of them. If not for the occasional 
 frustration, this game would be the perfect way to relax and just have fun.
  
  The game is mostly a typical platformer with some good Lego themed puzzles thrown in. Many of these 
 puzzles are good head scratchers but won't leave you stumped for too long. There are many different 
 character types who have unique abilities. Indy, obviously, is the only one that can use the whip 
 while others start with tools that the rest don't, like shovels or wrenches. Children characters 
 are tiny enough to sneak into small hatches that lead to secret areas. Bad characters can get into 
 areas that good ones don't have access too. Female character can jump higher than male ones. The 
 first time through a level you have to play with the people that are from that particular scene, 
 but the next time through you can choose from all unlocked characters. Most levels need to be played 
 multiple times with several different characters in order to access all the secrets. Because of 
 this, the game has a ton of replay value.
  
  The gameplay itself is rather basic. The shoulder buttons don't need to be used for anything. This 
 makes the game very easy to pick up and play. The biggest frustration with the game is the awkward 
 camera angles, especially when playing two player co-op. There are a ton of jumps that will plummet 
 you to your death if you miss by even a bit and the camera is so far out that it is hard to see 
 if you are really lined up properly. Death isn't too traumatic in this game since you never actually 
 lose. You always reappear on the last stable ground you were on and lose some coins. Sometimes 
 this doesn't work so well and the game will put me on the edge of a cliff that I slid off of several 
 times in a row before I stopped dying. Most of the curved surfaces are far more slippery than they 
 should be, which leads to many deaths from spots that you swore were safe. If your goal is to just 
 beat the game, then this won't be too bad, but if you are trying to save coins to buy unlocks this 
 can be endlessly frustrating.
  
  No one is going to expect greatness from the graphics, but they look good enough. I thought they 
 were a bit more cartoony than I liked and wished they looked more like real Legos would. Most everything 
 is made out of actual Legos and it's cool to be able to look at an object and say, "Hey, I could 
 make that."
  
  Even though it is basically the same as Lego Star Wars, I enjoyed this game more. The gameplay 
 seems to be built on the experience from making the last Lego game. Hopefully this means the Lego 
 Batman game will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Although simple and fairly easy to master, this lego game is a whole lot of fun. It does challenge 
 your mind and in order to find all of the treasures and get all of the bonus', it is not quite 
 as easy as you might think. Here is how it goes: My wife and I put the kids to bed, grab a drink 
 (the adult kind) and sit down to play two player on this game. We have a lot of fun trying to get 
 all the treasures and working through all of the puzzles. It is also a blast to pause and talk 
 about parts in the movies that we like as we are reminded of them during game play. It is pretty 
 darn easy to just fly though the game but if you take your time to get all of the studs and explore 
 every secret, it really is a good time and follows the movie's main story. I just wish it did not 
 stray from the original story at times and the camera angles were a bit better. At times, it is 
 very difficult to judge exactly your position when your are making a tough jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I really want to give Lego Indy a better score than 8. I really do.
  
  There are so many positive things going for the Lego series of games: wanton destruction of scenery, 
 tons of unlockables, adorable characters and cutscenes, great graphical presentation, good puzzles.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the negatives in Lego Indy are the same that were there in Lego Star Wars and every 
 other Lego adventure game you get your hands on. 
  
  The most annoying (to me) : lack of camera rotation. The Lego games seem to have an affinity for 
 making you jump from platform to platform. Sadly, because you can't move the camera more than a 
 swivel, you end up gnashing your teeth as you endlessly miss the jump you need to make. Crawl back 
 up the rope, shimmy across, jump.... miss. Repeat. Again. Again.... Grrrrrrrr...
  
  Also, multiple functions get mapped to the same button. This makes no sense when some buttons (a 
 la: the top) aren't even USED. So why have three things mapped to one button? You try to use an 
 action to dig, you end up whipping your partner in the head instead. You want to whip a bad guy, 
 you bend over and start digging. Gah!!
  
  The A. I. for your "partner," can be abominably bad. You can be in the midst of fighting four baddies, 
 whilst your computer partner stands off to the side and watches you explode into little bitty Lego 
 bits. Sigh! I won't even mention the puzzles that require cooperative methods. This game cries 
 out for human partnership. It's much better if you have one. But then, you must deal with sticking 
 close, lest ye squash your partner into the bitty Lego bits again.
  
  Unlockables aren't quite as interesting in they Lego Indy series because the characters aren't 
 as memorable as the Star Wars series. Many I didn't even recognize, much less care about.
  
  As it stands, the Lego series is so close to being a superb franchise. I guess LucasArts will 
 settle for simply average. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:52 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones follows the winning recipes that were used in the Star Wars Series. Shoot and 
 collect Coins. 
  
  One thing that Indiana Jones did better than the Star Wars series is that it has a lot of new puzzles 
 and it takes a lot more brain power to get through stages than it did in the previous Lego games. 
 Sometimes you need to do unrelated things to get a door open. But that's the fun on the Lego games. 
 It makes you think a bit.
  
  The Cut scenes for this game is again based on the Movies, but just funnier. I crack myself up 
 on a regular occasion watching those scenes. 
  
  Lego Indiana Jones also allows you to drive an array of vehicles. From Bikes to trucks. You can 
 also now use weapons or clothing dropped by the characters attacking you, adding just a little 
 bit more to the game. 
  
  The graphics for this game is as any other Lego game. Crisp and clear and totally fun and colorful.
 
  
  A must have for any Lego fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esimmond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When looking at the game as a whole it is fairly enjoyable. While it is very short and easy, you 
 become more focused on just running through the levels. It has somewhat a good amount of replay 
 value as you have to go through boards twice or more to get all of the treasures and secret characters. 
 The controls are very simple, although sometimes the 3D effects can mislead, making you almost 
 deliberately jumping off a bridge. The various characters make the game somewhat more dynamic if 
 you get tired of using Indiana. They make it a little more interesting as you have to use all of 
 their abilities to complete the game. Enemies do not pose a significant threat once you get the 
 hang of simply gathering hearts after you destroy them. It sometimes gets annoying going back to 
 the main hall when you are far away as you have to wait for traveling effects to complete. Overall 
 I do not think you should take this game too seriously, sit down, laugh at exploding characters, 
 finish it and move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Bundled with my 2008 360 Pro holiday bundle, "Lego Indiana Jones" (L. I. J) was a game I never would 
 have intended to play.
  
  To start, "L. I. J" 's strengths include the graphics, down to the beautiful lighting and Lego models. 
 An authentic film soundtrack, and the addition of the Barnett college home base which houses everything 
 you've unlocked in the game are solid enhancements. Revisit levels to unlock more items. What thing 
 that is a big plus for "L. I. J" is the freedom to choose which storyline (from the three major Indy 
 films) the player wants to try out. 
  
  However, "L. I. J" suffers from a myriad of problems which demolishes any aspect of having much fun 
 on the long run. The game is plagued with what I call the "falling down" problem. Specifically, 
 the player often has to be very careful with the character he or she is controlling when moving 
 from one "platform" to another. Miss a jump or come up short while moving from rooftop to rooftop 
 then you have to do it all over again. 
  
  Then there's the inconsistent difficulty caused by lack of hints or directions on what to do. "L. I. J" 
 is has a large puzzle-solving element, trying to find keys to open doors, fix vehicles or engines, 
 or find a way to get to the next level. The game-screen does show hints, but other times none are 
 available. I found myself lost in what to do, trying to back-track my steps thinking I may have 
 missed something. Sometimes a part of a level takes up more than half an hour with trying to find 
 an item to complete it. When I DO manage to discover what was needed, it was right under my nose 
 the whole time. Such setbacks are frustrating, and I have felt like throwing the controller at 
 my television screen at one time or another.
  
  Despite being an Indiana Jones fan since a small kid, Lego Indiana Jones tries quite hard to impress, 
 and it indeed does. Its friendly and somewhat faithful attempt to recreate the film's main themes 
 into a Lego game does a decent job. However, the problems mentioned completely suck up the fun 
 . Watching the real movies turn out to more enjoyable. Looks like Indiana Jones isn't enough to 
 save the Legos in this game from breaking apart...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This is my opinion if you disagree don't read it......
  
  
  This was one of my first games for the xbox since it came with it. I had no other games to play 
 so I had to try it. I think I expected too much for this game. I have never played a legos game 
 before but I'm glad I haven't and I'm not planning neither. I just played for a like an hour or 
 so and I got bored very quickly. This game is more for kids... I have enjoyed various games for 
 kids but not this one. People say this game is funny however I really don't think it's that funny. 
 Sure it has some funny stuff but stuff that will make a 7 year old laugh or maybe even lower. The 
 story I couldn't follow very well not very interesting neither. The graphics can be better. I would 
 say that the story is somewhat different than the movie I think since I didn't play that much. 
 NOt recommended there are so many better games for the xbox but if you like legos games then you 
 may like this one. Rent it to check it out is better not worth buying though. 
  
  Replay Value: 5/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Story: 5/10
  Entertainment: 5/10
 
  
  In total: I give it a 5.5... I think I'm being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh legos, the pinnacle of childhood entertainment, the most tastiest treat when you have nothing 
 else to eat, the most blockiest uhhhhh blocks you can ever step on (ouch!) . Have you ever wondered 
 what it would be like if you combined legos and videogames into one complete package? Well wonder 
 no more, because Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures is the answer to your question. In 
 Lego Indiana Jones you follow Indy through his original adventures: Raiders of the Lost Ark, The 
 Temple of Doom, and The Last Crusade which are all lego-lized (is that even a word?) . To tell you 
 the truth and I know this may sound a bit strange, I have never seen any of the Indiana Jones movies 
 except Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. I had a hard time following what was going on, but if you've 
 seen the movies the entire game should be easy to follow. Hopefully. 
  
  Lego Indiana Jones is a fairly simplistic game. You will spend most of your time fighting off enemies, 
 building a butt load of objects, solving puzzles, and engaging in boss battles. Death is around 
 every corner in the game, but it can be very hard to achieve. Let me explain. You will end up dying 
 many, many, many, many, many, many times, did I forget to mention that you will die many times, 
 no, alright then. Death comes naturally like hmmm. like taking a dump, when you least expect it 
 you end up taking a BIG one hahahaha! The good news is that you have unlimited lives, and if you 
 do die you just spawn where you got crushed, pummeled, shot at, ran over, exploded, you pretty 
 much come back to where you died. Simplicity makes this game easy to pick up, but it's also what 
 makes this game easy to drop into a never ending abyss of boredom. I found myself falling asleep 
 during the game. There was no challenge at all, and every time I did accomplish something I just 
 didn't feel.. accomplished. It could just be me, but there really wasn't anything to keep me entertained 
 during the game. At least Lego Starwars has light sabers and Lego Batman has cool gadgets, all 
 Indy has is a whip, a hat, and his fists. Poor old Indy. 
  
  You can't really do much to make a game solely based on legos to look incredibly spectacular. High 
 definition legos doesn't look any different than standard definition legos. Legos are legos, no 
 matter how you eat it, no matter how you cook it, no matter how you painfully step on it, legos 
 will be legos. The level designs were well constructed but could be a bit confusing at times, especially 
 if you tend to overlook things. This happened to me many times, I would be so focused on trying 
 to get pass an obstacle that I wouldn't realize that there was a key or door right next to me. 
 Yeah, I know, I'm sad. The legolized characters looked exactly like their counterparts in the movies 
 and were superb, from their gestures to their facial expressions, everything was nicely constructed. 
 Get it constructed, you build legos so I said constructed, hahahaha, ahhhhh forget it. 
  
  There was absolutely no voice acting at all. During cut-scenes all the characters would do is mumble, 
 giggle, mumble, laugh, mumble, scream, and mumble over and over. I'm not saying it was bad, it 
 was actually kind of interesting and funny to see the almighty cast of Indiana Jones to be reduced 
 to babbling legos. The sound effects were fairly plain and simple, every time you broke something 
 an explosive sound would occur, and that's about it. The in-game music was somewhat enjoyable, 
 but not really noticeable. The Indy theme sounded great but that's pretty much the only noteworthy 
 piece of music in the game. 
  
  Overall: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures is definitely not for everyone. Simplicity 
 will draw many gamers in, but it will also push many gamers back. If you enjoy playing games that 
 are easy to pick up and simple then I suggest you give Lego Indiana Jones a shot. If you are one 
 of those gamers who yearn for a challenge, and enjoy fast paced gameplay then I suggest you stay 
 away from this title. You'll either love it, or hate it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: song_crush
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  As everyone says it is like the lego star wars series.
  
  You can still find hidden extras that build statues
  
  And there is plenty of characters to 
 unlock
  
  It would be better if they had "The Crystal Skull" film that has just come out.
  
  Too short 
 for my liking!
  But in general it is a fun game.
  The "drop-in" system is great if a friend just walks in and your in the middle of a level. You 
 dont have to go to a different menu to go on multiplayer mode.
  
  Once you have completed the first couple of levels, you pretty much get the idea of whats coming 
 next. The Cut-scenes are quite humourous.
  
  The amount of characters in the game is amazing. Everyone you see in the game is pretty much playable 
 in free play, when you unlock and buy them.
  
  But most of the characters do the same old thing. Would of been better if there was more weapons!
 
  
  All in all, this game will entertain you, but for not as long as you'd think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigphilwilson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Although the LEGO Indiana Jones game is a solid adventure game, it may bore those that have played 
 any of the other LEGO series games such as LEGO Star Wars. If you are new to the LEGO game series, 
 LEGO Indiana Jones is a wonderful game with a wealth of achievements. The only draw back I must 
 point out is, at times, I had a real difficult time following the story lines as compared to the 
 Indiana Jones movies. Some areas the story is spot on, others not so much. I would recommend this 
 game for first time LEGO gamers. But word to the wise new LEGOERS, if you play one, you've played 
 them all so choose wisely. If you like the Star Wars movies, I would play the Star Wars LEGO game 
 so you do not waste your stud collecting patience. LEGO veterans, I would spend your money elsewhere 
 because its just more of the same stud collecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2005, a little-known company called Traveller's Tales teamed up with LucasArts to bring 
 the Star Wars universe into the world of LEGO. The product, LEGO Star Wars, was received warmly 
 by critics, gamers and fans alike, and spawned two additional sequels. With LEGO Star Wars over 
 and done with, Traveller's Tales have set their sights on a new Lucasfilm franchise - Indiana Jones. 
 LEGO Indiana Jones takes the original three films and successfully translates it into the pantomime 
 LEGO universe that made the Star Wars games such a hit. If you've ever played a LEGO Star Wars 
 game before you'll know exactly what to expect - but that's not exactly a bad thing. LEGO Indy 
 is good, clean fun that can be enjoyed by just about anyone.
  
  The LEGO storytelling has remained intact in Indiana's universe, so you can expect a great deal 
 of entertaining situations sprinkled throughout an abridged version of the plot. Like the LEGO 
 Star Wars titles, if you're not familiar with the Indy films you may find yourself struggling to 
 understand what exactly is going on. Much of the story feels far too rushed, and the pacing usually 
 squashes any dramatic tension that the films had. A couple scenes definitely remain intact (most 
 notably Indy and Henry's Zepplin escape from The Last Crusade) but the strange pace is jarring 
 for longtime supporters and non-fans alike. What makes up for it, though, is the games wonderful 
 sense of inoffensive humour. Indy and his LEGO pals get into seemingly endless ridiculous situations 
 - from the rather cheerful scenes of dismemberment to the numerous cute Star Wars references. While 
 most of the jokes could be written off as 'childish', you'd have to have a cold heart indeed to 
 not crack a smile.
  
  On the gameplay front, LEGO Indiana Jones is largely a platformer, with some heavy puzzle-solving 
 elements mixed in. Each film is divided into six levels which highlight a pivotal plot moment. 
 You will always be given at least two characters in your party, which allows for drop-in cooperative 
 play with a friend and some Lost Vikings-esque puzzles. The game is best played with a friend as 
 the friendly AI is questionable, and while it usually manages to keep up it's absolutely useless 
 in helping solve puzzles. Most of the time, your computer partner seems more interested in going 
 kamikaze, fighting off hordes of enemies all by themselves. Don't expect a friendly nudge in the 
 right direction when you get stuck as the computer AI will remain passive throughout the experience 
 until you figure out what you're supposed to be doing.
  
  Thankfully, LEGO Indiana Jones' puzzles are actually quite smart. Unlike LEGO Star Wars, which 
 more often than not featured puzzles with solutions so obscure you'd question the developer's sanity, 
 LEGO Indy's puzzles make a lot of sense. To maximize the resourcefulness of Indy's nature, character-specific 
 special abilities are out for the most part. Indy is the only character with a whip, and only Willie's 
 screams are shrill enough to break glass - but apart from that almost everything can be done with 
 items you find lying around. When faced with a puzzle, you'll always find the item you need nearby; 
 making it easier to figure out what the game expects you to do. The game greatly benefits from 
 this not only because the experience becomes smarter and more streamlined, but because every character 
 has worth. There are no more slow and useless droids; pretty much anyone can hold their own whether 
 they're platforming, puzzle-solving or fighting.
  
  The fighting mechanics from LEGO Star Wars remain virtually unchanged, unfortunately. What it basically 
 amounts to is mashing down the attack button until you've cleared the screen of enemies. The enemies 
 come in large groups, but they're rarely difficult to deal with thanks to more lousy AI. You will 
 usually be attacked from one direction, so you'll fight the enemies one at a time, and they react 
 so slowly they'll most probably be dead before they have a chance to throw a punch. However, some 
 of the ranged enemies are downright cheap. Bazooka-wielding soldiers, even if they're off-screen, 
 can pick you off with one shot. Making the experience worse, pretty much all enemies will respawn 
 until you finish a required puzzle. You'll find the only way to beat most puzzles is to kill all 
 the enemies which come after you, and then start solving in the lull between waves. 
  
  Each level in Indiana Jones takes about twenty to thirty minutes to beat the first time around, 
 meaning the whole game should last about six to eight hours. This is a fair length, but Traveller's 
 Tales has once again provided much incentive to keep us playing. Much like in LEGO Star Wars, the 
 developers have cleverly hidden numerous collectables throughout each level. Unlike in other platformers, 
 these items actually feel like they're worth collecting. Although it's impossible to collect everything 
 on the first go (you'll often be required to use a Thuggee to reveal a pathway, or a small character 
 to fit through a grate) the rewards make it feel more than worthwhile. Building each level's Artifact 
 will net you a decent amount of cash, and eventually unlock a trio of fun bonus levels. You can 
 also locate a Mailbox in each level which will give you access to secrets, which do everything 
 from making the floors slippery to giving every character a handlebar moustache. To collect everything, 
 you'll probably spend at least fifteen hours with the game - a decent value for the fifty dollar 
 asking price.
  
  Visually, LEGO Indiana Jones won't amaze, but the fusion of semi-realistic environments with blocky 
 LEGO characters and items will definitely amuse. The environments are definitely a step up over 
 the LEGO Star Wars titles, and look good whether you're up on the rooftops of Cairo or racing through 
 Thuggee mines on a precarious cart ride. There's definitely a nice mix of visual styles, and despite 
 more than a few texture problems LEGO Indy definitely manages to please visually. John William's 
 superb score is in full form, and just like in the films it manages to kick in at exactly the right 
 moments.
  
  Like LEGO Star Wars before it, LEGO Indiana Jones isn't a groundbreaking experience. However, it 
 does manage to be a charming and fun platformer that people of all ages can enjoy. Despite some 
 monotonous gameplay, pretty much anyone who picks it up is guaranteed a good time. It's by and 
 large the best LEGO title so far, and anyone looking for a simple, fun game suitable for kids would 
 do good to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediJon77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  This is another great and terrific video game that Lucasarts has done. First came Lego Star Wars, 
 now Lego Indiana Jones. It seemed like an awesome thing to do in honor of the new Indiana Jones 
 movie, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. I totally enjoyed this video game playing 
 as Indiana Jones. I even liked that Lucasarts even put in a level where you play as young Indiana 
 Jones. Lego Star Wars the video game was pretty awesome, Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy 
 was even better, then Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga totally blew my mind, and now Lego Indiana 
 Jones delivers more than players even thought possible. I even liked that in both Story mode and 
 Free Play, the only character (no matter which form) that you always get in every single level 
 of the game is Indiana Jones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The enjoyment of Lego video games is best experienced from a casual perspective. There shouldn't 
 be any reason for you or anyone to take this series of games seriously, as the developers have 
 proven time and time again by ease of content. That is the case again with Lego Indiana Jones, 
 as the game was meant to be plain ol' fun. This time however, the fun starts to wear off as you 
 realize this the same game as Lego Star Wars, just a different skin.
  
  Those who have played any of the Lego Star Wars games will catch on to the gameplay easily within 
 the first level. Once again you must guide Lego versions of movie icons through famous scenes in 
 a legacy blockbuster adaptation geared towards family. Its just the same exact thing you did in 
 LSW, just this time you don't get to see the light sabers and fun vehicle levels. You collect studs 
 and buy all sorts of unlockables, collect mini kits (treasure chests) , and deliver parcels for 
 power-ups (red bricks) . 
  
  What Lego Indiana Jones does well is the ease of achievements you can obtain. If you are looking 
 for a quick 1000 points that can be done in a few short days, give this a rental. Players of LSW: 
 Complete Saga will be happy to know that most of the time consuming achievements such as gopher 
 and multiple story modes are absent. Instead all you have to do is some simple repetitive functions 
 for x number of times. Getting 100% completion is like taking candy from a baby, or gamer points 
 in this case.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayhayman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This is a good game to play with your kids. The co-op play lets you spend some time together foiling 
 the forces of evil. There are lots of little inside jokes referring to George Lucas movies. The 
 ability to "drop in" and "drop out" lets you get past some of the more difficult parts without 
 the younger kiddos being unable to overcome the offending obstacles. My sons are now excited about 
 the prospect of seeing the Indiana Jones movies. This is probably what Lucas had in mind, seeing 
 as how the release of this game, the new movie Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (not included as a 
 chapter in the game) , and a promised new four DVD box set are all timed closely together. Even 
 knowing that marketing execs are trying to manipulate you does not change the fact that this is 
 a fun game, if a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Almost Identical to Lego Star Wars but for Dr. Jones and His Own Adventure. The Gameplay 
 Is EXACTLY The Same. Right down to the Stud Guage and Map Designs. Nothing has changed but the 
 name and theme. For some thats enough for me, no no. I Want a game that at least advances the engine 
 or design at least a little. The Game features all the Original Indiana adventures with some small 
 Lego Twists. I First played the game Demo on Live. i Then rented the game to get the whole deal. 
 The Demo Leaves out Nothing. The Demo is a Dirrent Level taken in its entirety and polished. I 
 was not Suprised to be disappointed. Dont get me wrong, its a fun game but not for people like 
 me. If you really are a Die-Hard Jones fan you will get a kick out of this, but if you are a gamer 
 or a basic Jones Fan, Not so Great. The game (as i said) is identical to the Star Wars series. 
 You run through a level collecting Studs and Building Objects to further your adventure. The one 
 thing i hated most in this game is Indianas Inability to defend himself at close range. You constantly 
 have to switch to his companion to fight. Though his whip is good for long range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is the third movie-based game in the Lego series and, just as its predecessors, 
 is both fun and easy to play. All three of the original Indiana Jones movies are stretched across 
 18 levels of gameplay. The levels themselves take a good amount of time to complete, especially 
 taking into account all of the stuff that can be collected in each.
  
  One of the best things about this game is just how much extras there are to unlock. These include 
 treasure chests, which require a significant amount of level replay with different characters to 
 collect, and sixty extra characters and alternate outfits, which can be unlocked simply by completing 
 each level of the story mode. In addition to these extra characters, there are six secret Lego 
 Star Wars characters and three secret levels that can be unlocked.
  
  The puzzles in Lego Indiana Jones are relatively obvious and simple to figure out, although most 
 require assistance from another character. These certain puzzles can be completed with an AI character 
 as the second player, but it is much easier to pull them off in co-op mode.
  
  The AI in the game is much like how it was in the previous games; not very good at all. The AI 
 characters will fight off enemies, but it does not really do much. A player will often find themselves 
 overwhelmed with bad guys, with little to no help from their ally. Because of this, the game is 
 best when playing in co-op mode.
  
  Overall, this game delivers an enjoyable story and easy gameplay for the casual gamer, as well 
 as lots of extra goodies for the hardcore gamer. It is another success for the Lego franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is the latest addition in the Lego video game series. The story is basically 
 the first three Indiana Jones movies. The graphics are cartoony and obviliously Lego. However, 
 the graphics are bright and shiny. The gameplay is a puzzle/action game. Most people might want 
 to watch the films first because some puzzles are related to the movies. This game is family friendly 
 since there's no mentioning of Nazis and no heart ripping. Another person can drop in/out co-op. 
 To my opinion, this game is meant to have two players. There's a variety of characters just like 
 Lego Starwars. This game is easy to enjoy but after completing EVERYTHING, the game gets boring. 
 There is alot of replayability and you need to do this with different characters several times. 
 This is the best Lego game (until Lego Batman comes out) .
  
  Story- 8
  Graphics- 8
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 9
  
  Final Score- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I loved Lego Star Wars, like LOVED Lego Star Wars, so naturally as a fan of all things Lucas or 
 LucasFilm and a Lego fan I was stoked about Lego Indiana Jones. Fortunately my patience was not 
 wasted on a crappy clone, but rather a more innovative Lego game with the Indy plotline and "skin". 
 My infinite fandom, however, could not help but notice that some of the tweaks and changes in Indiana 
 Jones weren't necessarily for the best (even though I'm sure they came with the best intentions) . 
 
  
  The first thing you will immediately notice in Lego Indy is that the puzzles have gotten more complicated. 
 You will find yourself spending 10 minutes clearing out a room while you try to figure out what 
 the heck you're supposed to do to get to the next room. I only played the 360 iteration, but the 
 game was slightly buggy as well, with some levers and doors not opening and thus imprisoning me 
 into a room. This is twice as frustrating when you're playing your second go-around and what didn't 
 work the first time ends up working the second. 
  
  I also noticed that the game will immediately show you areas you can't access (there's a thugee 
 statue near the beginning of the first level that you clearly can't touch until your beyond halfway 
 through the game, assuming you play in order) . This isn't necessarily bad, but it builds the template 
 for the unfortunate lack of challenge in collecting the 10 treasures in each level (a la canisters 
 from Lego SW) . Also, while the postage extras are not hard to find in any "free play" level, the 
 mechanics to get the postage to the box was annoying at times (why do I need to flip a switch, 
 get a box, jump up five stairs, then insert the letter and all within 30 seconds?) . Ultimately 
 no big deal, but I guarantee at least one or two postal canisters will cause frustration to you. 
 
  
  Also missing (and this is a positive) are the "super story" missions, and thank the lord for that. 
 For a mere single gold brick, this was a pointless mission in the previous Lego games that only 
 made your journey that much more painful near the end. While you do have 3 bonus levels (young 
 indy, the warehouse, ancient city) , only young Indy is a true story and warehouse, if you just 
 shoot the target, is pointless. I would have hoped for a little more out of my Indy bonus levels, 
 especially with a possible level from the new movie (it was already out and a big secret is revealed 
 in ancient city) . 
  
  Essentially this is the same as Lego Star Wars only with about 1/2 the time to beat it (and this 
 is compared to Lego Star Wars II, not the complete saga) . I got the 1000 points easily, but don't 
 get me wrong I had fun doing it. Also, unlike Lego Star Wars, once you've played through the game 
 twice, there's almost no reason to do it again or diversify who you play as. A rental for the hardcore 
 players and a definite buy, on any console, for anyone who has children . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coded12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones plays through all 3 of the original films. It features both the story mode and 
 free mode for each level. Story mode forces you to use particular characters and watch the cut 
 scenes. Whereas free mode allows you to chose whichever characters you want.
  
  The reason that Lego Indiana Jones is such a fun and addictive game is partly due to the fun you 
 gain through co-op play. The game will make you laugh with its frequenct gags in cut scenes. The 
 game will also last you a long time as you will probably want to complete it to 100% which isn't 
 a dull and boring process as you will have to collect artifacts and post mail in each level which 
 may take you some time. You will also have to buy all of the extras and generally spend a few hours 
 getting every single percentage. However you will not get bored of completing the levels more than 
 once. The game is also great for achievements and is possible to earn the full 1000.
  
  This game will get compared to lego star wars and eventually lego batman but it offers a similar 
 amount of fun as the others and is definitely worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Lego indiana is the next attempt at a lego game and im sorry to say is not as good as the star 
 war attempts.
  
  Single player
  
  Ok let me explain the single player is decent fun it nails the art of movie adaption but why am 
 i not so impressed by it well let me tell you. First of all the combat is no where near as fun 
 as star wars and the humour is not on par with the star wars games either ok its funny but just 
 not as witty.
  
  The graphics are nice but on some levels look pretty bad but dont fear they are better than most 
 360 games and are nothing to put down at all. the big problem is frustrating puzzles because most 
 of the time you are confused with a certain objective and the game does not do well to help you.
 
  
  Pros
  nailed movie adaption very well
  funny-ish
  fun-ish
  
  cons
  Graphics are average
  SW just did it better
  frustrating when it wants to be
  not exciting 
 at all
  
  Verdict
  i dont get it but this just feels rather boring compared to SW and i agree im not suppost to compare 
 but this is only worth it if you love indy otherwise just rent to see what you think dont believe 
 the 8/10 reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Taking a break from the Lego Star Wars games, Traveller's Tales gives us something different with 
 a Lego version of Indiana Jones. This new addition to the series is surprisingly just as fun as 
 it's predeccessors.
  
  Like the title suggests, the game follows the first three Indiana Jones movies; Raiders of the 
 Lost Ark, Temple of Doom, and The Last Crusade. Every stage goes through the whole timeline of 
 each movie but more humorous. The game is full of jokes and it pokes fun at certain moments (it's 
 actually pretty hilarious too) . Each movie has 6 levels which totals 18 levels to play through. 
 When you're not in a level, you can explore the Barnette college.
  
  Like Lego Star Wars, there are two modes to play in; story mode and free play. Story mode involves 
 watching cut scenes as you go along and playing as characters that are given to you. In Free Play, 
 you can choose from a large list of 60 characters as well as one of two characters that you create 
 yourself. It's also much easier to find certain items in free play.
  
  Your goal in the game is, of course, to blast your way through enemies, solve puzzles, and even 
 build (it is a lego game after all) your way to the end of the stage. You can play alone or you 
 can play with a friend in co-op which also makes the game more fun. Every character has different 
 abilities that can help you along the way which can build up replay value. My biggest complaint 
 is that in some areas, enemies will continue to respawn.
  
  Although I personally liked Lego Star Wars better, Lego Indiana Jones still offers the same fun 
 and enjoyable gameplay experience that the games are known for. If you like platformers, Lego Star 
 Wars, or need a break from shooters, then Lego Indiana Jones is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I've liked (not loved) the Indiana Jones movies but I've been a fan of the lego Star Wars trilogy 
 ever since it came out. I figured this would be the same type of game as Lego Star Wars, and I 
 was right, but that's not completely a good thing.
  Story -- the story ties in well with the Indiana Jones films, and there are lots of humorous moments 
 throughout the game. If you've seen the Indiana Jones films, then you'll be quite familiar with 
 the story here and you'll see some enjoyable moments from the movies being recreated into legos. 
 The story ties in with the film well, but it's nothing special.
  Graphics -- the graphics hold up well enough, but this could easily pass as a PS2 game made in 2005. 
 The legos have some detail, but they're not great. The environments surprisingly look good, and 
 a lot of objects throughout the game are made out of legos. The graphics are solid but don't hold 
 up that well on the Xbox 360.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay gets repetitive but is still fun to play. It's fun to play with a partner 
 throughout the game. Each character has basic attacks with X, but there is the new edition of carrying 
 items, such as an RPG, a machine gun, a pistol, a wrench and more. There are also certain abilities 
 with these items you can use on other objects. There are easy puzzles to solve, but get annoying 
 after a while. Despite these few new editions, this is the same Lego-based game we've been playing 
 for years. Nothing has changed in the combat or with the puzzles. The game's missions are a lot 
 longer than previous Lego games, also. The gameplay is fun but gets very boring after a while.
 
  Story: 7.4 -- it ties in with the movies well and has some humorous and memorable moments throughout.
 
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- there is some mild detail in things, but it can easily pass as a PS2 game.
 
  Gameplay: 6.8/10 -- not great but fun to play co-op and there's lots to do and collect.
  Final Thoughts: If you're an Indiana Jones fan then pick this game up. But if you've already played 
 Lego Star Wars, then there's nothing new for you here. The game does have some easy achievements, 
 if you like those. There is going to be a Lego Batman game coming out this fall, but I'm hesitating 
 before getting it. If the next Lego game I buy is the same as this and Star Wars, then my score 
 will definitely be lower. But if you're new to the Lego series or are an Indiana Jones fan, then 
 you'll find plenty to enjoy here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumancer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game very much. Although I played all the Lego Star Wars games, I still found this 
 game fun and new in many ways. The Lego humor is always present and very important for the game.
 
  
  The most important thing the game gave me was a break from the barrage of shooters (1st and 3rd 
 person) available for the 360.
  
  The best part of the game is playing with a friend and, although online multiplayer through Live 
 is not offered, local is as fun as always. Besides, it encourages social interaction! The multiple 
 characters and myriad of levels provided good fun for hours. The achievements are great (although 
 some are pretty tough) , and the collecting in the game is a great challenge.
  
  I encourage anyone wishing for some action/platforming to pick it up. The camera may be difficult 
 sometimes and characters slide off of cliffs, but hey, they are Lego and cliffs have no studs to 
 lock on to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozillo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Lego indie is a very good game. The good thing about Lego indie is that, well it has a great sense 
 of gameplay. There are odd small bits in the game which you may not notice at first but you will 
 eventually pick up on which makes you appreciate the sense of detail gone into the game. I am talking 
 about how each individual set of characters (like the soliders and the Thugees) has a unique double 
 jump, unique swimming technique and a unique jump in the water. This is a nice fun part of the 
 game.
  Another fun feature is the whip. The whip is like the best weapon in the game. You may think this 
 means it is overpowered but it isn't. The whip does mean that you can disarm enimies but you can 
 also pull them closer to do a finishing punch or kick to them. However, whilst this goes on, enimies 
 can wail on you as much as they want. The only slight flaw I found with the whip is that it is 
 quite hard to actually whip people closer making it hard to get a certain achievement.
  The achievements on the game are quite good, there are the obvious story ones then you get ones 
 for doing certain things 50 odd times (or 250 if it is the whip) The achievements make the game 
 last longer and also make sure you don't just power through the game and miss everything.
  The graphics, even though they are lego, are pretty sweet. They have a certain shine to them and 
 they look very slick and smooth. The backgrounds as well are very detailed.
  This game is in my opinion, much better that the lego star wars games. The first one just felt 
 like they were going, "Hey look lightsabers YAY!" and you were invincible by mashing attack. The 
 second was, "Hey look guns and you can jump out the way!" and you were once again invinible by 
 mashing attack. This game however, you will die either in combat or doing the puzzles. 
  Overall I highly suggest getting this game and playing it in co-op mode. You can only get the best 
 gameplay in co-op mode. This game is highly addictive and you might just be missing one thing and 
 you will play through the game again and again just to get the one thing. This is a good game to 
 have on the side to play when you get a bit tired of another game you are playing or just to play 
 a bit of a laid back game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  After the huge and well-deserved successes of the Lego Star Wars games, rising star developers 
 Traveller's Tales have unveiled another Lego-based outing, this time based on the Indiana Jones 
 movies and recently-released Lego sets.
  
  One glance at the box cover for Lego Indiana Jones might trick an average person into thinking 
 they were looking at a mere kid's game, a overly simple piece of fluff with which to keep the sprogs 
 quiet and rack up some easy achievements to boot. How could a game based on one of the most popular 
 and enduring child's toys of all time possibly appeal to a mature adult? Well, in much the same 
 way that Lego Star Wars successfully married simple, forgiving gameplay with exciting action and 
 a great sense of (silent) humour, Lego Indy proves that a game can be accessible and safe for children 
 while entertaining and fun for adults as well. It's a difficult balance that few games have achieved 
 and the whole thing is cleverer than you think.
  
  The game plays in a similar way to Lego Star Wars. From a third-person 3D perspective your characters 
 move through a selection of cunningly-designed levels, destroying cute Lego enemies, solving puzzles 
 and collecting Lego studs which serve as the game's currency for buying extra characters and such. 
 Obviously the details have been altered to suit the universe in which the game is set: Stormtroopers, 
 lightsabers, blasters and Force powers have been replaced with soldiers, swords, Uzis and a variety 
 of character-based skills. These skills range from using Indy's whip to grab far objects or swing 
 across chasms, to digging up items with shovels, fixing machinery with spanners, deciphering hieroglyphics 
 with textbooks and breaking glass with eardrum-piercing screams courtesy of Willie. Each character 
 has a particular skill or attribute that will allow the player to progress through the game's levels 
 by allowing you to solve puzzles. If you don't have a particular character or inherent skill, then 
 you can hunt around for the items that grant these powers: around the levels may be found shovels, 
 books, spanners, rocket launchers and various hats to turn you into a Guard or a Thuggee and allow 
 you to move on. Also, some characters have particular fears that will prevent them from moving 
 on: Indy is afraid of snakes for example, so you will need to move on using a different character, 
 finding a way to allow Indy to move past the snakes. Fire, perhaps? Maybe some sort of bridge?
 
  
  Overall it's much more puzzle-orientated than Lego Star Wars, with more emphasis on logical thinking 
 than simply blasting away at a never-ending stream of foes. In fact, large sections of Lego Indy 
 feature no enemies at all save for the brain-taxing puzzles. Despite usually being pretty good 
 at the whole thinking outside the box thing myself, I found I had to refer to walkthroughs for 
 some of the bigger mental leaps. It's my experience that children are actually better at this type 
 of logical thinking than most adults, so many older gamers may find the game more of a challenge 
 than they were expecting!
  
  Two play modes are present in the game; the initial story-based play which you must first beat 
 to unlock free-play mode. Story mode does what it says on the tin; you play through eighteen levels 
 based on the plots of the original trilogy of films using only the characters appropriate to the 
 plot of the film, that can be switched between at will unless the story calls for their separation. 
 For instance, the opening to Raiders of the Lost Ark sees Indy and Satipo the guide fighting and 
 thinking their way through a forgotten jungle tomb, the first level from Temple of Doom teams up 
 Indy, Willie and Short Round escaping from the Chinese mafia, and finally Last Crusade opens with 
 Indy, Elsa and Marcus Brody figuring their way into (and out of) the tomb of Sir Richard. This 
 mode will allow you to complete each level, unlocking both the next story level and the free-play 
 mode for the level you have just finished. However, it is impossible to discover all that a level 
 has to offer in story mode: all levels feature areas and items that cannot be found without access 
 to the skill set of a character you do not have; for this you need to enter free-play.
  
  Free-play mode is where the fun really begins. With the choice of taking any combination of characters 
 you have unlocked so far, this will allow you to access a much larger selection of areas in the 
 level and solve many puzzles that could not be attempted in story mode. Why would this be necessary? 
 Lego Indy features a similar collectable system to Lego Star Wars: each level contains a Lego item 
 broken into ten pieces which must be collected, although in this case you will be building Lego 
 versions of historical artefacts (including amongst others, the Holy Grail and the Ark of the Covenant) 
 instead of Speeders and X-Wings. Collecting all the artefacts will unlock three bonus levels, including 
 a marvellous take on the Young Indiana Jones section from the start of the third film. Each level 
 also features a red parcel hidden away that needs to be posted in order to unlock hidden extras 
 and cheats, much the same as the red bricks in Lego Star Wars.
  
  If there's a downside to all this, it's that even with the two play modes the game is pretty short. 
 With six levels based on each film it won't take long for an experienced gamer to rip through. 
 The two Lego Star Wars games suffered the same problem and it's not a fault of the developers, 
 it's simply that there isn't enough source material to play with! Despite taking great liberties 
 with the story and expanding each section of the films into a large, sprawling level there's only 
 so much stuff you can make up before it becomes forced. Personally, I'd rather have a small bar 
 of gold than a truck full of trash.
  
  Both story mode and free-play mode can be enjoyed with a friend, with a quick 'n' easy drop-in, 
 drop-out co-op gameplay system. Unfortunately Lego Indy features local co-op only so you can't 
 play with friends over Xbox Live, a great disappointment and a bit of a surprise since the Lego 
 Star Wars Complete Saga featured fully functional online co-op. So unless you have instant access 
 to a fellow Indy nut you'll be spending most of your playing time relying on the computer AI to 
 control your other characters, something that quite frankly is mediocre at best and downright infuriating 
 at worst. It's rare that the lousy AI becomes a real problem other than a minor and brief annoyance, 
 but when it rears its ugly head things may turn nasty. Just be warned: Lego Indy isn't quite perfect.
 
  
  Technically, Lego Indiana Jones isn't the sort of game where graphics make much of a difference. 
 It could look like it was made ten years ago and still be fun. It's nice to have eye-candy however, 
 and although Lego Indy doesn't push many boundaries it still looks great. The graphics are an improvement 
 from the first two Lego Star Wars games and are more on a par with those found in the Complete 
 Saga, resplendent in their cartoony glory. The cutscenes are fantastic, stomach-crampingly funny 
 and beautifully played out. Also, since it's one of those 3D platform-type games, I have to mention 
 that camera issues are thankfully rare; most of the time you can see where you are jumping to which 
 automatically puts Lego Indy on a little pedestal!
  
  The only sounds an Indy fan needs to worry about are whether the John Williams score is present 
 and correct, and whether Indy's whip sounds like a whip. Yes and yes. Marvellous. All the sound 
 effects are great and the music is the same hum-worthy soundtrack that got stuck in your head for 
 weeks after you first saw Raiders and wanted to be Indiana Jones. Like Lego Star Wars, there's 
 no voice acting to mess things up; all the dialogue in the cut-scenes is taken care of with laugh-out 
 loud miming and a few choice mumbles. It's sheer brilliance.
  
  I'll take the time here at the end to mention something of note. Much has been said about the decision 
 to remove all references to Nazism from both the Lego toy sets and this game. I for one agree with 
 this decision. I firmly believe that all children should be taught about the Nazi regime, World 
 War II and any and all atrocities committed during those times. But it is a serious subject matter 
 and should be dealt with in a serious way. I don't think that sort of thing has a place in a game 
 as light-hearted as Lego Indiana Jones. Reducing the Nazis to a group of bumbling block figures 
 hardly presents the right image. Bumbling Bond-esque generic Bad Guys are much more fitting with 
 the tone of the game.
  
  Lego Indiana Jones is a fantastic game and if everything above hasn't convinced you that this is 
 a treasure for young and old Indy fans alike then there's no hope. It probably won't much appeal 
 to someone who doesn't like Indiana Jones but I don't think those people exist anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THECELLMASTER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Lego Idiana Jones: the original Adventures, was a awsome game that personally ownes lego star wars. 
 Not only can you play the story line of Idiana jones you can just do random things with indie and 
 other characters like, whiping wemon as indie to you and kissing them, swinging from a branch on 
 your whip, stealing weapons from enemys and killing them with it. The game is very big and fun 
 for all ages. from little kids the age of 7 to adults the age of 40 can love and ejoy this game. 
 It has hillarious cutscenes and suggestive themes that can get you rolling on the floor laughing. 
 Finnally ill say that if you wish to play this gme just buy it already and get ready to join the 
 advenbtures of indiana jones and his crew and get ready for the time of your life! And just have 
 fun and enjoy because if there is a sequel for this game you just might want to buy it after playing 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana focuses on the 1st 2nd and 3rd Indy movies, in true LEGO style you will go through 
 18 levels solving puzzles and kicking hard LEGO ass!
  
  First of i will begin with the combat, normally this would'nt really matter with a LEGO game but 
 it does in Indy however because most of the main fighting is focused on hand to hand. There are 
 the obvious moves such as punches and kicks, but this would'nt be able to stand up on its own so 
 the good people at Travellers tales have added the special move system, this means that when your 
 fighting baddies you may be able to randomly do a super move such as give someone an atomic noogie 
 of flip them of the edge of a bridge or cliff.
  
  Next up is the character roster, it holds a good number of playable characters each with there 
 own special abilities and weapons to use, there i8s also the return of the strangely addictive 
 character maker, in which you make up your own characters and then are able to play as them in 
 free play mode, you will no doubt spend a lot of your time making yourself or a 007 impersonator 
 as i did!
  
  You may be thinking that this is basicly just LEGO starwars with an Indy facelift, and i'm not 
 going to lie, it is, there is still the red bricks now disguised as mail, and you still collect 
 studs around the levels, but even without any changes, heck because of no changes it is great fun! 
 Because the people at Travelers tales got the LEGO concept so well last time round the term if 
 it's not broken why fix it has never been so appropriate!
  
  Finally to the surprisingly good conclusion, that LEGO Indiana Jones is no doubt one of the funniest, 
 most absorbing, time taking games you will ever play, and with all these hidden unlockables and 
 secrets it is almost certain it will keep you occupied for at least 40 hours! And of course you 
 can't forget the 2 player which is a fantastic laugh! 9.5/10!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts does it again with another great Lego game. the story is engaging and the game play fun, 
 not to mention funny. the game follows the three original movies and expands on them to add content. 
 the control layout is simple and easy to use *duh so lil kids can play* the visuals are also really 
 good... well considering your playing as Legos. the only real flaw in the game is that there are 
 a few, and i mean few parts of the game where the camera angles make it hard to make a jump or 
 two. other than that the only thing would be that some of the puzzles are incredibly harder than 
 others... but dont worry when you figure them out you will feel like your in 2nd grade. all in all 
 the game is just plain fun and funny. any fan of the Indiana series will love this game as well 
 as any fans of the other lego games. this is also a great game for little kids, teens and even 
 grown adults whos minds have not been melted by the flash of the new hard core games... WHAT ARE 
 YOU WAITING FOR GO TRY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenwolf64
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  My son and I LOVED Lego Star Wars and are completely enjoying Lego Indiana Jones. We can sit side 
 by side whipping, riding, shooting, wrestleing with Jones' enemies and both enjoy it equally! Lego 
 games are the only Xbox games I know of where an 8 year old wants to play it as much as a 40 year 
 old! Just like Star Wars the replayability is outstanding! The game is filled with humor, excitement 
 and fun challenges. My son especially likes the two completely customizable characters that have 
 more and more options added as you complete levels. We have been playing for weeks and are still 
 finding new challenges. It is amazing how closely the 3D sets and the level story challenges match 
 the original movies. My son and I are both eagrely awaiting the Lego Batman game as well. I would 
 highly recommend this game to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game when it first came out and received a t-shirt with a code for a unaccessible character. 
 Stuff like that just doesn't happen too much these days which made my wife and I feel pretty good 
 about LIJ. The graphics are pretty sharp on the 360 and gameplay is just the same as Lego Star 
 Wars. A lot of the lure of the lego series for me and my family is that you can't die, which is 
 fun in it's own right. Whereas not dying may seem kind of silly, finding artifacts and treasures 
 are not. There does require some searching for these and it is rather fun to make the artifact 
 room at the college fill up. There are A LOT of characters to collect and the new character strengths 
 are cool. Because this is a family style game there really isn't much to harp on. It's a fun game 
 and I recommend this to any family, lego game fanatic or die hard Indiana Jones fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeHolder
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is the entire trilogy of movies told in Lego form. Every memorable moment from 
 the movies is here such as the boulder chase form Raiders and mine cart scene from Temple of Doom. 
 Since this is a kid's game, there are some funny moments. (For example, when Indy has to give up 
 the idol, he tries to give Belloq a diamond and rubber ducky LOL) In addition any reference to 
 the Nazis and Hitler has been taken out. This means that most of the enemies are just guards. Every 
 character from Indy to Willie to Short Round is here. Each character has a unique ability. For 
 example, Indy has his trusty whip which can be used to swing and disarm enemies. Willie has a scream 
 that can shatter glass. For fans of Lego Star Wars, Han Solo can be unlocked as a bonus character. 
 The only problem I really had with this game was that the camera can sometimes be bothersome. Nevertheless, 
 if you are a fan of Indiana Jones and want to experience the movies in a fun way with family and 
 friends, Lego Indiana Jones is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Now the Traveler's tales has sown its seeds in the Star Wars universe, Traveler's tales has set 
 its sights on another story from George Lucas' imagination. Just like the Star Wars version, Lego 
 Indiana Jones allows you to reenact key events from the movies.
  
  Just like Lego Star Wars, Indy's version is a heavily puzzle oriented game with cute, mostly brainless 
 fighting mechanics. Perhaps even more so, is the puzzle theme a factor in this game. With no Force 
 powers to bend to your will, you play as Indiana as well as a large cast of characters from the 
 movie. All characters have a unique purpose for completion of missions.
  
  The puzzles are in greater variety this time round, and also in greater difficulty. You'll be spending 
 a majority of your time with these puzzles, (opening lock doors, crossing deadly pits, etc.) but 
 the pacing is just right. The wide variety of these puzzling obstacles includes some particularly 
 interesting and amusing one, such as puzzles that involve character phobias. Strangely, Indiana 
 will swing across pits of fire and dodge boulders, but snakes will bring him into a jittery state.
 
  
  Not everything is good and great in Lego world. The artificial intelligence can be particularly 
 awful, which can make solving certain puzzles a real hassle. However, the available online Co-op 
 can easily erase this factor. Combining the great pacing, humorous cut scenes, and challenging 
 puzzles makes this the greatest Lego game yet. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Well if you want to know how the game works read my Lego Star Wars reviews or elsewhere. 
  
  I'll start right off the bat by saying this games shorter then Lego Star Wars.... obviously 
 since there are only 3 IJ movies (well since this was made before the last one) .
  
  Just like with LSW everything is pretty much the same. Coop is back and fun as always. Theres lots 
 of stuff to explore. The games very comedic. Theres even better replay! Basically same old lovable 
 Lego game!
  
  However there are some problems as always. And some may find it to be nothing at all where as others 
 may find it to be a total pain!
  
  1. Theres really not alot of "Indiana Jones" type stuff. By that I mean while there is "lego" puzzles 
 theres not alot puzzles that Indy himself would do like in the movies. You know tomb puzzles and 
 stuff of that nature. Its mostly fighting, running away and more fighting... well when you not building 
 of course. 
  
  2. As with the last game if you don't have a friend with you that means the AI takes over and once 
 again their brains must be made out of plastic or something because they are stupid! Therse alot 
 of "edges" and stuff and they enjoy nothing more then seeing where edges leads! lol
  
  3. This is a great game for kids BUT they seem to have added respawning enemies in some spots and 
 even for adults they can be a pain in the butt at times. I can't imagine a kid trying to figure 
 out what to do while 4 guys at a time keep respawning you and killing you the while you lose precious 
 money.
  
  Speaking of kids this game is a little harder then LSW. So if your having your kid play you might 
 want to help them if they get stuck somewhere because sometimes its really confusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I came in with low expectations for Lego Indiana Jones. Thankfully, I was pleasantly surprised, 
 as this game is fun that anybody, no matter what age, can enjoy.
  
  The clean, cute look of the Lego Star Wars games is here, albeit with less sci-fi and more adventure. 
 The environments are all either recreated or influenced by a scene in the original trilogy of Indiana 
 Jones movies. Either way, they are a lot of fun to navigate around in and players can discern specific 
 movie references here and there. Graphicswise, the game looks excellent on the Xbox 360. It may 
 not be a demo disc for your HD television, but the environments are very well animated and the 
 jungle scenes in particular are pleasant to the eyes. The audio is fine, too. The sound effects 
 aren't going to blow any seasoned gamer away, but they get the job done. However, the music composed 
 by John Williams is, obviously, great and never tires the ears. The only technical problem I can 
 note is some screen-tearing, especially in Barnett College.
  
  Speaking of the college, that is where the player will mingle between missions and run around in 
 if he/she wants to. The college is a deeper hub system than Lego Star Wars' Cantina or diner. There 
 are secret areas that can be unlocked, and your treasures from missions are put up for proud display. 
 The unlockable characters also walk the halls of the college, and there are many to see and use.
 
  
  However, unlockables and graphics are nice, but how is the actual gameplay? Well, it depends. I 
 enjoyed the Lego Star Wars games for their simple approach to combat, platforming and puzzle solving. 
 Some people didn't. Lego Indiana Jones doesn't change much, but what is there is probably the most 
 refined out of all the Lego games to date. Picking up objects is a new addition, and a fun one 
 at that, as using shovels and wrenches to both dig and fix objects and bash enemies across the 
 head is very entertaining. Indy's whip is not what most players will expect it to be, but it is 
 still a pleasure to use. Instead of combat purposes (which it can do) , the whip is primarily used 
 for swinging across chasms and pulling levers, all which are beautifully animated. Most of the 
 other characters are good (Jones Sr., Short Round, Bazooka trooper) , but, like Lego Star Wars, 
 there are too many characters in different costumes. I don't want more than five Indiana Jones 
 or an enemy guard for mountains, desert and every place I have gone to, but this move just feels 
 like pushing the number of characters to the largest possible digit. Some puzzles are a little 
 difficult to find out first, but i never had to go to an online forum or FAQ to find out the answers. 
 It honestly is not that hard.
  
  Still, unlocking characters and uncovering all of the artifacts has a thrill to it that is remarkable 
 for such a "kids" game. No matter what age the player is, they will have a lot of fun seeing the 
 wonderful, hilarious cutscenes portray the movies, and playing as Indy with his trademark Fedora. 
 There are a bunch of easy achievements to get, and reaching the 1000 mark is very possible for 
 the unexperienced Achievement whore. For the few faults it may have, Lego Indiana Jones is a worthwhile 
 investment for any gamer looking for some easy Achievements, great humor, but, most importantly, 
 a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metsfan12386
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  The graphics on an High Definition T. V are fantastic you can see every little piece of Lego the 
 actual game play is also clever, taking you throughout each movie. The only reason its a 9.5 is 
 because at some levels if you are attacked by enimies once, and defeat them and if you wander around 
 and come back to that spot, you will need to face them again. It does happen to bee a challenging 
 game but definetly a 9.5 out of 10 OVERALL VERY VERY VERY GOOD BUY Indy will have to try to stand 
 aganst Lego Batman later on this year. I don't reccomend any FAQ's that you can find here at gamespot 
 because I have to say, it is very fun working your way around to find tresaure. I hate that these 
 reviews have to be 800 characters its so annoying well anyway take a look at my gamer page to see 
 my other reviews that are coming up soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: ROTLA/TOD/TLC in lego form, Occasional Fun
  
  The Bad: Bad Camera, Occasionally Frustrating Gameplay, Not Much Difference from LSW, Dry Humor, 
 Bad Ally A. I.
  
  Now, everyone has opinions and I'm just stating mine, but Lego Indiana Jones just is downright 
 disappointing. It's a total letdown that has me worried about Lego Batman's fate. Lego Indy is 
 more of a slight upgrade to Lego Star Wars and dosen't really bother to fix some of the issues 
 from the past games. My opinion is that they could have done better than this. 
  
  Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures is based on the original Indy Trilogy which includes, 
 Raiders of the Lost Ark, Temple of Doom, and The Last Crusade, but now in Lego Form. As in the 
 Lego Star Wars series, there is a lot of humor to the games, which is apparent in this game, but 
 to tell you the truth I found it quite dry and not always funny. It also takes liberties on the 
 story to make a game, one of which is the Indy fighting the Grail Knight at the end of Last Crusade 
 as he searches for the Holy Grail. Now, I know he's a Knight and It's his job to protect the Grail, 
 but I don't think he'd fight a good guy like Indy and it definitely wasn't in the movie. 
  
  Like Lego Star Wars, you collect minkits to build Artifacts, max out your stud counter, and 
 unlock extra levels, but most of the going back is repetitive. I know it's there to add replay 
 value, but I hate going back through levels just to find stuff that the game won't let you get 
 the first time through. You can also pick up items to use like shovels and wrenches, but it's not 
 very appealing. Finally, they have much more challenging puzzles to solve in game, but they can 
 be downright annoying. The puzzles are not all hard, but some are to the point of a obvious solution 
 not being so obvious at all. If you're not so good with puzzles, than stay away from this game.
 
  
  My major gripe with this game is the horrible camera. I put up with it in the first two Lego Star 
 Wars games, the Complete Saga could have corrected it, but it is stupid not to correct it in here. 
 The camera will sometimes make it hard for you see things and screw around with you when jumping. 
 Players of the last games will know what I'm talking about. 
  
  I don't know what it is, but Lego Indiana Jones just didn't seem like Indy to me. It's probably 
 worth a rental, but I guarantee you that it's not worth a Buy, especially after playing through 
 the game and getting 100% complete, it's not worth going back for replay a second time, thus making 
 the purchase useless. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  So, Lego Indiana Jones is from the makers of Lego Star Wars. So as you might expect, there's nothing 
 new here. I will go over the Pros/Cons, the Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, Value, and an Achievement 
 Junkie section.
  
  Pros
  -Colorful and humorous.
  -Legos.
  -Covers the original 3 movies.
  
  Cons
  -Same old Lego game. Nothing new, which is dissapointing.
 
  -You can cheat from the get-go.
  -Somewhat boring if you are playing by yourself.
  
  Gameplay: So, you can jump, attack, change characters, and "use" objects. That's it, the controls 
 are very simple. Which makes this a great game to play with friends or family. Depending on the 
 character, you have different "use" actions. Say, for instance, Indy uses a whip, Short Round can 
 crawl into small spaces, some characters can shovel, and so on. It's all really easy right from 
 the beginning. You will go through numerous puzzles whether it's just grabbing a key and placing 
 it in the right spot, or building a certain object, you'll eventually reach your goal in a matter 
 of minutes. Each movie, of which this has 3, there are 6 levels. The cinematics aren't voice acted, 
 but they speak Lego gibberish, and are very light-hearted. You'll get the basic premise of the 
 Indy movies, without all the inbetween.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics are very bright and clean. You distinctively know what is Lego from 
 what is background and such. Legos really can't look any better than this, but it isn't a real 
 challenge putting Legos in a game since they have very little detail. So sure they are accurate, 
 but they aren't pushing any graphic limits. The sounds are minimal, you'll hear jumping, the Indiana 
 Jones music plays during action-packed sequences, and the characters will never speak.
  
  Value: The game should last you from 6-8 hours, depending on how you play of course. You'll replay 
 all of the levels to get the collectibles, and there are 3 extra levels that you can unlock. Other 
 than getting 100%, there is no replay value whatsoever. So once you complete everything at maybe 
 13-15 hours, you'll never pick it up again. I would recommend a rent, but if you have friends that 
 come over frequently, a kid, or other family, then it's a possible buy.
  
  Achievement Junkies: It'll take about 3 days to get all the achievements. You can put in cheats, 
 and even get an achievement for cheating, to make the game very easy. A definite rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skinner_Y2K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ok, So firstly there are a few small niggles with the game (namely camera angles and targeting 
 issues) . They do need to be worked out in the next one, or even an update for this.
  
  But apart from that TT games have a good formula with the Lego series of games. I loved the SW 
 games and this is a hot for me too. good one player even better 2 player and it's the only game 
 my girlfriend will play.
  
  I can't wait to get all the way through this and Batman should be great too. I'm also keeping my 
 fingers crossed that they think about doing the no-brainer - Lego Matrix. I hope that they don't 
 change any of the basics for the next games and hope they continue to use good solid franchises 
 that everyone knows and loves
  
  Overall. Great fun to play through the first time, then freeplay after really wraps it up nicely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostedMugg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  While there are a number of positives about Lego Indiana Jones, those get bogged down by the negatives. 
 A clever puzzle whipped by poor camera angles, an otherwise fun platform-jumping sequence debilitated 
 by poor physics and controls, and so on. Poor control layout plagued this game, where no fewer 
 than three or four actions are all mapped to one button, while other buttons on the controller 
 go totally unused. Poor physics had characters overshooting jump points regularly, sliding way 
 past the target with only one press of the button. Lousy camera angles added further insult by 
 pulling too far back or getting in much too close, shifting to a worse perspective. Limited control 
 over the camera added to the frustration.
  
  The game is as buggy as a Louisiana lake bed in July. Characters disappear when needed, never to 
 return to do their job and press the button, make their required jump, etc. Targeting is terrible 
 and skittish, and portions of needed jumping and/or landing platforms and the like clipped into 
 oblivion or disappeared with regularity.
  
  Worse still, these EXACT SAME ISSUES have plagued the Lego series since the Star Wars games, and 
 Travellers' Tales just doesn't seem to care about fixing them. It was as if the "A" developers 
 of Travellers' Tales wrote the Raiders of the Lost Ark levels, and summarily left the other levels 
 to the "D" and "F" teams to cobble and hack together on a few weeks notice. Travellers' Tales has 
 had PLENTY of time to get familiar with the development environments of modern consoles, and yet 
 refused to take advantage of it.
  
  I was considering purchasing and playing Lego Batman. given the lack of improvements in Lego Indiana 
 Jones, that decision has been rescinded. I've been fooled thrice (Lego Star Wars, Lego Star Wars 
 Original Trilogy, Lego Indiana Jones) by Travellers' Tales, and that's twice as many times as the 
 old adage advises... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Allright, so we've played LEGO Star Wars, we've laughed at the tongue-in-cheek take on the franchise, 
 and the difficulty that's barely challenging. Now, we come to LEGO Indiana Jones: The Original 
 Adventures, so what's different?
  Well, there's 3 Episodes, each with 6 missions, much like LEGO SW (with the exception of The Complete 
 Saga, featuring 6 Episodes) . Obviously these are based on Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Temple of 
 Doom and The Last Crusade. No matter how you feel about them as movies, you'll enjoy the puzzles 
 and battles ahead. 
  The locations are great, especially when in Lego. Being chased by a boulder comprised of Lego bricks, 
 coming to the end of the very first mission, is quite entertaining.
  The puzzles vary between Easy, Medium and Hard. Yes, there is something quite difficult, here and 
 there, but it won't take long to overcome; The Problem will be simple one.
  If you've seen the movies, you'll enjoy the humor that is the cutscenes, a quickly told part of 
 the flick, with no speech, but mumbles, and some awesome facial expressions, on a Lego head! Although, 
 bits will be changed for the younger audience. For example, unlike the film, Satipo isn't impaled 
 in the opening sequence of Raiders.
  Missions are mainly puzzle based, some of these puzzles intergrate into fights, and vehicle sequences. 
 During these missions, you'll find yourself whip-swinging, brick building, even taking defeated 
 foes' hats to fool a military post.
  Once completing the game, after a short number of hours, the game kicks in it's replay value. There 
 is so much to do after completion - Find all the artefacts, all the parcels, get max treasure on 
 every mission, and unlock the secret 'Young Indy' mission, the opening sequence from The Last Crusade. 
 To do some of these, you'll have to use freeplay, maybe even using your own created characters.
 
  Exploring Barnett's college is great fun. There are plenty of puzzles inside, and you can check 
 out all of your achievements, whilst mingling with the crowd from the Indiana Jones Universe.
 
  Jump in / Out Co-op play is in, which is helpful for the instances when your partner's AI is acting 
 like a pleb. The co-op's fun to play, unless you have a friend that's intent on running as far 
 from the objective as possible, making it hard to see your character. But if they do, they will 
 leave the game and the camera will return to your character, so when they rejoin the come back 
 next to you. 
  Lego Indy is a great buy - I recommend it for puzzle-solvers and scorewhores alike, for obvious 
 reasons. If you're interested in a quick play, there's no reason to not give it a rent, at least. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lewilewi02
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones for Xbox 360 is as great as the movies.
  the game gets straight into it and is fun right from the word go.
  Even though the game may seem 
 a little bit easy, its not really as easy as it seems, the AI can become annoyingly hard when your 
 trying to complete a task.
  If you are a fan of the star wars lego games then this game will blow you away!!!!!
  So much 
 fun for one player and is doubled in fun when playing with a friend.
  even once you complete the game there is so much to do when replaying the game.
  once you will 
 complete the game you will be able to play it over and over again without losing interest
  ONLY a small reveiw but this game would take too many words to describe.
  GREAT GAME MUST BUY 
 even if you dont like indiana jones.
  Just plain simple fun and kind of relaxing and a good break from frustrating games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones Review
  
  Being a fan of the Indiana Jones franchise and one of the few people who really liked Indiana Jones 
 and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, naturally I've been very eager for an Indiana Jones game. 
 L ego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures seems to be the closest I'm going to get for a little 
 while. Having only briefly played Lego Star Wars I didn't know what to expect from Lego Indiana 
 Jones, but after playing the game I'm mostly pleased. From what I've heard about the Star Wars 
 games this game plays very similar. 
  
  The basic gameplay of Lego Indiana Jones is much the same as the Lego Star Wars games, building 
 things out of Lego to solve puzzles. The only real difference being instead of using the force 
 you're using your hands to physically build things, and instead of a light saber you have a whip. 
 At first the puzzles will be varied and entertaining to figure out but as you start to progress 
 through game you'll realise that you're doing the same tasks over and over again. So by the time 
 you get up to the Temple of Doom story arc some things will feel a bit like a chore and the only 
 real reason you're playing through the whole thing is to see your favorite Indy moments made out 
 of Lego. Each chapter of the games story arcs allow you to play as 2 or more characters depending 
 on where you are in the game. You'll need to switch between the characters given to you to solve 
 puzzles. Each character has there own special abilities, for example Indiana will swing across 
 things using his whip and women characters will jump higher than the male characters. This makes 
 a lot of puzzles feel different even though there the same old thing you've been doing over and 
 over. Also like the Lego Star Wars games there are a lot of hidden collectibles to dig up during 
 the levels which unlock different characters and levels. These can be accessed through Barnett 
 College which acts as the middle area between the chapters of the game. After completing a chapter 
 it allows you to free play it with any of the characters you've unlocked to find the collectibles 
 you may have missed on your first play through giving the game a lot of replay value.
  
  The story of Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures covers the first three Indiana Jones films, 
 hence the title. Each story arc is split into 6 chapters. The different stories can be played in 
 any order, so if you just want to play through 'The Last Crusade' and not the other two films you 
 can. But that would be a tremendous waste of money considering how short the game already is. One 
 of the games flaws is definitely its length; each story arc can be completed in 2 hours at the 
 very most making the game only last about 4-5 hours for the average gamer. But hey its still Lego 
 and Indiana Jones so I'll take what I'm given.
  
  The games graphics are nearly identical to the Lego Star War's games, but that was expected. How 
 could they improve graphics where nearly everything is Lego. All the objects in the game world 
 that you can interact with are made out of Lego so there will aren't many issues graphically, besides 
 some objects looking pretty similar. I didn't experience any frame rate issues while playing. At 
 the start and end of each chapter you'll be treated to hilarious cut scenes, which look no different 
 to the gameplay graphically. There's not much to say about the games graphics, just that there 
 Lego.
  
  As soon as you load the game you'll be treated to the Indiana Jones theme song, get used to it 
 because you're going to be hearing it a lot. The games score consists of all the music you've heard 
 from the films, so if you're a fan of the movies it will feel very familiar but it gets tiresome. 
 You'll here the same music a lot, which will make you want to turn the volume down unless you like 
 getting tunes stuck in your head. There is no dialogue in the game making it even more like the 
 Star Wars games. You'll be treated to sort of a distorted mumbling sound during the cut scenes 
 which is a good thing considering it fits perfectly with the feel of the game.
  
  I didn't want to have to compare this game to the Lego Star Wars game but I have to, the games 
 are pretty much the same besides the different characters and story. Even if you haven't played 
 Lego Star Wars a whole lot you'll feel like you've played the game before. If you're looking for 
 a well thought out, lengthy game you're not going to get it from this. But if your looking for 
 a quick game that will take your mind off things for a few hours, this games for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I played lego star wars the day it came out I remmember it clear I went to a mall because i just 
 came back from vacation. I had about 200 hundered dollars that were left over from my "money to 
 spend on trip" money. There were no games I really wanted at the time but I went to a nearby gamestop 
 and saw lego star wars, now at that moment I felt weird because I saw the very series I love mixed 
 with the license that my feet hate (if you never picked up your legos after you were done you know 
 what I mean) . But beyond that I bought it played it loved it, bought the sequel, played it , loved 
 it blah, blah. But now a couple of years later I get to play Lego Indiana jones once again a great 
 combination that I just love. The game looks about as good as a game with legos can look, which 
 really isnt anything head-poppingly amazing. And combat well is a little different since there 
 is no lightsabers this time around you pretty much use your fist, whip (which is a little too slow 
 and leaves you open) , and new items which includes  Now 
 these items are pretty cool, except for the guns which barely have any ammo. Another rally good 
 thing is the really good level desing is still here, with a fair amount of puzzles, platforming, and 
 action, followed by some funny cutscenes. There are slight problems like the inability to block and 
 the amazingly frustrating puzzles, which I actually enjoy (but thats me because I like extremely 
 challenging crap) . Overall the game is good and loyal to indy fans with a fair amount of comedy 
 and charm that can be enjoyed by people of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmoney2587
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  If my attention was turned in to an eggo waffle, lego indiana jones most definitely stole it away. 
 Just like in the star wars series, indy brings that fun that lego offers before, but in a better 
 way of gamplay and sense of humor. The puzzles are more unique and the weapons and things characters 
 have equip to them interact more than the star wars. Each movie delivers and never gets dull. The 
 boss fights in this game are fun and give its own diffucltly. One of the best features is the phobia. 
 Everyone knows indy is afraid of snakes, so when you encounter one, he starts to shake and shiver. 
 Other characters have phobias as well. Previous stars from the star wars game can be played in 
 indy, just like indy was in star wars. The collectables doesnt differ much from star wars, and 
 is a great co-op play. Easy game to play, fun for the whole family, probably the best family game 
 so far. This game is BUYABLE, thats why i give Lego Indiana Jones, a 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones hasn't had much impact in the gaming world. The mid '80s and early '90s saw some 
 fun games, especially Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis and then again in 2002 with Indiana 
 Jones and the Emperor's Tomb- which was fantastic. Now, with the release of the 4th installment 
 in the film franchise, we have a new game, "Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures" (although 
 I have no idea on what happened to the next-gen Indy game) . Lego Indy plays like the Lego Star 
 Wars games, which were fun but somehow they don't compare to Indy's adventures. Here we have all 
 3 Indy film in glorious Lego form. Now, all the tongue-in-cheek humor that we saw in Lego Star 
 Wars is here and it's flat-out hilarious. I mean, in the "Raiders" portion, when Belloq takes away 
 the golden head artifact in the beginning, little Lego Indy tries to give him a rubber duck and 
 C-3PO's head!! Belloq does a 3PO impression and it's just great. There are quite a few Star Wars 
 references in the game, you just have to find them (here's a clue on one: when you're in "Raiders" 
 in the 2nd level when you're escaping with Marion in the mountains, be sure to look EVERYWHERE, 
 especially down-ways...) . More laughs include Willie's special ability, which is to scream!! The 
 graphics for the game, although cartoonish, are beautiful. There's plenty of attention to detail 
 in the environments and they look just like their film counterparts. If you play in HD, it looks 
 awesome. All the music from the original trilogy is all here and it's so much fun for long time 
 fans like myself to hear this music while we're playing, from the eerie sounds of "Raiders of the 
 Lost Ark" all the way to the emotional score of "The Last Crusade". Now, like the Cantine was to 
 Lego Star Wars, the Barnett College where Dr. Jones teaches is the HQ of sorts. Here you can view 
 the cut scenes from the game, buy the extras, create new characters, choose which movie you wanna 
 play, view the artifacts you've collected, etc., etc. The trilogy's music plays while you run around 
 the college so it's nice sometimes to just stand there and listen to it as the characters that 
 you've unlocked walk around. There some interesting things in the game that are kind of funny. 
 One is that character's in the game have fears. If there are snakes around, Indy gets scared and 
 can't do anything. Willie hates spiders. It's fairly funny to witness this. Some characters have 
 special abilities. The female characters are light and nimble so they can jump higher than Indy 
 and reaches spots he can't. Short Round is so small he can fit into tight places to unlock doors, 
 grab items, etc. Throughout the game, you'll use all of these characters for their respective abilities. 
 You'll also use items like wrenches for fixing machinery. shovels for digging, guns, swords, etc. 
 Now, you have the most crucial component to Indy besides the fedora, his bull whip. Yes, you can 
 use whenever to jump across gaps, grab people, kill people and even grab the female heroines to 
 kiss them (there's an achievement for doing it to all 3) . One of the great things about this game 
 is how it feels. The characters don't feel like they have weight, because they're Legos, but at 
 the same time they do. It's weird but it feels right when you whip across gaps and jump and such. 
 Now, this is Xbox 360 so what about the achievements? Plenty. And they're all fun to get. Each 
 achievement (or at least most) are named after a quote from the trilogy. Some include "You Call 
 Him Dr. Jones!", "Belloq's Staff is Too Big", "Why Did It Have To Be Snakes?", etc. Even though 
 the game is fairly short, the game has so much replay value. There's so much to do, to unlock, 
 and Co-Op makes it even more fun. Overall, Lego Indiana Jones is a must-have for Indy fans and 
 it's a perfect addition to the Lego series of video game and movie based games. It's for everyone. 
 I recommend everyone giving it a try. It's that much fun. For $49.99, it's great. I'd pay the usual 
 $59.99. It's great. Buy it, try it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c1j1c2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is another great game by the Lego's game creators. It's nice to have a game I can play with 
 my eight-year old daughters. This like the other Lego's games isn't outright totally violent and 
 yet allows for fun and humor by all of us while being able to play together as a team or on an 
 individual basis. Even the individual movie shorts between levels are a welcome and joyous event 
 that the whole family enjoy watching over and over. In a day and age when most of the games are 
 either racing, shoot 'em up's or deal with some other sort of violence, it's a welcome change to 
 have a challenging game that a whole family can play together. The mini challenges are at just 
 the right level for my kids so that it is challenging enough, yet not out of their learning ability 
 to accomplish and master. I love knowing I can walk away from this game and totally trust that 
 any content in the game will be content that falls within the guidelines of my wife and I, for 
 the kids. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
