-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Batman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/legobatman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great cooperative play.
 Tons of characters from the Batman universe.
 It's fun to play as villains.
 Lots of unlockables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Friendly AI is atrocious.
 Game lacks humor.
 Vehicle sections are a pain.
 Too many baffling puzzles.
 Co-op is offline only.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 728 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Obtuse puzzles may hinder your enjoyment, but Lego Batman is still fun with a friend. 

  After Traveller's Tales released the well-paced, delightfully funny Lego Indiana Jones earlier 
 this year, it seemed like it had finally gotten a handle on how to shrink iconic action heroes 
 into the diminutive Lego universe. With a cast of diabolical, memorable characters and more gadgets 
 than you can shake a batarang at, Lego Batman was poised to be the best entry yet for the family-friendly, 
 block-building franchise. Unfortunately, it's a huge step back in the series. The perpetually bewildered 
 AI and repetitive combat that have haunted the Lego games since the beginning are on full, frustrating 
 display again, along with a smattering of baffling puzzles and agonizing vehicle sections that 
 will make you feel like you've been punched in the gut by Bane. When the stud-collecting, puzzle-solving 
 gameplay is able to rise above the problems, Lego Batman is an eminently enjoyable cooperative 
 romp. It just won't make you want to do the Batdance.  

           The Joker has no regard for fine art.      

  Storytelling has always been one of the 
 series strengths. Parodying famous scenes with silent Lego characters has provided consistent 
 laughs, serving as a worthwhile reward for overcoming a particularly cheap puzzle or boss fight. 
 Lego Batman doesn't offer up any such reward. The story does elicit a few smirks, but the jokes 
 more often than not fall completely flat. Robin serves as the expected punch line whenever he's 
 onscreen, repeatedly displaying his cowardice in the face of danger, but the joke quickly gets 
 beaten into the ground. The reason for the lackluster laughs is that the story doesn't have anything 
 specific to parody. The plot is based on the comic book characters, and though it does have some 
 nods towards the movies, it doesn't make fun of any well-known scenes, so the humor relies on predictable 
 slapstick instead of spoofing moments ingrained in popular culture.  

  The lone cinematic bright spot is being able to see the story develop from both sides of the morality 
 coin. As Batman and Robin, you successfully thwart Gotham's angriest individuals as they attempt 
 to steal riches, unleash a flock of gun-toting penguins, or put a permanent smile on the populace's 
 face with laughing gas. And while seeing good overcome evil certainly has its place, it's even 
 more fun playing through as the bad guys; although it's odd that while most of the Batman levels 
 end in a boss fight against a well-known rapscallion, the villain levels will never pit you against 
 the Caped Crusader. It would have been satisfying to freeze him into a block of ice or give him 
 a joy-buzzer handshake, but you're left fighting hordes of nameless police officers instead.  

 
  The gameplay stays true to the rest of the series. Lego Batman is primarily a puzzle-solving game 
 with light platforming and combat elements. Though you're given some fancy throw moves and a batarang 
 to dispatch your foes with, the combat gets repetitive in a hurry. Some sections are overloaded 
 with respawning foes, making it a chore to dispatch waves of enemies while trying to figure out 
 how to pass a tricky puzzle. At least you can change into different suits, which keeps things relatively 
 fresh. These outfits grant you different abilities, such as being able to glide as Batman or control 
 robots as Robin. Not all of these skills are fun to use. For instance, Robin is given a vacuum 
 cleaner to suck up stray blocks, and Batman acquires a special gun that shatters glass but can't 
 hurt enemies. Lego Batman does have one huge advantage over its predecessors, though. You'll no 
 longer be stuck controlling a droid or some guy who isn't Indiana Jones. Batman and Robin are both 
 fun to play as, which makes cooperative play satisfying no matter who you are.  

  And if you think controlling Robin is cool, just wait until you can inhabit the body of The Riddler 
 or Mr. Freeze. Controlling the villains is the best part of Lego Batman, so it's good that half 
 of the game is devoted to these miscreants. The villain levels are far less predictable than Batman's 
 because of the sheer variety of characters you can control. Every level lets you control a new 
 charlatan, so you'll be able to lash out with your whip as Catwoman in one level and then unleash 
 tiny penguin bombs as the felonious fowl in the next. Though the villains' tale mirrors Batman's 
 story, the levels are different. You'll go through some of the same sections, but you'll predominantly 
 move through new locations, making this adventure twice as long as previous Lego games.  

           They're probably laughing at Robin.      

  Though cooperative play makes the experience 
 more enjoyable, Lego Batman is virtually unplayable at times if you opt to go through it alone. 
 The friendly AI is horrific. As in previous games, your AI companion cannot dispose of enemies. 
 This means you'll have to fight off all the enemies and solve all the puzzles by yourself while 
 your AI pal stands around doing nothing. Worse is the AI's complete disregard for puzzles that 
 require two people to solve. For instance, a few puzzles require one person to stand on a platform 
 while another flips a switch. In a few cases, the AI pal will stupidly follow you wherever you 
 walk, which makes it impossible to complete the puzzle without plugging in a second controller 
 and maneuvering both characters yourself. There is one vehicular boss fight where one player has 
 to tow the enemy while the other peppers him with missiles. The battle is nearly impossible to 
 win because the friendly AI refuses to help.  

  Despite the lack of humor and sometimes obstinate puzzles, Lego Batman can be really fun. The game 
 has a ton of unlockables, from new characters to fancy costumes, which makes it well worth replaying. 
 It's just a shame the problems that have plagued this series since the beginning have yet to be 
 addressed. There is no excuse for distressingly thick-headed AI in such a simple game. If you can 
 rope a friend into playing with you, though, the game is a blast. You'll just have to provide the 
 cheesy Mr. Freeze puns yourself.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OmegaDragon360
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I really don't no why , the Gamespot give this grade for Lego Batman : The Video Game , this game 
 is awesome .The game is perfect because ...... First : an excellent gameplay , it's easy , the 
 characters are cool to play ( because have a lot of different powers . Second : a cool story , 
 because the game use all Batman's villain . Third : the change of side , you can play with heroes 
 or villains ( my favorite are villains ) . For me , Lego Batman : The Video Game is better than 
 Lego Star Wars and Lego Indiana Jones : The Original Adventures . The only bad thing of Lego Batman 
 is the co-op ( don't have online ) . Batman , Robin , Nightwing , Batgirl , Joker , Two-Face , 
 The Riddler , Penquin , Scarecrow , Mr. Freeze , Harley Quiin , Clay-Face , Catwoman , Killer Croc 
 , Poison Ivy , Killer Moth , Man-Bat , Mad Hatter and Bane , in the LEGO universe , really , make 
 a good game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed at the low score this game has received. Yes its another Lego game, yes you smash 
 legos, build items from legos, kick butt, etc, etc, but its Batman people. Maybe you have to be 
 a Batman fan to enjoy this game. All I can say is that I enjoyed it. 
  I have to admit that when I first started the game it was a bit old hat. I was familiar with the 
 Lego series having played Indiana Jones. However the more I played the more I got sucked into it. 
 Batman and Robin have some interesting get up's but the most memorable part of the game are the 
 villains. 
  My score would have been lower if I didn't have the pleasure of playing as the villains and seeing 
 the story from their point of view. That feature is what makes this game worthwhile. Who doesn't 
 want to play as the Joker who can fry their victims with a handshake, or as Riddler who uses mind 
 control to manipulate lego minions into doing his bidding. And there are plenty of villains to 
 choose from.
  You also get to complete missions using vehicles, planes, a robot, and other wacky modes of transportation. 
 
  If your looking for a serious game then don't buy any of the Lego series games. If you want to 
 smash lego's, laugh at lame jokes and just have a cheesy fun time then by all means escape the 
 asylum and grab a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Lego star wars at my Buddie's house and enjoyed the hell out of them. I will 
 admit I love Star Wars and could name you things that would definitely classify me as a nerd but 
 I also like Batman and grew up watching the Burton movies and animated series which this game draws 
 heavily upon. However even playing it co-op with a friend, this game bored us to tears and we couldn't 
 even finish it. Here's why;
  
  Pro:
  - Uses classic Danny Elfman scores from the first two movies and Tv series
  - Good use of the 
 classic Lego comedy
  
  Cons:
  - Puzzles go from incredibly easy to borderline impossible because they are so poorly constructed
 
  - Fighting anyone is a joke, the only way the don't die achievement is hard is because of whiffed 
 jumps
  - Doing anything in the batcave or arkam is a pain and is unnecessarily long (i have to go all 
 the way through the batcave and arkam just to make custom guys??)
  - Limited music and sound effects 
  - How many Lego games do we really need?
  - Nearly all 
 the characters have the same moves and others feel as though they were thrown in at the last second 
 because they couldn't think of anything else
  
  
  All in all this game just isn't fun and yes i do realize this is intended to for children but that's 
 no excuse because even my nephew thought this game was boring and he's only 5. So we played Lego 
 Star Wars. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegoBatmanDK
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  I don't know why the GameSpot give this grade for Lego Batman : The Video Game , this is excellent 
 in all parts ( except one thing : won't have multiplayer online option , but if you have friends 
 , that's not a problem ) . And now , my review : the graphics is nice , the game is funny , gameplay 
 is good , and the story is excellent . About the story : 1st Episode The Riddler's Revenge ( the 
 enemys is Riddler , Two-Face , Mr. Freeze , Poison Ivy and Clay-Face ) , 2nd Episode The Power 
 Crazed Penguin ( the enmys is Penguin , Catwoman , Killer Croc , Man-Bat and Bane ) , and the 3rd 
 Episode is The Joker's Return ( with the enemys Joker , Harley Quiin , ScareCrow , Killer Mouth 
 and Mad Hatter ) . Game Informer writes that this game is filled with cool playable characters 
 : Nightwing, Joker, Killer Croc, Bane, Harley Quinn, and Man-Bat . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  With the lego gaming series becoming a must buy in my household, I couldn't resist but to pick 
 up Lego Batman and play it's simple, but addictive gameplay. The first bad thing I noticed with 
 the latest insallment, is that you're mainly side scrolling through each level. Although I tried 
 not to think about it, it was in the back of my head. The sense of humour is back in this title, 
 but it doesn't beat Jonesey's adventure. The best new addition, is the use of vehicles in specific 
 levels. I can understand that people are going to have a mixed opinion about this one, but you 
 do have to draw the line when a game does the same thing over and over. Lego Batman is too much 
 like the previous titles, better than the Star Wars entries (only because I like Batman more) . 
 To me the most disappointing thing about this game, is that the cutscenes don't explain the story 
 very well, even though the characters can't speak. In whole a solid game, but Im going to be more 
 conservative when buying the next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  3 Lego games (not including the Complete Saga) have been released. Two of them less than a year 
 apart from each other. At first the Lego games were brilliant. Lego Star Wars was fun for the whole 
 family, but there comes a point where you have to move on. Lego Batman is not a bad game, but I 
 fear the Lego games are going downhill. I don't want this series to turn into Sonic or Tony Hawk.
 
  
  Lego Batman plays exactly like the other other games, but with Batman characters. This means lightsabers, 
 guns, and whips have been removed and replaced with punching, throwing baterangs, and super powers. 
 The difference surprisingly still doesn't convince me that this is difference from the rest. You 
 complete a series of sections in a certain episode building various gadgets, collecting lego bits, 
 and beating up baddies, similar to the other Lego games. There are different puzzles you have to 
 solve, different bosses you have to beat, all the same as the past games.
  
  I do like this game, but after playing so many other lego games it begins to get repetitive. Lots 
 of times I found myself saying "Hey I remember a similar puzzle like this on Lego Star Wars" and 
 "This boss is just like the on off of Lego Indiana Jones" . Too many moments where I feel like 
 I've done it before. I liked doing it before and I still sort of like it now, but it looses its 
 originality. The original Lego Star Wars was like nothing I've played before, but now... eh... 
 it's just another lego game.
  
  On the plus side, the game is funny, it provides so much humor without a single line of dialogue. 
 The undeniable charm of this game keeps me hooked. Robin always makes me laugh, similar to Anakin 
 on the Star Wars games. I found myself chuckling enough to sink me in and play more.
  
  Boss fights are a big negative. Basically, you hit the guy a couple times, he jumps up to some 
 platform, and you have to find some way to get him or her down. It wouldn't be as bad if it wasn't 
 the same shtick for every single boss battle!
  
  The length is a plus side. The game won't be beaten in an afternoon. Their are 6 episodes and each 
 are about 2-3 hours long. I took my time though trying to Superhero/Supervillain each level. It 
 could be shorter, but it's of reasonable length.
  
  The game's supposed to be a family game, but a lot of the puzzles cause confusion. I'm a pretty 
 smart cookie, and the puzzles had me stumped at times. Sometimes you'll just want to turn the system 
 off because you just can't figure out what's next.
  
  Overall, Lego Batman is a fun game, especially if it's your first time playing a Lego game. If 
 you've played a Lego game, it's probably going to be a been-there-done-that experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrjpo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Batman meet the Lego universe. After TT's previous adventures with Star Wars and Indiana Jones, 
 I thought this was a perfect "next" game in the Lego series. There are plenty of unlockable characters 
 -- all the ones you would think -- Joker, Penguin, Riddler and some you wouldn't -- Clayface, Mr. 
 Freeze, Poison Ivy. Not only are these playable characters, but the villains have their own missions..... cool.
 
  
  In terms of gameplay, this is just another lego game -- break things, build things, solve puzzles, 
 collect studs, repeat. There is the standard collection of minikits, red power bricks, and money. 
 It will only take about 20-25 hours to complete 100% of the game. As opposed to Star Wars that 
 took around 100.
  
  While this is the formula TT has used to make previous lego games successful, it would be nice 
 to see something new and different from the Lego Universe. I guess we will have to wait for Lego 
 Harry Potter for that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The Lego series of games have become quite popular in recent years. Surely they don't make the 
 same level of impact on the gaming community as did the first Lego Star Wars game, but still to 
 this day they make people think, "oh, that's actually pretty cool,"
  
  Okay, so maybe people don't say that, but I do. Thanks to technology, we now are able to watch 
 our Lego fantasies play out in high-def. I think that's pretty cool.
  
  Anyway, to Lego Batman. Like most Batman fan's, I thought the idea was great. The end result of 
 this idea is mostly entertaining, but highly repetitive. 
  The plot of the game is an original idea, throwing in as many of Batman's foes as possible. On 
 offer there is the likes of, Catwoman, Bane, The Riddler, and of course The Joker, plus various 
 others. All these baddies escape Arkham and begin to wreck havoc on Gotham City. Although there 
 is no real depth to the story, it doesn't take much to follow, especially since it has to be told 
 with no dialogue. 
  
  The story is broken up into three chapters, all with five levels each. Each chapter will see Batman 
 and Robin smashing there way through to the end to fight the big bad of that level. A nice surprise 
 in Lego Batman is you can also play the story from the Villains side of the coin, which is set 
 up with the same three chapter formula as the Hero's.
  
  The combat is fairly straight forward. One button is to attack, one is to grab hold of an enemy, 
 and one is to switch between the two characters. Because there is only one button to attack, the 
 combat gets stale rather quickly. However each characters has their own type of special attack, 
 it doesn't really go far to mix things enough to make it fresh and interesting. 
  
  Lego Batman is more of a puzzle solver game, with an added touch of light platforming thrown in. 
 The puzzles you encounter are clever, and take some thought to solve. Because this game is aimed 
 mostly at kids, they aren't completely difficult, just common sense is required.
  
  All previous Lego games have featured great humor, making light of the plot the game follows. Since 
 Lego Batman doesn't follow a movie plot, or a comic arc, it has to make it's own humor. There is 
 a lot of Robin based humor, playing up the fact no one actually likes him. Long time Batman fan's 
 who don't take their Batman universe too serious will find a lot of humor here, but the Robin slapstick 
 style does begin to wear thin towards the end.
  
  The sound of the game is interesting, as it borrows from Burton's 1989 film, Batman. A lot of the 
 ambient sound, as well as the score of the movie are re-used in this game, which, isn't bad at 
 all. 
  
  Overall, Lego Batman is a good game, but it isn't deep and interesting enough to make it great. 
 There is a lot to do, if you want to rack up some achievement points. It's reasonably low sale 
 price is worth it if you just want to have some fun and fill in some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogger21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a game to bring home for laughs and jokes 
  you will have a blast with the entertaining storyline, it may not keep you attention and at times 
 a little frustrating when your trying to figure out the little things you have to do to past the 
 level. Nevertheless I think its a great buy the lego series has a winner with this. Love the multiplayer 
 makes a blast with your buddies over a beer. I like to call these games sometime killed with buddies 
 I tend not to play this by myself more entertaining with friends. You think its gonna be for children, 
 but to be honest I think its just as good for a 40 as a 12 but will have a blast playing it. I 
 think they made it unique how you get to build stuff out of lego by breaking boxes and stuff you 
 find in the streets. If you like graphics and stuff like that this isn't a game for you because 
 its very plan in that aspect there not much you can do with lego, but very creative with the levels 
 and what you have to do to pass them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Batman is a action adventure game. The story is about how Batman and Robin must stop Gotham 
 City from falling to pieces. All of the villain of Arkham Asylum has escaped and the city is in 
 bad shape. There are three episodes for the hero side and 3 three for the evil side. In the good 
 side, Batman and Robin must stop villain from carrying out their evil plans. On the evil side, 
 the villains must take over or infitrate a location. Later the heroes will stop them so you get 
 to see how the villains got there in the first place. It's cool because the same level of each 
 side's point of view takes place in the same place. The hub for the hero side is the Batcave. The 
 villains' is Arkham Asylum. The graphics of the game are good, but they're nothing to get excited 
 about. The gameplay of the game is just like any other LEGO game. You can redo any level you've 
 already done and do them again in freeplay. Freeplay is a mode in which you could switch to any 
 character you've unlocked. You'll need to unlock all of the types of characters to win. There are 
 many characters and you can make your own. The reason for going back in free play is to collect 
 minikits, red bricks, and to get Super-hero or Super-villain status. Minikits are 10 canisters 
 spread around the level. You need to collect them all to unlock a bonus level. Red bricks are red 
 bricks (obviously) that are spread somewhere in the level. There is 1 red brick fror every level. 
 Red bricks unlock upgrades and extras. Upgrades are upgrades for Batman and Robin's tech suits. 
 Extras are "cheats" that you can turn on and off anytime. Super hero or villain status is meter 
 on the screen that tells you how much money you need to reach the status. Collecting studs will 
 raise the meter. Studs could be used to buy data (trivia) , unlocked characters, extras, and upgrades. 
 I enjoyed this game very much because of co-op play and I never play without co-op. There's a problem 
 with ever LEGO game and that is the AI computer is the worst partner you could wish for. Batman 
 fans might want to rent this first. I also recommend buying this game if you have someone to play 
 with.
  
  Story- 9
  Graphics- 8
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 9
  
  Final Score- 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game with alot of story to it.
  
  I've played all the other lego games and they have not compared to this one this is the best lego 
 game for sure so if you are a lego fan this is a must have!
  
  The Bonus levels are a little cheesy but its a bonus any way and you get some super easy achievements 
 on them.
  
  This is takes a little bit of time to beat it so don't expect to beat it withing a few hours.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Controls 8/10
  Story 9/10
  
  The Game can be hard finding all the blocks and memorbilia but its worth getting it early if you 
 can so you don't have to go back for it.
  
  If you rescue all the hostages you will unlock a locked character wich should give you an achievements 
 if all other characters are unlocked.
  
  all and all is a really great game its worth trying there is not much you can explain about it 
 besides you build legos and beat the game its fun it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Synsanity
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Lego Batman is sadly just another lego game with the same poor programming and terrible AI, although 
 its fun to play through with a friend to a certain point. The game can't keep me in my seat for 
 more than an hour or two and doesnt have me wanting more cuz all you get is the same thing over 
 and over again. But im not saying that little kids would not like this game, my nephew loves it 
 but then again he is only 6 :-P. if your looking for a game that keeps you wanting more and keeps 
 you glued to your seat, skip this game. its a break from the norm i guess but nothing special. 
 Like i said before, its just ANOTHER lego game, just as fun as the others (Star Wars and Indiana 
 Jones) . 
  But if you like getting achievements then this game is good for getting easy ones. not challenging 
 and it gives you something else to focus on besides the game itself. 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  LEGO Batman is perhaps the most well-crafted LEGO game to date, appropriate since it's the fifth 
 title in Traveler's Tales build-and-destroy saga. Unlike its predecessors, Batman is able to stand 
 on its own without relying on movies to pad out its minimal plot. Instead, you'll play through 
 the dark streets of Gotham as the Riddler, Penguin, and Joker lead their gangs on a path of destruction 
 and mayhem. In addition to saving the city as the dynamic duo Batman and Robin, you'll also have 
 a hand at playing out destruction by playing through the episodes as the villains.
  
  The game bears the best LEGO formula to date, although there are still a few bugs in the system 
 that would be great for TT to finally work out, such as an atrocious camera that is only minimally 
 corrected by being able to scroll it  marginally  with the right thumbstick. Many objects are 
 still obscured, and some of the platforms are a little too narrow or set at a bizarre angle for 
 the blocky LEGO characters to land on. However, Batman takes a cue from LEGO Indiana Jones and 
 allows for you to "tag team" your partner from a distance, rather than having to be right next 
 to them, as in the Star Wars titles. This is necessary to solve the numerous puzzles blocking your 
 progress, but it's also handy when you're in the middle of a boss fight that requires both characters' 
 unique abilities to progress. Batman offers a large cast of characters to play with, although  
 as always  a lot of the characters seem to be copies of each other. Come on, was it REALLY necessary 
 to be able to play as all the varieties of the villain's henchmen? Getting these added to your 
 party during Free Play is about as useless as it comes. Also, the AI is still ridiculously incompetent. 
 Your computer-driven companion may fight back occasionally, but it will rarely defeat an opponent, 
 and if you're paired with Mr. Freeze, prepare to get frozen into a block of ice repeatedly, losing 
 studs in the process. Also, as in Indiana Jones, it's sometimes difficult to convince your partner 
 to STAY PUT to help you solve a puzzle. You'll be standing on the button trigger, and it will wander 
 off a ledge or something equally ridiculous. Also, the AI will get stuck on ladders, magnetic pathways, 
 grappling hooks, catwalks, water, or  most irritatingly  it will just stand in the middle of 
 the street watching you get pummeled. As always, boss fights that require both characters doing 
 things simultaneously will end with you tag teaming your way back and forth and trying to do too 
 many things at once. The best solution: Find a friend, have them play the game with you. Some elements 
 of the game will require the second player to drop out because the camera will cut them from the 
 screen or force them over a ledge (always good fun) , but having a REAL person playing by your side 
 as opposed to the moronic computer is probably the way to go here.
  
  The game starts off with access to three different episodes as Batman and Robin face off against 
 a gang of criminals led by the Riddler, Penguin, or Joker. Completing an episode allows you to 
 gain access to Arkham Asylum, where you are able to play through the same episode from the villain's 
 perspective. As always, replaying through the level with Free Play enables you to collect the elusive 
 Mini Kits, gaining access to bonus levels of play.
  
  The sound and graphics to this game are wonderful. The dark and gritty world of Batman as seen 
 in the animated series is filled with destructible LEGO blocks and the scene is set perfectly with 
 the Danny Elfman themes from the Tim Burton movies. TT once again shows that you can do just about 
 anything with LEGO bricks.
  
  All in all, there's a good twenty to thirty hours of gameplay here, especially if you obsess over 
 completing the game to 100%, given the sprawling levels for each of the six episodes. TT needs 
 to improve the formula a bit, but since they didn't have to adhere to an already-scripted storyline, 
 Batman really allowed them to show off their creative elements. Hopefully their next entry will 
 continue to show improvement!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  LEGO Batman, much like LEGO Indiana Jones and LEGO Star Wars before that is mainly pointed at the 
 casual and younger players. While that is all well and good, even the most casual player will have 
 a hard time completing this game with out getting bored. 
  
  LEGO Batman follows the same formula that the prior LEGO games use, run really slow, have one button 
 attacks, build LEGO items to blow through levels, and unlock other LEGOesque characters. Then wash, 
 rinse, and repeat. It's that simple. 
  
  The visuals in LEGO Batman are pretty boring, much like the prior LEGO games. They use the LEGO 
 like look to make the graphics out of everything. They pretty much look the same as the prior generation 
 of LEGO games did. Stark, yet colorful, a lack of details, and stiff animation. Furthermore the 
 games voice work is totally lacking. The game replaces speech with grunts and groans much like 
 Nintendo does with it's Zelda franchise. I do have to say that I really did like the music in LEGO 
 Batman, it was much like the music in the animated series back in the 1990's. 
  
  The controls are wonky and slow to react. Mostly the attack buttons. Infact the game does harken 
 back to the Final Fight days, but I think we as gamers have passed through that. All of the characters 
 play the same too, which is a lot of missed opportunities there as well, but there are so many 
 different characters that it would be difficult to make additional powers for each. Most characters 
 are pretty easy to unlock as well. The plot is pretty thin and is easy to follow. There won't be 
 any surprises there either. 
  
  For the hardened gamer this game will be pretty boring. For younger children, they may enjoy it, 
 but since their attention spans are so small they will probably discard this game quickly. As for 
 nestalgia factors there are far better games that show Batman off (even though those are few and 
 far between) . It is my recommendation to steer clear of this game or it's prior LEGO works. 
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  The Lego franchise has been providing a new take on "kids' games" since the first Lego Star Wars 
 in 2005. However, after several iterations using different source material there's a real feeling 
 that the formula is beginning to get stale. Lego Batman does little to quell this feeling.
  
  Previous Lego games garnered a lot of their appeal from offering parodies of their source material. 
 The Star Wars games in particular had great humour in the way they poked fun at those iconic scenes 
 using clumsy Lego "mini-figs" with no power of speech. With Lego Batman, developer Travellers' 
 Tales has chosen to write their own story, thus removing the basic parody appeal. Its an understandable 
 choice given that Batman is such a broad character. It would have been difficult to choose whether 
 to make fun of the comics or films, or even a particular era of the comics or films. What you have 
 instead is a parody of key Batman archetypes, such as Robin's ineptitude. Fans of Batman and younger 
 players will enjoy the little jokes, but it won't stand out to most players in the same way as 
 Indiana Jones being chased by a Lego boulder.
  
  Lego Batman is a much better looking game than Star Wars and Indy. The backdrop of Gotham is the 
 dark greys and blues you would expect, but the emphasis on lighting really helps the colourful 
 characters stand out against the background. The cast is huge and dips into every Batman villain 
 you'd want and more. You'll see Lego versions of everyone from The Joker to Killer Moth and you'll 
 see spin-off characters like Nightwing on the heroes side. You can also mix and match pieces of 
 characters to create your own, a feature introduced in Lego Star Wars II.
  
  The campaign is divided into separate affairs for the heroes and villains, which means Batman is 
 double the playtime of previous Lego games. As Batman & Robin you play in 3 episodes of 5 chapters, 
 each one focussing on the plots of a different group of familiar faces from the rogues gallery. 
 As the villains, you play these same stories from their viewpoints, with different routes through 
 the levels, but unfortunately you will never come face-to-face with Batman & Robin. Once you've 
 finished the Story Mode you have the option of replaying in Free Mode with different characters 
 and abilities in order to unlock all the secrets, which are the typical Lego game "mini-kits" and 
 pause menu "extras."
  
  Playing the game is unfortunately where Lego Batman begins to show the lack of progress in the 
 franchise. There are some nice Batman-specific moves thrown in, including some new throws which 
 can be used in hand-to-hand combat and the use of the fabled Batarang, however the level layout 
 and puzzles are all too familiar to anyone who has played Star Wars and Indy. Most of the time, 
 simply smashing everything to pieces to find Lego bits you can build with is the way to keep progressing. 
 The lack of force moves or Indy's whip is made up for with different suits that Batman and Robin 
 can use to gain new abilities, but the emphasis remains on breaking everything. This simple play 
 is fine for first-time Lego gamers and younger children, but if you've played a Lego game before, 
 even if you're young, the repetition will quickly feel stagnant.
  
  The vehicle sections are also pretty poor. The controls need to be seriously tightened up and one 
 or two areas feel like re-skinned versions of vehicle segments from Lego Star Wars.
  
  If you haven't played a Lego game before then this is as good a place as any to start. Despite 
 its niggling issues, the game is still huge fun in co-op (though online co-op is sorely missing) 
 and Batman fans will enjoy the parody of the character's traditions. On the other hand, if you 
 played Lego Star Wars or Lego Indiana Jones to death, you might want to give this one a miss.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsxMeUP_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Traveler's Tales is at it again with another Lego adventure. With the success of Lego Star Wars 
 and Lego Indiana Jones it was only a matter of time until a new movie icon would have the pleasure 
 of being immortalized in kiddy blocks. This time Batman has the honors, and like its predecessors 
 Lego Batman is just as fun to play, even if gameplay is starting to get a little old and repetitive. 
 Similar to Pixar movies, Lego games have something for everybody. If you haven't tried one of Traveler's 
 Tales' little jewels yet you are clearly missing on some memorable gaming. So put on your batsuit, 
 load up on batarangs and jump into your batmobile, Lego Batman is sure to deliver memorable rock 
 'em sock 'em puzzle-action, and a few laughs along the way.
  
  
  HOLLY BAT-CRACKERS, BATMAN, THAT'S A LOT OF CHARACTERS!
  
  Lego Batman is slightly more action-oriented 
 than pervious games but it's still the same old puzzler, and that's a good thing. Traveler's Tales 
 has found a tried and tested formula and sticks to it with each new Lego release while adding enough 
 variety to disassociate each game from its predecessors well, sort of. We still get to unlock 
 goodies and extras along the way through countless hours of gameplay, but the slapstick puzzle-solving 
 is different because of new character abilities. We still have comical cutscenes and still have 
 to use various characters to move forward, except we have a lot more to choose from... Ok, fine, 
 it's the same old thing. But more of a good thing doesn't make it bad!
  
  Traveler's Tales truly knows how to give their games replayability. With 48 playable characters 
 we are more pampered than ever. Lego Batman lets players take on the role of virtually all DC Batman 
 figures, both villains and super-heroes alike. The game is split up into three stories: The Riddler, 
 The Penguin and The Joker. Each story has five missions that pit our latex-wearing protagonists 
 against various minions and one of the aforementioned maniacal end-bosses. Once all five missions 
 are finished the game ends wrapping things up with a cutscene and a credits roll. Giving each story 
 a separate ending adds a fresh element to a rather long game. Once a crime boss is behind bars 
 it's on to the next one. 
  
  Players can select which story to play from the Batcave. Missions can be played sequentially or 
 intermittently while jumping from one story to another  it's all up to the player. The cave serves 
 as a base of operation where our heroes can run around, purchase various extras, upgrade their 
 gear and view all the goodies amassed during missions, from clips to trophies. 
  
  Lego Batman's most appealing feature has to be the ability to play as the villains. Once a baddy 
 and their cronies are behind bars we can take on the role of the criminals. Traveler's Tales spared 
 no expenses and gave them their own plots and an Insane Asylum with many of the same perks of the 
 Batcave. Playing as a villain gives Lego Batman an alternate view of the story, as seen through 
 the eyes of the whacky felons. Players can move from villain to super-hero missions at will. One 
 doesn't need to complete the entire game to access the malicious screwballs; simply finishing a 
 story is enough. 
  
  The plot is once again told through silent caricatures of movie icons. Characters grunt and gesture 
 the plot forward, tumbling and tripping over each other for good measure. Comedy abounds, as usual, 
 but unlike previous titles there are no clever winks and hints aimed at previous games or famous 
 movie scenes. Lego Batman is a standalone title with a unique story that mixes the "70's librarian" 
 Batman with the contemporary "troubled-childhood grump" Batman.
  
  
  SO MANY BAD GUYS; SO LITTLE TIME
  
  As was the case with Lego Indiana Jones, stages are designed 
 around puzzles that are unravel using two characters. To reach new parts both have to be used in 
 tandem. We can quickly alternate between the Dynamic Duo or between villains at the press of a 
 button. Batman and Robin are virtually identical from the outset but they have special costumes 
 spread out in levels that give them distinct abilities. Finding the suits usually requires a bit 
 of exploring and a fair deal of Lego mashing but the uniforms give our heroes the ability to glide, 
 walk on metal surfaces, set bombs, use remote controlled devices, etc. The trick is to figure out 
 how to use each suit's skill within a mission. Stages are rather linear in that players can't really 
 use alternate means of advancing through them, however, uncovering each level's design with the 
 help of the suits is what makes the game fun. 
  
  A single playthrough will not be enough to uncover all the extras  levels are simply designed 
 that way. Once a level is finished, good old "Freeplay" mode opens up allowing players to replay 
 the mission at any time to finish up lose ends and find whatever extras might have been overlooked. 
 Freeplay lets you return as any character and with any suit unlocked up to that point. 
  
  A first playthrough will usually complete around 40 percent of the game. The rest is achieved while 
 finishing the villain stories and replaying Batman missions with the help of the bad guys, which 
 can be used in Freeplay mode. Kudos to Traveler's Tales for not making the super-villain part a 
 throwaway addition. The villains got as much attention in content and details as our crime-fighting 
 duo. 
  
  Villains also work in pairs but they don't need to find costumes; they have innate abilities. The 
 Riddler can control people's minds with the help of his cane, Clayface has super-human strength, 
 Poison Ivy can make plants grow, Mr. Freeze can freeze people (hard to imagine) and so on  no 
 suits required. The best part is that villains have completely different levels. Traveler's Tales 
 could have easily reused all the levels from Batman and Robin's stories but they didn't. They took 
 the time to create missions showing a different part of the stages. For instance, Batman and Robin's 
 first mission against Clayface is set on the streets, but the super-villain mission has Clayface 
 and The Riddler go through underground parking lots, not seen while playing as Batman.
  
  
  FROM BATPLANES TO DINOSAURS, THE GAME ALMOST HAS IT ALL
  
  Lego Batman has its fair share 
 of button mashing. The game follows a simple formula of action followed by puzzle solving. Sometimes 
 this formula is interrupted forcing players to solve puzzles while fending off scores of enemies, 
 which can be a bit annoying, especially since many parts have them constantly respawning. Puzzles 
 are challenging enough to give players a sense of accomplishment without getting permanently stuck, 
 though some are a bit too simple.
  
  Much of the gameplay is spent destroying props and decorations, which are always fun to watch come 
 apart. The game's motto is clearly "when in doubt, destroy something". Ransacking lamps, trashcans 
 and whatever else is freestanding will often reveal suits or tools needed to move forward. Coin 
 gathering is just as prominent as ever. Players will amass truckloads of money which can be used 
 to buy various items in the Batcave. One downside is that extras are usually cosmetic and gimmicky, 
 like moustache disguises that serve no purpose. The only practical upgrades are more batarang targets 
 and faster grappling hooks. Additional items useful during gameplay would have been nice. 
  
  A few vehicle missions make things more interesting, though they usually involve destroying 
 swarms of enemies and grappling something, or someone, to a specific location. Fortunately the 
 physics are good. Riding around in the batmobile is just as smooth as running around on foot beating 
 the crap out of bad guys. This makes the repetitive nature of vehicle levels bearable. Regular 
 missions also have various rides, from lawnmowers to T-Rexes. There's nothing better than saddling 
 up a T-Rex, except maybe a T-Rex flying the batmobile, which alas isn't in the game (but you can 
 always hope for a Lego Calvin & Hobbs) .
  
  The game is not without flaws, though. Angles are hard to perceive in 3D in some sections when 
 jumping from one platform to another, often causing the player to miss a ledge and die. The camera 
 doesn't help in the matter as it slightly changes angles when moving forward. It's a shame this 
 issue managed to creep its ugly head in yet another Lego game. It's also not obvious which parts 
 of a level can kill you. What looks like a nice garden or bay can sometimes leave you in pieces. 
 As mentioned above, physics are very good, but climbing ladders can be a pain in the "block".
 
  
  Previous games had issues with stupid friendly AI. Here those issues are virtually resolved. Your 
 teammate will usually find his or her way back to you and figure out where to stand, although sometimes 
 they will get stuck on a ladder or tightrope. Switching back to them quickly fixes the problem. 
 Co-op mode is as good as ever with friends able to jump in at any time. There's no online co-op 
 mode and that bat-sucks. A few clipping problems here and there will pop up. The bugs in question 
 will have you fall through a floor (and die) or walk through a building on occasion. It's nothing 
 to worry about as it occurs very rarely but it nonetheless puts a blemish on an otherwise well-designed 
 game.
  
  Sound effects are downright perfect. Blocks sound just as we remember them in our youth and music 
 is typically Batman-ish. The Riddler and Joker levels have similar orchestral scores so it can 
 become repetitive, but the Penguin story added a choir into the mix like the one used in Tim Robin's 
 second Batman movie - a subtle touch. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  In all, Traveler's Tales delivers another successful Lego game. The smooth gameplay and mountains 
 of extras make Lego Batman a worthwhile title to own. The laidback action and puzzle-solving, as 
 well as the comedy, will appeal to a wide range of players. Designers took the time to polish the 
 game and added refinement in places one might not expect. A few perception issues and bugs will 
 leave you mumbling but very rarely. Too bad most extras are esthetic, though it's still fun acquiring 
 them because the game is a pleasant experience, even if it doesn't break new ground. Lego Batman 
 doesn't convey the sense of urgency many games have nowadays, where surviving is the goal. It's 
 a relaxing and humorous title few will feel guilty spending countless hours with.
  
  Graphics 78
  Same Lego graphics but destructible details are varied. A few perception issues. 
 No camera options
  
  Gameplay 72
  Fun in general, especially breaking stuff, but repetitive action. Puzzles are sometimes too simplistic. 
 Many of the villains have the same powers
  
  Production 86
  Loads of extras and refinement. Funny cutscenes. A somewhat nonsensical story but it definitely 
 feels like Batman's world
  
  Sound 75
  Nice sound effects and music, though both tend to get a bit repetitive after a while
  
  Lasting 
 Appeal 82
  With so many extras the game will keep you playing for many hours. No online co-op mode
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game at the used gaming store for my 5 year old boy who was doing well in school. 
 I sat down to play it with him and hours went buy. The game is just so darn neat you can't put 
 it down. It is full of puzzles, challenges and all sorts of worlds and villains. My boy loves it. 
 It is just a good change from all of the blood and guts games that are flooding the market these 
 days. 
  
  You can choose which villian's world to visit and each level is full of puzzle after puzzle. There 
 is a story behind each world and level too. It is really great for kids because they have to think 
 their way through each stage. The characters can't die, they just come back agian and again so 
 it is pretty easy but still challenging.
  
  I will be picking up the other lego games in the future like Indiana Jones and Star Wars... that 
 is after I beat this one, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Lego Batman is the fourth (or fifth if you count the SW complete trilogy) Lego game to be released 
 by Traveler's Tales. As a result, the game can feel a little re-hashed at times if you have played 
 the other Lego games, however, Batman adds some new elements, ups the graphics ante and deviates 
 from the other's movie based story approaches which make it fun and refreshing while familiar at 
 the same time.
  
  For those people who have been on a deserted island for the last four years, the Lego series of 
 games from TT are exceptionally easy, incredibly accessible games for all ages and skill levels 
 with a focus on co-op play. The basic premise is to take well known movies or characters (Star 
 Wars, Indiana Jones and now Batman) and translate their stories into the world of Lego via a series 
 chapter based boards. The controls are very simple and lend them self to the button masher player 
 while still offering some puzzle solving components at the same time to the more 'demure' player.
 
  
  When comparing Batman to the prior Lego games in the area of graphics and presentation, Batman 
 clearly comes up the winner. The use of a drab and dark colour palette coupled with dim lighting 
 is lifted from the early Batman films crafted by Tim Burton and really advance the look and feel 
 of the Lego gaming style. While the earlier Lego games did an excellent job in the graphics department, 
 the environments of the Batman story lend themselves in stepping it up a few notches. 
  
  The gaming style of Batman remains true to the previous Lego entries in both the good and the bad 
 elements. The good is that the game remains simple, the controls were easily picked up by my four 
 year old and the gameplay is almost identical to SW and IJ, but with Batman specific changes. This 
 allows experienced Lego gamers to jump right in and those new to the series to quickly pick it 
 up. The bad elements surround the poor camera at times, the difficult to judge depth for flight 
 and jumping and the co-op nuances when players separate at little too far. Why TT has not addressed 
 some of these things baffles me, but if it is broke and you can still make $$$, why fix it?
  
  The biggest differentiator between Batman and the earlier Lego games is the way the story is 
 told. Star Wars naturally used the six films for its translation and Indiana Jones used the first 
 three films for inspiration whereas Batman uses a mix of the films, comics and cartoons. In this 
 respect, SW and IJ are slightly more successful telling the story and adding humour to key elements 
 of the source material because of their widely recognizable plot details. Batman is a little weaker 
 in this respect, but then again, it's a Lego game, not a story telling masterpiece. Personally 
 I preferred the new approach Batman took to playing out the story. Here you play as Batman and 
 Robin fighting the criminals in the beginning and then essentially play the same levels from the 
 Villain's perspective which is a new and refreshing spin. This approach translated into 32 levels 
 of play which is dozens of hours when going for 100% completion.
  
  Batman takes a different approach towards the characters, mainly on the 'good guy' campaign where 
 Batman and Robin utilize different suits to achieve the objectives on the boards. Some of the suits 
 are almost useless other than to get that odd minikit and some are quite fun (i. e Glide Suit and 
 Detonation Batman as well as Magnet and Suction Robin) . Although new, it is small enhancement which 
 adds diversity to the characters during the good guy levels. The addition of batarangs is a welcome 
 addition for clearing out a horde of bad guys in one swoop. 
  
  Although I am a huge fan of Star Wars and Indiana Jones and thoroughly enjoyed their respective 
 Lego games, I feel Lego Batman is the premier entry in the series. The most glaring omission from 
 this, much like in Indiana Jones is the online play, which, for me, is not too important, but might 
 have enhanced the experience for others. In the end, the improved graphics, subtle adjustments 
 to a proven format and simple gameplay strike up another winner for Traveler's Tales.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Lego Batman has 2 main parts to the game, The Heroes, and The villains. That was a great idea i 
 thought, having you play as the good side and succeeding and then the bad guys winning. The gameplay 
 wasnt all that great and could be somewhat glitchy. and the puzzles werent even puzzles, there were 
 so easy you can do them without thinking. And the bad guy and bosses are easy too, for ther bad 
 guys all you have to do is press b and your practically invincable. For people who like achievement 
 points, this would be a game to get. Ive only had this game for 2 days and i have currently 845 
 achievement points. You get a ton from the story.
  All the villains are cool, like Man-Bat, and Killa Moth. So overall the game is pretty cool and 
 how they made it. The achievements, cool. The gameplay and puzzles. ughhh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The most stellar case of nostalgia isn't watching old movies, or looking at old pictures. No, to 
 me, nostalgia is playing a video game that goes back to the basics. You remember those games right? 
 The ones were everything was kept simple and more importantly, fun. So when Lego Batman swooped 
 down from the buildings above me I just had to grab on to it and see where it would take me. I 
 ended up swinging over a familiar pool with some questionable things lurking inside of it and I 
 couldn't help but wonder "didn't they get rid of these things already"? 
  
  Lego Batman is the newest entry in the Lego series from developer Travelers Tales. Making this 
 their third round dealing with Lego's (Indiana Jones and Star Wars were their first) , and it seems 
 they haven't really broken out of their comfort zone yet. Perhaps it's because the formula for 
 these games works surprisingly well, and if it isn't broken don't fix it right? Still, these games 
 are in desperate need of a change, because I don't think Travelers Tales is ready to muck with 
 their star franchise. Most of the problems that were in the previous two games still remain, and 
 some came back worse than before.
  
  The basic mechanics of Lego Batman still apply. You still get to choose your character from a variety 
 of villains and hero's from the Batman universe. Causing havoc everywhere around you by destroying 
 Lego items to collect studs and other unique collectibles. All while solving puzzles and hopping 
 around through the games 30 different levels. So old fans of the series will have no problem jumping 
 into the swing of things. New fans though, might want to give this one a second thought before 
 picking it up as it's plagued with the series worst problems and still doesn't quite get things 
 exactly how they should be. 
  
  The combat is still bland, even with the new villain powers and projectile weapons you can pretty 
 much perform every combat maneuver in about five minutes. The platforming segments still have a 
 sketchy camera, giving players the frustration of mis-judging distances between ledges and falling 
 to multiple deaths. Luckily there is no penalty for dying, except losing about 1000 studs (the 
 games currency) , but this still can get on many impatient peoples nerves very fast. The game also 
 has a series of puzzle glitches, which is a very disappointing realization. Some puzzles will glitch 
 so bad that you'll have to restart the level to get them working again. This is not something that 
 I want to deal with when playing a finished product. The A. I. partner is back, and stupider than 
 ever. Most of the puzzles require two peoples complete attention in order to achieve the correct 
 solution and normally if you were playing with another "real" person this would be no problem. 
 But if you happen to be alone in your play through, you'll become slightly irritated when the computer 
 A. I. doesn't seem to understand any of your basic orders. I even had to plug in another controller 
 once to solve a puzzle because my computer player thought it was a good idea to keep jumping off 
 a ledge instead of just standing on the switch like I told him to. This is incredibly amateur programming 
 and completely takes you away from the whole experience when you have to basically baby-sit a computer. 
 
  
  Still, what this game does right is the things the series has become known for. Unlocking new characters, 
 destroying everything to collect studs, playing as your unlocked characters, replaying levels to 
 search for collectables, replaying levels with new characters, playing with a friend, solving the 
 occasionally clever puzzle, killing your friends, yelling at your friend for falling off a ledge, 
 and basically having a blast playing as your favorite fantasy character from the Batman universe. 
 It is these things that make this game a simple yet fun experience.
  
  With great power, comes great responsibility, and Travelers Tales needs to either kill the franchise 
 now, or make some changes. Because this series is beginning to show it's age for the worse. I'll 
 always love the Lego series, but it's hard to ignore the slightly major problems that cripple a 
 fantastic formula. If you're a die-hard Lego fan and need one more fix, pick this up. If you're 
 new to the series, skip this and pick up Lego Star Wars or Indiana Jones as they're far better 
 entries than this. Overall Lego Batman keeps it simple and fun, but the problems from the original 
 games come back to haunt it worse than before. I give Lego Batman 2 falling A. I. partners out of 
 4. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake886
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If you liked LEGO Star Wars and LEGO INDY, then LEGO BATMAN is already in your Xbox....'nuff said. 
 If you didn't like them... you won't like BATMAN... if you didn't try them, you should.
  
  The LEGO games are fun for the whole family, young and old, the animated LEGO movie links to the 
 gaming threads are wild & wicked and worth the purchase on their merits alone. The format for Batman 
 is much like the Lucasfilm game sets, just not directly connected to any particular movies... although 
 (thankfully) the Danny Elfman music (circa 1989) runs throughout the game, the style is generic 
 Batman via LEGO LAND. The villains have teamed up to escape Arkham Asylum and the Dynamic Duo must 
 stop them... each villain has a story arc to unlock, before free play is possible in the related 
 locations... so like the previous installments, replay value is high, you can return to the story 
 setting later as several optional characters including the villians themselves in order to find 
 hidden "trophies" to build in Wayne Manor (part of the Batcave hub, where menus, story progress 
 and unlockables lie) . This way the same tales have many variations for players to explore, collecting 
 the coin-like "studs" as currency for upgrades and unlockables. There's roughly about 30 separate 
 levels to play, 15 in the hero chapters and 15 levels i the villain chapters.
  
  LEGO BATMAN characters have individual moves, Batman for example can put baddies in a choke hold 
 and throw them. An exciting addition to LEGO combat is the BATARANG, which will lock on targets 
 for distance attacks. Introduced also, are special suits for Batman and Robin, these make certain 
 combinations of characters a necessity for passing stages or solving puzzles... For example, in 
 true comic book fashion, Robin can get a Magnetized-suit to scale metal walls, I can't explain the 
 pleasure that came from watching Robin lumbering and buzzing up surfaces (sound fx here are classic) 
 Other moves are standard for the LEGO games: grappling hooks for platforms and punching and kicking.
 
  
  The character design is great and Gotham looks good... there are lest characters to be unlocked 
 here than in any other LEGO game so far and lest upgrades as well. But as for the characters there 
 are so good choices from the Batman Universe.... Joker, Penguin, Catwoman, Two-Face, Poison IVY, 
 Mr. Freeze, Riddler, Killer Croc, Scarecrow, The Mad Hatter, even Bane. Like the heroes, each villain 
 has their own special weapons and moves... I bet you can guess Banes.
  
  Another LEGO staple is the mix and match at the hub, where you can customize a character for free 
 play by swapping the pieces around.
  
  No major complaints, it just seems smaller than previous efforts, maybe because no direct movie-tie-in 
 was done... like the Trilogy format.
  I do miss the "character quirks" introduced for LEGO INDY, like the fear of snakes and rats, effecting 
 character behavior. Admittedly it doesn't work well with the superhero genre. Also, since this 
 is a Traveler's Tales project with Warner Bros. and not Lucasfilm, don't expect to find any hidden 
 Star Wars characters this time.... sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  While we all have played with Legos, and some of us have played the video game, we have come to 
 see different franchises in the Lego universe, like Star Wars, and Indiana Jones, while the games 
 have stayed mostly true to the movies story, the Batman game doesnt follow the movies, instead 
 it follows its own story, which is kind of unique in its own way.
  The game has the same format as all the other Lego games, with the few minor changes, it will end 
 up evolving into your hands so you can play better. The game lets your charecter change cloths 
 to get pass various obsticles, you will mostly find yourself having more fun playing with a friend, 
 like gamespot said, they are right with alot of stuff. If you play with yourself, you will end 
 up finding that it is lonely (ah, how sad) , and it is also frustrating, since your sidekick charecter 
 cant help you worth a darn.
  Thats just one downfall to the game though, the games cutscenes freeze for just a little bit before 
 playing, which can tick you off.
  Overall its a decent game, I dont think its a buy, but it's a rent because it lacks something, 
 I havent figured it out, but I know its lacking something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cracker1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Don't let the reviewers fool you, this is an excellent game with a lot of repeat playability.
 
  
  In this one, no matter which character you are, you can have fun and not fight over who gets to 
 be the main character!
  
  It was a surprising pleasure to explore the levels as well as work out the puzzles. It is much 
 easier to play with a friend than alone, but don't let that dissuade you from trying this out.
 
  
  My kids especially enjoyed the BatCave and all that it offered. This game really is for both kids 
 and adults, but kids REALLY love it!
  
  The co-op in this one especially shines out because the puzzles are almost always meant for both 
 players to participate.
  
  Another point is that you get to be the bad guys in this one. It adds a dimension that you can't 
 get from the other games in the series.
  
  All in all, this game is fun, exciting and completely re-playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I think the only reason why people are still playing the Lego re imagining series is just because 
 they're a fan of the series that is being recreated. Ever since the first Lego Star Wars game nothing 
 has really changed in the universe, but with the recent success of The Dark Knight, a Lego Batman 
 was inevitable. 
  
  Everything you've come to expect from the Lego series is still here. You go around mashing one 
 button, doing character specific special moves, build lego things to solve puzzles, and search 
 for collectibles. The humor is enjoyable if not "meh." Gameplay is as simplistic as ever.
  
  The only thing that is obviously changed is the fact that it's now Batman. A big plus they 
 did was to actually give you an evil story line. Arguably, its MUCH more fun to play as the Villains 
 because they have actual special powers instead of suits for Batman and Robin.
  
  There really isn't much to say about Lego Batman. It's more of the same really, it's just unfortunate 
 that they didn't change the formula that much for Batman. Rent it unless you're a huge Batman fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachmad
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  9 year old son and 3 year old daughter and myself have had great fun playing this LEGO title. The 
 game play is tradionally LEGO and brings a whole new universe for my child to learn from my child 
 hood. Not only is the Adam West Batman represented but the DC world is represented in its entirty. 
 Being able to play the villians is just a fun as playing the good guys. Being able to get to other 
 areas with the baduns really helps rake in the studs. My 3 year old daughter has been able to catch 
 on and point out a few things my son and i have over looked as we played the game. GREAT FAMILY 
 FUN!
  9 year old son and 3 year old daughter and myself have had great fun playing this LEGO title. The 
 game play is tradionally LEGO and brings a whole new universe for my child to learn from my child 
 hood. Not only is the Adam West Batman represented but the DC world is represented in its entirty. 
 Being able to play the villians is just a fun as playing the good guys. Being able to get to other 
 areas with the baduns really helps rake in the studs. My 3 year old daughter has been able to catch 
 on and point out a few things my son and i have over looked as we played the game. GREAT FAMILY 
 FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Lego Batman is the fifth part in the popular Lego (insert popular LucasArt franchise here) series. 
 With the lack of under the hood maintenance to the lego formula, this iteration comes with built-in 
 problems that anyone who's played previous games should expect. Lego StarWars was a success because 
 it told a mature story in an innocent point of view, and Lego Indiana Jones was great because the 
 films had so many iconic scenes to imitate. So what does Lego Batman do? Nothing really, it tells 
 a generic original story, then expects you to care.
  
  
  You'll be doing the exact same stuff in this game, solving puzzles, punching baddies until they 
 explode, and collected random stuff fr unlockables. I've been playing games for a long time, and 
 I found the puzzles to be a little more challenging then they probably should be. So the younger 
 demographic may have some issues in several parts of this 30 level journey.
  
  
  The decision on picking up Lego Batman revolves around two questions. Do you like Batman? Did you 
 enjoy the past Lego games? If you checked yes to both of those questions, then It looks like a 
 Batman purchase is in your near future. Otherwise, avoid. This isn't a bad game, but it wont change 
 your opinion on the Lego franchise. On a side note, the lack of online co-op in 2008 is inexcusable.
 
  
  
  Steven Beynon
  
  GamePortrait. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If you're a big fan of the Lego seris, than there's not too much new here that you haven't already 
 seen. If you're a fan of Batman or other heros, than this game is really cool. My wife enjoys playing 
 it with me (as Robin) and it's alot more fun that way. We found ourselves cracking up as she flew 
 a helicopter while I hung on for dear life with my grappling gun.
  Even though there's alot of replay value and things to collect like differant suites and hidden 
 items, there's a couple things that keep this game from being great. Many times I found myself 
 stuck (i. e. glitch) behind a wall or fence with no way out. My partner had to leave me behind in 
 order to move forward, and eventually I died and re-appeared with my partner. Along with this, 
 we found that on the batmobile level, the game froze up 3 times in a row at the same spot (at the 
 docks) and we had to continue to start the level over. Not all these things may be pressent in 
 every game, but it got us both frustrated and made us quit playing at the time. 
  The fact that there's no online co-op is a dissappointment, but if you have someone else in the 
 house to play with it's no biggie. Overall I enjoy the game very much.... but it's not better than 
 the Starwars Complete Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloyd2244
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  The game is just fun. It is perfect for small children and anyone who just wants to have fun. In 
 fact we love it so much I can't wait to see what the next installment in the legos series will 
 be. Would definitely recommend purchasing this game as the real fun begins when you can do the 
 free play. My son loves it so much that batman is quickly taking spiderman's place as his all time 
 favorite super hero. Have looked for legos halo 3 as i saw it on a website but so far no other 
 information seems available? Also, one last thing, gamespot spoke of the lack of humor in this 
 game however I found it just as funny as the previous games the only majoring difference is that 
 this one is not based on the movies!!! That may be the only thing that I would have changed so 
 that you could kind of follow along and look forward to the legos twist on some of the movie scenes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely boring. same thing as the star wars one and th IJ. same idea, no real 
 change in games substance other then just the theme. collect the stupid tokens and unlock some 
 new characters. i couldn't stay awake anymore and turn it off after after about 4 hours of play 
 time. just got repetitive and i just lost interest in it. the first time they came out with a lego 
 game it was alot of fun and i really enjoyed. in fact i ended up buying it. now however, the 15 
 minutes is up for this title and its time for them to get some new ideas cause ive lost interest 
 in it now. im glad i rented it first. cause it wasn't worth the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  There are very few games that manage to pull off the charm of Traveler's Tale's Lego series of 
 games; they've managed to create a winning formula for their games that they can both use repeatedly 
 and modify to fit almost any franchise.
  
  This time it's Batman's turn to get the treatment, and I'm happy to report that for as quickly 
 as this came out after Lego Indiana Jones, it didn't lose any of its charm or quality. Actually, 
 it's the complete opposite, as they actually improved on the formula. Namely, they gave us 30 levels 
 (as opposed to the usual 15) of unique content, and a more dynamic combat system than in previous 
 versions. 
  
  For as simple as this game is, it's ridiculously fun; there's just something about watching Batman 
 punch a goon in the face and send said goon flying across the screen. Also, all of the villains 
 come with their special abilities intact. So whether it the Joker's electric joy buzzer, Catwoman's 
 whip (yee-haw!) , or Riddler's mind-control staff, they're all there to be used during gameplay 
 to help solve the game's simple puzzles (or just provide a cheap thrill) .
  
  Despite all of the fun that the Lego formula provides, there are still three sore spots that need 
 be addressed, and I say "still" because these problems have existed since the very first Traveller's 
 Tales Lego game: bad camera angles, stupid A. I., and lack of online multiplayer.
  
  If you're going to create a game that involves loot collecting, and then set it up so that you 
 lose some of that loot every time you die, you have to make sure the player can see what they're 
 doing so they lose as little as possible. Certain levels will cause you to fall to your death repeatedly 
 thanks to a quirky camera angle, and it really is frustrating when you come up short because of 
 it.
  
  The friendly A. I. does enough to get you through the game, and it's nice that the amount of damage 
 they do has been increased so they aren't dead total dead weight like in previous Lego titles. 
 But it still has a few bats in the belfry. You'll be amazed by the places your allies will get 
 themselves stuck, and you'll be irritated by the fact you have to back and un-stick them. While 
 it's tempting to just leave them wherever they are to wallow in their own stupidity, you can't 
 do that; sooner or later, you're going to need them to progress through the game's puzzles.
  
  Finally, online multiplayer is way overdue to be included in these titles, especially seeing 
 as they are so much fun to play as a two-player game. This is a horrendous oversight, as this was 
 one thing that could have taken his title right over the top. Gamers could easily lose hours of 
 their lives to this game if we could partner up with our buddies and slap some goons around, and 
 the fact that it isn't there is so completely blatant it isn't even funny. If you're going to make 
 a game multiplayer, then go all the way.
  
  With all of the complaints out of the way, I still can't deny that this game is anything short 
 of charming and fun, and the value is incredibly high thanks to the ability to re-play any level, 
 at any time, with any character and hunt for more loot. If you're a fan of Batman, a fan of Lego, 
 or just looking for high-quality casual title, this one is definitely worth looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 1989 Batman Score, Locations from the Films, Surprisingly good story, Batman's the Straight 
 Man. 
  
  The Bad: Horrible and Irritating A. I., No online Co-Op, No Logic in Puzzles, Everything else from 
 the last games.
  
  Lego Batman is certainly the best in the Lego game series and a nice way to tie fans over until 
 Batman: Arkham Asylum and if they do a TDK game. But it, like the other games, has inherited the 
 original's flaws: Bad A. I., Bad Camera, and Occasionally Glitchy Gameplay. 
  
  Story wise, the game's pretty good for a Lego game. Some people have said the game needed more 
 humor, but I think the game is just fine as it is. Batman is portrayed as a Dark and highly competent 
 hero and the Joker is a Psychopathic genius, all in a Family Friendly way. 
  
  Visually, the game's captures the feel of the city pretty well, but Gotham can look Generic at 
 times. The artwork of Anton Furst is beautifully rendered into the game and several locations from 
 the films Batman and Batman Returns are present like, the Gotham City Hall, Flugelheim Museum, 
 Axis Chemicals, Artic World, Gotham Cathedral, and the Monarch Theater. 
  
  Gameplay wise, there's many Characters to play as and there are 15 missions for the Heroes and 
 15 for the Villains. However, the game's A. I. is horrendous and can be frustrating throughout the 
 game. The bad camera angles can make jumps and glides hard to judge. The game is prone to some 
 occasional glitchy gameplay. The Puzzle are very illogical and can get frustrating some times. 
 And there's no online Co-Op either.
  
  The Soundtrack in the game is the 1989 Danny Elfman Batman Score, which fits well into the game, 
 but it can get pretty annoying when you hear the looped over music playing for like the fifteenth 
 time through the level. 
  
  Diehard Batman fans should get Lego Batman, but for the casual gamer or a Lego game fan should 
 try a rental instead. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolld6
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the Lego puzzle games, from all the SW installments to the Indiana Jones and Lego 
 Batman is also on the 'enjoy' list. However, there is a darker side to this installment and some 
 definate 'fun killers' in there too.
  
  The first and foremost fun killer is WAY TOO MANY places to fall off. It is as if the designers 
 wanted to kill the players more and when you have to slow down and concentrate on not falling off 
 an edge... fun killer. 
  
  The second fun killer is much more subtle and it is Batman, our lead character. In all other Lego 
 installments, all the characters were silly and making fun while having fun. Robin is the class 
 clown and trying too hard, while Batman frowns and grumbles like a disapproving parent/adult. When 
 I play Lego games, I want to be kid like and have silly fun, so this is a subtle (darker) fun killer.
 
  
  So why did I give it an 8.0 then with all this fun killing? Because you can get over it with experience 
 and this game will grow on you. I really like the batarang weapon, which takes a bit of a learning 
 curve to use, but once you get the hang of it, it is more engaging and fun than auto aim guns. 
 
  
  This is also a very deep game, with 15 standard episodes (broken into 3 chapters) as heroes and 
 the same amount as villians. Playing villians in this is a lot of fun and you get to see their 
 side of the same story you played as B&R. Very cool and well done.
  
  I also like the specialty suits B&R have, as it highlights the type of hero Batman is, using inventions 
 and technology to over come lack of super strength or mutant abilities. 
  
  All is all this is a very good game, it just needs time to get used to, as the 'fun killer' items 
 take away from the initial smiles I had in other Lego games. Once you get over that though, it 
 is fun, challenging and offers a lot of deep game play. Enjoy.
  
  Roll D6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyy79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the lego games all the way through and I really enjoyed all of them, this one in 
 particular really hit home with me, maybe because I'm a big fan of Batman, but also because my 
 son who just turned 7 was able to play along with me. If your looking for a game just to play by 
 yourself this would be good but not great, but if youve got someone to play along with you this 
 game is great, not just for the cooperative gameplay, but also from all the unlockable characters 
 and items, you can play a combination of almost anyone in the Batman world.
  The vehicle levels in the game are fun but there not sll that great either, at least there is only 
 one per episode. The game only took a few days to beat, but we played a lot.
  The replay value is great because you can go back and replay the missions to obtain a lot of extras 
 like cheats, kits, and hostages. 
  The graphics are about the same as every other Lego game for the 360, and the sound quality is 
 about the same as well, but this is good if you enjoyed the previous Lego games.
  All in all I would give this game an 8.5, my son said it was the best game he's ever played but 
 he's still young, I thought it was the best Lego game I had played and I really enjoyed playing 
 all the way through.
  I wonder what's next for the Lego series? I think it still has a great future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I've been enjoying all Lego games (starwars and Indy) , Indiana Jones was the very best lego game 
 ever if not one of the best games in a long time..
  
  step into BATMAN shoes, first of all i had great hopes but was kinda disappointed heres why...
 
  
  1) Batman is not Indiana Jones
  
  2) The constant night missions, lack of colorification, grim setting, cutscenes that lack humor 
 and aren't even fun to look at much
  
  3) Brain crushing puzzles (i'm 31 years old and felt frustrated, so imagine a younger boy)
  
 
  4) The game is not too exciting either.
  
  5) the suits changing are not a good thing actually
  
  when you see Batman hanging from a rope 
 and trying to solve a puzzle in a cave, my brains goes into INDIANA JONES mode.... but where's INDY?! 
 it's Batman! meh
  
  to make a long story short, Lego Starwars was good, Indiana Jones was AMAZING, Batman is not that 
 good, i would've prefered a LEGO JOKER instead cause the Joker is best character to ever grace 
 any movie screen (anybody seen The Dark Knight?) ..
  
  it's still worth playing, but don't expect the same insane fun of LEGO INDY. no way.
  
  7/10
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Batman has for some time been synonymous for games that are visually abhorrent and just all around 
 unpleasant to experience, so much in fact that a rumor was born that Batty was cursed and that 
 future games based on said character could produce flipper babies and cause unwanted orgasms in 
 Nuns. 
  
  Well, the cure for the curse seems to be Legos. Lego Batman is basically the same as the other 
 Lego games, except it's Batman and not based on a particular series of movies, but since Legos 
 either can't or won't talk, story really means nothing. So if you like Batman, and you liked Lego 
 Star Wars, then you'll like this one. Even a none fan of the Lego franchise can enjoy the well 
 executed Batman tie-in. Right off the Bat you can see that they were well versed in everything 
 Batman. Many less main stream Batman characters make their appearance giving this block beast some 
 serious nerd cred.
  
  One thing to remember though. This is a game for little kids! It is easy, forgiving and just blatantly 
 simple, but fun. Reviewers have been riding the Lego franchise for being too easy, but this was 
 not made for 45 year old freaks who play WOW in a pleather jump suit with battery cables attached 
 to their nipples. This was made for kids, and casual players, so chill out for a sec. and enjoy 
 the ride. The puzzles are good and not really that complicated. If you find yourself overwhelmed 
 with the sheer challenge of this toddler's game then you should fill your pockets with raw hamburger 
 and lock yourself in a kennel with wild dogs. Next, Feed them the hamburger go home and stab a 
 ball point pen into your temple. Seriously though don't let people see you playing this if you 
 are a male over 12 years old. Hide in your "special" closet that has all those magazines and scented 
 lotions and play it turned down real low. Especially if you ever hope to have a girl willingly 
 visit your doodle island. 
  
  In conclusion you'll love the game unless you are:
  A.) A Nazi
  B.) More interested in Japanese tentacle "love making".
  C.) One of the many that 
 suffer from a rare condition in which your brain is replaced by human excrement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeldin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  My son and I love playing each installment of the Lego series, and Lego Batman is no exception. 
 I particularly like the many new suits that can be swapped throughout the levels. I also find the 
 game structure (each villain having their own plot-line) to be a pleasant derivation from the usual, 
 more linear Lego story lines. The frustrating AI mentioned in the Gamespot review seems no different 
 than all of the other Lego games, particularly Indiana Jones, which seems to have an endless supply 
 of Nazis to thwart your progress. 
  
  From a design perspective, Lego Batman fires on all pistons. I particularly like the blend of retro-villans 
 with the more modern Danny Elfman score. Gotham is very well rendered and fun to explore. My biggest 
 complaint would be the overall lack of villain power. The game does a good job educating players 
 about the origin of each bad guy, but not much is done to incorporate their particular evil skill 
 into gameplay from the "good guy" side. Once you become a villain, their evil skills become more 
 apparent. 
  
  For our family, Lego Batman is pleasant as both a game as well a pop-culture experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoninEMS
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I skipped the Indiana Jones series and waited, in hope for this one. I was expecting multiplayer 
 co-op and was sadly dissapointed by the lack of MP options. If i had known, I would not have purchased 
 this for play on my 360 but rather player it on the DS. This game falls short of what makes a good, 
 full featured 360 title.
  
  That said, if you have kids, well then have at 'er. This is a great game to share with the littler 
 ones and you can have some fun with it to.
  
  Good points:
  I like the fact you can replay the game as the villians.
  There is a considerable amount of content 
 and if you like to explore the levels busting things up for rewards, then this game truly delivers. 
 There are seemingly endless objects to collect. 
  The batmobile chase scenes, even with the wonky control scheme, are tremendously fun, most likely 
 due to the constant influx of lego rewards.
  
  Bad Points:
  
  Game Designers need to keep the fun factor in mind when working on games like these. There is a 
 point where in-game farming becomes more work than fun. I didn't buy this game to simulate housework 
 but when I realized I had to take Robin around with a vacuum cleaner to clean up the mess batman 
 made, that's just plain tedious. I think it would have been more appropriate to make the Robin 
 Vacuum Outfit a little French Maid number.
  
  I could go on, but I have to go clean the batcave. Where the hell is alfred anyway?
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackowisp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Lego Batman is pretty much what you expect if you have been playing the other Lego franchise x 
 games. Not much has changed but then again, for 49.99 I don't expect much innovation. Before buying, 
 I knew that they would stick with the formula that worked in Lego Star Wars and Indiana Jones.
 
  
  That said, this game is kind of flawed when compared to the other two Lego games. I felt Star Wars 
 was mostly easy but hard enough that its a challenge to get 100% completion. Indiana Jones however, 
 was a breeze and I succeeded in doing this in under a week. I'm still working on Batman now but 
 it feels much harder but not as fun. How is it that the first games were just right but now they 
 can't make my porridge?
  
  I found a few reasons for the lack of fun issue. The first is that the game does not always explain 
 itself. In the other games, the puzzles were obvious and you could figure out what you needed to 
 do. For example, I was confronted with the Penguin's massive machine and it took me a long time 
 to figure out how to go about the boss fight. You may find yourself consulting the Gamespot forums 
 in sheer bewilderment just to figure out what to do next. 
  
  In a similar situation, I needed to find a doorway but the screen was too dark. The area I had 
 to go in was black and it took minutes of running and jumping 'at the darkness' for poor Clayface 
 to find the exit.
  
  For the most part, I agree with the Gamsepot review. The AI is not very helpful and the usual funny 
 cutscenes are not. Kids may still enjoy the bad attempts at humor. However, Lego games are usually 
 cool enough for everyone, even my cynical self. 
  
  Overall its still a value game and I enjoy playing. I love the varied villains and who doesn't 
 want to be the Joker? I don't mind the repetitive formula but hopefully they learn from this game 
 and do better with Lego LOTR or Serenity or Marvel or whatever the next franchise gets legofide. 
 Relax with the formula that works and nostalgia will do the rest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is just as you would expect from a LEGO game. The story and characters are very good and 
 make it fun to play. If you are looking for something to play on XBOX Live this isn't the game 
 that you want. I was hoping for the co-op online and this came up short for some reason? The positives 
 are graphics, sounds and story. The negatives are what I have already mentioned. If this is a next-gen 
 title the online co-op and multi-player maps should have been added. All in all, this game is for 
 kids on the most part. The game is good and fun with someone, but what you see is what you get 
 with a LEGO game. It's a 6 outa 10. If you are a parent looking for a game you can let your kids 
 enjoy like the others in this series, this is a must buy if you are a fan. The other thing to look 
 for, if you can get this for $20 then this is a no-brainer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: typesteele
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I first fell in love with the Lego series beginning with Lego Star Wars and Lego Indiana Jones 
 had me foaming at the mouth. I've already played Indiana twice through and enjoyed it so much that 
 I'm on my third go-around. 
  
  I've been holding my breath for the last 6 months in anticipation of Lego Batman. The videos and 
 screen shots had me sold from day one and now that I've playing the game, I'm not disappointed. 
 It's everything I thought it would be and more. The characters, game play and sense of humor is 
 everything you would expect from Batman and the Lego franchise. What impresses me the most is the 
 environment. The use of color blows me away and I truly feel that I'm in Gotham City when I'm playing. 
 
  
  This game does not disappoint and I can't wait for the next game in the Lego series. Go buy this 
 game right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  i really like the lego series but this did not cut it the enviroments dont look that exiting some 
 minor glitches and some frustrating parts its cool you can play as both good and but but its almoast 
 the same the bat lair does not look that entertaning and its abit confusing pus if youre an achefment 
 person try indiana lego or star wars lego
  
  
  
 but it youre a huge fan of the lego series if not rent it and if you dont like lego stay away
 
  
  P. S: this game has very stupid immature humor
  
  LEGO BATMAN REVEIW
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Fun Factor: 7.5/10
  Maltiplayer: 10/10 So 
 much fun with friends
  
  My Opinion
  
  lego indiana jones #1
  
  lego batman #3
  
  Lego Star wars #2
  
  thanx for reading hope it helped
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This Lego game was really fun and by far the best in the series. The lack of online co op did not 
 bother me as most of my friends would not play this type of game. I was skeptical about buying 
 this game at first but now I am very glad. It will provide many hours of gameplay while at the 
 same time letting others in my home who are not hardcore gamers a chance to play an entertaining 
 game. Granted the graphics are not the best, but this game has graphics do what they are intented 
 to do, provide the player a fun and entertaining game to play. I havent played the other games 
 in the series but they are in my house from others in my house. This was the first game in the 
 series that sparked my interest to play and admittedly it is very fun to play. Sometimes gamers 
 of today play games for the wrong reasons and these people should grab a gun and go to NYC and 
 shoot some people. I dont understand what they want out of a video game. The lack of co op was 
 initially disappointing, but it does have the local multiplayer which to me was more useful than 
 the online co op. I think gamers today are too demanding about the online co op. Just play the 
 game yourself, will that be too much to ask? Stop being a baby and just play. That is my take 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidsigep
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the LEGO Star Wars Trilogy primarily because of the online coop. Why they choose 
 to exclude this vital option from their newer games is really inexplicable. If you have someone 
 over playing local coop, the game is pretty fun. I found single player to boring though, and the 
 AI of your partner NPC is frustrating at best. It's the same problems that LEGO Star Wars had, 
 but playing coop eliminates those problems obviously. Unfortunately, without online, there's little 
 replay value in this one for me. I'll be selling this game back this weekend. Look for it in the 
 used/bargain bin or just rent it. I wouldn't pay full price for it and wish I could undo my purchase. 
 Hopefully they'll stop doing the LEGO franchise such a disservice by leaving out multiplayer functionality. 
 I really have no idea what these guys are thinking. It's 2008. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
