-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/leisuresuitlarryboxofficebust/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting directing minigame.
 Low price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Irredeemably offensive.
 Humor is rarely funny.
 Dull, repetitive quests.
 Poor controls.
 Ugly characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 2.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funsta
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 31, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mindless, repetitive gameplay and a truly atrocious sense of humor help Leisure Suit Larry live 
 up to its name -- it's a total bust. 

  When the Leisure Suit Larry series was revived a few years back in Magna Cum Laude, its bawdy, 
 over-the-top humor and minigame-heavy action seemed geared to capture a new generation of gutter-minded 
 gamers. Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust seems geared to offend, bore, or frustrate anyone who 
 makes the mistake of playing it. The game's shocking sense of humor has all but forsaken wit and 
 cleverness, choosing instead to inundate you with a constant stream of ham-fisted innuendo and 
 spray-and-pray vulgarity (if we say enough foul things, some of it's gotta be funny, right?) . Box 
 Office Bust is an intensely adult game, yet the depressingly simple gameplay features more repetition 
 than a children's television show. Despite their simplicity, some of these tasks are actually difficult, 
 thanks to poor platforming and fighting controls. When aggravatingly dull action combines with 
 a desperately perverse sense of humor as they have in Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust, they 
 form an entirely new compound: soul-crushing, mind-poisoning shame.  

  The star of Box Office Bust is Larry Lovage, the protagonist from Magna Cum Laude and nephew of 
 legendary lounge lizard Larry Laffer. Summoned to his uncle's movie studio to help sniff out a 
 saboteur, the young Larry arrives in a flurry of disgusting and lewd comments. This storm does 
 not abate throughout the whole game, and you are subjected to a wide spectrum of vulgarity, including 
 (but not limited to) scatological jokes, bestiality gags, and esoteric sexual slang. Most of the 
 humor tries to be shocking, but it just ends up feeling like someone spent a few days on the Internet 
 tracking down the nastiest stuff he could, and then transformed it into a script. This isn't to 
 say you won't be shocked; Box Office Bust contains some of the foulest dialogue you'll hear in 
 a game. But most of it is far from entertaining, let alone funny.  

  This is fitting, however, because most of the game isn't fun. A lot of your time is spent running 
 around movie lots ad nauseam, and hijacking the herky-jerky golf carts doesn't make it more fun, 
 just faster. The detailed environments have a brightly colored cartoony aesthetic befitting a Looney 
 Tunes game, which at least makes the endless running hither and thither a bit more bearable. Unfortunately, 
 any relief the scenery might offer is quickly swept away by one of the many aggravating platforming 
 sections. Larry can jump, double-jump, and wall-jump, and is forced to do so quite often. The controls 
 are floaty, so you'll have to be careful when setting up your jumps lest you send Larry over a 
 ledge to his doom. He also loves to grip onto walls, preparing for a wall jump. More often than 
 not, however, this gecko imitation will mess up your intended jump, and you'll have to try again. 
 The ability to move the camera or switch into first-person view makes jumping puzzles more manageable, 
 but whether or not the camera will respond in a given situation is a crapshoot.  

           You'll do a lot of driving around. Why not run over some folks to spice things up?    
   

  When you're not struggling with this awkward platforming, you may be forced to grapple with the 
 awkward combat. Larry can punch, kick, and block and can perform a magical-pirouette-knockdown 
 attack, but again, the controls aren't responsive. You may easily pirouette your enemies to the 
 ground, or they might gang up on you and make it difficult for you to move. Standing your ground 
 and duking it out is an exercise in frustration, making the best strategy a combination of running 
 around, pirouetting, and kicking your enemies while they're down. There are also some shooting 
 and horse-riding sequences that aspire to mediocrity, and they round out a suite of action elements 
 that are boring at best and infuriating at worst.  

  There are some mildly entertaining minigames, but they are relatively scarce and come with their 
 own set of problems. After you complete one of the dream sequences in which Larry actually lives 
 the movie he's acting in, you get to direct the final scene. You do this by choosing which of the 
 three cameras to focus on as the scene is acted out. Switching cameras in time with the action 
 and dialogue cues is a neat challenge, and the cameras will often reveal funny happenings just 
 off the set. The problem is, to do really well you have to listen to the dialogue, which is a trial 
 in and of itself. The other notable minigame happens when Larry is trying to seduce one of the 
 many women around the lot. The dialogue here is some of the best (morbidly amusing) and worst (absolutely 
 atrocious) that the game has to offer. Though you can get some good laughs out of these conversations, 
 you'll have to endure some pretty bad stuff. When you are successful (you literally cannot fail) , 
 Larry takes the woman back to his skeezy trailer. Congrats?  

  Not really. Though Box Office Bust wears out the bottom of the dialogue barrel by scraping it so 
 vigorously, it barely scratches the surface of sexual content. All you see during the much-ballyhooed 
 act is the suggestive rocking of Larry's trailer. Not that you'd really want to see what is going 
 on. All the women in the game are downright ugly, even by cartoon sexy-lady standards. Weird eyeballs, 
 disproportionate features, and wonky shading effects wreak havoc on their faces, and many seem 
 to be smuggling overinflated rugby balls beneath their skin, which makes them more freak show than 
 pinup girl. This is bizarrely fitting, though, because the idea of any woman bedding Larry after 
 hearing his obscene come-ons is truly frightening.  

           The only other option is to turn off your system. Let's go with that one.      

  Perhaps 
 the greatest peril you'll face when playing Box Office Bust is that, after being so heavily bombarded 
 with such repulsive dialogue, you might find yourself tempted to repeat some of the things Larry 
 says to your friends or family. Don't. Keep your mouth shut and get rid of the game ASAP. Leisure 
 Suit Larry: Box Office Bust is a cesspool of foul language and ugly personalities. The terrible 
 gameplay is stretched thin over hours and hours of redundant, repetitive quests, and it's a bad 
 purchase even at its discount price. The one good thing you could say about Leisure Suit Larry 
 is that it aims high: by relentlessly degrading men and women alike it transcends mere misogyny 
 and insults us all equally and without prejudice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: racho34
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  When I knew that a new Larry game was coming out I did not expect much, I have play all the games 
 and I think until the number 5 it had something I like, but then on, well it was not the same, 
 but this game totally destroys the image I had for Larry's games, not to many jokes where that 
 funny, you easily get bored with the game mechanics, sometimes it's extremely annoying to have 
 to repeat a simple mission just for a mistake, not to mention the horrible graphics this game has. 
 Some jokes make up for the waste of time, but just for some of it, not all, most of this was just 
 garbage of what was a great game for me, it takes forever just to see how much time we will have 
 to wait to for another good game for this series. For me it was a total let down, I think Larry's 
 games deserve better than this , hope it happens something like that in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidira
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  This new title may have the same name, but should not be grouped with the original. The original 
 was fun in it's perverted, yet classy and funny way. This Leisure Suit Larry is full of just over-the-top 
 humor that isn't funny. When answering the phone, picking up any of the Larry awards, or during 
 many of the conversations, Larry always throws out one liners that just aren't funny and you're 
 left asking yourself "How was that funny?". The camera is horrible to use, especially when you're 
 doing important missions. In some cases, you can't move the camera at all. During the Horror Dreamscape, 
 you have to move across a beam that has a swinging blade that moves back and forth. As you're walking, 
 the camera makes it hard to judge your distance and if you aren't far enough back, the pendulum 
 will hit you and hurt you, also pushing you off, frustrating the player, as it takes a bit of time 
 to work your way up to that point. The driving is set up pretty bad, especially the racing sequences. 
 You have to twist and turn your way around obstacles and your vehicle has the response time of 
 a 75 year old blind man. There are many other things that this game could have improved on, such 
 as the save setup, the climbing, the combat, and many other things.
  To give this game some credit, though, they did do a great job with the director's challenges. 
 You have to listen to the direction of the conversation and watch three screens to know when to 
 change the camera to eventually lead to a rating of how well you made the movie flow. The director's 
 game could have been a little more challenging, but it was fun anyways. The art style of the movie 
 lot was neat and made it fun to run through, though the people could have been better built. The 
 game had some interesting ideas and had some nice direction going, but in the end, they couldn't 
 pull it together. This game is not worth the $20 they want for it and if you really enjoyed the 
 first one, chances are you won't enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panakas
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst Larry of all series.
  I preffer playing Larry 1 up to 7 than this game.
  The best Larry of all series was Larry: Love 
 for sail... By far the best...
  This game is just boring.
  They took the fun out of this game...
  You just do boring jobs around the lot and score... YES 
 SCORE with all the women! Where is the fun in that?!
  Old larry series:
  You had to think-pick things up-unlock-pick lines-walk around to find staff and cleus!!!!! Why did 
 they change that!!!!
  That was the whole point of all LARRY GAMES!!!!
  The funny part was that Larry in other series did everything in his power to score but couldn't 
 or something funny happened and he didn't manage!!!
  This Larry is a love machine! Just bring me females! I will score with all of them... : (
  NOT FUNNY 
 AT ALL...
  The caracters look SOOO AGLY...
  The speech? Not funny at all. I can't remember anything funny in this game. I'm very dissampointed 
 with this game...
  If you really want to play it RENT it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkslade
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  the game is what i thought it would be, terrible camera and frustrating challenges, but the vulgar 
 humor is welcomed by me as i thought it would be toned down. but its over the top ADULT humor is 
 what is keeping myself playing this mess. for 20 dollars and some good ( cant believe they said 
 that)
  makes this game worth the playthrough. peopple must realize what this title is shooting for, mature 
 humor and very offensive, but funny humor.
  there is no other way to put it. people hate it because of the language, thats too bad for them. 
 all i can say is grow up, all these movies these days are pushing for gross comedy like zac and 
 miri one scene, which if you seen the movie you will know what im talking about. so why cant games 
 do this?
  I like the fact i can kick back and laugh and try to play this when im bored or had a rough day 
 and need somethig to laugh about. the dialogue is definately offensive and vulgar, but if you did 
 some research this is tame compared to the other larry games out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  In Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust any fan of the original series is going to expect scenes 
 close to or instigating sexual themes that pretty much set a positive tone for the entire game, 
 but that theme is objectively cast aside by the developers as less important and you can only sit 
 down and wonder if they were planning on, in the first place, to take the legal rights of a semi-popular 
 title just to remotely stand on even grounds in the competitive gaming market.
  
  In Box Office Bust you begin as a nephew of the original Larry and, to an extent that is very poorly 
 explained and written in general, you become an actor under a local producer who is notorious for 
 being a bad playwright for reasons as vague as "wanting to get laid" as Larry puts it in the context 
 of Amy, a mutual actor, who he considers sexually attractive. And then there is your typical narcissist 
 by the name of Kip who holds executive rights over the production and distribution of the town's 
 directorship who, for no explicit reason at all, wants to ruin your opportunity at acting and for 
 those around him.
  
  Now as you are stationed in a town that is themed by playwrighting -- poorly if I must say and really 
 only there as a plot excuse for secondary half-laughs and 20th century replay value -- you take up 
 individual personnel-based missions ranging from delivery work to retrieving women's underwear 
 on the top of buildings that require many leaps and wall presses just to reach, not to mention 
 a traditional on-the-time clock meant to speed along your already less-than flattering progress. 
 Aside from taking up these standard missions you will be able to climb various buildings to obtain 
 golden Larry statues for no reason aside from a small margin of gamerpoints -- 10 for 10, 50 for 
 40, and 100 for 80; not like that makes it necessary to the game by any means of course. 
  
  And then there are four locations for you to reach for the sole purpose of film directives, 
 whether it be a wild west locale or one themed by zombies. Each of these locations have what is 
 called a "Dreamscape": a 'dream' in the theoretical sense where Larry wakes up in a world relative 
 to his director's setting that requires you to take part in multiple unnecessary platforming sequences 
 as you progress combined with terrible camera control and mechanics that can only leave you frustrated. 
 There are four dreams in total, each consisting of at least an hour to two hours of time before 
 you see yourself wake up and have access to two uninspiring races relative to the region you are 
 in.
  
  Now aside from the plotline and the activities you will take part in there will always be a good 
 margin of dialogue accompanying each activity. However, the majority of the dialogue only usually 
 characterizes some quick wittedness and clever speech with such overly stretched syntax at times 
 that it becomes an annoying play on words more than anything that sufficiently contributes to the 
 context of the situation; getting across your mind while being succinct is what it always seems 
 to lack. A lot of the dialogue is also strongly between the boundaries of humor and straight out 
 immaturity that leaves you wondering who was honestly the lead dialogue writer under Funsta. Simply 
 put, expect atrociously terrible line writing from Larry such as, "This is Larry, how may I direct 
 your orgasm?" or "I had an accident in my pants; may I get in yours?".
  
  As for Box Office's gameplay you will see one glitch after another glitch whether it ranges from 
 a passenger in your vehicle consistently motioning in position from the driver's seat back into 
 the passenger's seat or crashing down on the ground after being thrown into the air following a 
 front-ended collision with a pedestrian while driving a vehicle -- mind you they can't be killed 
 either no matter how "Mature" this title has been rated as. The graphics seem to have been taken 
 straight out of a Xbox port and the women character models are repeated time and again by their 
 face structures, which could only be appealing to a man who is attracted by poorly proportioned 
 cartoon characters instead of actual women. The music is also about as bland and lacking in both 
 variety and narrative.
  
  Now one of the only redeeming qualities of Box Office Bust is your ability to participate in "seduction 
 games" that involve four simultaneous word answers per every 3 to four questions asked by the woman 
 you plan on seducing. Once you have gained her favor Larry will return with the woman into his 
 trailer home and presumably get in on with her -- you are only able to hear what they are saying 
 while staring at the outside of the trailer while it happens. There are also moments you will be 
 able to take pictures of women who are engaging in some degree of sexual conduct by themselves 
 or with another while pressing the corresponding button that appears on the screen. The most enjoyable 
 element of this game, however, is your ability to direct the sequencing of specific films in which 
 you have to choose between four continuations of that film as it is played, each of the four choices 
 representing X, Y, A, or B. By choosing the correct continuation your rank will successively increase 
 from "WORST" to the best, "SUPER" depending on your score.
  
  The bottomline of this game is that I had believed the majority of the mundane and frustrating 
 experiences the developers put you in were meant as a joke that served only to anger Larry -- denoted 
 by his responses to them -- and make you feel elated by those remarks, but that was only at the very 
 beginning: I realized not very long after that interpretation that the developers evidently COULDN'T 
 create a more 21st century title, they only chose to mock the mistakes they had no other option 
 but to incorporate into the game for the sake of secondary enjoyment that was still outweighed 
 by everything around it. It only proved evident after the first platforming objectives in the wild 
 west dream that the developers didn't care for laughs and giggles at all but for disastrous replay 
 value. After realizing this I lost any real enjoyment I once had from the game. Thankfully the 
 game only cost $20 and had moderately easy gamerpoints, but for anyone who wants enjoyment out 
 of a game should definitely stay away from this market failure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yu-Gi-Doh
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I was stoked about this game coming out. Even through all the nonsense with VU/Activision, I was 
 still chomping at the bit for this game to come out. Then I find out Codemasters got the rights 
 to the game and I was ready... but for this??
  
  First, let me start with the good. The story was well written, has a true movie style to it. The 
 audio production and the voices were (almost) all good, but I have serious issue with the voice 
 of the elder Larry. Jeffrey Tambor, whom I absolutely LOVE as an actor and voiceover guy, just 
 does not fit as Larry Laffer. They needed someone with a much more nasaly and high-pitched voice. 
 What, Ted Raimi was busy? But you got to drive one of those little golf kart like vehicles you 
 find on movie lots.... that was fun! Sure, you could crash easily and turn turtle, but ya know what? 
 I liked that! Made it more entertaining to just drive around and crash on purpose.
  
  Now for the bad news. The graphics are horrible. We expect a LOT more from a 360 game. I know everything 
 is supposed to be cartoony, but this is HORRIBLE! What they did to Laffer was no "Laffing" matter, 
 as he looked not like the lovable sleezebag we all grew up with, but like a sleezebag you wanted 
 to kick in the nuts for no apparent reason. The rest of the guys were convincing enough, oddly. 
 But the women in the game were NOT sexy. They looked like what you would get if you took a Jenna 
 Jameson doll and made it rounded out and cartoony. I don't mind cartoony. Just make it look good! 
 
  
  Then comes the gameplay. IT'S BROKEN!!! I got stuck at so many points that I had to restart my 
 mission, and it got ANNOYING!!!! The fighting, which by the way, SHOULD NEVER, EVER BE IN A LSL 
 GAME.... EVER!!!! was simplistic to the point of boredom... not to mention nonresponsive. I lost 
 numerous times in fistfights in that game because nothing did when I pushed the buttons sometimes. 
 The gunfights are brutal. I like that they kept it third person... that was it. The targeting was 
 too loose, and you couldn't focus on your target until you took a couple shots yourself. Then there's 
 the camerawork. When you NEED to be able to move the camera most, you can't. I lost track of how 
 many times I got stuck behind some of the furniture because there was something big RIGHT IN MY 
 FACE!!!
  
  So all in all I gotta give this a 5.5 with the extra .5 because I'm a long-standing Larry fan, 
 back to the days when I wasn't old enough to play it. But seriously, whoever gets the idea to make 
 a new one: make sure Al Lowe gets ultimate power on it! That's how you get the quality back on 
 this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
