-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lips
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/lips/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great song selection.
 Innovative wireless microphones.
 Playlist and jukebox options.
 Quirky and original visualisations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basic online support.
 Lacks video and audio playback.
 No adjustable difficulty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Inis
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 18, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lips' wireless mics and excellent song selection make for an evening's worth of entertainment, but 
 it has little to offer solo players. 

  UK REVIEW -- Microsoft's Lips manages to simultaneously trump the competition in many areas while 
 failing to replicate many of its basic successes. The wireless mics are revolutionary, the song 
 list is excellent, and the interactive music videos add a quirky twist to the main game. That said, 
 Lips really fails to monopolise on key hardware and online features, lacking options to watch and 
 listen to replays of your performances, let alone upload them to the Internet. Even more importantly, 
 the game has no adjustable difficulty level, and even the most tone-deaf of players will breeze 
 through the game with absolutely no challenge. As a result, Lips is a game that certainly goes 
 down well at parties, but you're unlikely to return to it the morning after.  

           With a great song selection and motion-sensitive wireless mics, Lips has plenty to offer 
 karaoke fans.      

   

  The most important feature for any karaoke game is its song selection, and Lips is fantastic in 
 this regard with a selection of hits across a range of genres and eras. From Rihanna to Radiohead 
 and Johnny Cash to Jamiroquai, the mix of songs will appeal to music fans across all tastes and 
 singing abilities. There are only a couple of duds; club hit "Boogie 2Nite" isn't anthemic enough, 
 and Geri Halliwell's version of "It's Raining Men" is vastly inferior to the Weather Girls' original. 
 Nearly all of the original music videos are included, but they don't appear to have been captured 
 in high definition, which leaves them with a rather blurry look on HDTVs. A couple of songs predate 
 MTV, such as "ABC" by The Jackson 5 and "Stand by Me" by Ben E. King, so they're replaced with 
 visualisations instead. Every song is unlocked from the outset, meaning Lips is good to go at a 
 party, but this also means there's little reason for solo play, aside from accruing the incredibly 
 easy achievement points.  

  The wireless mics are the other big part of Lips' appeal, and thanks to internal motion sensors 
 and lights that flash in time to the music, they offer much more than simple convenience. You can 
 shake the mics at any time to join in a song, and then rock them in time to the music to produce 
 effects such as a tambourine or a cymbal. But their main function is to activate Guitar Hero-like 
 star power, and you can perform specific moves and gestures to add style points to your overall 
 score. The game will tell you to raise your hands above your head or shake the mic from side to 
 side, and though you can cheat with a simple shake, there's some skill in choosing the right time 
 to perform these moves.  

  Like other karaoke games, Lips awards you points based on the timing and pitch of your singing. 
 Lips doesn't actually recognise the words you're saying, which means that you can achieve near-perfect 
 scores just by humming into the microphone. However, you can earn bonus points and medals for doing 
 well in six categories, such as stability, rhythm, and technique, and the more points you earn, 
 the higher you rank. That said, the game doesn't become any more difficult from beginning to end, 
 and seeing as how all of the songs are open from the beginning, there's no incentive to play on 
 your own. The lack of difficulty level is Lips' greatest weakness; it offers absolutely no challenge 
 whatsoever.  

  Although Lips is best played with two players, the game is actually rather limited in its multiplayer 
 options. You can choose to sing competitively, with both players singing every line from the song, 
 or as a duet, with players taking turns to sing different lines. However, there are no options 
 for team-based play, and there isn't a pass-the-mic mode for multiple players to get involved. 
 Lips' one attempt at bringing more people into the fray is with the Xbox 360 controllers, which 
 can be used to play basic instruments such as a tambourine, a wood block, and a cowbell. Apart 
 from the comedy potential of shouting "more cowbell," and the chance to earn the "party" medal, 
 playing these instruments quickly becomes boring.  

  Your overall score, ranking, and favourite songs can be tracked in the My Lips area, which connects 
 online to show some basic social features. You can track your top 10 most-played songs and see 
 how popular they are with the rest of the world, as well as keep tabs on the awards and medals 
 you have yet to achieve. You can't sing against people on Xbox Live, but you can issue individual 
 song challenges, which let two people compete asynchronously within a seven-day period. Though 
 SingStar on the PS3 doesn't offer online play either, Lips' connectivity options still pale in 
 comparison to what's available in that game's SingStore, which lets users share videos, track high 
 scores, and vote in polls. Lips doesn't support the Xbox Live Vision camera, either, so you can't 
 record your performances or upload them online. Unfortunately, Lips even omits some of the most 
 basic vocal-replay features that have been in the SingStar games since the PlayStation 2, which 
 is a real shame given how much fun they are.  

           The custom visualisations are quirky and interactive, offering a decent alternative to 
 the official music videos.       

   

  A big feature for Lips is its ability to import music from an external device such as an iPod, 
 a computer, or the Xbox 360 hard drive. The game isn't able to download lyric data from the Internet, 
 so you'll have to know the words to the song, but you can still use the Virtual Music, Time Bomb, 
 Kiss, and battle options for the background. Incredibly, the game still rewards you with a score 
 for singing along to custom songs despite the fact that it can't recognise the lyrics, which means 
 that you can rack up ridiculous scores by just singing anything. Though the developers of Lips 
 promise that they'll consider the most popular imported songs for downloadable content and updates, 
 there's no real incentive to use this feature in the game.  

  Most of Lips' other features are more successful than the import option. In addition to original 
 music videos, the game includes four alternative visualisation options that are both varied and 
 frequently hilarious. The Virtual Music option is a visualisation that you can change by shaking 
 the mic, and the Time Bomb mode has you defusing an explosive by singing to fill up your water 
 supply. In Kiss, two players must activate their special moves at the same time to lock tongues, 
 whereas Vocal Fighters is the opposite, with the best singer knocking the other one offstage. You 
 can also create custom playlists to avoid having to quit to the song-selection screen, which is 
 particularly useful for continuity during parties.  

  If you're having a party with karaoke-loving friends, then Lips will offer an evening's worth of 
 solid entertainment. The wireless microphones are convenient and innovative, and they make it difficult 
 to go back to corded models afterwards. The song selection is also excellent, with 40 songs that 
 are varied in style but united in anthemic quality. That said, the game's lack of camera support, 
 vocal playback, and simple online functionality disappoint, especially given their proven success 
 in Sony's SingStar series. Even worse, the nonexistent difficulty level means this is a game with 
 practically no appeal for single players, aside from those who want to collect the easy achievement 
 points. If you're looking for a game to entertain at social gatherings then it's worth checking 
 out, but there is plenty more for Microsoft's series to do before it enters the hall of fame.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_Weekend
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  You might debate that Karaoke is either the best invention ever or the worse one but there's no 
 denying there's a singing in each one of us that will love this game for it's worth.
  
  Seriously, when i first heard of it, i was tempted by the sheer thought of owning a karaoke game 
 for my X360 ... and drive my neighbours nuts ... but then again, it's gonna provide tons of fun 
 for my nieces and sisters and friends who pop by my place from time to time ...
  
  I just devoted $100 to the packaged set and brought it home to the joy of "superstar wanna-be"s! 
 Even i have to admit, there's something in there for everyone one of us ... but sadly it's honestly 
 not very much and i do hope to expand the library further...
  
  The songs for DLC aren't bad, but i would love it if we could have more stuff, regardless of your 
 region. I've got at least 4 songs to download once i reload my MS points, but really, after that, 
 i would depend on uploading songs from my MP3 player to the system to play with.
  
  The game functions wells for verus and co-op ... just sad that it doesn't seem to have many more 
 tracks, mini-game functions built in. I'm certainly looking forward to seeing more stuff being 
 uploaded for download ... honestly, uploading your own songs doesn't seem as fun as it sounds, 
 deal to the lack of gameplay modes to enhance the experience.
  
  The mics do take a bit of configuration to get it running correctly, but once it's up, you're ready 
 for a heck of a party.
  
  I'm pretty sure not everyone agrees with me, but i don't discount this game as something that can 
 really be fun to own and share around with. I hope people do see the potential of this game, and 
 encourage more to be pumped in to expand the function and the playlists ...
  
  If you excuse me, i've got to go back to my "HUNGRY LIKE A WOLF" and try it again once more ... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  For its retail price of $70, Lips does not have much to offer. Out of its 40 songs, there are only 
 a handful that I like. Most people will have the same problem, considering all the different included 
 genres of music, ranging from country to grunge to R&B. 
  
  The coolest part of the game by far is the wireless microphones that come bundled with the game. 
 
  
  They light up, glow, and change colors. The lack of modes is also disappointing, and without online 
 play, the only multiplayer action you will get is in local play (2 players only) .
  
  The simple solution is to buy Rock Band 2 if you are looking for a singing game. Rock Band 2 has 
 twice the amount of songs, better DLC, actual multiplayer, and the ability to play other instruments. 
 Unlike Lips' lack of difficulty, Rock Band provides 4 different difficulties, and a no fail option 
 for beginners.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabio_21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  It's like karaoke heaven.
  The microphones are great. Wireless, feel nice and solid, motion sensors for moving around like 
 a ****. That would be a minus, but since it is karaoke, it's a good thing.
  The initial song selection has something for everyone: from Chris Brown to Duran Duran, Nirvana 
 to Avril Lavigne, Coldplay to The Jacksons.
  It detects you voice pitch with satisfactory accuracy.
  You can import any song you want and 
 play it in Freestyle mode! The game still scores you for making noises similar to the music. You 
 can sing all your way through your Knocking on Heavens Door mp3 and then start making air guitar 
 and screaming at the mic for extra points.
  
  Overall it's a really fun game. Not without it's nits to be picked, but really good for karaoke 
 fans!
  
  So why is it overall getting a lukewarm reception? I have no ******* idea. But if you like singing 
 or just throwing massive partaaays like I do, get it. Now.
  
  Do you guys like karaoke? :3
  
  :::THE BOTTOM LINE:::
  
  FUN: The most fun I have ever 
 had with karaoke! It's BRUTALLY ENTERTAINING at parties. Especially cause you can simply configure 
 it to simply play music, and as soon as someone picks up the controller and shakes it it automatically 
 activates karaoke mode. So it's great.
  
  HARDNESS: No difficulty selection option. It's hard in proportion to how bad of a singer are you. 
 Which in this case I think it's a good thing. 
  
  VALUE: 70 bucks... Not cheap for a game. But with two high-quality wireless motion-sensing color-glowing 
 microphones, 40 really good music tacks with videos and the ability to import some mp3, it's a 
 really good buy. In fact, if you compare it with PS3's SingStar, which although it's a great karaoke 
 game as well, only comes with 30 songs and two wired last-gen microphones for the exact same price, 
 you know it's a great deal.
  
  DETERMINANT FACTOR: If you're into buying a lot of musics through DLC, Lips has just started from 
 zero, so don't expect a lot of content right now. If you're into that sort of thing, PS3's SingStar 
 might be more of your liking.
  
  STILL, I recommend Lips over SingStar for it's light and fun approach to karaoke. Kudos to Microsoft 
 for pulling this off and I hope it only gets even better in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DmGoober
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  Lips is similar to dive bar, laser disc Karaoke. It contains none of the technical innovations 
 created since the 90's.
  
  Instead of showing the lyrics as a continuously flowing stream, the UI displays each line of lyrics 
 one at a time, slide show style. This makes it impossible to know what's coming next, unless you 
 move your eyes and read the next line which is displayed (sometimes) in the middle of the screen. 
 Co-op mode makes this even worse, as it's often impossible to tell who's supposed to be singing 
 until the actual line has already started. 
  
  To make matters worse, the pitch indicator is a large reddish white rectangle on the red rhythm 
 indicator, making it very hard to see much less tell what pitch you're singing at.
  
  Lips is only capable of displaying discrete pitches so any song where one note is tied to the next 
 will display the two notes separately rather than a continuous line. Particularly hilarious is 
 Beyonce's "To The Left" which ends with a wild voice fluctuation. Lips displays this as an impossible 
 to sing series of dots that looks like an incomplete Connect the Dots drawing.
  
  The much ballyhooed wireless mics work well for singing but are a pain to sync. Press the button 
 for one second until the lights blink, press the sync button the Xbox then press and hold the button 
 for three seconds until the lights blink rapidly. One problem: The lights randomly blink even when 
 the not being synced, so who can tell the difference? And of course, the menu screens don't indicate 
 whether the mics are detected. You have to actually start a song to find out. The shake-the-mic-for-percussion 
 feature has a horrible lag so hitting the rhythm is impossible. Thankfully, there's no reason to 
 shake on rhythm as wildly shaking the mic nets much more star power. Maybe this is Microsoft's 
 answer to Wii fit?
  
  Finally, the scoring system is atrocious, ranking the user with little indistinguishable icons 
 for good pitch, stability, rhythm, party, technique and performance none of which are explained 
 on screen. You must read the manual which is a big no-no for a party game.
  
  Lips is a throwback to the 90's. And not in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGoalMachine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  The only thing this game lacks is the track listing, but with the option to upload your own mp3's 
 this goes some way to sorting that out.
  
  The tracks included cover a broad spectrum of music to suit everyone's taste from A-ha, The Proclaimers, 
 to Radionhead and The Cure and it sits better in the mainstream than your Rock Band or Guitar Hero.
 
  
  The XBL content is not there yet, but with more promised it can only get better.
  
  Played this came with my wife who is not a gamer but a much better singer than me and the in game 
 score reflected this. There are loads of options to tweak to your own preference, I play with the 
 original music video and set the vocals to concert hall to belt out my favourite Cure track, Just 
 Like Heaven.
  
  Overall a great little game and with more content could keep it near the top of my now playing 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthom12345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Lips is a great game for the xbox 360 as it uses many of its strengths very well, for a start the 
 mics are great being wireless and this means you can move around the room without worrying about 
 tripping over, as well you can hook up your ipod/zune to the xbox 360 and play songs off that. 
 That is if they are DRM free. It also works well with xbox live and the game lets you download 
 a lot of new songs as well as new visualisations that make the game a more exciting experience.
 
  
  Overall this game combines fun, party and rythm to make a great game for all ages and singing skills, 
 no-one feels that bad when singing!
  
  At the start you can already download songs for free such as Take on Me by AhHa and this will come 
 with the real video clip that goes with the song. There are many more songs available on xbox live 
 and there are always ones to suit different tastes, from Supertramp to rap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player- The single player is really good, i found it really refreshing, very laid back, 
 the ranking system is actually good. The microphones are awesome. The lights on them is really 
 cool. The notes and pitch register perfectly. Only bad thing is that there is no career as such. 
 You just sing without and sense of progression. 
  
  2) Multiplayer- Pretty darn good. Two player vs and co-op is really fun, and the added mini game, 
 for example, time bomb and vocal fighter makes it really fun. There is no online, except if people 
 on your friends list have the game, you can challenge them at a song. All you need to do is sing 
 the song twice each. This is actually really cool.
  
  3) Graphics- Fine, nothing really to say here. 
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. And 
 the microphones register your voice really well.
  
  5) Gameplay- Same as the single player section really. 
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are 
 interested the achievements are good, some fun ones, and also ones that require some time, like 
 getting to the highest rank etc. I have around 650/1000 in a couple of days.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. Really fun, especially with parents/siblings/friends. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kower007
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Don't buy it if you have no friends. On the upside, if you do have friends and if you're having 
 parties then its worth getting just to have a laugh.
  
  I have to admit that first impressions of the game were not good. Although as I paid for it I give 
 it another chance playing it in Vs mode - which was pretty good fun. Even though I did get beat 
 .... most ... all of time by non gamers. 
  
  There's not much to say really about the gameplay itself - singing into a mic sums it up.
  
 
  So if you're thinking of having a few parties over the holidays or any other time for that matter 
 then I think this is worth getting for that. But if you're a gameplayer and only able to afford 
 a few games every so often then I'd save my money and buy a game that you'll get more enjoyment 
 from - at the end of the day this is just a party game that you'll turn on whenever someone new 
 comes over to the house.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
