-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: LMA Manager 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/lmamanager2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic presentation.
 easy to navigate.
 customisable level of depth.
 online statistic updates.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Offers only eight playable leagues.
 some glitches in the match engine.
 no online gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Soccer Management
Date: Sep 22, 2006 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
LMA Manager 2007 is a welcoming introduction to the football management genre, with concessions 
 for novice players and a handsome 3D match engine. 

  Starting out on the PlayStation in 1999, LMA Manager has appeared in one form or another nearly 
 every year since. In that time, the series has made the jump from consoles to PC, and it was also 
 one of the first football management games to offer a full 3D match engine. Now making its first 
 appearance on the Xbox 360, LMA Manager 2007 offers new features such as online squad updates, 
 league match highlights, and new data for the African, Asian, Australian, and American leagues. 

  Like its predecessors, LMA Manager 2007 is geared towards the management novice, letting you customise 
 the game as you want to play it and even strip management down to its core components. If you want 
 the complete experience, you can opt to take care of training and financial duties, but if you 
 want your focus to remain on the human resources of the club, you can choose to delegate the other 
 aspects to the computer's artificial intelligence. You can streamline the experience even more 
 by choosing to skip preseason match warm-ups and get stuck into the main season from the off.  
 

          LMA Manager's greatest strength is a beautifully presented menu system that's easy to navigate. 
     

  LMA's career mode offers up a 20-year stint as a professional football club manager. At the beginning 
 of your career, you need to create a manager who will represent you from the sidelines. There are 
 15 preset characters to choose from, and you can tweak face, hair, and outfits to finalise your 
 avatar. As well as tailoring the overall game, you can choose how difficult you want it to be. 
 The expert mode is intended for those who have knowledge of the game, as it will hide overall rating 
 information for players. While fans of real-life clubs will probably know their players inside 
 out, they will still need to use scouts and their own judgment to assess the quality of potential 
 new signings to the club. Other modes make it easier by automating some of the micro-management 
 options.  

  Luckily, processing information in LMA Manager is never a problem. LMA's greatest strength is its 
 presentation, with information split up into nine main menus, each with submenus underneath. The 
 interface has been built nicely around the control pad, so shoulder buttons are used to scroll 
 through main menus, and the triggers flip through the submenus. While this often results in jumping 
 back and forth, you can always find the information you need, and once you get used to the layout, 
 it all becomes second nature. The strong layout of the menus is accentuated by the Xbox 360's high-definition 
 outputs, which keep all the details crisp enough from normal viewing distance. The game takes a 
 hit in terms of text intelligibility in standard definition, although the 3D match engine looks 
 great in both. The only bad point about the presentation is the single music track from Snow Patrol, 
 which soon becomes repetitive. It's a shame that Codemasters didn't support custom soundtracks, 
 especially given the amount of time spent looking at menus. It's also worth noting that you don't 
 need to have a hard drive to play LMA Manager 2007 on the Xbox 360, unlike Football Manager 2006 
 which required one. However, you'll still need to have a memory card to save your games.  

  The match engine has been a big selling point in past LMA games, and the 2007 version is under 
 even greater scrutiny thanks to high-definition Xbox 360 and PC versions. While some people swear 
 by the 2D top-down match reports, or even just plain text commentaries, LMA's match engine does 
 in fact help you respond to in-game developments in an effective manner. You can issue commands 
 to your team on the fly by pressing buttons on the control pad, and you can hear them being barked 
 at your team by the manager on the sidelines. There are shortcuts for attacking and defensive play, 
 and you can react to offensive and defensive opportunities by initiating a long ball or playing 
 cautiously. You can also switch your formation and make substitutions from a separate menu at any 
 time. These 10-15 minute matches boast audio recordings taken from real matches, but unfortunately 
 there's no club-specific chanting to be heard.  

          While the 3D match engine has its faults, it makes for a nice break from all the menus 
 and statistics.     

  While you certainly won't want to watch every game at full speed, you can choose to speed up the 
 action, while a trail on the ball can be added so you can keep tabs on whats happening. Among 
 the camera options available, there's an authentic manager's view from the sidelines and a more 
 strategically advantageous perspective through a TV camera or overhead position. While the match 
 engine looks great, with slick graphics and stadium details, there are occasional glitches. Individual 
 players seem to move with their own agenda instead of playing as part of a team. When long passes 
 are made, the receiving player will often appear completely oblivious, and instead of them collecting 
 the ball it will hit them and take a deflection.  

  On the AI side, players will occasionally put the ball out of play when under no pressure at all, 
 and goalkeepers seem incredibly reticent to come out of the box. There are also missing frames 
 of animation, with players jumping up immediately after making a sliding tackle. In terms of scoring, 
 goals are often scored in spectacular but unrealistic fashion, with a high proportion coming from 
 defenders and players making solo runs.     

  LMA's Football One engine is a media hub that presents all the information you need about the other 
 matches from your league. It boasts the same slick presentation as the main game, and you can even 
 choose to see a weekly match-of-the-day highlights show. You can't fault the effort that has been 
 put into this media portal, and the inclusion of Gary Lineker and Alan Hansen makes you feel like 
 you're watching real commentary on the state of your league. However, as the comments on transfers 
 and injuries are all prerecorded, it adds very little tactical advantage. It's no fault of the 
 game itself, but it seems like an overly flashy way of delivering the same information as the newspaper 
 reports, which are thankfully also available in Football One. The other problem is that if you 
 choose to take advantage of the weekly highlights show, the game will take longer to load in between 
 games as it compiles all the relevant data.  

          The presentation of LMA Manager 2007 will make you feel like you're actually there on the 
 pitch.     

  Depending on which of the eight playable countries you choose to work in, there are a different 
 number of leagues available. England is the best represented with five leagues, while most others 
 have around two or three. It's possible to buy players from other leagues from around the world, 
 but you cannot choose to take control of teams from these areas. While this means LMA loses out 
 in terms of depth to the likes of Football Manager, it has plenty to keep you going. In particular, 
 the Xbox 360 achievements system is built around winning every league and cup in the game. Top 
 the English Premier League, for example, and you'll get 100 points, while you'll receive 50 for 
 the Scottish equivalent. You're also awarded points based on your management performance, and these 
 are then uploaded to an Xbox Live leaderboard, so you can track your progress against other real 
 players.  

  The alternative to using a real-life team in the career mode is to create a fantasy squad. You 
 start out by choosing a location, a stadium, and team colours, and you can then create your manager 
 and pick your fantasy team. With funds of 65 million and a weekly wage budget of 800,000, you 
 must fill your squad with 18 chosen players, or you can let the computer pick them at random. You 
 can then take your custom team to any of the game's real-life leagues and see how well they fare. 
 The fantasy league offers exactly the same features as the main career mode, and you can transfer 
 other real-life players to your club throught the season. LMA also allows you to share your fantasy 
 team online with other players and prove your worth to other fantasy managers.  

  Having the right players and training them properly is a key part of any management game, and LMA 
 is accessible but deep in both respects. In fact, training has more submenus and options than any 
 other part of the game. As with most other features the computer can assist you in nearly every 
 aspect of training, or you can choose to use your own judgement. There are seven different disciplines 
 you can focus on during your sessions, including crossing and box work, and you can change the 
 overall bias to individuals or the team. Most importantly, you are fed a decent amount of information 
 about your choices, as the coach is on hand to deliver training reports for your first team and 
 youth team, as well as how they've performed in real-life matches. LMA 2007 now extends the length 
 of training matches that can be watched in 3D, with sessions now lasting up to 40 minutes. And 
 if you have the budget to expand your training facilities, you can build new grounds to increase 
 the effectiveness of your training.  

  In terms of transfers, you have five scouts at your disposal during the game, each of whom will 
 cost different amounts based on the task at hand. You can use these people to check out individual 
 regions, players, or teams, and you can even ask them to scout your next opponent and report back. 
 In this respect, the scout can help influence your training regime, as he will provide information 
 on the manager, individual players, and the team's tactics. Success is dependant on keeping a constant 
 eye on who's available while putting your own players up for grabs or loaning them to other clubs. 
 Experienced managers will be able to manipulate the transfer market, as it's too easy to sign unlikely 
 players, and those with an interest in the real game will find that clubs offer too much for your 
 players on a frequent basis. However, with fully-licensed FIFA Pro Foundation data, at least all 
 players in the game are in line with their real-life counterparts.  

  In an effort to bring arcade-style quick-burst gameplay to the table, LMA Manager also has an exhibition 
 mode in which you can play a single game against the computer or another human player. Not only 
 does it let you try out new tactics outside the main career mode, but it also lets you compare 
 the skills of your team against anyone else on the international team list. You don't have to worry 
 about training schedules in this mode -- it's more about proving your managerial mettle on the pitch 
 in a single game.  

          It may look a bit intimidating at first, but LMA Manager 2007 is relatively easy to get 
 into even if you're a newcomer to the series.     

  LMA Manager 2007 is online-enabled on all three platforms, so some of its features demand an internet 
 connection. Codemasters has included the 2006/2007 season stats correct as of August 2006, and 
 promises that a September update will be available as a free download. There's also a hall of fame 
 where you can see how many points people have accrued at normal and expert difficulty for the standard 
 and fantasy games. Perhaps the biggest omission is the lack of exhibition play online, so until 
 this is enabled in a future version, we have to make do with swapping exhibition teams and tactics 
 online. You can also unlock a bunch of extras by inputting codes, although these are locked into 
 a unique ID code system that you need to acquire by ringing a premium-rate phone line. For example, 
 you can eradicate all player injuries through the season, or have unlimited funds to buy the best 
 players in the world.  

  For football management novices, LMA is an excellent introduction to the genre. This is a great-looking 
 game that's easy to get into, and more or less every process and decision can be automated or assisted 
 in some way. However, that's not to say that experienced gamers should stay away from LMA, as knowledge 
 of the game and previous management skill will allow you to run a more efficient club. While the 
 true benefit of a 3D match engine is still questionable, the one in LMA lets you monitor performance 
 and is only marred by some sloppy animation. While it won't cater to those who like to get knee-deep 
 in statistics, LMA Manager 2007 still has a place in the management premier league.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jamiethemac
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  This is the first in the long running LMA Manager series to appear on the Xbox 360. It's got the 
 option to manage in all the major European leagues, and a surprisingly powerful match engine, which 
 can be disabled at any time. You can involve yourself in everything from selecting training schedules, 
 to player contracts or even sponsorship, or you can leave it to your staff. Everything is fully 
 licensed, and the Achievements encourage the player to manage in other countries. Even the stadiums 
 are there to be tinkered with, allowing you to expand even the smallest ground into a huge San 
 Siro style mega-stadium. In addition to the Ground developing, you can also revamp your training 
 ground, adding indoor pitches, a gymnasium etc. I love this game, it has real depth and it's a 
 must for any football management fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  We all remember Code Masters LMA Manager 2006 with its new improved layout and more In-Depth Transfer 
 market system as well as the great Commentary by Gary lineker and Alan Hanson.
  This time around LMA 07 is much of the same which isn't a bad thing as if it's not broken, why 
 fix it?
  
  However LMA fans were expecting some sort of difference well in this game.. There is none. The 
 layouts the same, the customization's the same, the Graphics are pretty much the same ECT
  
  Also with LMA 2006, LMA 2007 is very repetitive in the fact that there would be no difference 
 if you played the game for 20 minutes or 2 hours as there are no unlockables to be found and its 
 just game after game after game
  
  So what's good and new about this game you ask?
  
  Well you'll be very happy to know that the 2 player mode is still very enjoyable for most of the 
 time as well as very competitive but what ever goes up. Must go down and just like all the previous 
 LMA games the 2 player mode is very lengthy and tedious due to the repetitiveness.
  
  Again although not really changed dramatically enough the 3D match engine has been improved and 
 for what it is the Frame Rate works most of the time even though here and there you get the odd 
 player glitching past the goal keeper and scoring.
  Also lets not forget the Transfers and teams as they have been updated obviously from 2005/06 to 
 2006/07 which is good game play wise, and also not really updated but still fantastically detailed 
 would be the transfer system in which you can buy, sell or even loan players out in basically everyway 
 possible.
  
  The good aspect to purchasing this game on the 360 to the PS2 would be of course achievements, 
 which are pretty easy to optain and also the fact that there is free transfer updates to be found 
 and have fun with.
  
  To conclude even though you may be disappointed with the amount improved within the game its still 
 a must buy due to the fact that the 2 player mode is more fun than ever and also to manage you 
 updated transferred teams. 
  
  The Good:
  
  2 Player is still fun as always
  achievements are easy to get
  Transfer updates
  
  The Bad:
  
  May get repeatitive
  
 
  The Ugly:
  
  Little to nothing has changed from previous installments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigtubby
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I only bought this game because I had played the previous games on the PS2 and had found them very 
 entertaining and addictive. This is a one of very few football management games that truly works 
 well on console in my opinion. It is awfully similar to the previous games with a few minor improvements. 
 Also the game can sometimes not be 100 percent accurate with the current clubs that some of the 
 players play for. However this can be corrected if you are connected to xbox live where you can 
 download an update.
  The game is very accesible and not too hard to get into if you know a bit about football. You basically 
 have to take over as manager of your chosen football team from a massive choice of leagues and 
 teams from all over the world. You then handle the transfers, Tactics, stadium development and 
 players wages to name just a few things. The game does not take you too deep into the statistics 
 of players and tactics but just enough to make you feel like you are in control. 
  The graphics and soundtrack are not very pleasant and the matchday controls and visuals are very 
 bland and very last-gen. The matchdays can be turned off if you choose to and you will just receive 
 news of the result afterwards. Football one is also included within the matchday which gives you 
 an overview of the results, tables, topscorers etc. and even has included a commentary from Gary 
 Lineker and Alan Hansen which adds a nice touch to the game.
  The game is never overly difficult but quite tricky to master if you are new to management sims. 
 It is also impressively realistic with the fans and boards view of you and your teams league position. 
 The speed of the game is just right and you never feel really bored even after playing for hours 
 because your team is always progressing.
  Overall this game offers a highly addictive and entertaining experience for football fans but lacks 
 any improvement from previous games in the LMA series. It could sometimes become a little frustrating 
 when managing lower league teams but is great with the more successful teams. Only buy this game 
 if you are fan of football management games or have previously enjoyed playing Lma Manager because 
 in my opinion this is one of the best football management games on the 360, I just hope they change 
 it a bit next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMcConville92
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing these games for years and they have given me a lot of fun and every year the 
 game gets better. While it doesn't change that much about the gameplay, I think we should be grateful 
 that it has managed to keep the great addictive fun in it. The big changes in it this year would 
 be the in depth level of custimisation and also the new match engine. The main normal mode is brilliant 
 but where I think this years version excels is definetly the fantasy team, the level of customisation 
 is at it's best here as you can customise team stadium, club badge, name, manager and of course 
 with the money you are given customise your team.
  
  The game is presented in a great way graphically wise, although it's not a graphical achievement 
 it's a very well presented game and it makes it easier to navigate and the easy navigation of the 
 LMA series has always been a strong point for it, although it lacks the depth that othere manager 
 games like football manager have it is ten times easier to navigate and therefore can be picked 
 up by a wider audience of game fans. The manager customisation always looks very well with lots 
 of different hairstyles, clothes and even facial customisation. It doesn't just let you create 
 your manager and then not use him, the manager you created reacts to nearly everything that happens 
 on the pitch in a different way.
  
  The sound is... well... sound to be honest, the game doesn't need sound to excel but it uses it 
 in areas to improve it and make it a bit liver like football one and the crowd. The only bad part 
 about the sound would have to be this years title music, which is by far the worst song I have 
 ever heard in a game and I never want to hear it again.
  
  Overall LMA is a great game that excels everywhere you want it to, the only thing that I was dissapointed 
 at was that it wasn't XBL vision camera enabled but I got over that pretty quickly. To a light 
 football fan this game might be a bit heavy but for a heavier fan it's a must have (only &pound;10 
 on amazon right now) and this could also be seen as a light strategy game to some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 7, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I'm really not sure what I was expecting from this title/kinda game, so maybe my observetions on 
 this game is somewhat not fair.
  
  Well, it's been a long time since I played a management game, and I enjoy the genre.
  It was 
 also the first time I did it on a console..., and it works, it works rather good.
  The graphics engine is poor, though, very poor. Although this can be passable, I was expecting 
 more.
  Sound is even worse, and in this field there's really no excuse. Codemasters should have made it 
 much, much better, as it's not a hardware generation constraint. Even older consoles can deliever 
 better sound ambience that this lame attempt. Thanks the awsomeness of 360's media capabilities 
 this can be avoided by connecting your Zune to the white wonder, and get away from mediocracy.
 
  Gameplay however delivers. It's deep enough to be taken serious and not over-deep to the point 
 one can stand to look at so many stats. And even so, eht depth level can be adjusted for each type 
 of gamer, by definig the fields where your staff can help you.
  Codemasters aslo delivers the information info updated up until September 2006, so one can allready 
 see Ballack in Chelsea, and other high profile names in their actual clubs. However some less known 
 players haven't got their info correct (e. g.: Douala is still in Sporting Lisbon...) . From here 
 further, it's very funny to see how clubs develop using Codemasters A. I. algorithm, funny as hell.
 
  The pace of the game is also very well structured, and it doesn't get boring, even after long 
 playing sessions.
  All in all, I recomend this game, if not for its original retail price, at least from the promotions 
 bin .
  It's another example of how eccletic 360's library is getting, without, ever, delivering cheap 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottie92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  LMA Manager 2007 is a very good managerial game. It also depends on the team you are. I am Reading 
 and and languishing in the middle half of the league. And my board of directors and happy. Which 
 makes the game so realistic. In my first season i signed 2 players and the fans were optimistic 
 about me and i managed to stay up and now 10 games into my new season i am loved by the fans. The 
 gameplay is very good and transfers are also realistic. Does any one else have reviews on this 
 subject about the board of directors and fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_Durkin
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of the LMA manager series I was eagerly awaiting this games release like many other 
 people. But to my suprise the team at codemasters have had a nightmare by the looks of it.
  Firstly it was released after the transfer deadline yet we see the likes of Ashley Cole at Arsenal 
 still, why couldn't they of updated it in time?? Its not really 2006/07 season if the players aren't 
 at the correct clubs. Although you can update this on-line.
  Like the previous games it does have the great transfer market which now includes American teams 
 so you can buy Freddy Adu etc. which is the only real positive I can get from the game.
  All the other parts of this game are just duplicated from LMA 2005/2006. It is daylight robbery 
 what they have done at codemasters. This game doesn't deserve a place in the bargin bin.
  Many people have said that being able to watch the game is also good which i agree, but there are 
 man faults in the actual matches. The goalkeepers have many faults like not catching the ball but 
 stopping it at their feet. Not only that but the goalkeepers seem to be scoring for other teams 
 in the league?
  Im sorry I spent my money on this game and I only hope that you dont waste you money like I did 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Its probably to their credit that Codemasters have realised they just cant beat the mighty Football 
 Manager at its own game. Theres just too much depth in Sports Interactives opus for anyone to 
 really go any deeper. However, that doesnt mean that there isnt room for two football management 
 sims on the market; as long as there is enough difference between the two for them to appeal to 
 entirely different sorts of footy management players.
  
  So while FM has the depth, LMA has the glamour. Well, with the exception of the appearances of 
 Gary Lineker and Alan Hansen, it has the glamour. Thats not to say that LMA doesnt have some 
 serious levels of depth, because it does  it just has a slightly more accessible approach than 
 the mighty FM. Codemasters are certainly making use of what the 360 has under the tracksuit to 
 their advantage. The use of HD certainly keeps the game looking sharp, provided, of course, that 
 you have the necessary hardware. The interface is well laid out and its easy to find everything 
 you need. Moving around and manipulating features on screen is quick and painless  something that 
 FM will have to wait for its next incarnation for us to be able to say the same of.
  
  A big boost to the LMA score sheet is the match engine. While it still doesnt look quite as good 
 as the standalone arcade-style footy games, it certainly makes watching the games a lot more entertaining. 
 This is especially true when you see changes you make directly influencing how things are played 
 out. When you switch tactics, you will actually witness players doing what you tell them. Its 
 a cool feature and certainly one you will spend a lot of time enjoying.
  
  While FM suffered a little from lengthy load times and stat crunching pauses, which only really 
 got frustrating if you were playing prolonged sessions (to get those multi-season achievement points, 
 no doubt) , Codemasters have made use of the multicore processor to reduce all these. So even if 
 you are watching lots of matches, you wont spend too much time staring at loading bars or waiting 
 for results to come through.
  
  A key factor, of course, is the accuracy, and while Codemasters have done a lot of work to make 
 sure all the team stats from the 50 footballing nations are up to date, there will still be a few 
 anomalies at launch. If you have access to Xbox Live, these will be taken care of with a free download 
 soon after release which will bring all the stats and transfers up to date as of the close of the 
 transfer window.
  
  For those of us who now associate match analysis and punditry with the ultra slick Sky Sports rather 
 than the clumsy old BBC coverage, Codemasters have included a media hub. It is here where presenters 
 Lineker and Hansen, along with crusty old commentator Barry Davies, under the guise of Football 
 One give you match day analysis of your teams performance and highlights of that days matches 
 as well as transfer news and other information. Its a glitzy version of FMs email news system 
 that works well and is certainly less clunky to get around.
  
  Less clunky to get around is a recurring theme which you will benefit from, especially as you 
 advance deeper into the 20 year career mode. Yes, 20 years. I doubt you would get to finish that 
 before the 2008 version of LMA, but thats the challenge. Your career can be in a real or fantasy 
 team, which you can drop into any league you like. And Im sure Accrington Stanley would be delighted 
 at the crowds that turn up to watch your team of Galacticos play against them. This career mode 
 does include possibly the most pointless feature, though, where you get to design what your manager 
 character looks like. This isnt an RPG  we dont need that Codemasters, but thanks for trying.
 
  
  So how hardcore and multi-layered is LMA? Well, that depends on how you want to play it. If you 
 dont want to micromanage everything then you can do the smart thing and let your backroom staff 
 handle the tedious jobs. Tackling all the training and financial duties yourself means that your 
 seasons will last for a hell of a long time  probably too long for anyone who isnt a hardcore 
 fan, in which case you should probably be playing Football Manager.
  
  LMA Manager 2007 is a huge step forward from the last instalment, which was a disappointing sidestep 
 for the franchise. This time, with the use of the 360s HD oomph to enhance the experience and 
 some obvious thought given to the on-screen presentation and match engine, the series has really 
 come of age. Is it better than Football Manager? Looks-wise, yes; but if its depth you want then 
 Sports Interactive still has the edge. But the gap is getting narrower and it looks like we have 
 a genuine battle on our hands for the Premiership title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leg_spinner
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  lma is similar to lma 06 but still great fun. Everything someone who dreams of being a football 
 manager dreams of. not only being able to turn your stadium in to a fortress but controlling your 
 staff and teams training. The actual matches you watch are more fun and more accurate (not perfect 
 but getting better each year) must buy for any hardcore football fans. but really if you arent 
 i really would say not to get this game. also you need to know about football or you will get bored 
 very easy. Making your own fantasy team has to be the funnest thing to do (just for those who dont 
 know you cant get all the best players ypu have a limited amount of cash but none the less still 
 very fun to do) overall a must buy for football fans but everyon else it wont work. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
