-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/looneytunesacme/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Finally, the Looney Tunes characters resort to violent gunplay.
 Two players can work through the story cooperatively.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Jumping gaps and activating switches is boring.
 Using the same few attacks on the same few enemies is also boring.
 The weapons really aren't all that great.
 Weak presentation barely tries to convey the Looney Tunes attitude.
 Control, collision, and camera problems result in lots of cheap deaths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Red Tribe
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dull, repetitive, and carelessly programmed don't even begin to sum up how crummy this action game 
 based on the Looney Tunes license is. 

  Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal is a third-person action romp that blatantly borrows a number of concepts 
 from Sony's Ratchet &amp; Clank series. In a nutshell, you work your way through large 3D environments 
 and lay waste to the enemies you encounter using the characters' comical kung fu attacks or the 
 different Acme-inspired weapons that are available within each area. If you disregard the fact 
 that gun violence is very out of character for the Looney Tunes gang, then the game's biggest problem 
 is that it tries to copy Ratchet &amp; Clank but doesn't actually come anywhere close to delivering 
 the same amount of fun or variety that the typical Ratchet &amp; Clank game does. The action is 
 boring, and the presentation is half-hearted and almost devoid of humor. Furthermore, thanks to 
 the sloppy programming, the simple act of playing the game often feels like an exercise in frustration. 

           In Acme Arsenal, the Looney Tunes gang has guns and knows how to use them.      

  
 According to the story, a mysterious mad scientist has invented a time machine and sent his robot 
 goons back in time to eliminate the Looney Tunes characters' ancestors, which would erase Bugs 
 Bunny, Elmer Fudd, and the rest of the Looney gang from existence. Luckily, Bugs Bunny catches 
 wind of the plan and rallies the other toons, who decide to travel back in time to set things right. 
 The main mode is mission-based. In it, you run and jump your way through 3D environments that are 
 liberally populated with robotic adversaries. To dispatch these bad guys, you can get in close 
 and smack them with your melee attacks, or you can blast them from a distance with the different 
 weapons you've picked up. If you play alone, you can swap between the two characters involved in 
 the mission simply by tapping a button. However, if you connect a second controller, you and a 
 friend can control the characters individually and play through each mission cooperatively. There's 
 also a stand-alone battle mode, which lets you and your friends fight it out in multiple arenas 
 to see who is the top toon.  

  You'd think doling out violence with your favorite cartoon characters would be fun. Unfortunately, 
 every level employs the same boring mix of gap jumping and switch hunting, and the combat mainly 
 involves mindlessly mashing the buttons to perform the same melee combinations against the same 
 half-dozen robots that are recycled thousands of times throughout the game. You can collect vials 
 of a substance called illudium to make your character stronger, but that doesn't add any new attacks 
 to your repertoire. Likewise, the weapons don't do much to alleviate the monotony brought on by 
 all that sameness. They're effective at getting rid of enemies in a hurry, but, out of the 15 different 
 guns you can pick up, the only ones that aren't generic blasters are the flamethrower, the freeze 
 gun, and the extend-o-fist. You also don't get to run wild with them as often as you'd like. Few 
 enemies carry them. Instead, you usually have to bide your time until you come across a vending 
 machine, which will sell you one for an astronomical number of gold pieces. However, the joke's 
 on you, because the 20 or 30 shots in that gun probably won't last beyond the next cluster of enemies. 

  The presentation feels similarly phoned-in. Sure, the characters look like they're supposed to, 
 and the toon-shaded backgrounds look appropriate, but there's not much to see with regard to different 
 animations or environmental details. Once you've seen Bugs Bunny slam his guitar down and have 
 observed the embers being cast out of the fire pits, you've seen everything this game has to offer. 
 During the missions, the only real hints of Looney Tunes attitude you'll notice are the repetitive 
 one-liners that the characters utter when they're trading blows with the enemy. The prerecorded 
 scenes that are shown between missions do show the characters interacting with one another, but 
 the gags are nowhere near as funny as anything you'd see in an actual Looney Tunes or Merry Melodies 
 cartoon. Even on a technical level, the presentation fails. The muddy textures and simplistic terrain 
 features are at least four years behind the curve compared to other PlayStation 2 games. Except 
 for an increase in sharpness, the Xbox 360 and Wii versions of the game don't look any better. 

  In fact, the only noteworthy enhancement the Xbox 360 version of the game offers over its PS2 and 
 Wii counterparts is the ability to play through the story cooperatively with another person over 
 Xbox Live. That's not much of a bonus, considering how lifeless the whole experience is. It's also 
 rather silly that the battle mode in the Xbox 360 version is limited to local split-screen play 
 only, considering that the Xbox Live service is perfectly capable of handling four players and 
 the tiny arenas that the game dishes out.  

           IIt's like the developers quickly slapped together a crummy, generic action game, and 
 then tacked on the Looney Tunes license.      

  On top of everything else, the developers did a poor job of nailing down the controls, hit detection, 
 and camera. Shaking the Wii remote to deliver jabs and spin attacks takes a while to get used to, 
 but, generally speaking, the controls in all three versions simply entail repeatedly tapping the 
 buttons to jump, perform melee combos, and use weapons. If only playing the game really was just 
 that simple. First of all, aiming weapons is a pain, because the lock-on function has a tendency 
 to latch onto boxes just as often as an enemy. Secondly, the characters move like they have oil 
 on their feet. They slide all over the place! Combine that with the exaggerated follow-throughs 
 on most attacks and you'll frequently find yourself slipping off of ledges for no good reason. 
 It also doesn't help that you'll occasionally take a swing at an enemy only to pass right through 
 them, basically flinging yourself right off of the platform.  

  Above all, the most frustrating thing is how the camera tends to move at the worst possible moment. 
 It's bad enough that it never seems to pick a good angle in the first place, but you'll frequently 
 find yourself in the middle of a jump between two platforms when the camera decides to point at 
 something other than the platform you're trying to land on. Health refills and checkpoints are 
 plentiful, and you can continue as much as you like, so at least the shoddy programming doesn't 
 mean the game can't be beaten. Nevertheless, you'll have to endure lots of cheap deaths during 
 the roughly eight hours it takes to clear all of the missions contained within the game's 10 chapters. 

  Don't bother with Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal, not even for kids who you think won't know any better. 
 It isn't fun, it certainly isn't funny, and the game's sketchier aspects are liable to fluster 
 anyone who plays it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Paparazzipizza
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but 
 ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD 
 but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... its 
 BAD but ok... its BAD but ok... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordabay_basic
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  i just bought this game, and yeah its garbage... whoever wrote the story must hate life and out 
 to get the company. Nobody is ever on live.. cause nobody who has this game ever wants to waste 
 anymore of their life playing it. So many problems with camera, you'll fall off ledges more than 
 not simply because you can't see where the **** your going. I bought this game cause i wanted a 
 fun co-op multiplayer game for live.. this is not that. Its just amazing how little the people 
 who made this really gave a **** I mean they obviously knew this was pathetic and absolutely poorly 
 made in every respect, and they still released it. I guess they knew they would make money cause 
 people will buy looney tunes, but they still could have invested effort for a half decent game 
 and would have made money. They prob like made the crapiest and cheapest possible so they ceo's 
 could keep all the rest of the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Decent Selection of Characters, Some Easy Achievements, Some Mildly Amusing Jokes, Very 
 Short.
  
  The Bad: Horrible Graphical Design, Bad Level Design, Awful Camera, Cheap Gimmicks that make the 
 game... well, cheap, Very Generic Story, Writing's Pretty Bad, Bad Multiplayer, No Extras.
  
  -------------------------------
  
  First off, let me start by saying that i played this 
 game for achievement purposes only and that it was a complete and utter waste of time just to get 
 the achievements.
  
  Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal is probably the worst game i've played in a long time. It has just complete 
 and utter horrible ideas to attract people's attention. And the worst thing is that kids, the target 
 audience, are probably not going to like it. It does everything wrong and dosen't even try to make 
 up for it. It is not a good game, at all! 
  
  The story follows the Looney tunes characters teaming up to stop a mad scientist character, Dr. 
 Frankenbeans (Dr. Woe/Dr. Moron etc.) from sending robots back in time to eliminate their ancestors 
 and them in the process. First off, the story kicks with Bugs and Marvin the Martian infiltrating 
 the castle of the scientist without any explanation as to what is going on. It never explains how 
 Bugs and company found out about his plan, except in the manual (If you patient enough to read 
 it) and expects you to go with it. Surely they can't just drop you into the story without some 
 heads up on the situation, can they? Well, they just did! 
  
  The generic story might be forgivable, but unfortunately it's not with the badly written Jokes 
 and unfunny puns that not even a 3-Year old would find funny. It has some amusing moments (ie Evil 
 Porky almost telling Bugs and Taz to go to... well, you know) , but those moments are incredibly 
 rare. Whoever wrote the script for this was clearly uninspired for the premise of the game. 
  
  But you ask, what about the gameplay? Well, first off shooting weapons in this game is not 
 any fun at all. You won't hit hardly anything if you not using the lock on function, and even that 
 is screwed up. Lock will not lock on to an enemy easily, in fact, you'll almost have to be in a 
 very awkward angle to execute some times. And then there's the fact that weapon shoot for %$$*. 
 And they are not very accurate in hit detection. 
  
  Then there's the fact that you collect coins to purchase weapons from vending machines to help 
 you in your boring quest of repetivity. How could collecting coins and buying things with them 
 be so bad? Well for one thing, they are placed poorly in the levels, often on ledges where if you 
 smash open the crate holding them to collect it, odds are it will fall off the cliff faster than 
 you can move and screw you in the process. And for achievement purposes (ie 1,000,000 in gold) 
 you cant go back into a level and expect to collect more coins that'll add to what you collected 
 last time, which is really ridiculous that there is only a certain number of them in the level 
 for you to collect and you build upon them going back and trying again. 
  
  Oh, and the vending machines are useless as the prices are highly ridiculous and it only gives 
 a couple of shots.
  
  And then there's the camera and level design. The levels are plagued with cheap gimmicks to damage 
 you (ie Enemies will get their cheap hit in on you most of the time, even when you're pretty sure 
 you dodged them) . The driving segments (optional, but necessary if you want the game complete achievement) 
 are utter garbage and have horrible controls to steer and accelerate. And the camera, it will kill 
 you when you make really tricky jumps ALOT. In fact, the camera will some times lock up in a awkward 
 direction when you are in a fight. 
  
  And then there's multiplayer, which just sucks! Not that i expected it to be any good, but it is 
 truly horrible just the same.
  
  Overall, it's worth a rental or buy. Take into the account of my playing it and avoid or you'll 
 soon hate yourself for renting this horrible excuse of a game. Don't buy it for yourself or your 
 kids! Just avoid it! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai829
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Looney Tunes ACME Arsenal, is just plain fun. The story is that a mad scientist is trying to wipe 
 out the Looney Tunes by travelling into the past and erasing their ancestors and the toones make 
 their own time machine and fight back. The graphics are good, not the best in the world, but good 
 for a budget title. The music is great, every level has it's own tune and they work perfectly. 
 The character's voices are current Looney Tunes actors and they do good voice work, (But nothing 
 will compare with the originals.) . The gameplay is great, over 15 weapons and a character specific 
 melee weapon and the melee weapon can be upgraded, but each new level you have to do it again because 
 it's an on the spot upgrade from collecting lludium. The weapons are varied and most get the job 
 done, but some are underpowered, the double-barrel shotgun for instance only shoots one bullet 
 and since you're going against robots, a normal bullet isn't the best thing to use. The camera 
 is okay, but could be better. I didn't notice any big glitches, but I went into the floor once 
 and immediatly got out. The cutscenes should have been longer, you don't even really care about 
 the story and the ending blew, it's like, 'THAT'S IT!!!!??' But It's Looney Tunes and the shorts 
 never had great endings either so, whatever. Overall ACME Arsenal is a good deal, and if you like 
 Looney Tunes and/or arcade-like action games then give this game a go. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
