-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition Colonies Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/lostplanetcolonies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense action.
 Even better multiplayer options than the original game.
 The most complete Lost Planet experience available.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short single-player campaign.
 Not backward compatible with original releases of Lost Planet.
 Single player add-ons not that compelling.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: May 27, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New multiplayer additions make this the best Lost Planet experience so far, but there's not enough 
 here to warrant another purchase for veterans. 

  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition - Colonies Edition is an updated version of Capcom's icy shooter 
 released on the Xbox 360 and PC last year (and on the PlayStation 3 earlier this year) . Colonies 
 doesn't bring any new single-player missions to the table, but it does come with a load of new 
 multiplayer game modes and maps, and a few single-player additions. It's the most complete Lost 
 Planet experience thus far, and its bargain price should prove appealing to gamers who are curious 
 about the game. But for those who already own the original, there's really not enough here to warrant 
 a second look unless you're a Lost Planet multiplayer junkie.  

  Colonies Edition features exactly the same single-player campaign as the original Lost Planet (you 
 can read our review of the 360 version  here ) and as such features the same pros (good arcade 
 shooting fun, strong multiplayer) and cons (sometimes-clunky controls, short campaign length) as 
 that game. The plot follows the adventures of snow pirate Wayne as he takes on a frozen world full 
 of gigantic bugs  Starship Troopers -style. What Colonies adds is new modes. Score Attack tasks 
 you with grabbing as high a score as possible through the game's 11 missions, with each enemy or 
 object destroyed adding to a combo meter; Trial Battle is essentially a boss showdown mode; and 
 Off Limit mode increases your speed and firepower for a Lost Planet-on-steroids experience. The 
 Trial Battle mode is the most fun of the three, pitting you against a range of Lost Planet's hulking 
 bosses in a five-round deathmatch. Health and ammo are carried over between battles, with how quickly 
 you dispose of an opponent determining what your next target will be. Colonies also features a 
 new first-person view, although it's poorly implemented. There are no weapon models visible while 
 in first-person, and the view defaults back to third-person every time you pilot a vital-suit mech, 
 which is something you do quite a lot in Lost Planet. The perspective switches back to first-person 
 once you're out of a mech, however.  

           You finally get to play as a giant bug in Colonies.      

  Although these single-player 
 additions don't really add anything compelling to the game, Colonies significantly ramps up the 
 multiplayer aspect of Lost Planet with several new game modes, including the ability to compete 
 as one of the giant bugs, the akrid. In Akrid Hunter mode, a small number of competitors (up to 
 four in a full 16-player match) play as one of three akrid types, while the rest play as snow pirates 
 trying to take them down. The akrid are big, strong, and tough to kill, but the sheer number of 
 smaller and more agile pirate opponents means that the mode is, surprisingly, quite balanced. Another 
 fun new multiplayer mode is VS Annihilator, in which each team has one vital suit each, with the 
 goal being to destroy the opposing mech. Akrid Egg Battle, which has both team and free-for-all 
 modes, is a capture-the-flag variant, whereas Counter Grab is Colonies' hectic version of king 
 of the hill.  

  Colonies also features all of the maps previously released on the 360, PC, and PS3 versions, along 
 with four new maps to take the total to 20. There are also 10 new weapons available only in multiplayer 
 for both humans and VS mechs, and four new character models to select.  

  Lost Planet already had a fairly strong online community, and ordinarily, the addition of new modes 
 and maps such as those featured in Colonies would result in even more activity. But strangely, 
 Capcom has made Colonies completely incompatible with previous 360 or PC versions. Consequently, 
 saved games and online rankings don't transfer across, and multiplayer matches are kept separate 
 too. This will probably irk long-time fans of Lost Planet's multiplayer, and could split the community 
 instead of increasing it. However, we had little difficulty finding matches, particularly in the 
 new play modes. On the plus side, the game's feature set claims cross-platform compatibility between 
 PC and 360 players through the Live service, although we're yet to test out how smooth the experience 
 is for PC gamers.  

  The 18 months between the initial 360 release and the Colonies Edition hasn't resulted in any noticeable 
 improvements in Lost Planet's graphics. In other words, the game still looks good but isn't in 
 the same league as more-recent shooters. Audio still sounds crisp, with a well-fitting, bombastic 
 orchestral soundtrack that helps elevate the mood.  

  With all of the content previously released in Lost Planet's various versions plus its enhanced 
 multiplayer suite, Colonies is a strong offering for those who've sat on the Lost Planet fence 
 thus far. Its bargain price (about half of what new full retail games cost) should make it even 
 more tempting for newcomers, but akrid vets probably don't need to bother.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  The game is about surviving in extreme cold conditions, which brings to my mind two memories, one 
 very pleasant, and one really traumatic. The pleasant memory is related to "Metal Gear Solid" (PS1) , 
 which took place in the snowy environment of Alaska. But the snow brings also to my mind "The Thing" 
 (PS2) , one of the most annoying games I have ever played. "Lost Planet" is not something to get 
 a trauma from, but I would list it among the poor games.
  
  The game kind of put me away from the first instance.
  ("Moderate" spoilers ahead) As soon as 
 the cinematic sequences end, you take control of your character facing a gigantic insect without 
 having any clue what to do. The monster kills you in a matter of seconds. After 6-7 attempts, I 
 figured that I must follow the NPCs to a path that leads to the exit. It was not a big problem, 
 but the game puts you in the deep waters right away, without any help. 
  
  The same happens after 3 levels when some other huge insect emerged from the ground. I was killed 
 several times until I accidentally moved to a spot that triggered the CPU to tell me that I must 
 run away from it. Well, it's a Capcom shooter title afterall, and we all know what it means, how 
 was I supposed to know that this thing can not be killed. Everything that is moving in Capcom thrillers 
 can be shot.. well apparently almost everything.
  
  Probably the biggest problem of the game is its controls. Turning right or left, and aiming at 
 the same time is not possible. First you have to turn at some degree, and then make some correction 
 moves to aim. It gets tiring always to make two or three moves in order to shoot. It's a big problem 
 because, shooting is what everything this game is all about.
  
  The characters and the plot are very weak, made more as an excuse for fighting insects in the snow. 
 How exciting! To be fair, the game might be better at some later point, but so far it didn't gave 
 me any motivation, to keep playing to find out what's next. It's a mediocre game. I didn't liked 
 it. Perhaps you could rent it for the weekend, if you have already played all the other good action 
 games in XBOX, and don't have anything better to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I never had a chance to play the original Lost Planet, even though I would have liked to. So when 
 I heard that the game was coming out with all the downloadable content and a shiny new package 
 for only $30 I thought "how can I lose?" Well I did lose, and I'm really surprised that other don't 
 see it that way.
  
  Lost Planet is a sci-fi third person shooter from the team that brought us such hits as "Dead Rising" 
 and the "Resident Evil" series. So sci-fi and horror being their calling card you would think that 
 there would be some great new ideas and takes on the genre. Surprisingly you would be correct, 
 the game does in fact introduce a lot of clever mechanics that light a spark under this games apparent 
 lack of innovation. Execution though, is where this game fails. 
  
  Single player is fun for the first couple of levels, but after a while I realized I was killing 
 the same enemies over and over again in the same enviroments over and over again. This game gets 
 redundent rather quickly and really never seems to pick itself back up in the single player side 
 of things. Even the mech segments (one of the games greatest additions) become rather tiresome 
 because Lost Planet really doesn't give you much to do with them other than plow through wave after 
 wave of enemies. 
  
  Another innovation that drags the game down is the addition of a health system that slowly degenerates 
 while your in the cold climate. This can seem like no big deal at first, but if your not paying 
 attention it can sneak up on you and you'll die... painfully. Plus, some weapons in the game use 
 this as their power to fire, which again, if your not paying attention, you can waste away your 
 entire energy level by shooting enemies. 
  
  And the story? Forget about it, there really is no need to go into explanation on how bad it is.
 
  
  Where this game should have shined its true colors is multiplayer. All the great elements of single 
 player (the few of them) come together in an all out chaotic and crazy fight to the death. There 
 are tons of varied maps, weapons, and character skins to choose from. So why does it fail? Lag.... 
 just plain lag. I played this game for about three weeks, and every single game I went into lagged. 
 Then just to be sure it wasn't just me, I would play COD 4 or GOW, and I wouldn't lag at all. So 
 I wondered if the servers were down or being fixed or something to explain why I lagged. SO I asked 
 people in the game and even they said the game lagged all the time...
  
  "SO WHY ARE YOU STILL PLAYING IT?!" overal it doesn't make any sense to me. 
  
  
  That means 
 people have a thing for this game. Which I find fine, but I will not be a part of a game that lags 
 constantly if I am paying money for online support.
  
  Overall this game is a bust, like it or don't like it. It's hard to ignore the shallow single player 
 story, lame voice acting, terrible pacing, redundant gameplay, and laggy online gameplay. For what 
 few merits this game aquires, they are crushed by what makes this game so mediocre. 
  
  
  "Content subject to edit by unhappy reviewer" (aka. ME) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Lone_Czar
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet Extreme Condition Colonies Edition (or LPECCE) is perhaps one of the greatest games 
 out there. As mentioned in other reviews it is the most complete Lost Planet Experience so far. 
 I advise that if you loved Lost Planet or you want to get into Lost Planet, you need to get this 
 game. The Multiplayer aspect is perhaps one of the best so far for the 360 since it is cross-platforming 
 with the pc! Also, the new multiplayer types and maps seem to make the game even more addicting 
 and enjoyable. There are also more new character types further aiding the customization process. 
 THere are also more weapons and mechs to control and Akrid hunter is amazingly fun! It's hard to 
 find anything wrong with this game, aside from the fact that there is no new story mode : (
  However, after seeing the positive response this game obtained, I believe Capcom will be interested 
 in making a Lost Planet 2!!!
  Anyways I am done here and am going back to play some more!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fufuzilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I think the game is really good.
  It has some small problems, but nothing u cant deal with
  Single play is fun at first but it gets..... tireing..... and u do the same stuff to much.
  Online 
 on the other hand is great, alot of lvls, more then enough people, alot of V. S.'s and weapons many 
 diffrent type of games.
  i havent play the first one but i would probly give this less if i have played it
  doesnt seem 
 like they put to much more in it but im not sure (cus i havent played the first oneXD)
  also the main problem i have with the game is that the story is kinda over used with a few things 
 added
  
  Graphics: 8
  Game play:8.5
  Story:7.5
  Sound:8.5
  BOOOOMSS!!!!!!!:9.5
  
  
  overall: It is a fun game but dont get it if u dont have xboxlive =P
  
  (this is my 
 first review so sorry if it isnt that great =P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  When I first Bought Lost Planet Last Year I thought that it was a Good Game but Just not Worth 
 the Price of 60 bucks. Capcom has Solved that by making Lost Planet Colonies Edition for only 30 
 bucks. They Also Added a couple new Single Player Modes, New Muliplayer characters, 7 new Multiplayer 
 Modes and 4 New Maps. The Single Player Of Lost Planet is very Average. It looks great and the 
 Gameplay is Really good but its only about 7 hours long and theStory is very Bleak. you play as 
 Wayne a snow pirate that Has lost his Memory on the Frozen Planet of E. D. N 3. He Trys to Recover 
 his past and try to find out who killed his father by fighting these things called Akrid and Other 
 Humans during the Game. But the strory rings Hallow and you eventually just Forget about itand 
 Move on to the Much Better Muliplayer. In Muliplayer you have a variety of Modes to play and 20 
 different maps to explore as you level up between the levels of 1 to 200. It is very fun and addicting 
 to Play the Muliplayer and it makes up for an average single Player. LP veterans really should 
 not buy this version because there is not enough content to justify the price of 30 bucks. But 
 people that have not played lost planet should really check out this Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original version of the game so go with it if my score is higher than what Gamespot 
 gave it. Lost Planet: Colonies Edition is here. This game is all Sci-Fi basically. You are a soldier 
 who just lost your father and got caught in the snow storm and you loose your memory (bummer) . 
 You are rescued and then go on the hunt to destroy the alien nests and pirates. Since this is the 
 first version I played I can't say if the campaign has extended or shortened but playing at the 
 Acrid (the aliens) was a lot of fun. I was a little frustrated that you needed these energy things 
 that the aliens have in order to survive. I thought it was a waste of time to activate these pods 
 that give you 500 of these energy balls. But I did have fun in those walking pods. The controls 
 in Lost Planet are solid and makes it fun to play. The weapons are good to use and usually help 
 you kill the Acrid (I used grenades.... pretty noobish) . The multi-player I didn't really pay attention 
 to it as much but it was fun while I used it. The colonies edition comes with extra maps and, as 
 I said before, you can play as the Acrid. The graphics are pretty good to look at especially in 
 some places. The campaign is short as well. If you never played the first version and you want 
 to play it... get this version. If you played the other version... don't expect a lot more from this 
 edition. It's the same campaign except you play as an Acrid and new maps. That's it! Lost Planet: 
 Extreme Conditions Colonies Edition blows right in with a 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerm26576
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I saw where they were releasing this kind of thinking it was a part 2 of sorts, well after finding 
 out it was just extra multiplayer features and a few extra single player campaigns i was not that 
 enthused. I had already beaten the first one actually 3 times, but figured enh what the heck. So, 
 I picked it up and to my suprise it felt very fresh, the graphics still great as ever on HDTV but 
 wayne actually runs faster so that was a BIG plus. So really every thing was in tact and the new 
 stuff was worth playing, (once that is) , however for people who have played it like myself, i wouldnt 
 recommend it, yes its cheap but unless you're hardcore if may feel like your treading the same 
 waters (or snow) all over again, even if the new features are nice. Make your choice who knows 
 you may love it. I for one love the game in any form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cukr7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  So, I've been playing Colonies since its debut. I switched over while still the original, so I'd 
 have a bit more perspective.
  
  There are number of differences between the original Lost Planet and the Colonies Edition to warrant 
 purchasing the later. I've (re) played the campaign modes where nothing has changed. However, the 
 additional single player modes make repeat play more inviting. 
  
  Score Attack is a single player mode for trying to sting as many hits (combos) as possible including 
 enemies and environmental objects such as crates, fences, barrels, etc. Sounds pretty simple, but 
 it's one of those game modes that brings you back with the: "I could've done that better..." Also 
 seeing what other players have done on the Leaderboards is good inspiration for repeating a mission. 
 
  
  Trial Attack is another new single player mode that pits you against the various bosses of the 
 game. Depending on how well and fast you defeat a boss determines which boss you'll face next. 
 If you die, you start from the beginning. For those who like a serious challenge and strive for 
 perfection, playing Trial Attack on Extreme will frustrate the heck out of you, but you'll keep 
 playing until you've cleared it. 
  
  But the real juice to Colonies lies with its multiplayer. New maps and game types really bring 
 new life to Lost Planet. So far the poster child for Colonies is the Akrid Hunter game type where 
 a player (s) can be one of four possible Akrid bugs from the game pitted against the other humanoid 
 online players. The bugs are powerful, but slow and not as precise. I admit: it's fun. I actually 
 enjoy battling the bug rather than playing one. 
  
  Similar to Akrid Hunter is VS Annihilator where a player is randomly selected to be in VS the entire 
 match. The object is to protect your team's VS while destroying the others. You'll have to use 
 some strategy for this game mode unless your designated VS driver decides to take on the other 
 VS on his/her own.
  
  The Egg Bandits are fun as well as the other game types. I won't go into them. There's already 
 plenty of descriptions for all of these games online. But I will say that all of these new game 
 types in addition to the existing ones add quite a bit of variety to Colonies. I'm still a Team 
 Elimination type of guy, but game types like team Egg Bandit, VS Annihilator, and Counter Grab, 
 add more options and more variety.
  
  In addition to the new game modes, 4 new maps have been added. All add new and different environments. 
 The original maps have been tweaked as well. Changing the locations of weapons, data posts, and 
 spawn areas have kept these maps fresh as well. It will take many moons of gameplay to discover 
 the strengths and weaknesses of each as well as which maps are best suited to the different game 
 modes.
  
  One other feature I'd like to call out is the selecting the "Light Weapon" layout option. A lot 
 of LP veterans tired quickly of the VS spawn killing and just enjoyed matches where you stalked 
 the enemy on foot. The Light Weapon option is basically the No-VS switch. VS's are part of the 
 game, and I do enjoy the dimension they provide, but I for one am very thankful that CapCom listened 
 to the many requests for making them unavailable. It's not perfect though, There is only one layout 
 possible for each of the maps with the Light Weapon option, and some of these are not the most 
 desirable.
  
  All in all, Colonies is solid. It offers something new for veterans, it still looks up to date 
 in regards to quality, and it still offers a great online community. It's not perfect. Some small 
 changes have been made for the worse in my opinion (where are my coconut trees?) , but for $30, 
 I definitely feel like I got my money's worth. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I wont spend too much time on this review, but Ill just give you the basics: Colonies is a great 
 rerelease of a great shooter that adds plenty of new content to warrant its purchase. The online 
 modes are much improved over the original and adds in new weapons, maps and achievements. One of 
 the new game modes, Akrid Hunt, allows you to play as Akrid for the first time, and its done very 
 well. Admittedly, the Akrid are somewhat overpowered, but the humans can still win if they work 
 together, which makes this game mode especially great when played with friends. The maps consist 
 of all the original maps (including the downloadable ones) plus 4 new maps, which add much more 
 variety (Area 921 is my new favorite) . The new guns are also fun to wield (just nail an Akrid in 
 the back with the Pile Driver and tell me you arent having fun. I dare you) . The online system 
 is also massively improved. You start with a greater variety of character models to choose from, 
 and you can unlock many more costumes as you level up. The game has also introduced Titles, which 
 act like medals you would see in Halo, like Pentagon (get 5 kills in one life) Capcom has also released 
 3 new game modes for Single Player as well called Score Attack, Off Limit Mode, and Trial Battle 
 Mode. Score Attack was my favorite of the bunch, adding a new twist on the campaign with a scoring 
 system. Trial Battle was also decent fun, but not great, and I havent yet tried Off Limit Mode. 
 I was also glad that, eben after more than a year since the original's release, the graphics are 
 still some of the best on systems today. If you have Xbox Live, this game is still easily worth 
 your money after well over a year since the original release. Series newbies will enjoy the game 
 too. If you dont have Xbox Live though, and you already have the original, this probably wont be 
 worth another purchase. Going just off value, I would consider rating this a 9.5, but if you rate 
 just on the quality of the game, a 9.0 is just about right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  So first of all, I'd like to thank you for checking out my review. If you're interested in more, 
 please check out my profile and read my 70+ written reviews. You may also send me messages with 
 feedback and anything you'd like to see in my future reviews. If you have any questions about this 
 or any other game I've reviewed, feel free to ask.
  
  So Lost Planet: Colonies is the same game that was released in January 2007, approximately a year 
 and half ago. While I rented Lost Planet when it first came out, I didn't enjoy it very much and 
 never bought it. That being said, I've changed my mind about this title. I'd like to break it down 
 first by the Pros/Cons, then gameplay, multiplayer, sound/graphics, and value. But before I go 
 into that, you may be asking what's different from the original Lost Planet. Well not only is it 
 cheaper, but it comes with all 20 maps (previously most of these were downloadable) , new character 
 skins for multiplayer as well as modes, and "Unlimited" mode (more on this later) . Another great 
 addition is the ability to play cross-platform, that means Xbox 360 users and PC users can play 
 together.
  
  Pros
  -Awesome, crisp graphics even for a game a year old.
  -Solid gameplay with no bugs or glitches.
  -A hefty and fun multiplayer counterpart.
  -Only 
 $30.
  
  Cons
  -Lackluster story.
  -Soundtrack could be more varied.
  -Couple frustrating multiplayer nuances.
  
  Gameplay: So you play this game in third-person 
 perspective. This means right behind the character. You control Wayne, the protagonist, very simply 
 by moving the thumbsticks and using the triggers to throw grenades and shoot. You have the ability 
 to roll, turn 90 degrees using the bumpers, and a variety of options to accomodate you to this 
 game (like a fixed camera, look sensitivity, and so on) . Throughout the story you will explore 
 different areas in your goal to make this "Lost Planet" able to be colonized by humans. Out to 
 stop you are Akrids, creatures that have thermal energy embedded into them to keep them from freezing, 
 and subsequently live on this planet. Another problem are the snow pirates, to stop you in your 
 ultimate goal of colonization.
  
  As you traverse the frozen environments, you come across both types of enemies as well as mechanical 
 robots called VS (vital suits) . Seeming to be sprung from a rough concept of a Gundam, these suits 
 hold your character inside a metal shell with legs and arms that can wield two heavy weapons. But 
 usually you are just on foot with weapons ranging from your standard machine gun to rocket launcher 
 complete with a variety of different grenades. To be put bluntly, most of them aren't very creative 
 but weapons like the Energy Gun which can eject pilots from their VS as well as inflict decent 
 damage are great from the norm. Other than that, there are four difficulties in the game (Easy, 
 Normal, Hard, Extreme) and target marks (just collectibles) to collect on each level of each difficulty. 
 The single-player should last 7 hours, if not more.
  
  Multiplayer: Featuring the same controls, you can choose from 20 different maps and 11 different 
 modes, and customize your character model. The maps range from enormous to small, and never scale 
 down based on the amount of players (which doesn't really matter if you know the maps) . Game modes 
 are the usual Elimination, Team Elimination, to Akrid Egg games (Capture the Flag) , Post Capture 
 (Territories) , and more. The best new addition to Colonies is a mode where up to 4 people are Akrids, 
 and the rest are humans. The goal is to kill the Akrids, and try your best not to give them points. 
 If you don't deplete the energy bar by killing them, they will then win. As you can tell, there's 
 a lot of variety, as well as a levelling system where you can unlock more character skins, so you 
 should sink 50 hours, if not 100, easy into the multiplayer.
  
  Sound/Graphics: Let's begin with the sound. The sounds are very solid, and sound great. The soundtrack 
 is just as good, but with the same song repeating on the multiplayer screen (the waiting screen, 
 not in-game) , it can get old fast. I think a bit more variety would have worked wonders. The graphics 
 though, like I said, are still great. They stand out very well, and the environments as well as 
 character models just look great. The Akrid enemies look equally impressive with not only their 
 design but how unique they are. I think the whole "futuristic" look worked fine for Lost Planet, 
 but with so many games coming out with futuristic games, Lost Planet never really set itself apart. 
 Sure there are VS' and you are on a planet iced over, but it felt like the year of early 2000 anyway 
 with the cars and buildings looking exactly the same. All it needed was a bit more creativity.
 
  
  Value: For $30 you get a great deal, but with Colonies coming out in the fray of upcoming Summer 
 titles you may wonder where to spend your cash. If you love third-person shooters, you'll definitely 
 enjoy this. There's also a demo on the marketplace for the original if you wish to try it out. 
 If you have the scratch, go ahead and try this game out.
  
  Gamerscore Junkies: Most of the achievements for this game are multiplayer, so don't expect to 
 get much more than 400 achievement points out of a rental. If you want to get a full 1,000 I'd 
 suggest GameFly, or buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Back when the original Lost Planet came out, I rented it from Gamefly not expecting it to have 
 too much replay value. Well, I was wrong, completely wrong. Lost Planet's multiplayer was definitely 
 one of the biggest surprises I've had so far on the 360. It was unique and just plain fun. With 
 Lost Planet Colonies, the fun is expanded and the single player really takes a back seat.
  
  Lets just get this out of the way, nothing much has changed in single player, they've added 
 stuff like Boss Rush and a score based way of going through the game, but I for sure didn't buy 
 this game for single player. Its good, but multiplayer is where it's at.
  
  Lost Planet's multiplayer I believe is the most underrated by far. I feel it can be a lot funner 
 than FPS multiplayer which some people can instantly be great at and destroy everyone else leaving 
 there not much fun to be had. Lost Planet's multiplayer is a great mix of third person shooting, 
 a little bit of platforming thanks to the grappling hook, and mech battles. Most of the time theres 
 just so much going on and exploding things can get really chaotic, yet fun. 
  
  Colonies includes all the downloadable maps for the original Lost Planet along with some new ones. 
 New modes include Arkid hunter where you play as one of the huge bugs while other players try to 
 take you out. VS Annihilator where everyone is trying to destroy the other teams VS suits. Counter 
 grab which is like king of the hill, you have to keep and hold data posts the longest. Point Snatcher 
 is a mode where your team has to accumulate the most thermal energy. Arkid egg hunter has you stealing 
 Arkid eggs trying to get them back to the base. and Egg bandit which is like oddball in Halo.
 
  
  None of the new modes aren't fun to play. With the huge amount of maps and now even more modes 
 of play, the multiplayer will have you coming back for a while to come. Another plus to the multiplayer 
 is the fact that you can have cross platform play between 360 and PC users.
  
  Another new additions are weapons. Humans get hand guns, revolvers, flame throwers, and Capcom's 
 favorite the handcannon. New VS weapons include a pile driver which fires a long spike, VS rifle, 
 Rocket pods, and a laser lance. 
  
  Other additions include new perspectives. The "RE4" camera (not really called that) really isn't 
 that spectacular, it just zooms you closer to the character model, and FPS mode just gives you 
 a first person perspective and a cross hair, you don't see a gun. Much like GRAW FPS was.
  
  Overall, if you loved Lost Planet's multiplayer, you should pick this one up being that its 
 a definite revival of the online community. If you don't have live, then it's a pass. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
