-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost: Via Domus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/lost/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environments and lighting are impressive.
 Story fits into the overall first two seasons very well.
 Flashbacks fit well with the character and the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Character models don't look quite right.
 Overpriced for a short game with no replay value.
 Lip-synching is off.
 Animations look stiff and bland.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 815 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This short adventure game nails the feel of both the show and the island on which it's set, but 
 struggles with some of the characters. 

  According to the television show  Lost , in 2004, Oceanic Airlines flight 815 crashed somewhere 
 in the Pacific Ocean. Whether you think the survivors are stranded on an island or bottled up in 
 a different location, Ubisoft has added one more survivor to the mix in its latest adventure game. 
 Lost: Via Domus tells a good story, but it's far too short to justify the game's price of admission. 

  In Lost: Via Domus, you take control of an amnesiac photojournalist who was also aboard the fateful 
 transpacific flight. During the game you must slowly regain your identity through completing quests, 
 talking with the other survivors, and correctly identifying clues during flashbacks. Early on you 
 find out you had a camera on the plane with you. Evidently one of your photographs made another 
 survivor mad enough to want to destroy the photograph and kill you. The events in the story unfold 
 in a great parallel to the TV series. Most of the game's storyline occurs during the first two 
 seasons of the show, but characters appearing in season three of the show are also included in 
 encounters and exposition. The core characters are all there: Jack, Locke, Kate, Sawyer, Charlie, 
 Claire, Sun, Jin, Hurley, and Sayid. Tom, Ben, and Juliet -- of the Others -- appear as well to ensure 
 that the hostile, we-were-here-before-you storyline is kept alive and well.  

           Fans of the show will recognize plenty of characters and locations.      

  The environments 
 are hands down the best-looking part of the game, particularly on the PlayStation 3. The as-seen-on- 
 Lost  locations and the few new environments are beautifully and accurately rendered. The lighting, 
 feel, and sounds of the environment are all spot-on. Frequently, we found ourselves walking out 
 to precipices just to take in the sights or zooming in with our camera to see how detailed the 
 hatch's bookshelves were. The crash site looks true to the show's pilot episode, even if the chaotic 
 initial few minutes don't play out exactly as they do in the TV series. The areas look great, and 
 their diversity keeps you from feeling like you're spending too much time in one place.  

  The biggest problem is that there is not enough gameplay to fill more than seven hours, even if 
 you go out of your way to find all of the Easter eggs, take in all of the sights, and unlock all 
 of the achievements available on the Xbox 360. The bartering, exploring, hot-wiring, and occasional 
 pistol-firing sequences are all a clear part of the  Lost  milieu. You'll spend so much time in 
 the fuse-plugging minigames, though, that you'll feel like an electrician by the end of your adventure. 
 That's because the same minigame is played when you need to access everything from old hatches 
 on the island to the crashed jetliner's fuselage.  

  One standout portion of the gameplay is the way photography is used in the playable flashback sequences. 
 At the outset of each trip down memory lane, you get a glimpse of a torn-up photograph. From that 
 flash, you have to use your camera to take a picture to match the broken image as the sequence 
 of events plays out. The same sequence will loop repeatedly for you as you try to zoom, focus, 
 and position the framing to match what the image was. Upon successfully capturing the required 
 image, you are then treated to a cutscene with a portion of the main character's backstory. The 
 whole premise makes flashbacks interesting, immersive, and enjoyable. The fact that flashbacks 
 fit so well within the main character's photojournalist vocation also makes the functionality feel 
 natural and engaging.  

  Interacting with the cast should be enjoyable, but that isn't always the case. Your character's 
 dialogue isn't always voiced, but when it is, his comments are often natural and believable. At 
 other times, however, his remarks get repetitious. The voice acting in Lost: Via Domus is generally 
 decent, but the lip-synching leaves a lot to be desired. Aside from the occasionally great delivery 
 by Hurley or the infrequent encounters with the Others, most of the exchanges look and feel flat. 
 Even the nicknames delivered by Sawyer crash and burn most of the time. The characters are instantly 
 recognizable but generally fail to do their real-life counterparts justice. Also, the 360 version 
 has some instances of inconsistent shading on the characters' faces.  

           You'll get the same Lost: Via Domus story and a similar experience regardless of which 
 platform you choose to play on.      

  All three versions of Lost: Via Domus look and perform in a similar manner. The PlayStation 3 version 
 looks a little cleaner and brighter than the others, but it can be played only after a seven-minute, 
 onetime install. The PC version allows for seamless mouse-and-keyboard controls. The Xbox 360 version 
 looks a little darker than the others. Still, you'll get the same story and a pretty similar experience 
 on every platform.  

  For the most diehard of  Lost  followers, the time spent with the game will be enjoyable. Unfortunately, 
 it is over way too fast. Via Domus is full of little hang-ups, and it requires some knowledge of 
 the show that could potentially isolate outside players and keep them from becoming immersed in 
 the gameworld. Ultimately, this game can be recommended for purchase only to the most diehard of 
  Lost  fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ozman666
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is based off a character, that does not even show his face with in the tv show. However 
 it revolves around the shows charaters and constant problems they go though out the series. You 
 have to get involved with the other characters of the show and complete tasks to advance within 
 the game. You go out into the island get an item and bring it back so as to find another clue to 
 who the hell you are. you also have to deal with things such as the "Black Mist" and the collection 
 of fruit to survive the jungled Island. There is also a mini game like conect the wires with fuses, 
 quite simple if you ask me. However if you are a lost fan you see place that you are familar with 
 thought out the game. There are also cut scenes thatare basically flashbacks to you life before 
 you woke up on the island. during the flash backs there are things to find and thatturns out tobe 
 one of the achievements. As for the achievements are relatively very simple and its and easy way 
 to get a thousand gamer points if you are obsessed. The graphics well the best way to speak of 
 them is simple, the not to fantastic but not to crappy. Be a fan and Buy it just not brand new. 
 Bargain Bin It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  You know how every once and a while there will be an episode of Lost that focuses on a minor character, 
 leaves the main storyline for a week, and is normally quite boring? If you answered no, then quit 
 reading this because this game is for Lost junkies only... if that. Lost: Via Domus has an intriguing 
 idea. You play a photographer with amnesia, who was also on Oceanic Flight 815 but was never on 
 the show. This seems like a great idea, but somehow something went completely wrong.
  
  The plot makes little to no sense. It goes through all the seasons but events don't seem to match 
 up correctly. The gameplay in this game is very, very straightforward. This is because all that 
 you do is walk around and occasionally take pictures of things. Once or twice there will be a shootout, 
 but the enemy doesn't shoot back. You can even fire a round into the air and the game will act 
 as though you shot at them. While this got old at the end of about the second level (there are 
 only seven) I was interesting in continuing because of my love for the T. V. show so I figured there 
 had to be something that I could get out of this. The sad truth is that there isn't. The other 
 main survivors are there and you can talk to them, but there is no point. It doesn't matter if 
 they are for the most part voiced by the right actors, they have nothing interesting to say what 
 so ever, and the fact that some of the main characters from the first season were left out is quite 
 annoying.
  
  The graphics in this game are actually quite nice. The jungles look decent enough and for the most 
 part the character models look good too. My biggest beef with the graphics department is the main 
 character. He looks exactly like Jack. He runs exactly like Jack. It really makes one wonder if 
 they originally planned on making a game about Jack, but then changed their minds. I was constantly 
 waiting for a twist that they were identical twins or something, but sadly it never happened.
 
  
  Anyways Lost: Via Domus can be beaten in about four hours so about the time it takes to actually 
 watch Lost and see all of a minor characters back story. There is no exploration needed to complete 
 the game really at all. For an adventure game its very linear. Not to mention that the four hours 
 of the game time will also get you all 1000 achievement points, which is good for those trying 
 to get their score up, but four hours is just an unacceptable amount of time in a game where there 
 could be so much more exploration.
  
  At the end of the day Lost: Via Domus is not worth a purchase. The story is too disjointed, its 
 short, its for the most part boring, and it has a horrendous twist ending that makes little to 
 no sense at all (and this is Lost) . However I will say that if you are a real big Lost fan such 
 as myself, if you have some free time on your hands and you want to see some Lost that you haven't 
 seen before, putting down seven dollars for a rental wouldn't be the worst thing in the world, 
 just don't expect a whole lot.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 2/10
  Tilt: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  If by the time you finished renting this game you don't have 1000 gamer points i will eat my own 
 foot (but that isn't an achievement)
  
  Seriously this game is so easy, but this doesn't make it any less fun or interesting, especially 
 if there is a hint of couch potato or tv buff inside you (plus it doesn't have to be a big thing 
 either, the game shows off its own story pretty well) you may recognise most the characters from 
 the ABC tv show and where as I was lucky and got the game for 1.99 or $5 then even a rent for 
 3 a week (i completed 1000 full gamer points in 6 hours) 
  
  The graphics aren't bad and there was never a point in the game i thought I was getting too frustrated 
 to play. I mean its a game a single player game at that, i shouldn't feel frustrated. I'm really 
 enjoying the Xbox Live arcade community game ( the controller massage ) do you know the one? Well 
 its a bit like this game, it does all the work for you. and basically what should be fun is left 
 as extremely fun. If you are a pro gamer, this might even be a hindrance, but even 1000 gamer points 
 for a pro 360 gamer is a bit thing, especially in 6 hours. Tell me a game where you clocked 1000 
 points in one game, one play, in 6 hours???
  
  Its fun, and at least you can have conversations with your girlfriends about LOST who probably 
 have no idea about anthing related to do with 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintsRow360
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Fans of lost will love this game, hands down. Between the character interaction and environments, 
 which in my opinion look best on the 360, the game play is quite solid. The way to look at this 
 game is that it's 7 episodes of lost on a different tangent from the main story. It's like a perfect 
 subplot for the show. People who aren't fans of the show be warned, it will appear extremely confusing 
 and pointless. For those who are fans it will fit right in with the lost universe. The most fun 
 aspect of the game I personally think is walking through the jungle, the environments are excellently 
 rendered and will make you double take. The cheesy dialogue from voice actors attempting to play 
 some of the characters-who aren't actually the real actors-is the only real let down in my opinion. 
 I wish the real Locke and Jack were there, however this doesn't detract from the game all that 
 much as it is a story-driven plot. In my opinion, 8 out of 10 for fans, 6 out of 10 for non-fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gekidami
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  Lost Via Domus starts just as you'd expect; you're on Oceanic Flight 815 minding your own business 
 when suddenly all goes to hell, the plane falls apart in mid-air, then after the Lost intro taken 
 straight out of the series comes up (leaving any true Lost fan with a massive smile across their 
 face) you wake up in the jungle.
  
  Now the first thing that hits you is that you're not Jack or any other of the "A-Team" cast, you 
 play as some other dude that was on the plane and lost his memory. This maybe an instant disappointment 
 to some, but i think that living the Lost adventure as a new character, only partaking in the events 
 that are already written by the series is the best way the game could have been done, or more; 
 the best way A game on Lost could have been done... I'll get back to that later.
  
  As you'll notice pretty much as soon as, the game doesn't look half bad, the jungle looks dense, 
 the lighting is well done, textures look good and most of the vegetation is actually 3D and reacts 
 to your movements. Lost is indeed a sight to behold (despite some screen-tearing though that's 
 a trademark of the 360) , though there are some snags; first thing to note is that areas in the 
 game are quite small both in size and over all number, they're also horribly broken down with loading 
 screens as are the flashback scenes add to that unskippable FMV's and your progression is pretty 
 slow, its ok if its your first time playing, but going back quickly get to a place where you just 
 want to take a photo of something for an achievement will sometimes have you banging your head 
 on walls.
  Another thing is that whilst environments look good (dare i say stunning) some character models 
 could be better, first you'll cross Kate who looks pretty well done, but later on the likes of 
 Locke, Jack and Sawyer don't quite look right be it a lack of detail on them or their dodgy stretching 
 facial animations when they smile or talk, some characters never seem to change the expression 
 on their face either giving you a rather retarded looking Sawyer with a constant smirk on his face.
 
  
  Talking about their models is nice and all, but let me go into detail about the cast of Lost, these 
 are the guys who make Lost what it is and all i can really start off with is: 'Oh dear'.
  Lost's biggest problem is a serious lack of voice acting from the cast and you barely ever get 
 anything out of a character that's over a sentence long i seriously doubt Lost Via Domus has over 
 20 minutes of voice in it, this also leads to every character feeling cold like they just don't 
 like you for no apparent reason this includes the characters who in the series are normally friendly 
 with the other castaways, they dont reflect well their respectful personalities and it really is 
 ashame.
  Another serious issue with the cast is that they randomly disappear depending on the Episode you're 
 on and is doesn't have anything to do with something they were doing in the series either, a good 
 example is Claire who you see in the first 2 Episodes then never again... Seriously, i know that 
 at one point see got kidnapped but it wasn't for 2 full seasons, after that she was nearly always 
 on the beach yet in Via Domus shes nowhere to be seen (one of by favorite characters damn it! ... Because 
 shes pretty) , the game really is plagued with this problem, you'll NEVER see all, not even half 
 of the castaways in the same place at the same time.
  One last thing about the characters is that when you actually see some of them they're always the 
 "A-Team" cast, its ashame Ubisoft didn't add to any of the other unknown characters that are just 
 in the background in the series, they could have really just invented and used any voice actors, 
 had they done this to make new characters you could get more involved with.
  
  ---
  The real spoilers start here btw.
  ---
  
  Now moving on to the heart of the game; its story. 
 In Via Domus, as I've already said you play as some dude whose lost his memory, the real aim of 
 the game is to get it back, you do this through little flash-back scenes where you have to take 
 a photo then you 'relive' the scene, its pretty decent that the devs worked in flashback as they 
 play an important role in the Lost universe, but the game spends more time on having you resolve 
 your personal problems rather then whats actually going on on the Island, remember what i said 
 up there about how a game on Lost should have you partake in the events already told in the series? 
 Well Via Domus doesn't do that, sure you see some stuff from the series, like the hatch being blown 
 open, or some of the cast come running out of the jungle after having seen the black smoke monster 
 for the first time, but you don't take part in it with them, your character just doesn't care.
 
  And if things couldn't get any worst major plot elements are changed to revolve around your character 
 despite him being as disconnected from the actual story of the Island as possible, for instance 
 Michael vanishes in to thin air after Episode 2, so at the end its your character who is told to 
 draw Jack to the others to be captured, except you turn the whole thing around, Jack and Kate escape 
 and Juliet helps you escape the Island ending with you stealing Desmond's boat as the seal breaks, 
 then the most messed up ending you could possibly imagine.
  
  Over all it'll take you about 5 hours tops to finish Via Domus in every possible way (even with 
 the loadings and unskippable FMV's dragging on) with only about 3-4 difference types of puzzles 
 in the game that you have to do over and over again and rather straight forward exploration, once 
 cleared you should then take it back to the store you rented it from and be happy you didn't buy 
 it.
  
  Yes, Via Domus isn't all that good, a disappointment? Not really, after all, who expects a game 
 based of a series to be any good these days? Via Domus looks good and controls well, but it forgets 
 the most important, it forgets that its based of Lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AyuSora
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday. Being the fan of Lost I am, I thought the game looked awesome. 
 I read reviews, and even though I knew the game was short, I figured, being the non-critic I am, 
 it wouldn't be a big deal and this game was still worth buying. I was wrong.
  
  Lost: Via Domus is the game adaption of the popular and just plain amazing TV show. The game's 
 story is about a photographer who wakes up in the middle of the jungle after the infamous plane 
 crash of Oceanic Flight 815. Unfortunately, this photographer has amnesia and can't remember who 
 he is. You must find out who you are and what your past is (and like the show, it's not a pretty 
 one) . The story runs parallel with the first two seasons of the show, ending pretty close to I 
 think the end of Season 2. The story isn't canon, but it's still good and the twist ending will 
 make you think "What the ****?"
  
  The island is definitely pretty well represented in the game. There are many locations in the game, 
 including the Black Rock and several of the DHARMA stations. Some of the characters make major 
 appearances (especially Locke, who guides our hero throughout the game) , while there are some minor 
 appearances, including Sawyer and Charlie running stores to buy a gun and other useful items (or 
 somewhat useful; the gun is only used once in the main plot and other than that it's only for shooting 
 Others found in the trees) . Luckily, the Monster makes quite a large appearance.
  
  The gameplay is also very simple. Standard action-adventure gameplay, with lots of slightly repetitive 
 puzzle solving (there's only one mini-game, which is using fuses you find scattered around to activate 
 electronics) . Unfortunately, the game can be very hard and confusing (at least I found it that 
 way) and sometimes you can't tell what to do. The achievements on the other hand, are the exact 
 opposite, being very easy to get, and not much variety (plot, finding all the items in flashbacks, 
 and taking photos of landmarks from the show and game) . While a good thing, it would be nice to 
 have some difficulty. There are dialogue trees, which are very nice and help to get background 
 information for those unfamiliar with the show. Unfortunately, the gaps in between the episodes 
 leave some major points unexplained (the raft is a great example) , so the game isn't the best way 
 to catch up.
  
  All in all, it could have been a great game. The graphics aren't too bad (not as bad as people 
 make it, the animations are bad, though) , the feel of the show is definitely there, but the poor 
 voice acting (excluding the game-exclusive characters) , difficulty problems, and shortness of the 
 game bring it down. Hopefully, if Ubisoft does make a sequel after the show is finished, it will 
 be a lot better, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateTraveller
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Lost is a game that has some flaws. First, the controls feels sluggish at times and are not quite 
 intuitive. 
  
  To top that Elliot, the lead, is moving like a snail. In the few chase scene, he moves at descent 
 speed, otherwise the movement is way to slow. 
  
  There is not option to skip the cutscenes, which becomes really annoying when you die in the middle 
 of a moment and are forced to rewatch the same long sequence over and over again.
  
  So is there a good thing about the game? Well, it manages to capture the true feeling of the series 
 and that's really good. The way they've handled the flashbacks are quite interesting and helps 
 further the story.
  
  Yes, the story. I love it. It's really Lost to me and why I consider the game a guilty pleasure. 
 It's not really a long game to enjoy (way to short) , but the tease it gives me are really great. 
 It helps me to oversee the flaws.
  
  In the end, buy and play if you're a fan of the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateRAGEX
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  You start the story off as a guy who has lost his memory from a *SPOILER ALERT* plane crash and 
 you have to control him by going around and talking to people. He has to try and regain his memory 
 back by going into random flashbacks and taking pictures of something at the right time and angle.
 
  
  You also have to solve puzzles with fuses sometimes, so that you can save people and to get through 
 some doors.
  
  There is some gunplay in the game but nothing actually fun and it's pretty non-existent anyway, 
 because you only get to shoot a few enemies.
  
  When you get to a certain bit in the game, you have to dodge this black smoke that kills you when 
 it touches you. 
  The graphics aren't bad for this game but the gameplay is just plain lame.
  
  Rent this game 
 for the easy 1000G gamerpoints you can get from it and be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  A game based on a hit TV show? Usually such things don't go over too smoothly, but in the case 
 of Lost I actually had high hopes. Interesting characters, an intriguing (if slow) plot, and a 
 neat tropical island just brimming with secrets waiting to be discovered! .. Unfortunately, the 
 characters come off a bit shallow, the plot is rushed and ends on a bizarre note, and above all, 
 the game is just downright short! You could give this one a rent and beat it in an evening with 
 really no reason for a second playthrough. (Unless you want to uncover a couple easter eggs scattered 
 about, that is.)
  
  You play the role of Elliot. A photographer who winds up with a case of amnesia after crashing 
 onto this mysterious island. Its up to you to guide Eliot around and find clues as to who you are 
 and untimately find a way off this forsaken tropical paradise. Along the way you converse with 
 other well-known Lost characters. Such as Jack, Sawyer, Charlie, Hurley, Locke, and many more. 
 The problem is that some of the characters just didn't get as big of a part as they should have. 
 Desmond appears only once and has very little to say. Which is a shame given how important of a 
 person he was on the show. Also, not every character is voiced by his or her original actor. While 
 some like Claire, Ben and Sun sound do an excellent job, others like Jack, Sawyer and Sayid sound 
 a little out of place.
  
  The island is a neat place to explore; with lush jungles, some nicely designed puzzles, and the 
 occisional run-in with the Black Smoke, there's some fun to be had getting lost. Though, I really 
 think the game could have done without the scenes in which you carry a gun. These scenarios are 
 very brief and unsatisfying. The aiming with the weapon is jerky, and the enemies always seem to 
 have a perfect shot at you. Besides that though, the gameplay does a reasonable job of making you 
 feel part of the show.
  
  Graphics and sound are good for the most part. While some of the faces look a bit creepy, (Juliet 
 being a prime example) the island itself looks great! And if you love the Lost soundtrack you'll 
 feel right at home here. Just don't go in expecting the music to 'WOW' you quite as much as it 
 did in the show.
  
  And there you have it. Certainly not the worst attempt at show-to-game title, in fact it can be 
 highly enjoyable at times. But the sad thing is is that the game comes to a confusing close right 
 as you're getting into it. Worth a rent and perhaps a purchase if found cheap. Here's hoping for 
 a sequel that improves upon problems of the first and really gives us Lost fans something to sink 
 our teeth into!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guardcaptainsid
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of a lost game, I was exited thinking of playing as characters like Jack or 
 Sayid, I thought you were gonna do the missions the survivors did, like finding the cockpit, finding 
 Danielle, playing as the characters. Instead, you have a short storyline, where you barely fit 
 into the actual show, and you play as a new character, Elliot Maslow. In the show their are like 
 thirty other survivors, in the game, about nine. The missions you do, are okay, I was hoping to 
 follow the storyline of the actual show. Sad. I was so disapointed, at the beginning of the show, 
 when the plane crashes, theirs so many people, its bright out, theirs 48 other people! In the game, 
 about 9 other people that need help. Most of the main characters did not show up. I hope they make 
 a better lost game, this one was so disapointing.
  I beg that they make the lost game that the fans deserve. Until this happens, this game will be 
 alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaik007
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  I do love the show, so when i heard of the gamei thought that it would be... not like this.. 
 
  The story is, like in the show, a plane crash on a mystical island in the middle of nowhere.
 
  You will get your own character and in the crash youre suffering from amnesia, You dont remember 
 who you are or anything else.
  And thats what the game is about, trying to get your memory back, That and to Get of the island, 
 of course..
  And so far its a pretty good game, untill i meet the other castaways..
  The voices dont sound like anything in the show and i dont know if its a bug, but everyone is 
 shaking their heads when they are talking! 
  About Graphics, its great with the jungle and such, but sometimes it feels like im playing ps2.
 
  And the small amount of walking space you get when you are playing is ridiculous, again with me 
 comparing this game with ps2.
  
  Over all the game is, to me, just a guy talking with people about the island and do not really 
 care were they are he just wants his backpack, and when remembering his horrible history youll 
 expect the game will go more exciting
  since you got a gun, but youll just use the gun once, one shot, or maybe two.
  Still i like 
 the feeling when you hear the music and the jungle sounds, when you are running for your life from 
 something..
  
  I regret that I bought this game, i only continued playing because of the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granbernardo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The bad
  -------
  STORY:
  I'm a fan of the TV show and I kinda enjoyed playing the game, but I figure that if some who haven't 
 seen the show played this game, he/she would be LOST. The story follows the same flow as the TV 
 show, but in the game they've summarized the script A LOT, so you will only understand what the 
 hell's happening if you watched the show on TV.
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  Way too easy (except for the puzzles) . The hole game is about applying common sense. As I mentioned 
 before, some of the puzzles are way too hard, and you have to spend a lot of time on something 
 that ends being a pain...
  
  CHARACTERS:
  The voices are pretty similar to the cast's, but they're not the original voices from the show. 
 Some of the characters are very well portrayed, like Jack and Hurley. Others like Desmond look 
 nothing alike.
  
  The good
  --------
  ACTION:
  The game has a lot of action scenes. You'll be running for your life several times during the game.
 
  
  FLASHBACKS:
  The story told in the flashbacks is just OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed it for the most part, well what there was of it, looked great, the game play was good 
 but far too easy, and the game was far to short (I finished it in 5 hours on the same day I bought 
 it; today lol)
  
  The trading was a good idea but lacked a lot, u only HAVE to trade a few times, you only have to 
 use your gun a few times to and only on one person and spend more time getting beatin up than anything 
 else.
  
  The comunication was very bland and you really dont need to ask any general questions at all if 
 you dont want to, they do add a little to the story but not a lot really.
  
  The puzles were very easy, not much thinking involed at all if you use comman sence all the answers 
 are right under your nose, fuse puzzles were very easy too.
  
  All in all it was not to bad just needed more depth, more things to do and to be a little more 
 challenging; ie the black smoke was easy to get by every time, and the 2 running/chase scenes were 
 way too easy, on the final one I fell 4 times and still got to the boat with 11 seconds left.
 
  
  And no unlockable content to speak of either really which was a little disapointing.
  
  It was almost a perfect game, maybe next time guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Lost Via Domus on Xbox 360 from the TV series Lost is very good. It has some of the Lost characters 
 and some new ones. In the game you play as this photojournalist who has survived on Flight 815 
 and is stranded on a island with all these other survivors.
  The game gets to an alright start but along the way the game gets harder and sometimes you might 
 want to check some of the guides on the internet. It will help you if your stuck.
  The graphics are alright and the feel of the game from the TV is well-doned but could have been 
 better with a longer storyline from the TV show and more of the Lost characters.
  Ubisoft has done a great job from making Lost into a video game but could have been heaps better. 
 
  I recommend if you rent it or borrow from a friend so you can try out or you might be a Lost fan.
 
  Also the achievements in this game are really easy to get.
  I give Lost on Xbox 360 a 7 out of 10 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  What really got me about the game was the presentation. It's actually done pretty well. They modeled 
 the story in the same way like the regular TV show where you have the "Previously on Lost" intros 
 and the Lost title sequence. Pretty cool. I also enjoyed the semi-cliffhangers. They even made 
 the subtitles for the game look like the close-captioning on the TV show which was a nice touch. 
 Overall, I liked the way they presented the game. Alone in the Dark ain't the first game to take 
 advantage of this TV show motif in a game.
  
  The graphics are quite lush and look pretty good. Some of the characters from the TV show look 
 a bit janky but the main character that you play is highly detailed. The Island itself is well 
 modeled as well. The beach has some beautiful graphics while the grass and trees are also quite 
 pretty as they sway and move. I was also quite surprised with the amount of detail for all the 
 various hatches and other locations from the TV show that were put into the game. I thought it 
 was very cool for the devs to allow us to travel and look around the same locations that we remember 
 from the first two seasons of Lost. But the graphics aren't perfect. There is some minor slowdown 
 in spots and I found plenty of screen-tearing in plenty of outdoor areas. Oh well.
  
  The best part of the game is the music. They used all the music from the TV show in the game so 
 it actually felt like the show. The voice actors are good but I felt some of the posers for the 
 TV characters were bad and didn't sound like the real actors at all. The worst one was the actress 
 for Juliet. She sounds NOTHING like the real thing. The most convincing was the actor who played 
 Ben. The rest were meh with some blahs.
  
  The story is actually quite compelling even though it doesn't really add anything to the TV show. 
 I liked the main character that you play and I also liked his flashbacks which were done really 
 well. It's not bad and I'm sure the writers from the show had a hand in creating the scenarios. 
 I wish they added something to the main canon though. I feel it's a missed opportunity by the writers 
 to inject some important info to connect the game to the TV show. There was one moment where I 
 thought they were gonna do that but it didn't happen. Oh well. The ending was quite weird and ended 
 on a rather vague note. I'm not sure how I feel about it.
  
  The gameplay is fairly boring and not that interesting. The best part were the flashbacks. They 
 were REALLY well done and I liked the way they presented it. The rest is your usual boring third 
 person action game. The puzzles are lame and not fun and there were some sections where traveling 
 from point A to point B were annoying as well. It's not a fun game to play. If it weren't for the 
 compelling story, I would've bailed out.
  
  Overall, the game is medicore but the story is great and well told. If you're a fan of Lost, it's 
 worth playing just for the story alone. Everyone else can probably skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  It is usually extremely difficult for most movies or television programs to translate well onto 
 a videogame. For one, it's almost always difficult to get the support of the full cast and crew 
 of the movie/series to agree to spend the extra time in making the game and often these games are 
 rushed into to make money or ride the popularity wave of said franchise.
  
  In my history of games, the last good TV show to translate into a solid videogame that I played 
 was Buffy the Vampire Slayer for the Xbox back when the system was still new; that was more than 
 6 years ago. Lost: Via Domus, is not a bad game, it's definitely not a good game either.
  
  The game, based on the popular ABC (CTV in Canada) series recently completed its abbreviated fourth 
 season. Lost: Via Domus was released earlier in 2008 to help tide over fans of the series between 
 seasons. While the game does not bridge the gap between seasons, it does take part at various points 
 in seasons one and two of the show. 
  
  In Via Domus, rather than playing as one of the regular cast members, you play as Elliot Maslow, 
 a person on the plane who is suffering from amnesia. The main plot of the game is trying to help 
 Elliot remember his past and at the same time try to get off the Island. Since you don't remember 
 who you are, you need to piece things back together. Since Elliot is a photo-journalist, he knows 
 that information about his past is available both on his computer and his camera, so the game starts 
 you off by finding those two items. Once you do, that opens a whole new plot point which you must 
 also uncover.
  
  There are two main gameplay mechanics in the game. The first is your simple adventure game, where 
 you must lead Elliot through different areas, collecting and talking to people for clues and solving 
 puzzles to progress further in the game. The other, uses his photo-journalism past to uncover his 
 history. These flashback moments are interesting as the do have some connection to some of the 
 other characters and plots from the show. There isn't anything that is really important but like 
 the show, everything is connected.
  
  The controls in the game are ok, but nothing special. Majority of the game will have you collecting 
 items and talking to people. You will spend most of your time walking or running by pressing the 
 Right Trigger button. There are only a few times when there are 'action' moments, but even those 
 are easy to do.
  
  The game's story is fair, but nothing that rocks or changes the plot of the show. If you are a 
 fan of the show, you won't miss anything but at the same time, if you're not a fan of the show, 
 you might not understand some of what is going on or the people on the island as there is little 
 to no history of events occurring during that point in the show (for example why the first time 
 you talk to Sun, she speaks to you in Korean, but the next time, she's fluent in English) . 
  An interesting aspect of the game is that it is split into 7 mini episodes. Each episode begins 
 with a 'Previously on Lost'; has the intro and even the 'Lost' closing for each episode. This 
 is good if you play the game in short bursts and want it to feel like a show, but realistically, 
 you can finish most episodes in about 30 minutes, so seeing these over and over again does become 
 a strain.
  
  The characters from the show are almost there just for show. While you'll talk to most of the cast, 
 they seem little more than just there to fit disk space. You never really interact with them unless 
 you need to trade for items or to get clues. 
  
  The characters are all represented in the game fairly well, but the voice-acting is extremely poor. 
 Outside of a few of the characters, all of your favourites, with the exception of Ben are voiced 
 by someone other than the actor themselves. Locke sounds like an old farmer and Sawyer sounds like 
 he's constipated. At the same time, while the characters do look like themselves, their animations 
 are down-right awful. At one point, near the end of the game, when you interact with a character, 
 she looks like a ghost, when she should be expressing herself much more dramatically.
  
  Voice acting might be poor, but at least the game does use the solid Lost score very well. The 
 game sounds great when the tension is rising and helps keep you interesting. It does save the game, 
 but not greatly.
  
  While the game is short and relatively easy, there are times when frustration will occur. The controls 
 of your character are decent but do pose a problem sometimes, especially when you are trying to 
 search for items. The game also does not offer a skip feature during cut-scenes, so if you fail 
 a portion or happen to die, you'll have to go through some long cut-scenes that you'd wish you 
 could skip. Overall, you should be able to finish the game in about 5 hours; shorter or longer 
 depending on if you want to find all the game's achievements.
  
  Outside of the interesting flashback moments and some little treats here and there, you really 
 don't have any reason to play this game. As I stated before, they didn't add anything that would 
 benefit the fan of the show, so there is no incentive to play. Also, once you beat the game, you 
 have no reason to play again as there are no bonus features to unlock, which would have made the 
 value of this title so much better and more appealing to fans of the show. 
  If you haven't played this game but are a fan of the show, I recommend at least renting this. Considering 
 the show won't return until January of 2009, this could help you remember some of the environments 
 and moments from the show, but it doesn't substitute the solid show. If you aren't a fan, I strongly 
 suggest you avoid this because it won't turn you into one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm a lost fan. The TV show is highly addictive.
  
  As a fan, I think this game could be better. After three season of the TV show this game could 
 have been had more storyline related to those season. It was really really really short. It's the 
 shortest game I've ever played... Worse knowing I bought this game when It was in $59,99... A week 
 later dropped to $39,99... my wallet still is recovering... I don't know why the game did not cost 
 39,99 from the very begining knowing the short it is.
  
  If you are Lost fan, I recommend to you to play it.. but rent it, not buy it. You will enjoy the 
 6 hours the game last.
  
  Now, I'm waiting the fourth season. The last season was great but short. I can't wait 2009 to start 
 watching the sure great episodes coming.
  
  I hope Ubisoft to start working on other Lost game, more elaborated, more long, more interesting, 
 more Lost...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Being a LOST fan, I heard quite a bit about this game from fellow fans. The main complaint I heard 
 was that it felt pointless and also that it was horrible to play. Nonetheless, I purchased the 
 game to see what exactly was wrong and also because I just wanted some more LOST in my life while 
 I wait for the next season to air. So lets take a look:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Starting where it hurts the most, the graphics of LOST are pretty mediocre. The character models 
 for the show's cast are absolutely horrid, with Sawyer and Desmond being the worst thanks to the 
 awful hair system they had for the characters. Moving on, the environment is very flat and basic, 
 with the no effects in what the character walks on (for a game based on a beach, the interaction 
 between the beach and character is pretty poor) . Also, the game features plenty of invisible walls 
 to walk into, sometimes when you least expect them to be there. Luckily, the game sorta makes up 
 for these shortcomings by having the important parts and objects from the show looking half decent 
 compared to other objects. Also, that smoke monster was just amazing to see!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay of LOST is pretty sad to see in motion as well. The developers actually 
 had more to work with than what is presented. Where is a fishing game with Jin? How about a drive 
 in Hurley's Mini-van he finds? The show features a good amount of hand-to-hand combat, why don't 
 they have that in the game? I mean, this is a separate story from the cast, so maybe our character 
 can fight the others? Now, I don't mean constant fights, but rather the have like 5 fight scenes 
 the entire game. Plus, guess what, nobody has to DIE in those fights! I know, blows my mind, too. 
 
  
  Anyways, with what they did have, the is a basic adventure game with puzzles to solve. Well, A 
 puzzle to solve that just gets harder. This puzzle is a fuse box puzzle where you place fuses in 
 the box in a certain order to get a certain amount of power to a gauge. The adventuring is split 
 up into three actions: hide and seek, picture-taking, and talking. Oh yea, they do have shooting 
 in the game, but it only happens in three spots, and it is only for a few seconds. So, I really 
 can't call it a part of the routine. However, I can can say it works like GRAW thanks to Ubi-soft 
 working on the game. Moving along, the three gametypes are as basic as they come. The hide and 
 seek happens when you traverse the jungle and you are hiding from either the others or the smoke 
 monster. This is pretty easy to accomplish with the enemies follow a set path and staying to this 
 path, even after they spot and lose you. Picture-taking seems to be for only unlocking extras in 
 the game, and those extras are... concept art (a. k. a. more pictures) . Talking is the main meat of 
 the game since, well, its the meat of the show. For being the said meat, the developer was pretty 
 lazy in its creation. The conversation system is way too basic for a mystery game with most talking 
 puzzles solved by the game itself. I mean, where was the innovation there? let me do SOMETHING!!!
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Finally, we hit my favorite part of the game. The music is directly from the show and the sound 
 effects are just great, especially the smoke monster. That thing made the correct noises and that 
 even scared me at one point. The sound team must really like LOST since it was always prompt with 
 the games actions. Still, it had its problems but it wasn't exactly the game's fault that these 
 problems existed. First off, the entire cast wasn't here to provide the voice-overs, so we got 
 some half baked performances from stand-ins, with Juliet's being the worst of the bunch. Still, 
 the ones that did come in to help sounded fine, which counts since they conversation system made 
 most conversations broken.
  
  Overall:
  
  Yea, there is a great deal wrong with the game. Nevertheless, the game was decent to play and as 
 a LOST fan and avid gamer, I can be picky about certain things more than I should be. Still, the 
 ending the game made it all worthwhile (for me at least) . I don't really know If I would recommend 
 the game to LOST fans or not since some moments would confuse you if you don't play video games 
 other than Madden and Guitar Hero. Still, give it a rent and see what you think. As for purchase (this 
 is for everyone) , let this one rot in the bargain bin until its $10, then give in.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  I just rented this game and I wasn't expecting much, like everybody else I was in it for the Gamerscore. 
 The game is short, only 7 "episodes" and you will probably beat it in 6 hours or less. So many 
 aspects in this game were awful like how you weren't a character from the actual show, you are 
 some guy named Elliot Maslow and you have your own unique storyline. The LOST characters are present 
 but the actors didn't do the voice overs so the characters sound different. The storyline in the 
 game really doesn't tie in with the TV show and the game feels awfully rushed. The cinematic graphics 
 aren't horrible but the gameplay graphics could use some work. Also, it doesn't seem like you mingle 
 with the characters enough considering you only do missions that involve Jack, Kate, Hurley, Sayid, 
 and Locke. All the other characters are present but you never speak with them. So just don't buy 
 this game because if you're a LOST fan like me then you will be very disappointed with this game. 
 The only cool part of this game is the way the storyline is set up like the TV show at the beginning 
 and end of each episode and the GS is very easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Even has a huge fan of the show, this game will simply disappoint you if you had any expectations 
 for it. There are three main reasons why this is.
  
  1) This is probably the easiest and shortest game you've ever played. Without a guide, This is 
 multiplied exponentially by the fact that there is zero replay value once you've beaten it, unless 
 you're interested in getting a full 1000G out of it, and even that won't take long and once you 
 get it, you'll have no reason to go back in.
  
  2) The one part I thought would be cool, even if it wasn't the greatest game ever, was running 
 around my favorite show interacting with the characters. Unfortunately, this doesn't help much 
 as most of the main characters aren't voiced by the show's actors, and the people they have doing 
 them are kind of annoying (especially John Locke's) . The plot isn't too bad, but the twist ending 
 will leave you with an emphatic "that definitely wasn't worth it" feeling.
  
  3) The third major problem is what I call the filler. It seems like the developers were banking 
 on people playing this game solely to interact with the characters, and then afterwards realized 
 they had to actually make a game for people to play. Apparently, they thought it was a good idea 
 to make almost every puzzle a circuit board that you have to rout power through via fuses that 
 you pick up during the game. The different fuses change the amount of power routed through the 
 board, and you have to put the right ones in the right spots to solve the puzzle. If you think 
 it sounds boring and un-Lost like, you're right.
  
  For me, I wanted to play it just because I love the show. But unless you are an incredible fan 
 of the show, or are a huge gamescore ho, I'd go so far as to say it's not even worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konradak
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Mediocre game that reaches for fans of the show... Until you find out it's not Canon.
  That's about it. The gameplay is slightly less than average, controls are only decent, and the 
 graphics are a saving grace.
  The story is interesting, but again not part of Lost canon. The voice actors, for the most part, 
 aren't the original actors and some of the impersonations are terrible. Locke sounds like Yogi 
 Bear.
  The characters look great and like their show counterparts. But that's about it. If you're not 
 a fan of the show, don't touch unless you want easy achievements.
  What angers me the most is this isn't Canon and with an ending like that, I'd like to know what 
 that was all about. At least it is easy 1000 achievements. One good thing is you can explore the 
 island and go places you haven't seen before.
  The puzzles are interesting but nothing spectacular.
  Nothing else I want to say about this game, 
 just a big disappointment if you ask me. Sorry for the lame review, but it is my opinion coming 
 from a big fan of Lost.
  
  
  Rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  well to be quite honest I like to play this game and I did until the 3rd episode then... when I 
 finish the 3rd episode it just goes to the main screen!!!!!
  
  but the game is not so cool... there are some graphic flaws, the charictares are not good made the 
 dont look exactly like the orignals, oh the story is not the lost story the one we all know and 
 watched on tv.
  they just made another one for the game and it is not good at least not good as the orignal one...
 
  
  the things that you do is nothing!! you just have to take some pictures and just move around and 
 find stuff in the jungle, and who is this guy that you are playing with?! he is not in the show, he 
 is just a guy who poped out in the game the main charecter should not be like this it was to be 
 better if you just played with all the people on the islind and do there part in the show...
  
  I want to finish and see where does it go and what will happen in this version of lost but 
 I kinda stuck in the 3rd episode so if anyone got the sulotion I will apreciate it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlyMurphy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  If u see this game for a buy of 3$ and a rent of 5$. Just get the rental really. only for lost 
 fans and if u can endure the horrible voice acting and no good gameplay get it. the game is about 
 4-5 hours and once u beat it thats what your gonna get. no side missions just straight threw. and 
 you acually only interact with about 5 actors from the show. yes oh boy u do get a gun But i only 
 shot 3 times this whole game! the story is actually pretty decent though and the music is straight 
 from the show making it more realistic 
  
  When or if you ever play this game 50% of the time youll either being solving impossible fuse panel 
 puzzels or doing a flash back
  
  i wish i could be more informative but what else is there to say? if this is the game left out 
 of the rental shelf try at your own risk FANBOYS ONLY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaylila
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  I Love LOST. Unless you love LOST as well then pass on this game.
  
  Via Domus is a third person puzzle quest game that leaves you exactly where the show does. LOST, 
 bewildered and plane wrecked on a Mysterious Island with no answers. You play as Elliot Maslow, 
 a new character not from the show, who was on flight 815 when it crashed. The object of the game 
 is to find your wits, find your belongings and find find your way home. Of course the Island has 
 a different plan for you.
  
  Some of the characters from the show are there: Jack, Kate, Sawyer, Sun, Charlie, Hurley, Loche 
 to name a few. However they do not play as large roles as many fans would have hoped. The voices 
 are not the exact same as in the game and in fact some are done quite miserably. But still for 
 any fan of the show its always a riot to walk around the beach and see Charlie on his Guitar and 
 of course take some orders from Jack... who put him in charge anyways?
  
  Ubisoft has done a great job with the Graphics of the game. I do not think it is possible for them 
 to do otherwise. However you don't have as much freedom as you would want. You are limited to where 
 you can go but the places you do visit stay true to the show and can impress even the most hardcore 
 of LOST fans. There are other settings around the game that are really fun to meander around. Those 
 include the wrecked ship, various hatches, and the beach. The game also features various Easter 
 Eggs that LOST fans will find enjoyable.
  
  There are three elements that you will have to master in order to pass this game. Running from 
 the smoke monster, finding your way through dark caves and fixing circuit boards. 
  
  As for the Smoke Monster. The monster itself looks just as mysterious and frightening as in the 
 show. But if you have seen the most recent of episodes of the show, specifically the scenes in 
 which the monster deals death, then you are left somewhat disappointed with what takes place when 
 it actually catches you. Rather than having an epic run through the jungle the Smoke Monster chases 
 are more of shifting from bamboo bush to bamboo bush hiding from the monster. After a few of the 
 chases they do seem to get repetitive. But still it is fun to run and adds a great element from 
 the show into the game. As a LOST fan its very fun.
  
  Dark Caves. Not exactly from the show but still a fun part of the game. You wander through a pitch 
 black cave with nothing but a lighter to begin with. As you progress through the game you get better 
 tools by trading with other survivors. Darkness kills and so do deep holes that never end. 
  
  With circuit boards it adds in the puzzle element of the game. You get different pieces that 
 you have to find by wondering around the various settings that you are in. With the pieces you 
 find you work to complete a circuit. At first it can be confusing but once you understand you are 
 doing it can be quite fun for people who like puzzles. Later in the game they become more difficult 
 especially if you cannot find all the pieces you need. 
  
  There are various "cutscenes" in the game that are somewhat interactive. While in each cutscene 
 it is your job to find various important factors that explain more of the story and reward you 
 with more achievements. They add a new element to the game that many other games do not have.
 
  
  When the game is over it doesn't allow for much replay value. In fact if done right anybody can 
 get all 1000 gamerpoints on your first play through. As my blurb says, this game is waay too short. 
 But all in all if you are a LOST fan than this is a must rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealtorb
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Lost is the first and only TV show that I currently faithfully follow. I love it. I read about 
 it. I'm interested in anything to do with it.
  
  As such, I was skeptical about that game from the start, as any gamer would be of any kind of movie/TV 
 show that is shoehorned into a videogame. I didn't buy it on release, but after reading up on some 
 reviews, I decided to rent it. This was a very good move, and if you are considering playing this 
 game, before you read any further please note that I strongly encourage you to rent this game. 
 You will beat it easily during that rental time, save yourself over $30, and you can beat the entire 
 game to 100% completion in that time frame to boot.
  
  Now onto the actual review. The main character of this game is Elliot Maslow. You control him throughout 
 the game from a third-person perspective. Within the game, he is a photojournalist on flight 815 
 (this character was created solely for this game and does not appear in the show) who crash-lands 
 on an island alongside the Lost characters from the show. He gets amnesia from the impact, and 
 the whole rest of the game is hinged upon recovering his memory. This is done in a very linear 
 fashion, as the game is split up into "episodes," with a flashback taking place at the beginning 
 of each episode. In this flashback, you use your trusty camera to photograph a special detail/event 
 that takes place within the flashback in order to advance to a cutscene which advances you in your 
 quest to learn about your past. If you miss the detail/event when it happens, the flashback simply 
 loops until you figure out what to do, which makes everything run a whole lot smoother.
  
  The flashback segments are interesting and fun the first few times, but since you can predict it 
 happening very close to the beginning of each level, it gets to be very repetitive. After you take 
 the photo, you are allowed to roam in the environment that your flashback encompasses, looking 
 for three special "hidden" items each time, usually the same things over and over again. They're 
 easy to find. This is a good concept but poorly executed. Mostly, it contains little easter eggs 
 for fans of Lost with mentions of such things as the Hanso Foundation.
  
  As a side note, at the beginning of each level/episode is a cutscene that details what happened 
 previously-where you left off on the previous level. Some people have complained about this feature, 
 but I actually enjoyed it because it is very reminiscent of the show. Overall, it's not a big deal.
 
  
  If you are a fan of the show like me, you may have been looking forward to interacting with the 
 characters from the show. The characters hang out on the beach for the most part, waiting for you 
 to come talk to them. As I was playing, I was trying to figure out how the heck the developers 
 intended for anyone but a Lost fan to play this game, because there really is nothing to help you 
 understand the plot of the show. The problem is they just don't have much to say. What's more, 
 very few characters in the game have the voices of their real life counterparts. I laughed a lot 
 because of this. Especially Sawyer's voice actor. I know they try so hard, but it just doesn't 
 work. The music in the game, however, is noticeably better than the voice acting. It just makes 
 everything feel like Lost. If you appreciate the music from the show, you will appreciate it here.
 
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, there just isn't much. What's there would be all good fun if there 
 was variety, but everything that acts as a novelty early on is rehashed until you can't wait until 
 you are finished. You'll do a lot more running from the Smoke Monster than you might expect. I 
 had imagined some epic chase scenes where I'm running through the forest at a blistering pace, 
 dodging trees and bushes and such with the Smoke Monster hot on my heels and ripping up trees along 
 the way. But it was completely dumbed down to "hiding in bamboo." You go from bamboo patch to bamboo 
 patch, with the Monster seeming to be hunting you down. There is no reprieve. It's just waiting 
 for you. All the freaking time. It's annoying. You progress little by little, looking for markers 
 to guide you to the next bamboo section. There is no epicness whatsoever.
  
  There is another segment that is frequently repeated where you have to travel through caves, apparently 
 because this character is too cool to climb over things like the people in Lost the TV show do. 
 This part of the game is far more frustrating than the Smoke Monster segments. It's pitch black 
 in the caves, and you start with just a lighter. Then you can buy (via trading items such as coconuts. 
 Yea. I was thinking the exact thing you are now) , torches, and eventually a lantern, each of which 
 have a time limit on how long you can use them before they need refueling. You have to avoid pits 
 in the ground, tediously put out your torch at the sound of bats so they don't damage it, and of 
 course put it out for waterfalls you have to walk under, relighting it afterwards in a longish 
 animation. And if you decide to sit in the dark, just for kicks and giggles, apparently the Smoke 
 Monster is in the cave with you waiting to rip you to shreds in the first 30 seconds of darkness. 
 Yea, I did it just to see what would happen. It wasn't even close to satisfying. It's just pitch 
 dark, the controller starts to vibrate like a heart beat, and then the game notifies you with text 
 that you died. Woohoo. The caves were the worst part of the whole game. A small one would have 
 been fun once. But they are long, tedious, and frequent. Locke sends you into one to go soul searching. 
 All he had to do was go in a tent and sit down (in the TV show) , but yet he makes you traverse 
 a pit-riddled cave without even giving you a flashlight.
  
  The highlight of the whole game is, unfortunately, the graphics. I know it's clich, but it's true. 
 The jungle and beach and wreckage all look wonderful. And the character models, while they by no 
 means stack up to the likes of Crysis, are much better than they could be. I don't really expect 
 anything less than this from Ubisoft, which in my mind simply doesn't release ugly games. I thought 
 it was a beautiful game. Not nearly as detailed as you might hope (wandering through the jungle 
 is not fun, it just feels like wandering around in someone's backyard that happens to strongly 
 resemble a jungle, then you run into their fence which happens to be an invisible border inside 
 the game telling you that you have to turn back, or else) , but beautiful in the grand scope of 
 things.
  
  The plot is good, especially so at the ending. It's one of those "What the crap?!?" endings. So 
 if you like those, then you'll like this. I still don't know what happened in the story. One main 
 issue with the game is that everything major in the show is trivialized. The loss of your memory 
 seems of greater importance than the button in the hatch that must be pushed every 108 minutes. 
 Imagine that. On a side note, I'm not sure why they included Michael in the game when there are 
 other, better characters that didn't make it into the game. All he ever does is scream for Walt. 
 Yes, even in the videogame. It makes me cringe. Also, the fact that the game portrays the Others 
 as sitting up in trees, waiting for the Losties to wander through the jungle so they can shoot 
 from their perches pisses me off. This is nothing like the show, and a feeble attempt to spice 
 up the game. They are neither cool nor mysterious.
  
  Basically, just rent it for the gamer points. You will be hard pressed to make it through this 
 game in a reasonable amount of time without a guide. I recommend gamefaqs. com or if you have real 
 trouble, youtube for the caves. It's an easy 1000 points. You can get them all in a rental though. 
 However hardcore you think you are as a fan of Lost, nothing warrants buying this game as there 
 is absolutely no replay value. Also of note, I played this game thinking I would learn some cool 
 stuff about the show, but then I found out that none of it can actually be counted as part of the 
 real Lost TV story. It's all just fanfiction, essentially. 
  
  All of this is very unfortunate.
  Sorry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EkulNosbocaj8
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If you are a big fan of the show LOST, LOST: Via Domus will have you really entertained, even though 
 it may be for only like six hours. It is awesome to walk around and see such familiar faces such 
 as Locke, Hurley, Charlie, and Jack, and places such as the crash site and camps look visually 
 amazing. Plus the story intertwines well with the show. One of the greatest parts of the game are 
 the flashbacks you get to piece together in order to regain your memory. It's a fun featyre and 
 provides more depth to the game.
  
  Some of the downsides are, of course, the length, the lack of game modes, and the lack of applications 
 you can use with your actual character. This game only takes a solid six hours to beat, and since 
 there is only one game mode, you may only want to replay it again once or twice. Also, the character 
 you play with has only a limited amount of things he can do. Sure you can trade and talk and light 
 torches, you can't jump or engage in combat with anyone.
  
  Overall, if this game had been twice as long, it would've been worthy of a 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caddy06_88
Rating: 5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is a third person action-adventure game from Ubisoft that takes place on the mysterious 
 Island that Oceanic flight 815 crashes on. Lost introduces some new characters and tells a story 
 of which has not been covered in the Lost TV series, features many important and memorable scenes 
 from Lost and delivers a genuine Lost experience.
  
  The strongest aspect of Lost: Via Domus is the story. In Lost, you play as Elliot the photojournalist, 
 a flight 815 survivor who is suffering from Amnesia after the plane crash. As Elliot, your main 
 goal is to try and remember your past, why were you on the plane, who you are and who is the girl 
 you keep seeing. Trying to remember your past is not the sole storyline though, you also take part 
 in many of the iconic scenes from the first season of Lost including entering the infamous numbers 
 into the computer. Along with the numbers scene, there are several moments throughout the game 
 that fans of the show will look fondly on. There are really two separate storylines in Lost, the 
 past and present. The storyline involving the past is when Elliot is desperately trying to regain 
 his memory, and the storyline of the present coincides with the storylines of the main Lost show 
 that any fans will be familiar with and it mainly consists of Elliot trying to get off of the island, 
 as any stranded survivor should.
  
  The way in which the story is told is quite integral to the enjoyment of the game. The basic set 
 up for the game is seven episodes. At the start of each episode, you get a highlights reel from 
 the previous episode/s and on the whole, this is great. It feels like you are watching an episode 
 of the TV show when you hear "Previously on Lost" followed by a montage of events. On top of that, 
 the 'past' storyline is told through cut scenes, which any fan of Lost will surely pick up on and 
 appreciate the story a little bit more. The cut scenes are interactive where you can control Elliot 
 in order to get a photograph of a moment that will help you regain memory. These things together 
 make a more authentic Lost experience and one that creates more enjoyment to the game's story. 
 While the story does intertwine with the events of the TV show, you do not have to have knowledge 
 of the show before playing the game, although if you haven't seen the show you will be missing 
 out on many of the references, and the characters from the show won't seen as important. You do 
 not get to know many of the characters during the course of the game and while that is fine if 
 you are a fan of the show and know their personalities anyway, if you do not know them then they 
 will seem boring and rather pointless.
  
  Speaking of which, the 'Losties' should be a highlight of the game but the truth of the matter 
 is, they aren't. For one, the characters from the show do not play much of an important part in 
 the story. The story in present time does revolve around some actions of them, but on the whole, 
 they seem pretty unimportant. Secondly, the character models look down right bad. While some of 
 the characters look pretty alike the TV show counterparts, some others just plain do not. The characters 
 that the game introduces look pretty good, but then again, they aren't meant to look like anybody 
 from the show. The worst thing about the Lost characters though, and probably the game, is the 
 voice acting. From the first time you hear Kate's 'voice', you pick up on just how bad the voice 
 acting is, and that feeling continues right up and there are only a couple of characters that actually 
 sound like their show counterparts. The best voice acting in the game comes from Elliot, but again, 
 he isn't meant to represent a character from the show. The voice acting is so bad that the subtitles 
 for dialogue come as a relief so you can turn down the volume and not have to put up with the awful 
 voice acting. The bad voice acting would not be such a disappointment if the game was not meant 
 to be part of the Lost universe where these characters have such distinct voices in the show.
 
  
  Perhaps the bad voice acting could be forgiven if the gameplay made up for it, but it fails on 
 that front too. While it is kind of cool at the start of the game to walk around the beach that 
 becomes your new home on the island, it grows old pretty fast. You walk around the beach and have 
 to talk to characters to get hints or trade items and then you head off into the jungle in order 
 to progress. This starts to get a bit tedious, especially when you reach your destination only 
 to find a fuse box puzzle waiting to be solved. The puzzles are pretty annoying most of the time 
 because you have to find fuses around the area in order to complete the puzzle, and they can be 
 pretty easy to miss which means you search round an area over and over just to find one little 
 thing to complete a puzzle. Another gameplay element that was thrown in was avoiding the smoke 
 monster when out in the jungle. This is more frustrating than it is an extra challenge. You can 
 jump into trees to provide cover if it gets close to you, but even when it looks like it has flown 
 off, it can come out of nowhere again, then once you have lost it, you have also lost where you 
 were going and have to backtrack, only to get found by the monster again. The thrills of the chase 
 kind of wears off after the first time you escape it. The main problem with the gameplay of Lost 
 is just how similar it all seems, there is little to no variety in what you are doing and considering 
 the game only lasts 5-6 hours makes it even worse. What makes matters even worse is the fact that 
 there is no replay value. Once you have finished the story, you have finished everything the game 
 has to offer, and while the story is good, you won't need to play it a second time. Shorter games 
 are becoming more and more common but the fact that Lost: Via Domus has no replay value what so 
 ever makes it even harder to like and even harder to recommend.
  
  The graphics and sound are a mixed bag. The environmental graphics are pretty crisp and the beach, 
 jungle, caves and any environment in general looks pretty nice. The problem with the graphics arises 
 when you look at the character models. None of them look that good and they just look rough around 
 the edges most of the time, especially for the characters from the TV show. The sound (aside from 
 voice acting) on the other hand is constantly fantastic! A lot of tense atmosphere is built up 
 through the use of the soundtrack and just the sound effects in general. For instance, if you are 
 in a dark cave and you run out of torches, you begin to hear something creep up on your position 
 and if you don't light a new torch fast enough, you soon realize you aren't alone in the cave. 
 It's not just tension that the soundtrack is good for creating though, but when it's a slow and 
 calm moment in the game, there is a lovely musical score running through the background. Lost: 
 Via Domus definitely follows in the TV show's footsteps of good music, which is a relief.
  
  Overall, Lost: Via Domus really only offers a story, but when that story only lasts a few hours, 
 you would expect good character models and good voice acting at the very least, but you do not 
 get that in Lost. Together with boring and tedious gameplay, it makes it hard to recommend Lost 
 to anybody outside of the Lost loop, and even if you do like Lost the show, there is definitely 
 no guarantee you will like Lost: Via Domus. The soundtrack is fantastic and hardcore Lost fans 
 will get a genuine Lost experience from the story, but other than that, the game offers nothing 
 of great value, especially if you do not follow the TV show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grex827
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  LOST. If you like the show, you'll likely enjoy the game, at least to some extent. I was hoping 
 for a little more open world feel, and not quite so restricted, but all and all it was a decent 
 game. Keeping in mind that I am saying so from a fans perspective. I really doubt the game has 
 much to offer for anyone who doesn't watch the show.
  
  Gameplay itself is somewhat boring at times. Talking to characters is ok, you ask questions, they 
 answer them. Would have been nice if your character actually spoke more often, rather than a simple 
 question in text form, and a verbal reply from the character to whom you are speaking. Most of 
 the voices were pretty good, with a few notable exceptions, like Charlie. Wandering through the 
 jungle, as I hinted at earlier, is very pre-scripted, which is to say, you have a certain path 
 to take, and the invisble wall keeps you from wandering about aimlessly. Good to some degree I 
 suppose. You can get turned around at times as it is.
  
  Graphically its usually not too bad. Nothing to brag about, but nothing to scoff at either. Characters 
 are the weakest link in this department, and the lip syncing is at times terrible and distracting. 
 
  
  I really just enjoyed revisiting all those things fans of the show enjoyed from the first two seasons. 
 I enjoyed the epidsoe format they put it in, and I thought it had a suprisngly good ending, keeping 
 with a very LOST-ish type theme, even though it was expanded to a charcater not part of the show 
 itself.
  
  Sadly, the game has zero replay value, only take about 10 hours to beat (and I got all 1000 GP's 
 in that time) , and the game is strictly a rental, unless it has some collectibility factor for 
 the die-hards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Just to say LOST: Via Domus is not that bad and if like me you enjoy a story in a game and you 
 want to get involved for six or so hours in a story whilst boosting your gamer score by 900+ points 
 this is worth a rental, or check the bargain bins. Mine cost 15 which is exactly what I got as 
 trade in value for it a week later.
  Gameplay wise this is more an interactive experience than a game as such, nevertheless I found 
 myself hooked. If you are considering this game I would say once you get your camera back take 
 photos of everything as there are many gamer points and achievements attached to the photographs.
 
  The story itself has a nice twist at the end which may imply a sequel is on it's way.
  Graphically this game is nice and whilst it could be criticised in many ways I won't as I am not 
 judging this as a game as much as an experience. If I started to note it's flaws as a computer 
 game it could go on a bit, however once I started playing it I could not stop, it is a very short 
 game but I would have to mark that as a merit in this instance. I had read reviews on LOST and 
 was unsure about it. Having played it I would recommend it just don't expect much, it is what it 
 is and that is a bit of an enigma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus follows the larger story of the TV show Lost. Like most games based off of television 
 series I wasn't expecting much, but to be fair this game does a lot of things right. That doesn't 
 mean it is any fun. This game exists only as a cruel form of punishment for people who dare venture 
 to play it.
  
  To be fair I'll list what is right about the game first. The graphics are all beautifully done, 
 and you'll get a nice hands on look at areas in the island. The music is excellent and always complements 
 the action. The voice work is also done well, but they did not get the actors from the show to 
 do their characters (a glaring omission in my opinion) .
  
  Where the game fails in the completely horrid gameplay. The game consists of very few sequences 
 repeated over and over. Though you might have fun a few times switching fuses around, you'll be 
 entirely sick of it by the end. The worst thing they can have you do is walk through an unlit cave. 
 You'll find yourself retrying these section over and over again because of annoying deaths caused 
 by walking into a hole or running out of torches and being killed by... the dark, I guess. Most 
 of the rest of your time in the game will be spent running around the island trying to figure out 
 who you have to talk to or what specific item you're supposed to click on or the correct path you 
 need to walk on. It doesn't take any skill just patience.
  
  There is one redeeming section of gameplay and that is in the flashbacks. Your job it to recreate 
 a photograph you're only shown parts of. It isn't hard, and only take a minute usually, but is 
 more fun than the rest of the game. It is also the primary way the main character's story is revealed. 
 
  
  Of course the good of recovering your memories is totally washed out by one MAJOR annoyance. At 
 the begining of every chapter, and every time you continue your game, it will show an unskipable 
 scene of what happened "previously on Lost". Like you hadn't just played through it only a second 
 ago! Since the chapters are only about 10 minutes long these 1-2 minute reviews are extremely redundant 
 and only serve to frustrate you enough to put off finishing the game until later, at which point 
 you'll still have to watch the scene again.
  
  Despite well made graphics and sound it is hard to have good feelings about this game. Honestly 
 this game would be better if it just played itself and you could set back and watch it (considering 
 its based off a TV show, that kind of makes sense) . The gameplay is at best boring and at worst 
 completely frustrating. Even if you're a fan of the show or looking for easy achievement points, 
 you should avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 13, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I assume the viewers of Lost, at least the gamers as well, were looking forward to this game. I 
 mean I hear all about Lost and it's numerous plot mysteries and the show being great just in general. 
 It led me to believe this game might be decent, but not really. I mean take any game, add average 
 graphics (which is above-average than most developers) , uninspired puzzles, take away any form 
 of action, and add a terrible spinoff script to the show.
  
  The story follows some guy named Elliott who is a journalist, you get 'Lost' on an island when 
 your plane crashes somewhere or other. Anyway, you pretty much start from scratch since you lost 
 all of your memory, and you pick it up as you progress along the story and learn the "secrets" 
 of the island.
  
  Your basic gameplay mechanics are in the game, for the most part. You run around the island (i. e. 
 a long path that leads you to your destination, it's that linear) and can examine numerous objects, 
 take photos, and figure out the puzzles. I. e. you play some dull circuit rewiring puzzle to open 
 certain doors. You also have an inventory, which holds your camera, torches, lanterns, etc. For 
 some reason they felt the need to tack on some odd "trade" system in which you trade your acquired 
 goods (coconuts, metals, papaya, etc.) for others' goods (torches, gun, ammo, and so on) . The reason 
 this feels tacked on is because it isn't explored the least, you barely have to trade and why would 
 you.
  
  So the game has 7 episodes, which, are the only part of the game that really captures lost. Each 
 time you complete an episode, which normal people call a level, you get a recap of the story thus 
 far. Ever watched Lost or any cable TV show and usually the hour-long show has a quick summary 
 at the beginning, well it does that when you start each episode. The game has 30 achievements, 
 1000 gamerscore, and can easily be completed as you go through this 5 hour game. With the help 
 of the internet and knowledge of what I should take pictures of, it's pretty simple.
  
  Either way you look at it, Lost was a... "lost" (sorry for the GameSpot pun) opportunity. You only 
 explore the island partially in some crappy storyline. The ending is probably the best part, but 
 only because it sets up, quite heavily, for a sequel game. Here's to hoping Lost fans get a proper 
 game.
  
  If you have any comments or would like to check out my other reviews, please do. I like feedback 
 of any kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarqueero7
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  It looks like Ubisoft half-finished this game. Compared to Assassin's Creed, the game looks like 
 it belonged on an older platform. The voice conversation with other characters is ridiculous: You 
 can either click on something that has to do with the mission, general, or trade, and that character 
 will give you his or her two cents. The graphics are decent, but the gameplay can get very annoying, 
 and the voices of the characters in the game compared to the characters in the tv show are way 
 too exaggerated. For instance, Locke sounds like an old Geezer, and Charlie sounds like an Australian 
 tour guide. The game only took me about 10 hours to complete (1000G) , and after I was finished, 
 I had wished that I spent my 60 bucks on something better. I would never buy this game if I were 
 you, and I would only bother renting it if you were a lost fan (the game is pathetic and hard to 
 follow if you are not) or if you are in need of some cold hard gamer points. - gamertag - myke2147 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  To begin with, I'll put this short review into context: I rented this game from my local video 
 store for free (with a voucher) , and completed the game in one 7 hour sitting, with a half hour 
 break for supper.
  
  As a casual fan of the TV show, I was slightly annoyed when my cable company dropped the channel 
 that showed it a third of the way through series 3, but caught up with the ever-spiralling story 
 on DVD. I'm going to have to do the same for series 4, so was looking forward to the release of 
 this game to give me a little fix, or a at least a pick-me-up. So I was saddened upon reading the 
 moderately damning reviews, and quite disappointed that it apparently turned out to be yet another 
 missed opportunity for a decent game adaptation of a much-loved TV/film license. But I thought 
 I'd give it a go anyway.
  
  I have to say, upon completing this title, the Gamespot review gave a fair asessment of what it 
 does and doesn't offer. It was short , pretty, had a few interesting touches and offered a nice 
 little parallel story to the TV show. But on the whole it was a slightly unsatisfying experience, 
 occasionally repetitive and had too many aspects that were flat, annoying or lacking in any fluidity. 
 
  
  For example: the actual gameplay was quite varied, but often felt like a load of mini-games, genres 
 or styles all mashed together in a somewhat messy convoluted fashion. This was futher hampered 
 by the continual loading screens, often appearing before and after very short cutscenes - surely 
 the loading of new maps/content could've been done in the background of these cutscenes? 
  
  Surprisingly, for a game based on a TV show driven by characters and character development, 
 most of the characters were quite badly rendered and the interactions and animations associated 
 with them verged on the boring and occassionally embarassing. There was also no real character 
 development, eithe player or NPC based, apart from the rather obvious plot device of recovering 
 your memory to find out you were not a very pleasant person. I was further surprised to find that 
 many of the characters weren't voiced by the original actors, resulting in poor and flat dialogue 
 and some hokey accents (Charlie... Oh dear. Were you a Manc? A Scouser? Or a posh Home Counties 
 boy pretending to be both? At once?)
  
  The adventure itself was alright, though I thought the 'morality choice' ending was pretty poor. 
 I was however very impressed with the graphics, the location modelling and the sound, though spent 
 a little too long in the jungle for my liking, being deafened by the Hideous Howling Black Smoke 
 Monster. The musical score was actually quite good, with some some exciting and ocassionally moving 
 pieces of music... apart from Charlie trying to play his knackered guitar.
  
  To summarise - I quite enjoyed this mercifully brief little jaunt to the Lost universe... but on 
 the whole playing this game felt like I was wandering around the set of the show during a tea-break, 
 and the only people to interact with were these non-commital mumbling look-e-likes who wanted to 
 buy my coconuts.
  
  A disappointing 6.5 for graphics, modelling and sound. Worth a rent, but just for one night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Keeps you interested until the ending of the game, story works well along with the show; it's got 
 some of the voice actors from the show.
  
  The Bad:
  Too short, many of the main characters aren't the real people doing voices, Puzzles can be a pain, 
 taking photos only works when you need to take them for achievements and you can't save them anyway.
 
  
  Lost: Via Domus, while it's got a lot of the qualities of the TV show, falls short in several ways. 
 If you want to check out the game, it's best to be a big fan of the show. If you're just in it 
 to play the game for fun, then you'll probably end up being bored and wondering what the heck is 
 going on.
  You play as a new character, one that was not introduced in the show. His name is Elliot Maslow, 
 and though he has amnesia you find who he was before the crash. Elliot was a photographer, and 
 you find out a bit about his personality, I don't want to give too much away here so you'll just 
 have to play the game. Elliot was sitting right in the front of the tail section of the plane, 
 but whenever the plane crashed he landed in the middle of the jungle close to where the main section 
 was. After awakening and investigating the area that he landed in, Elliot decides to try and find 
 the others. While he tries to find the crash, he encounters Kate who is shaken up from the crash 
 and doesn't want to talk much. So Elliot then leaves her and you're at the beach witnessing the 
 chaos from the wreckage. You will soon see several familiar characters, and be hearing some familiar 
 things if you watch the show. Witnessing the wreckage is pretty neat, but the show had a much better 
 sense of chaos whenever you watched it unfold. The video-game isn't as good at capturing the drama 
 and emotion from the show, and even though Ubisoft worked closely with the creators of the show, 
 the same feelings you get while watching the show aren't as present. There are plenty of very Lost-like 
 surprises contained in the game, and they'll leave you saying "WTF was that?" just like if you're 
 watching the show.
  
  The gameplay has elements of RPGs, but primarily is an action/adventure game. Its RPG qualities 
 come in whenever you're communicating with the other survivors and whenever you're exploring. Aside 
 from this, the action/adventure is in full control as you're running from the smoke monster, trying 
 to avoid getting blown up, and when you're trying not to get shot by a crazy man. There are plenty 
 of mysteries surrounding Elliot and his past, but as you play through the game you find out most 
 everything that you had questions about. Aside from learning about Elliot, you also learn a few 
 things about Lost that you didn't see on television. There are still a few things that fans of 
 the show would have loved to encounter in the game, such as Jacob's cabin or some more interesting 
 smoke monster encounters. A minor part of the gameplay that could have been more interesting is 
 photography. Elliot is a photojournalist that does anything to get a good photograph and story. 
 In many ways this ties into the gameplay and learning secrets, but it would have been neat if you 
 could take pictures of anything and save them to your harddrive - a la Dead Rising.
  
  As far as sound goes, there's really not much to talk about aside from the music and the voice 
 acting. The music in the game is basically the same as what is heard in the show, but the voice 
 acting is a different story. There's only several people from the show that lend their voices in 
 the game, which is are Ben Linus (Michael Emerson) , Sun (Yunjin Kim) , Desmond (Henry Ian Cusick) , 
 Claire (Emilie de Ravin) , Tom (M. C. Gainey) and Mikhail Bakunin (Andrew Divoff) . All the others 
 are stand-ins and not the original actors. There are several voice actors who did terrible jobs 
 at voicing the characters to sound like the people in the show, for example Locke and Charlie are 
 horrible impersonations.
  
  Lost: Via Domus, all things considered, is not a bad game, but it is also not a great game either 
 by any means. There are plenty of things that could have been done to make this a great game, for 
 example better, more compelling, gameplay and if it had been several hours longer. Once you're 
 done with Via Domus, you won't want to play it much again. If you're looking for a compelling video-game 
 to play, you're better off searching elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniac-2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Essentially, if you're a Lost fan this is going be your kind of game. You are one of the survivors 
 of the infamous Flight 815 which crashed on an island somewhere in the South Pacific. The protagonist 
 of this chapter of the Lost world suffers from amnesia for the most part of the game.
  
  While to non-Lost fans this game will be of no interest at all, for the Lost fan it will be the 
 quickest 5/6 hours you'll spend on a game. It is a short game with pretty standard graphics but 
 if you look past all that and actually see it as a way of joining in the Lost universe, it's a 
 great game that does a good job of following the events of the first 2 series.
  
  Worth the 30 price tag and the 5 to 6 hours of gameplay if your a Lost fan, but if your not a 
 Lost fan then you will hate this game. Just don't expect any answers to the questions from the 
 show as the game is non-cannon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinmoreh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it -- I'm a Lost fan. The reason I even considered playing this was because of the show. 
 So, I guess it was a bit of a guilty pleasure for me. But, in the end I was pleasantly surprised 
 with this game.
  
  Having pretty much zero expectation upon beginning the game I was impressed with the opening cut 
 scene. When the game finally starts though, the graphics are lacking a bit for a next gen console 
 title. Granted, some of the character models look fantastic, but others do look a little rough. 
 The sound wasn't anything special, but I didn't find it detracting from the overall game play. 
 The music was pretty good as well, staying true to the series.
  
  The learning curve on this game was really quick and I think Ubisoft designed this with the average 
 weekly Lost watcher in mind. So, to all you non-gamer Blu-Ray fan-boys 'n' girls who bought your 
 PS3 (as it's pretty much the cheapest decent Blu-Ray player on the market) so that you could see 
 Lost grace your television in hi-def, don't worry, this game was made with you in mind. The controls 
 are refreshingly basic, but I was mildly annoyed that the camera view vertically reset itself every 
 time I took my finger off of the "look" controls. That's getting a little nit-picky though. All-in-all, 
 it's an easy 1000 gamer points for the 360 and it was tastefully written along side the existing 
 Lost story. And, for all of you Lost DVD watchers who aren't yet "caught up," don't worry... it 
 doesn't reveal too much past the first couple of seasons.
  
  After beating the game and unlocking all the achievements, I'm happy that I decided to do the weekly 
 rental at my local video store instead of spend the $50 or $60 to add this title to my collection. 
 I would suggest the same course of action to all but the most diabolical of Lost fans.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  On the TV show, no one knows where they are. However, in Via Domus, you don't even know WHO you 
 are. You play as the survivor of Oceanic815, when your memory returns you may not like them. The 
 plot takes place over the first few seasons of the show and yes you get to go to the infamous Swan 
 *hatch* and others. Seeing the island is a fan thrill.
  
  But the thing that makes this game suck so much is its uninspired gameplay. This includes puzzles, 
 a few action sequences and games of hide and seek. The actor "soundalikes" don't, the economy system 
 stinks, and I found a bug that made me have to play it again (uugh..) as well the ending sucks 
 too. If your a fan, rent it. If not, don't waste the five hours.
  
  
  
  
  
  Again I do this just so that GameSpot sees that I have 800 characters in my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is a game in which... well, for starters, it's barely even a game at all. It's more 
 like a checklist of inputs that you enter using a gamepad. There is, at least for me, no enjoyment 
 to be gleaned from the "gameplay" of Lost: Via Domus. There are only two reasons to play it -- only 
 one if you're not a fan of the show. The first reason is that, yeah, if you're a fan of Lost, it's 
 kinda cool to walk around inside the hatch. The second reason is damn, those are some easy points.
 
  
  It's especially disappointing to me because, while watching Lost, I was frequently reminded of 
 some of my favorite adventure game experiences, and Myst in particular. Sure enough, according 
 to Lostpedia (which can't possibly be wrong) , it seems that Lost has been an influence on at least 
 some of the show's writers. A show that has so many adventure game elements built right into it 
 has great potential as the basis for an adventure game. Unfortunately, Lost: Via Domus fails utterly 
 to capitalize on this potential. Firstly, the puzzles, so vital to any engaging adventure game 
 experience, suck. (There's really only one kind of puzzle in the game, involving these panels into 
 which you need to place fuses which you find all over the island. They start out simple and become 
 increasingly complex but never become interesting.) 
  
  Equally disappointingly, the story sucks. It takes the form of a series of Lost episodes, and just 
 like actual Lost episodes, each game episode involves a flashback to an event that happened to 
 your character before he boarded that fateful flight. But the game seems to miss the whole point 
 for these flashbacks. The reason why these flashbacks are so effective on the show is that they 
 provide insight into the characters' pasts that helps us understand them in the present, that illuminates 
 their behavior and their interaction with the other survivors. It's that interaction with other 
 survivors, the complex web of relationships that's formed between them on the island, that makes 
 Lost so compelling. And here, your interactions with other characters couldn't feel more rote or 
 insignificant. Sure, each character does their schtick. Sawyer uses lots of nicknames. Locke says 
 "Don't tell me what I can't do!" Charlie sings "Hey All Everybody!" But there are no meaningful 
 relationships formed whatsoever. When the game hints in the later stages at some sort of connection 
 between your character and Kate, it comes across as ridiculous, because you've hardly interacted 
 with her, or anyone else, for any length of time.
  
  Normally I'm opposed to using FAQs, but that's because normally I find that they take some of the 
 fun out of playing a game. There's no fun to be found in playing Lost: Via Domus to begin with, 
 so after a short while I resorted to a FAQ just to make sure I didn't miss any achievements and 
 could spare myself having to play through any part of the game again. The only thing Lost: Via 
 Domus gets right is some of the locations, particularly the all-important hatch. The gameplay is 
 tedious and dreary, the characters are completely underdeveloped (and some of them look downright 
 freakish) , and the relationships are non-existent. Mercifully, the whole game can be completed 
 in just a few hours. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stasker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Hard to really complain too much about what's presented as there isn't much there period. Expect 
 to finish this game in 1-3 sittings with nearly 900 points or so without really having tried to 
 earn any of them. Voice acting is solid considering only a character or two reprise their roles. 
 The remaining cast is voiced by sound-alikes which works the best it can although is a bit distracting 
 at times. As an average fan of the show (meaning while having seen all seasons, I'm not above recognizing 
 the show's shortcomings) , the game covers the shows basic locations, includes the main characters 
 & themes well enough. 
  
  Game-play consists of treading the environments looking for items, discussion with show characters 
 to advance the story line, snapping of photos to both further the plot and for achievements (you 
 play as a journalist) and quite a few fuse related puzzles. Graphics are solid and do a decent 
 job of recreating the show's lush environments without ever really wowing you. Re-playability is 
 next to nil as once you've done, you've done it and at $60 retail, this is one of those rent only 
 games. Even for Lost die-hards, there are much better ways to spend $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burti91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Well first off I am a huge fan of the TV show and I was quite excited when I heard about this game. 
 However as most of you know I'm sure, movie and tv show tie-ins aren't always brilliant games.
 
  
  To be honest this game is no exception, the game is quite short and It isn't that difficult. Someone 
 who has never played a game in their life could probably complete this in the course of an afternoon, 
 so professional gamers will complete this in no time at all and when I say complete I don't just 
 mean the storyline parts, I'm talking every achievement and sub-plot ie !00%.
  
  I found also that the actual content of the gameplay is very limited and also very repetitive, 
 as I said before it isn't that difficult either, the most difficult part is perhaps the parts known 
 as 'fuse-puzzles' which involve re-wiring a circuit. This really requires nothing more than common 
 sense and a very very elementary understanding of addition and subtraction. 
  
  This game does in fact have alot of good points too.
  The graphics are very good and the likenesses 
 of all the main characters of the show are there. The locations are very nicely rendered and are 
 very faithful to the show, every little detail from the show is there in the game.
  
  It isn't the actors voices however which is not so good as the the "sound-alikes" are exagerrating 
 the actual actors voices which gets kind of annoying.
  
  The storyline is sound and the writers have done a great job of weaving this character into the 
 story of the series.
  
  To summarise if you like the show then this game is good as it let's you experience what life is 
 like on the island and get chased by the smoke monster etc. It's enjoyable but will probably leave 
 you wanting more.
  
  If you've never watched the show then it's at least worth renting or borrowing from someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodbath_87
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Lost is a popular show loved by millions across the globe, including me. I'm a pretty huge fan, 
 I would probably say it's one of my favorite things ever. Sadly, I can't say the same about this 
 game.
  
  You play as Elliott Maslow, a character made just for this game, who is a photo journalist trying 
 to recover his memory while stranded on an island. Your primary objective in the game is recovering 
 your memory, which you do by taking photos in flashbacks (something all Lost fans are familiar 
 with) . This is an interesting idea, but taking photos can be a real pain at times, and you may 
 constantly have to retake the photos to get the right one.
  
  In flashbacks, other than taking photos, you can have conversations with select people, read newspaper 
 clippings, listen to audio tapes, and a few other things. These things don't really relate to the 
 main story at all, but fans of the show may pick up a few things a long the way.
  
  
  On the island you will explore, do a few missions, and talk to characters from the show. Fans of 
 the show will enjoy visiting the various stations in the game, like The Pearl, The Staff, and of 
 course The Swan. These locations seem to stay true to the show in pretty much every way. Unfortunately, 
 the game only takes place in the first two seasons so you miss out on a few locations, like The 
 Barracks.
  
  The missions on the island are boring for the most part, and include running from the smoke monster, 
 searching for dynamite, and going through caves. None of these are particularly enjoyable. Running 
 from the smoke monster is cool at first, but becomes tedious later on. You have to run through 
 the forest following flags or tree marks and hide in trees when the monster is too close. When 
 you leave the tree you'll have to get back on track, which can be hard because of the way the tree 
 puts you out. Going through caves is borderline awful, as it's too dark to see a hole a few feet 
 in front of you, which will kill you if you fall in it. You'll have different light sources which 
 will be put out by bats or waterfalls. Without light you will die.
  
  About half of the characters from the first two seasons appear, and even fewer have a meaningful 
 role. Those who do have a role seem to actually be parodies of the characters. Jack will give orders 
 and get in your way, Kate will be secretive, Sawyer will sound like a generic redneck and give 
 you a new nickname every time you ask him something, Michael will yell for Walt a lot, Locke will 
 sound wise and not want to leave the island, etc. Some characters like Claire will only appear 
 twice. The entire tail section, Boone, and Shannon aren't seen at all. The characters will either 
 look like the actual actors, or nothing like them at all, there's not really anything in between, 
 and it's a shame that they couldn't get all of the actors to do the actual voices for the characters, 
 because a lot of them sound terrible. Even with the flaws, it's somewhat fun to interact with them.
 
  
  The environment graphics look fine for the most part, but the jungles look nowhere near as good 
 as they do in GRAW 2. Characters, as mentioned above, either look good or awful. The ocean does 
 look quite good though as you look off hopelessly on the beach.
  
  The story has a lot of things from the show missing from it, and other things seem to come and 
 go too fast. I guess that's what happens when you try to fit a huge show like Lost is a relatively 
 small game like this. Sawyer, Michael, Jin, and Walt going on the raft (and the subsequent kidnapping 
 of Walt) are only mentioned once in a passing conversation, making it seem as if it wasn't a major 
 part of the show. The hatch being found is made to seem like a small detail. It's pretty much like 
 "Blah, blah, blah, oh, and we found a big hatch out in the jungle, thought you may want to know 
 that". 
  
  Part of the story which would only be understood by fans of the show is the inclusion of The Others. 
 It's handled so awfully that I can't imagine what someone who never saw the show would think. You 
 would really have no idea what's going on at all.
  
  The story wraps up with you taking a role similar to what Michael did at the end of season two, 
 with a few things being rewritten. The end of the game is actually interesting and is something 
 new that hasn't been seen in Lost yet.
  
  So overall, it's a fine rental if you're a fan of Lost or need some easy gamerpoints. There is 
 no replay value at all, so you definitely shouldn't buy it. If you plan on playing the game to 
 see if anything is revealed about the series, don't worry about it, nothing is. The game isn't 
 canon to the show so anything that happens in the game will not have any meaning on the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sladdy_Deeve
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Now im a BIG Lost fan. Ive seen every episode and am frequently searching for spoilers, and as 
 you would guess when i heard of a Lost game i nearly wet myself.
  
  But no. Just no.
  
  My excitement was soon cut short. I couldnt have been more dissapointed when i got home and loaded 
 the disc up.....
  
  This game is terrible. The voices are weak, the story is confusing, the gameplay is extremely linear 
 and the game on a whole lasts all of about 5 hours, with absolutely no replay value. 
  
  There are some good points, at times the graphics are stunning, especially on the beach. 
  
 
  Although if you're looking for a game to boost your gamerscore then this is a good addition, all 
 1000 points can be earned in the first play through.
  
  
  Unless you want to feel ripped off and cheated, dont buy this game. I rented it and im glad i did 
 so aswell. TV shows/films should usually NEVER be made into games. This being a prime example. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabru8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  You play as a survivor of Oceanic Flight 815; if you have watched the show then you already know 
 the details around the plane crash. For those of you who don't knowthe plane crashes on a mysterious 
 island and there are a number of survivors. You don't play as one of the main characters from the 
 TV show, but instead a man who's suffering from temporary amnesia. All the familiar faces from 
 the first few seasons are there (Jack, Kate, Sawyer, Locke, Sayid, Hurley, Desmond, Charlie, Claire) , 
 there are also a few of the "others" (Ben and Juliet are the most known) , but you simply interact 
 with them, with different characters helping you out as you try to figure out who you are and find 
 a way to get off the island. My main criticism lies in that aspect of the game. I wish and desperately 
 wanted more interaction with the main characters. Although the game plays like any modern third-person 
 game, it's very much an adventure in the old-fashioned sense. You walk into things and on-screen 
 messages pop up asking you if you want to inspect the item or pick it up, you get into scripted 
 conversations with survivors of Oceanic Flight 815 and navigate the jungle in a fairly linear way. 
 It might look modern but it might as well be a point and click adventure - not that such a game 
 would be bad. However, the two scenes that have you running from the black smoke which require 
 you to jump and slide around obstacles are the most daring and skill challenging events of the 
 game. Another disappointing aspect of the game is the interaction with the island. It looks like 
 you want it to, but it has a painting feel about it. The developers tease us in a way by giving 
 us the island just how we want it, but we can't touch it or interact with it like we want to. Bottom 
 lineI am a huge fan of the show and so I am able to look past some of the weaker parts of the 
 game and love it for what it is. a Lost video game. If you aren't a fan of the show you might just 
 want to pass this one by as you will not get the same enjoyment out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a fun adventure game that dives right into the Lost universe and delivers a satisfying 
 story. The main character's unkown past (he can't remember anything from the plane crash) is uncovered 
 through a series of flashbacks in each "episode". The flashbacks are great because they give the 
 game the exact look and feel of a real episode of Lost. Finding out our main character's mystery 
 is more than half the fun of playing Via Domus.
  
  The game itself has flaws that are easy for people to let ruin the game experience for them. If 
 I was not a fan of the show, I would have quit playing this less than an hour in. There's little 
 to no action, just a bunch of running around and talking to people and looking for different things 
 on the island. If you dont know anything about the tv show, there are plenty of references to it 
 that you will not understand and thus not follow the story as well,
  
  The graphics are pretty good and all of the character's look exactly like the actors that play 
 them. I do not know which, if any, of the actors lent their voices to the game. I found none of 
 the voices to really sound like the actors themselves, though most were atleast close.
  
  Replay value is pretty lax. Once you know the story there is no real reason, or enough fun left, 
 to go back and play the game again. If you're looking to go back and get any achievements you missed, 
 then you'll probably get as frustrated as I did. I only missed one achievement but the fact that 
 you cannot skip through cutscenes makes it take so much longer that I gave up. I didn't feel like 
 playing the whole game again to get one lousy achievement. (And yes the cutscenes are a big deal 
 because the achievement is split up into two places, and you go to each in different episodes, 
 which means you have to play the whole game as one continuous play rather than go into each individual 
 episode.)
  
  If you're a fan of the show you should definitely play this game as it will be completely worth 
 it and a rather fun experience. If you aren't a fan of the show I would recommend staying away. 
 It will most likely only frustrate you.
  
  Either way, rent this game. It is not worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanhalenfrank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game had all the essentails from the show, locke, jack, hurley, charlie, sayid, kate, claire, 
 desmond, juliet, ben, micheal, sawyer, the plane that crashed, the hatch, the others, that black 
 smoke. BUT, i hate the fuses, you always have to fix fuses and they are hard to figure out, also 
 the fact that you have to remember a bunch of crap. Go to one place, got to remember to go to the 
 other place you just came from. But i like the fact that they brought in new characters, like elliot 
 maslow, and the reporter that he went out with. But what sucks is that the henchman guy they showed 
 him once and never again, and it has been two episodes without him. This didn't live up to its 
 full potential that i hoped it would have. I wasn't expecting it to be a talk to everyone and thats 
 how you beat it. I wanted it to be like a normal 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  This is a very emmersive adventure game. I never heard of Lost TV show. I was not a fan. I just 
 picked up this game because it looked like fun. This is the best adventure game I have ever played. 
 Its very high detailed. Great graphics and sound. I am a old school gamer. Who loved such games 
 as gabriel knight, tex murphy, broken sword. And this game is equal to them. This is a very detailed 
 adventure game. With great voice acting, puzzles, challenges. Indepth story. A must buy for adventure 
 game fans. 
  
  You can have conversations with all the characters. Find out secrets, help characters. Its very 
 dramatic story. I love the open ended gameplay, of different choices. Using items and tools. The 
 beach, and water, and forest. Everything is just photo realistic. The characters look life like. 
 
  
  The story is very indepth. With twists and turns. You dont know who to trust, who is your friend 
 or not. I would say alot of replay. And easily over 100 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid LOST follower. I have the posters, Seasons 1-3 and enjoy the podcasts, so I was excited 
 to learn that this game would be coming to the PS3. LOST the game is good fan-service, a decent 
 story set in the LOST universe that helps explain some of the time-loop theory that is out there, 
 however it is painfully short and not worth a purchase.
  
  The gameplay is made up of exploration and the taking of photos for flashbacks. There is a VERY 
 small amount of gunplay, and a cool section or two of running through the forest from the fog, 
 but overall you'll be walking around grabbing papaya's and the like while engaging various members 
 of the island to find out who you are. 
  
  Graphically the game looks decent. The framerate is unstable, and the character models are decent 
 at best, but the real winner is the jungle enviorments that are teeming with life and beautiful 
 to behold.
  
  The sound is a mixed bag, while the voices are lame sound-alikes, the music is awesome and straight 
 from the show.
  
  Overall, LOST is a great rental for Fans of the show. No matter how die hard you are, you should 
 NOT purchase this game as it's extremely short and lacking in extras. If your not a fan of the 
 show, this game will be utterly lame to you so don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6love6metal6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  To begin with Lost: Via Domus is such a bad game, its to short, puzzels can become really complex 
 and annoying, the voice acting is terrible (apart from characters like Desmond and Ben who are 
 voiced by the actors ho play them) , the story is really weird and seems to focus on the major parts 
 of the TV series and it jumps time with in the series (for expample : the second mission you do 
 is where you have to find your camera in the front section of the plane (SE1EP2) and the next mission 
 shows Locke showing you the hatch and blowing it up (SE1EP23) .
  
  This said Lost: Via Domus does somethings really well, exploring the jungle is really fun and it 
 looks pretty damn good, the flashback gameplay is genius !!! (you have to take a certian picture 
 with you camera to remember your past) and for me to best part of the entire game is just simply 
 exploring the island and all the locations from the TV series .... exploring the hatch, the beach 
 camp and all the main locations from the series, as a hard-core Lost fan this is just amazing !!!
 
  
  
  On the whole Lost: Via Domus really should get like 5/10 but im going to give it 7.5/10 because 
 despite all the games fautls i still really like it.
  
  This is a game that is primarily a game for hard-core Lost fans and thats who i would recommed 
 this game to .... but rent it dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This was a very short game and a very scripted one as well. It def has its downfalls but for a 
 rental its easy to beat and easy to find intriguing i felt. I didnt watch the show ever and still 
 have not but i will say this game intrigued me more about the show. 
  
  The graphics were complicated. sometimes gorgeous and other times not so much. Over all though 
 i really don't have complaints. A game with a great plot and a great feel can get away with worse 
 graphics then this, its just something people chose to be picky about sometimes, me not so much 
 though. 
  
  The sound was good enough it was in the background of the game. Didn't stand out in a special or 
 bad way though so good enough~
  
  The gameplay was not bad either if you dont mind something thats very very scripted. I enjoy games 
 with more freedom but for a rental i dont mind scripted games. 
  
  Over all id rent it again if i could make the choice again. And i will suggest to friends that 
 it was a fun rental. i god around 8-900 gamerscore by doing very little other then playing, and 
 i found my time worth while. 
  
  Black Ink~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyhole_romance
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, some good points. The graphics are very nice. The characters look like their real life 
 counterparts, the whole photo taking angle of the flashbacks is well done and nicely suited to 
 the player's character and it is quite cool visiting (abeit a very small amount of) the locations 
 featured in the series. Now the bad; the game is pathetically short, the whole thing can be completed 
 in under 5 hours without missing out on anything. The voiceovers are at best laughable and at worst 
 (Locke) downright offputting. The gameplay is virtually non-existant, there are a few fuse puzzles, 
 the picture taking flashbacks and some rubbish black smoke avoiding stealth sections. You can get 
 a gun, but you'll probably only shoot two people with it seeing as there is a total lack of enemies. 
 Where's the polar bear? He's dead in a cave. Missed opportunity. Why they didn't include some mini-games 
 to add replayability is beyond me. Hurley's Golf Course? Loads of characters are overlooked and 
 those present are poorly voiced, so I can't recommend it to other fans of Lost. The game is short 
 and lacks substance so I can't recommend it to adventure game fans. In short, it's far too short 
 but due to the absence of gameplay maybe that isn't such a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorick_vs_Vash
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  As I'm sure most people who will review this game will have mentioned. I am a huge fan of the show. 
 So I will mention though I was glad to hear they where making a video game based off the character 
 driven show but wondering as well... A game based off a character based driven??? WTF??? How where 
 they going this? Who would I play as? You it be based off an episode to the show? Would they answer 
 some questions from the show or just throw in a whole bunch of new ones? those are just some of 
 the questions I was wondering... There where a lot.... the show makes you question a lot of things.
 
  
  
  So here goes....
  
  You play as a newly introduced member of the losties named Elliot. The game starts off on the Ill 
 fated flight oceanic 815, after some turbulence the plane rips in half and crashes. You wake up 
 on the Island in the middle of the Jungle, and you can't remember anything of your past. So for 
 the most part its trying to find out who you are and what your past is. 
  
  Threw out the game you run into a lot of familiar faces and unfortunately no familiar voices. The 
 character models look amazing but the lack of movement sometimes makes them feel dull. Talking 
 to them can be pretty annoying too. They seem to miss the built in casting a few of the characters... 
 mostly John Locke, who seems to be voiced by a Native American Chief. I know you are suppose to 
 get the point across that he is in tune with the island but come on. As well the dialog with the 
 losties is too short at times, and you feel like they is no real character development with them. 
 Talking to other characters supplies you with clues to what ti do next. I'm sure though a person 
 can some times skip talking to the. 
  
  Part of remembering your past is the all so "lost" flash back. You will soon find out in one of 
 these flashbacks that you are a photo journalist and taking the right picture in your flashback 
 will help you remember more of your past. Luckily you will remember what you need to know at the 
 right times too.
  
  A large part of the game is its mini games as I call it. the list of them are as follows:
  1. 
 Fuse box - you need to insert fuses in a grid in order to get it to the right amount of current 
 flowing threw the circuit to open doors or stop a gas line from leaking,
  2. Markers - You will find flags or carving on tree you use these markers to find special destination 
 like the hatch or the black rock. Once the location is over the makers Vanish. you will run into 
 the smoke monster though he is really easy to escape by just running into some trees.
  3. Chases - (these can be the most fun) You will be chased on a few occasions and timing is essential 
 for avoiding dead trees, rocks, and quicksands. either by sliding underneath them or jumping over 
 them... Tip: do not slide into the quicksand!!!
  4. Dharma Quiz - Running into these 1980 computers will have you try your luck at there highly 
 advanced computer quiz . These are too few and to easy for any real longtime effect.
  5. Gunfights - A bigger let down than Star Wars Episode One, Very few and not really engaging at 
 all!
  6. Caves - When you enter a cave you need a light source. Staying in the dark for too long will 
 end up getting you killed. So you will grab a torch or lantern which will work great. Just avoid 
 bats cause they will blow out your light source and diminish its overall health a bit. same with 
 running water.
  
  After you play for a bit you will get your camera which is cool. You can take pictures of familiar 
 things and get achievement points or unlock ables. The camera is mostly important in the flashbacks 
 so it can be mostly ignored in the real time game.
  
  All in all the game is really good but it is a MUST rent (unless you want to collect lost crap) . 
 It has a great story line worth checking into for sure To be honest a lot of the time I was playing 
 the mini games just wanting to get back into the story line of things. The game is waaaaaaaayyyyyyy 
 to short and just running threw it will get you a lot of gamer points (for you 360 gamer points 
 fan boys) . If you have never seen the show put it down... and pick up the game beside it... and 
 hoping its all alphabetical it should be Lost Planet... play that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Like the television series that inspired it, Lost: The Video Game is an experience riddled with 
 frustration.
  
  Based on the exploits of a crash survivor never mentioned in the TV series - a plot device which 
 will have hardened fans scratching their heads to begin with - the game is a traditional adventure 
 romp, the action sequences punctuated by puzzles designed to get your grey matter working and convey 
 the challenges faced by your perplexed heroes.
  
  But while Lost is amongst this year's better licensed games  and a world away from dross such 
 as Jumper: Griffin's Story  it's still riddled with problems; from a spin-off perspective the 
 voice talent is pretty lousy, while many of the lines delivered by sound-alkies who lack the punch 
 of the original actors. Silly moments that don't sit well with the TV show - at one point there's 
 only a single entrance to the jungle for Christ sakes! - also undermine the experience, and the 
 fact that playing the game reveals little new about the twisted plot will also make some fans wonder 
 why they bothered.
  
  From a gaming standpoint, Lost does nothing to welcome players unfamiliar with the plot  and will 
 be a complete headache for anyone who doesn't know what 'black smoke' is  while the recurring 
 sequences where you have to pick your way through pitch-black caves or fiddle with broken fuse 
 boxes soon become a chore to complete.
  
  Hardcore Lost fans will doubtless enjoy this fresh take on the series, and the final few moments 
 reveal details about the island that add weight to theories about the series floating around on 
 fan forums. But even those devoted to the TV show will be disappointed after working their way 
 to the end, and would be advised to rent the game for a weekend rather than spunking 40 quid on 
 owning a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codgin
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  This review is strictly written from a fan prospective, for anyone who doesn't follow the show, 
 sadly their is nothing really worthy of a purchase in this game. 
  
  The highlights
  Excellent detail in the jungle and numerous other locations
  Character interaction is fun
  
 Exploring locations, such as the hatch, is mostly pleasurable
  Interesting puzzle twist for flashbacks, having to take a photo of a scene of interest, will spark 
 a memory
  Some puzzles like the one mentioned above are fun
  You get to enter the numbers!
  The story is in true lost fashion
  
  The negatives
  Some 
 characters voices are, well, iffy, such as Locke and Charlie
  The trade system is to small, you only ever really use the gun three times
  Deeper character 
 interaction would have been more rewarding, for example, hunting bore with John Locke, or a puzzle 
 solving method of helping Sayid fix things . And what about the French woman, and Mr. Eko, Shannon, 
 Boone, Anna, E. t. c 
  More locations would have been nice, the others camp, the caves, the station were they watched 
 the hatch, that big open green they played golf on, the tail sections beach, the fake others camp
 
  Though the flashbacks were handled well, use of the camera could have been used more. And the 
 flashback itself could have been solved in two episodes
  Puzzles needed to be more varied, theirs too little variety
  Exploration was at times annoying, 
 especially the caves, the black smoke sometimes can also be a drag, were was the French womans 
 traps in the jungle?
  The game was over far too soon
  
  Conclusion
  A game far too short, with too little variety, what could have been something special, ends up 
 feeling cheated. That said its definitely worth a play through at least once for the fans, their 
 are moments that are a delight, its just a shame its over so soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  The popular television series makes its debut as a video game. This time focusing on a different 
 character who was involved in the Oceanic Airlines 815 crash. Lost: Via Domus features seven episodes 
 where you play the same character all the way through. We don't know his name at first but we soon 
 find out later. The male character seems to have forgotten a lot since the plane crash landed. 
 So, he will need to find out more about himself to find a way out of this mysterious island.
  
  You start off with an opening cutscene that shows how he and the others ended up on this island. 
 When he comes to realisation, we realise that many people have survived. From there on, you must 
 lead him through his story of the island. Making progress is done by doing a variety of tasks. 
 You'll need to talk to people, gather items and head to locations that you've been told to go to. 
 The story begins to unfold eventually revealing the few dark secrets of this mysterious island.
 
  
  Upon getting full control over your character, you'll begin to learn the easy to use controls. 
 Basically, you are walking for a lot of the time but can pick up a limited amount of supplies such 
 as water bottles, papaya, coconuts and more. These come in useful for trading to help you out later 
 on. Although, it may seem like you need to do a lot of collecting, there really isn't a strong 
 need to go searching everywhere. The inventory has been used so many times and in some games you 
 need to constantly use it. For Lost: Via Domus, it's needed for some parts but not as strongly 
 as originally expected.
  
  Lost: Via Domus does provide you with a few challenges throughout. There are caves that you will 
 need to walk through at a few points in order to progress. However, these caves are dark and you 
 need to have some sort of light. You can use the lighter but this becomes hot and goes out after 
 a period of time. Now, if you traded items you can have a better light source to take with you. 
 Not having any light is bad news when in the caves. There's a monster that really does add to the 
 thrilling aspect of the game. Another part where I felt so scared to get through was in the jungle 
 later on. You've got this black smoke following you and if it gets near you, it is game over. You 
 cannot run very far so you simply cannot outrun something like this. Instead, you need to quickly 
 need to taking hiding in between some plants. The characters heart is beating constantly for a 
 while and at times you don't know if you've been caught of successfully hidden yourself. This part 
 does very well in trying to add a thrilling element to the experience.
  
  Now, because of his memory being limited, there is this feature where you can go back in time - 
 flashbacks. These are in each episode and need you to take a snapshot using the camera of a specific 
 item or person at a certain time. Now, before the main flashback starts, it shows you a torn up 
 photo. This gives you some clue on how to get the photo done. There are also other options to adjust 
 the focus too in these too. It's a good addition but later on it can become a little annoying trying 
 to get the correct photo. Certainly something that I haven't seen done a lot, either.
  
  Many of the characters from the series make it into the video game - including Jack, Kate, Hurley, 
 Locke and Sayid. You'll meet many of these straight away and each of the characters feels like 
 a part of the storyline you are going through. They have great voice acting applied and certainly 
 do represent their show's counterparts. When you progress, you'll be giving quest objectives. You 
 simply hit the Back button to find out what these are. So, you can never really be too stuck. As 
 the game recommends, you can always go up to a character to find clues and help on what to do next.
 
  
  There's also a few extra things you can do. Photos can be taken when you have the camera equipped 
 from the inventory. There are usually a few objects that need a photo taken in order to unlock 
 some extras and achievements. There's also a good puzzle on the beach that makes use of the camera. 
 This will certainly be appreciated by Lost fans. Doing some of these things unlock secret areas. 
 So, it may be worth checking out some of the few easter eggs that Lost: Via Domus has to offer.
 
  
  Lost: Via Domus certainly holds up with its look and feel. The island looks great but it seems 
 the character models is where the most effort has been put in. Every character has a lot of detail 
 to them - freckles, the hairs on their face and their animations. Look at the main character, you'll 
 notice there are some minor but yet great details on him. For example, his belt seems to shine 
 due to the lighting placement. When you walk, you can see how the animations are done - walking 
 slow and running seem to be smooth. A few times though, it seems the animations are a little off 
 - especially in the cutscenes when they are talking. It all sounds great too. On the more thrilling 
 parts, you really do get a sense of being out there, lost on some mysterious island with some strange 
 goings-on.
  
  However, despite a lot of great things about Lost: Via Domus, it simply does not offer a lot to 
 keep you playing for a while. Its main storyline is good but ends so soon. There also doesn't seem 
 to be a lot of variety in the things you do. For the most part, it is heading somewhere, collecting 
 something and then proceeding back to a character. That's not to say it doesn't offer any real 
 challenge. There are a few mathematical puzzles present - with some having a time limit. There 
 are a few parts that may have you getting stuck a few times (such as running away from the monster) . 
 In conclusion, I think the story is what drives this game strongly and there's certainly some great 
 elements for Lost fans too. It's also a quick 1000 too for those wanting to build up their gamerscore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Lost is a divisive TV series if ever there was one. You've either been glued to your screen since 
 the first episode, or thought it was pretentious rubbish. It's lucky that I fit neatly into the 
 "self-confessed addict" category, then, since Lost: Via Domus (sorry, I mean "Lost: The Video Game") 
 is unfathomable without prerequisite knowledge of the TV show. The game's storyline meanders loosely 
 around that of the TV show, but Via Domus doesn't bother to explain things and assumes you already 
 know the score.
  
  If you can grasp what's going on, there's plenty of fun to be had here. All your favourite characters 
 appear (as well as Juliet) with the voice acting ranging from original cast members to some downright 
 offensive replacements- Sawyer's stand-in is a particularly awful example. There are also some 
 jarring 'uncanny valley' effects, but those were largely to be expected. Aside from the juxtaposition 
 of original voices with caricature visuals, Via Domus is no slouch in the visual department with 
 the Island looking as dense and disorientating as you would expect.
  
  In Via Domus you play as Elliott Maslow, photojournalist with a generic mysterious past. Poor Elliott 
 is a victim of plane-crash induced amnesia (what a coincidence) , thus your main objective is to 
 piece together your shattered memory while travelling to staple Lost locales, avoiding gun-toting 
 Others, smoke monsters and omnipresent coconuts. The story, while disappointingly non-canonical, 
 is engaging. The puzzles the game throws at you, on the other hand, are not. Unfortunately, all 
 power supplies in the world of Lost are controlled by a ubiquitous, Bioshock-aping system that 
 slows the action to a crawl.
  
  Now that we're in the generation formerly known as 'next' and games cost a premium, value for money 
 is less a perk and more an essential consideration. Via Domus is one of the shortest 360 games 
 I've ever played; this wouldn't be a problem if the game had some kind of incentive to return to 
 previous chapters, but aside from unlocking some concept art and Achievements there is little reason 
 to crash on the Island all over again. 
  
  As an action-adventure game, Via Domus is mediocre yet peppered with some great bits- the monster 
 chase sequences for example, while derivative, are a welcome break from the subdued exploration 
 elements. There's nothing here that hasn't been done before five years ago in Shenmue, and done 
 better at that. As an interactive take on the Lost experience, however, it's as good as you could 
 hope for. Fans will love the subtle references and in-jokes while appreciating a new take on existing 
 mythology. Everyone else will be well lost.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brerrabbit23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Game was pretty short, which made for a really easy 1000 gamerscore. Stays to the Lost 
 show's canon quite nicely. Story presented is believable in context with the series. Being able 
 to explore the layout of "the hatch" & similar structures first-hand was a hoot.
  
  The Bad: Game was pretty short, which meant I kinda wondered where my $60 went before the charge 
 had even gone through to my bank. Took me about 6 hours, including time to go back and rack up 
 last few GS points. Voice actors who weren't original cast members were sometimes really awkward. 
 Locke's voice stands out, in particular. Almost sounded like they took a guy who spoke at a pitch 
 3 steps higher than O'Quinn and tuned him down on an audio board or some similar. Don't mean to 
 be overly critical, as such a challenge couldn't have been easy to manage... but it still made 
 me wince a bit to hear it. Graphics were good. Gameplay mechanics were pretty predictable/staid.
 
  
  I've played worse, I guess. If I had it to do over again, I'd rent it or wait for the new price 
 to slide and buy a used one. At the end of the day, I've definitely played worse movie/TV IP games.
 
  
  If you're really into the series, you might get antsy and pick up a full priced copy. I know I 
 was. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  
  Why oh Why did I not listen to the listen voice inside me that said "Don't do it Syco, remember 
 CSI. Film and Movie tie in's are pants! Think Spiderman 3 and King Kong" Don't do it!!!" But nooooooo 
 way would Ubisoft let us down with a game tie in of the cutting edge TV show, they wouldn't dare! 
 Oh but but they did Syco, they did! The ONLY good point about this game is the graphics! They look 
 great!! The game is short, boring and irritating on soooooo many levels. The constant cut scenes 
 and then loading and then short roamin 'action' and then loading and then boring needless Q&A and 
 then loading and then roaming and picking up coconuts just grates on your nerves. GOD knows who 
 they drafted in to the voices too as they're utterly pants! lesson well and truly learned now! 
 DO NOT BUY A TIE IN GAME ANYMORE SYCO! 
  
  If your a fan of the show go spend your money on a DVD boxset instead of this shocking cash in. 
 
  
  terrible..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonecoldxxx316
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  yeah the game is good but not great, ive played the game everyday
  after i get up in the evening cause im workin nights and before goin
  to work seems like im stuck 
 playin the game for at least 3-4 hours in
  about 4 days well right now i dont know what chapter or episode im
  on but its the 1 with the 
 hatch and heres where stupid part comes
  but to me you got to disable the alarm by typing the numbers in
  and after that you got all the 
 time you need for all 3 circuits and to
  find certain things like fuses they come in handy but only if you
  could get all 3 circuits going 
 or at least 1 though im stuck with
  the circuits and thats all im gonna say but heres a note for those
  who get all 3 circuits going 
 let me know how you did it so i dont
  have to trade it in for another if the game can be beaten but if
  their are more people out their 
 who has the same problem then
  your better off taking it to gamestop for a trade and rewrite a review
  cause ill give this game 
 a restart to see if their are things i might 
  have missed anything that might be more helpful to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavobotto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This is a unique game based on a Tv series!
  
  First of all it is not just a game based on a tv series where you can play with some characters 
 of that and participate a little bit of the history of it. Its a expecience where you can really 
 be part of the serie, where you can live having a unique experience in the island and making a 
 totally new history of your character.
  
  As i said it is not a game its real a oportunity to live a little bit in the island of lost, having 
 some adventures and discovering some mysterys there.
  
  You play as Elliot Masllow, a passanger of the Oceanic Flight 815 and the game beging with the 
 crash of the plane and you with amnesia, so you have play all the game to know who you realy are, 
 what you did and why you are at the island.
  
  The history of the game happens in seasons 1 and 2 of the tv series, so you will always be in touch 
 with many of the characters of the serie, for solving quests and do some trade.
  
  The game is divided in 7 chapters, like episodes of teh series, that iniciate and finish like on 
 tv with the "lost" name. (its is really like you where living a interactive season of lost)
  
  It is a basic history and puzzles game, so you play tha game to know the history of your character 
 and solving puzzles. You will have a gun but you will not give more than 5 shots in all game.
 
  
  They use the same flashback system of the series that make more interesting discover who you are, 
 because you have to take some pistures to put together your fragmented memory.
  
  There is 2 bad points in this game in my point view. One is that the puzzles after 2 hours of the 
 game became all the same, so you dont have diferente challenges and the other way is that the game 
 is too short, you can play it all in six hours.
  
  But is you are a fan of lost like me you will love the game, the history is amazing involving with 
 a unbeliavable end, your characters is full of mystery that worse to play all the game to solve 
 it.
  
  This is a perfect oportunity to fans of lost live and interact with the series!
  
  If you like the series you will love the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  As a huge LOST fan I was overjoyed but still a little sceptical over the release of a game based 
 on the hit TV series. Having bought it on the opening day of release I found it to be a very enjoyable 
 and "LOST" experience. 
  
  You play a new character called Elliot who wakes up after the crash with amnesia having no clue 
 who he is or where he's from. His remembering comes in the form of various flashbacks throughout 
 the game, while in the flashbacks you have to picture a moment in the scene to help Elliot remember. 
 The campaign includes 8 episodes in total, all of which are very fun to play even if quite short. 
 Exploring the jungle, running from the black smoke, visiting the "Black Rock" ship and the plane 
 cockpit are all included so all LOST followers will feel right at home.
  
  One of the games best features happens to be the sound, being a LOST fan I was able to notice the 
 traditional music playing through the game which happens to be the same playing in the TV episodes. 
 With the original charcaters also appearing in the game the visuals and dialogue had to be pretty 
 accurate, unfortunately this is where the game can fall slightly off target.
  
  Without looking at this as a 'tie in' game to the series but as an adventure game LOST Via Domus 
 delievers on a majority of levels, but not all. With the campaign lasting in the region of 6-7 
 hours only true fanatics will fork out the 40 ($60) . For those who are looking for a respectable 
 adventure game its best just to rent for a few days. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik_r
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  http://www. grayhouse. com/2008/03/02/lost-via-domus-review/
  
  After three full seasons of the smoke monster, the hatch, the Others and many other complex and 
 occasionally incomprehensible twists, television's 'Lost' has been the subject of mind numbing 
 analysis and long winded debates among its adamant fans. These 'Losties' turn their cognitive gears 
 into overdrive, they treat the canon like it's the subject of their post-grad thesis and although 
 some of the obsession with 'Lost' may be bordering on fanatical, it is undeniably one of the most 
 intriguing hours of TV around. It was inevitable that the ever-growing story of the passengers 
 of Oceanic Flight 815 would extend into videogame form with 'Lost: Via Domus' for the Xbox 360, 
 PS3 and PC. (Played on Xbox 360)
  
  A lot of baggage comes with being a licensed game; more often than not they are over-priced pieces 
 of marketing garbage. To counter this occurring trend the solid Ubisoft Montreal took the reins 
 of the 'Lost' universe and it materializes in generally good results. The game begins just as the 
 series does; the crash of an airliner on what initially appears to be a regular picturesque tropical 
 paradise, but as turns out it is full of all sorts of convoluted trickery and mystery that would 
 be pointless to explain if you haven't watched the show. Apparently the game was made with the 
 same philosophy; Via Domus makes no attempt at ushering in new fans and will make absolutely no 
 sense for those who haven't seen multiple seasons.
  
  The Via Domus story centers on an initially unnamed survivor of Flight 815 who suffers from amnesia 
 brought on by the crash, flashbacks serve as pieces of the character's past that fall into place 
 and progress the story and the goings on of the island rather nicely. While not on par with any 
 of the better episodes of the series it is solid nonetheless and it is no small feat to incorporate 
 a previously non-existent storyline and character so seamlessly within a plot heavy universe. No 
 spoilers here but let it be known that the ending of Via Domus will turn your brain to mush, ties 
 significantly with the most recent and significant advancement of season four and will be subject 
 of those previously mentioned fanatical debates.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Lost: Via Domus is better explained and enjoyed as an interactive mini season; there is little 
 depth to its adventure-light roots. The majority of the game is spent solving only a handful of 
 puzzles types, most of which are only marginally challenging. In between puzzles you will barter 
 with the characters from the show, trading coconuts and mangos scavenged from the various recognizable 
 locales for torches and other essential items.
  
  lostmedia2. jpg
  The main character who suffers from amnesia is more adept with a camera than a gun
  
  There 
 are only a few other gameplay types that mix things up. The first of which are cave sequences that 
 are well executed and genuinely spooky, they have you use limited light sources to traverse an 
 environment full of deep chasm and other natural dangers. The other is a scripted and linear action 
 chase sequence which captures the feel of the series' similar situations and several other slow 
 moving run-evade-hide bits involving the smoke monster in the jungle.
  
  As a photojournalist the main character's flashbacks serve as camera minigames which require precisely 
 focused and framed photos of key plot elements which serve as pieces of his shattered memory. It's 
 rather baffling that a photojournalist doesn't have auto focus on his camera but it does its job 
 in making things slightly more challenging. In addition, throughout every flashback there are documents 
 that serve as background and clues to the story. The camera also comes into play on the island; 
 there are a ton of photo-ops with easter eggs from the series that any hardcore fan will appreciate.
 
  
  All of these elements serve a very basic purpose in a game that focuses on the mystery and intrigue 
 of the island. For fans the experience will shine when exploring the faithfully recreated sets 
 from the show and talking to the characters, but there should have been more variety and better 
 execution of the simple design concepts.
  
  6.0/10
  
  Controls:
  
  The interfaces for bartering, puzzle solving and photos are comprehensible and well laid out. However, 
 the occasional shooting sequences have poor aiming and there are collision detection issues while 
 traversing the environment and although they are very rare it still hinders the experience.
  
  7.0/10
  
  Visuals:
  
  'Lost' has a very distinct look and feel and the highlight of 
 Via Domus is traversing all the iconic sets from the show. The Hatch, the Blackrock, the beach 
 and the different Dharma Initiative stations are incredibly authentic and gorgeous to boot. The 
 jungle environments are small and rival Uncharted: Drake's Fortune in terms sheer density and realism. 
 Presentation and art direction are top-notch, authentic and are what any 'Lost' fan could possibly 
 hope for from an interactive experience. The only negative to speak of is that several character 
 models are so poorly rendered that you might mistake this as George A. Romero's 'Lost' but since 
 the majority of key characters are decently realized it isn't too much of a bother.
  
  8.5/10
  
  lostmedia. jpg
  The sets are authentically recreated and fans will enjoy solving 
 mysteries and scouring for easter eggs
  
  Audio:
  
  Again the presentation is carried over seamlessly from the show including the great score from 
 composer Michael Giacchino. From the lively jungles, to the hatch counting down to self-destruct 
 and to the hollow and creepy caves the atmosphere is faithful and at the level with what you hear 
 weekly on the show. Unfortunately only a handful of actors lend their voices and their replacements 
 are terrible.
  
  7.5/10
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  The adventure is only 5 to 6 hours long and there is little reason to go back and play again with 
 the exception of completists who will search every nook and cranny for easter eggs to photograph 
 for their 1000 achievement points on the Xbox 360 version. With little variety to gameplay and 
 a short narrative the game only translates to what is roughly a little less than half a regular 
 season.
  
  5.5/10
  
  Overall:
  
  More than anything Lost: Via Domus should be understood as a short interactive and authentic season 
 made specifically for fans of the series. While it is brief and lacks depth, fans of the show will 
 find a lot to like here with exploring the secrets of the island at their own pace and a previously 
 unseen storyline and character. For anyone who has not seen 'Lost' stay far away; it will just 
 come across as an incomprehensible mess. The final scene of the game raises huge questions and 
 possibilities; it will be interesting to see whether or not the 'Lost' universe will continue with 
 another installment in videogame form because despite its shortcomings Lost: Via Domus is a solid 
 debut that captures the distinct feel of the series and is something that fans should check out.
 
  
  Gameplay: 6.0/10
  
  Controls: 7.0/10
  
  Visuals: 8.5/10
  
  Audio: 7.5/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: 5.5/10
  
  Overall: 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frvaca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  So, I, myself being a rabid fan of the cult television program LOST, have to admit I was eagerly 
 anticipating this game after I picked up my Xbox 360. At the very beginning, when I first saw the 
 trailer, my reaction was tepid at best, due to the fact that SAWYER DIDN'T EVEN LOOK LIKE SAWYER! 
 However, I managed to overcome that after watching the second trailer, and as more details about 
 the game were slowly trickling out before launch, I found myself becoming more and more excited.
 
  Well, it's finally here, and I have to say, I was a tad let down, primarily by the controls. The 
 camera can be frustrating, and at times I wish it would mirror the cameras of Assassin's Creed 
 or Dead Rising. However, it doesn't hinder the gameplay all too much, except for when you need 
 to direct the camera towards an item of interest on the floor, such as luggage or fruit. The rest 
 of the controls are pretty intuitive, and they shouldn't be a challenge for seasoned gamers.
  As for the story... I haven't played through the entire game, but what I've played through so far 
 was pretty enthralling. The protagonist of the game, Elliot Maslow, is a photojournalist with amnesia 
 (HOW CONVENIENT!) , and as you step into his shoes, you must figure out his troubled past through 
 flashbacks triggered by conversations with the survivors. What I appreciated the most were the 
 subtle references to the show, whether it was a crash survivor that happened to be in one of Elliot's 
 flashbacks, or a copy of Alice in Wonderland scattered from the wreckage of the plane. The script 
 also mirrors the show in terms of the characters' behaviours and the writing style.
  The graphics are above average for an Xbox 360 game, and the characters are pretty decent at resembling 
 their real-life counterparts. Since Ubisoft apparently couldn't get their hands on some of the 
 actual actors for voiceovers, they had to hire stand-ins for several of the core characters, such 
 as Jack, Locke, Sawyer and Kate. Some of them are bearable, but the voices for Locke and Sawyer 
 can become infuriating at times, especially when you're forced to initiate a dialogue.
  
  All in all, the game's above the standard of cash-cow tie-in videogames, but gamers that aren't 
 fans of the show should stay away, but for those who can't get enough LOST (like me) , it's well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game was mostly made for fans of the TV series. If your a regular gamer who isn't familiar 
 with the series, this game isn't really for you because most of the game will leave you "lost" 
 on whats going on with the plot line making you very confused of whats going on. The game could 
 be a bit longer. There are only seven episodes to be played and each episode takes an average of 
 about 15-20 minutes to complete. The game is so linear and it makes me suspicious that some of you 
 reviewed it as being "innovative" and "groundbreaking". You know what, I didn't want to say this, 
 but now I can't help it: this is pretty much the worst game I've ever played as far as gameplay 
 goes. another notable flaw is the lack of the show's actors, and the gameplay uninspired .
  
  This game was mostly made for fans of the TV series. If your a regular gamer who isn't familiar 
 with the series, this game isn't really for you because most of the game will leave you "lost" 
 on whats going on with the plot line making you very confused of whats going on. The game could 
 be a bit longer. There are only seven episodes to be played and each episode takes an average of 
 about 15-20 minutes to complete. The game is so linear and it makes me suspicious that some of you 
 reviewed it as being "innovative" and "groundbreaking". You know what, I didn't want to say this, 
 but now I can't help it: this is pretty much the worst game I've ever played as far as gameplay 
 goes. another notable flaw is the lack of the show's actors, and the gameplay uninspired . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybomb3691
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  This show had my attention all about maybe half a season and now they are going to make it into 
 a video game. What are you really going to be able to do in this game seeing as how they didn't 
 do really anything in the show. No i say maybe a game after a cooler show such as hero's or smallvile 
 something like that instead the make a game about lost were all you are is lost on a little island 
 that has something wierd on it but they never really tell you what exactly that is. so either this 
 game is going to be so easy that it will only take a couple of hours to beat or is so boring that 
 you don't ever want to touch the game after the first couple of hours. so really why would this 
 game even be ranked in the top three when it should really be in the bottom ten if anything so 
 really everyone why would they even make this game or even let it get within the top ten. What 
 can you do though it is already in the top ten but i say to all of you boycot this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assasinsgreed
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  lost via domus was good but nothing to right home about the size of the island was small and the 
 game felt scripted nothing like what i was expecting and i think they could have done this game 
 in a sandbox format i mean its lost its an island you cant get off of you might as well make it 
 a big island you cant get off of also the guns were so usless in the game u used it maybe twice 
 if you were lucky. i mean if your going to make lost the game u would expect the beach to be packed 
 with people from the show since like 80 people survived but i only managed to see 8 of the survivors 
 how convinient for the game developpers that only 10 people survived and u never get to see anna 
 lucia or any of the other people from the other part of the plane i was really looking forward 
 to seeing echo again yet he makes no apperance. nvm the fact that sawyer does nothing even though 
 hes one of the most important characters i mean wtf!!!
  
  any ways if your a lost fan you will enjoy exploring the very small area of the island and if u 
 like achievments youll like this gam even more since it only takes 5 hrs to get 1000gs
  
  ps im pretty sure they used the same graphics engine for assassins creed as for this game so the 
 graphics are very similair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moviebuff1084
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  For a huge lost fan like myself this game is kind of a disappointment way too short no replay value 
 and just annoying i mean ok i will say this im a huge fan/nerd of the show lost so i was expecting 
 one awesome ass game and the night i rented it i beat it with about 5 hrs or less of game play 
 the good thing i will say about the game is if you are a fan of the show you would like to play 
 it once just because its cool to go see all the places from the show like the beach, the cash site, 
 the hatch, and you get to talk to most of the cast like kate, jack, sawyer, hurley, charlie, saiyd, 
 locke, and more but most of the voice acting is beyond bad overall if you like tv show then go 
 rent it dont buy it cause its 60 bucks for about 5 hrs of game play and no extras all it has is 
 episode select and i mean it really sucks cause they could have done so much more with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  when you are mapping your own minds and thoughts in a game, that is your way and your story, but 
 when you have a pre-built story you must follow it's rules or mention them in some cases; in this 
 situation, there are 2 modes; your game is top or is not;90% of these games are not; this game is 
 top but in the top of these raw games; not the whole;
  the graphic is in the middle; so-so; in some places are so good in the others are bad, but not so; i 
 see no non-realistic animations in the characters; models are so good; but they could be so better;
 
  for the gamers who saw the srials can see more bad shapes in the game;
  i do not explore the game elements here, because they are not so important; thing that is so important 
 is: story;
  makers pay attention to it so much; every shapes or part of the story is amazing and fantastic; for 
 all gamers is something to follow;
  you think, you are playing a novel story-based game;
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is a game based on the hit ABC show (duh) and despite having this pretty great 
 license, ultimately disappoints. The look and vibe of the show is absolutely intact. The beach, 
 jungle and other environments are ripped straight from the show and the sound design sets the mood 
 nicely. The environments look surprisingly good, with some truly impressive set pieces you visit 
 through the course of the game. And that's really about it for the good stuff. 
  
  The biggest flaw is simply the uninspired gameplay. You collect items, talk to the other characters, 
 and solve the same type of puzzle numerous times. There is gunplay but it's not satisfying at at 
 all, considering there are only a couple of instances where you have people to shoot at. Yet another 
 notable flaw is the lack of the show's actors doing the voice overs. The sound-alikes that were 
 cast aren't particularly good to boot. 
  
  So, unsurprisingly, this is a game for hardcore fans of the show. It's length is also quite disappointing, 
 A thorough player should be able to finish it in 4-6 hours and unlock the bulk of the game's achievements. 
 Considering how ripe the source material is, the lack of effort into the gameplay and brevity of 
 the experience is a bit sad. So Lost fans should definitely check it out on the cheap or as a rental 
 if only to see the game's ending. When I saw it I kind of ... lost it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrat
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  What I like:
  
  -Visually stunning. Crash sequence was outstanding. Characters look very close to their human counterparts.
 
  
  -Good story. It is set up like LOST episodes. After every quest, it goes to the LOST fade out. 
 I love it!!! The quests can go by quickly, but it gives you a real good saving point.
  
  -Entertaining. I was playing it for a while, but just could not put it down. 
  
  Flashbacks. 
 I love this element. You learn something new with each one.
  
  
  What I don't like:
  
  -Restrictive. You can not move freely through the island. I really wanted to go out and explore. 
 
  
  -Quests get aggravating. There seems to be only one way to do things. You have to do them, or the 
 game can not continue. It gets a bit aggravating.
  
  -Game play. I do not like the fact that you can not jump, bend down, etc... I would like to have 
 a bit more natural movement.
  
  Flashbacks. Taking the picture "just right" friggin annoys me. You can not move forward until you 
 take it the way they want it. Just gets a bit old.
  
  Overall I really like the game. If Ubisoft would have been able to take more time with their part 
 of the game (game play and such) , it would have been a tremendous game. I recommend it for serious 
 LOST addicts like myself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: efkgroup
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I watch Lost whenever it's on- it's one of my favorite shows. I was excited about this game and 
 waited for months for it's release... I bought the game the day it was in stores... I began playing 
 the game that night... not bad... It's like I'm ON the island! Then, about fifteen minutes later 
 I realized that the game itself- how do I put this without being a jerk- the game wasn't much fun. 
 I tried sticking it out- I really did... I still intend on finishing it because I want to see the 
 end, but that's the only reason. 
  
  The game is so linear and it makes me suspicious that some of you reviewed it as being "innovative" 
 and "groundbreaking". You know what, I didn't want to say this, but now I can't help it: this is 
 pretty much the worst game I've ever played as far as gameplay goes. Nonetheless, I will finish 
 it.
  
  Obviously try the game for yourself before you make up your mind. 
  
  Oh, and I want to state that I feel bad writing a negative review of this game, but it was, in 
 my opinion, that much of a letdown.
  
  Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruto1224
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up Lost: Via Domus and was not to sure what to expect, I'm a big fan of the show 
 but was not really even sure if I wanted to get it, but I did and this is my review.
  
  Graphics are the only thing really impressive about the game. Exploring what parts of the jungle 
 you were aloud to. Entering the cave systems with a torch seeing how detailed the rock walls, and 
 getting to the Black Rock and seeing how amazing it looked sitting among the jungle.
  
  The story line was good, trying to find out who you are and who the girl you keep seeing on the 
 island is. I liked the little details like the key around Jacks neck, and for being a big fan of 
 the show, I know what the key is for but it tells nothing about it in the game and really just 
 left out a lot of key details of the show. I was very impressed though in how much it was made 
 to look like a Lost episode, because at the end of the chapter it goes to a black screen and "LOST" 
 appeared just like it would at the end of the episode. At the start of the next chapter you get 
 the whole, "Previously on LOST" and will then show you all the key parts of the last chapter. Having 
 frequent flashbacks like the show was good, and I liked how you can interact with stuff in the 
 memory, like trying to remember who you are and how you got to the island.
  
  Controls were simple, maybe a little to simple. Joystick to walk, right trigger to sprint, A or 
 Y to interact, and if you get a gun left trigger to aim. Your D-pad gets you unto your inventory. 
 In the parts when you are running from something, hod up to run, Y is to jump and A is to slide. 
 Its point A to point B, pressing Y when to jump a log or rock pile, or Y to slide under a tree 
 branch not timed right and you stumble, and to many times the black smoke will get ya.
  
  Game Play was not really the best, spending most of the time on the beach trying to get info about 
 yourself from the other survivors, or where Jack is, stuff like that. The mini games of complete 
 the circuit is fun and somewhat challenging and the IQ test on the computers were similar but easier 
 to figure out. The game is very short unfortunately, I completed the game in one sitting in less 
 than 7 hrs.
  
  So my final opinion is its a good game for Lost fans to play though once or twice but rent it first, 
 for hardcore gamers this game won't scratch that itch you might want to look more in the direction 
 Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercer52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  okay First thing i want to give to thumbs WAY up for Lost's music composer Michael Giacchino , 
 i mean every time i pressed that start button i just get Blown Away by this Beautiful beautiful 
 Soundtrack , secondly id like to point out that im a LOST Fan ( been watching since EP1 ) but still 
 i think this game whould appeal to a none lost fan , i mean if your not a lost fan i think you 
 whould only get half the story ( and i think that whould be enough for a person who never watched 
 the show ) but still there are alot of other thing to enjoy other than the story , like the amazing 
 innovative gameplay i mean its a good change from the COnsTant Shooting and bombing and killing 
 that all the games these days have , i dont mean that i dont like doing that stuff , but sometime 
 a guy needs something diffrent , know what i mean , anyway the gameplay will make you really work 
 your head cause it has alot of puzzles , and trading , and cave exploring with a torch that can 
 run out any minute , and there is a compass that you have to use with directions to get where your 
 supose to go , for me one of the best things about the game is trading , anyway back to the story 
 , voice actting had me a little disappoitned , i mean its not the sound alike actors werent good 
 , its just that they werent the real actors , OMG i almost forgot , there these things called Flashbacks 
 in the game that help elliot ( the game hero ) remeber who he is , ithese flashbacks are incedints 
 that happend while you were there , when the flashback opens its a foggy and you cant really hear 
 exactly what thier saying , but you unlock this fogginess but take the right picture at the right 
 time , and the flash back will keep repeting the same incedint until you take the right picture 
 of the person on the right time , the story of the game i thought was very well writen , 
  
  Bottom Line : this game really gets you to thinks with its many puzzles and challengs , and 
 i think that a lost fan like me will be blown away , but a none lost fan might just enjoy it , 
 even if they dont get the whole story , you will get Elliot's full story ( wich is really awsome 
 ) , but not the whole shows story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  LOST Via Domus - Video Game for the XBOX 360 (also available on Playstation 3)
  
  I'm a huge fan of the LOST television series as are many people. It's a fantastic show that is 
 currently on it's fourth season. When I heard they were making a LOST video game I was very intrigued 
 at what a great game it COULD be. Although to be honest, if you look at the track record for games 
 based on movies, or even worse yet, games based on Television series, there has not been great 
 success. In fact most of those crossover games plain suck; for instance, The Sopranos. I'm the 
 biggest Sopranos fan there is and found the game absolutely atrocious; in fact I found it unbearable 
 and unplayable. I bought it and just could not sit through it. But let me tell you what. That bad 
 track record has ended. We finally have a game that is the PERFECT crossover from Television Show 
 to Video Game. Absolutely Perfect!!!
  I wanted to make sure I gave this game a fair chance and I also wanted to make sure I didn't over-hype 
 it, but instead, give it a fair and reasonable analysis so I gave it two good days of gaming effort 
 before I write this. Probably about six to eight hours of gameplay so far. I want to start by saying 
 that I have never played a game like this. Frankly, I am blown away, Here's the most important 
 thing to know about this game. If you are a TRUE fan of the television series (and yes if you really 
 are a TRUE fan, you know it in your soul) then you will ABSOLUTELY LOVE this game. 
  The game is made to play exactly like episodes of the show. Each chapter starts out with flashbacks, 
 "Previously on LOST...." then you see clips of what happened last chapter so when you pick the 
 game up again the next day you have a refresher of where you were. This is such a rewarding feature. 
 It really makes you feel like you are playing through an episode of the TV show. And the story 
 is written to be just like it is part of the show so in fact you are watching you're favorite television 
 show and playing in it at the same time. What could be better? Nothing.
  You were on the airplane, Oceanic flight 815 when it crashed. You are one of the survivors but 
 you have amnesia and your memory slowly comes back througout the game through flashbacks into your 
 "previous pre-crash life" just like happens in the TV show. You know how in the TV show they flash 
 back and forth from their pre-crash lives and their post crash lives on the island. You get the 
 same experience here although so far, most of the action will be on the island.... there are flashbacks 
 where you will have to be involved. 
  All your favorite LOST characters are here. They don't trust you at first because you can't even 
 remember your name so they don't know if you were on the flight or if you're one of the OTHERS. 
 There are so many little details that are part of the show that are in the game that you can't 
 help but to smile to yourself and love it.... all the little things that makes the TV show so enjoyable. 
 Just a few notables..... Charlie singing, "You all Everybody", Locke and his unique philosophy, 
 the dynamite from the Black Rock, the hatch, the eerie black smoke, and yes oh yes, you will have 
 to press the damn button!! See what I mean... every little detail is in this game and it just ties 
 together so perfectly with the TV show. They have really done an amazing job on this game. The 
 graphics are superb and the island is beautiful. The ocean, the beach, the jungle, the waterfalls 
 are all very impressive. The old ship that they find on the island is a wonder to behold. And then 
 to make the whole thing complete is the gameplay. The gameplay perfectly fits the game. There's 
 such a large variety of things you will have to do and they all tie in to the story. The missions 
 don't feel contrived or out of place and they all make sense. You will have to run and shoot, solve 
 puzzles, take pictures with perfect timing, solve riddles, solve mysteries, investigate, search, 
 talk, fulfill missions, do deeds, be clever, be shrewd, say the right things to the right people, 
 earn the trust of your fellow men, and much much more. Everything you have to do is for a reason 
 to help you get off the island and to figure out what the heck is going on. You all have landed 
 on this island. There's a force there that is unnatural. There's also other inhabitants on the 
 island who don't neccessarily want you there.
  If I had to come up with one word to describe this game it is this: ADVENTURE. This is a true Adventure 
 game in the best sense of the word. Get ready for the adventure of your life. You will be intrigued. 
 There is drama. There is mystery. Intensity and fun and humor. Do not hesitate one more day. If 
 you are a fan of the show go get this game NOW. Personally, if you've never seen the show I don't 
 know what to tell you. Go buy the DVDs and watch the first 3 seasons then get the game. It will 
 be ten times more enjoyable I'm sure and not only that but the show can help you in many instances 
 because you will know what to expect. It is innovative and groundbreaking. LOST Via Domus is the 
 absolute best video game based on a movie or television show in the history of video games bar 
 none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is one of those games that is difficult to review for a general crowd. If you are 
 a huge fan of the television series, like I am, then you'll instantly cling to the environments, 
 the story, and the atmosphere. However, if you have never watched Lost, you will be completely 
 confused and there isn't enough to the gameplay to make this worth anyone else's time.
  
  With that said, the remainder of this review will be written directed towards the Lost fan, and 
 solely the fan. In Via Domus, you assume the role of a unknown Oceanic Flight 815 survivor who 
 has come down with a case of amnesia. Yes, he has a name, but its reveal is an integral part of 
 the story so I won't give it away in this review. The game is broken up into 7 episodes that begin 
 and end just like the television show with a recap of the previous episode, the 'Lost' reveal and 
 a cliffhanger to finish it off.
  
  By talking with various other survivors, who look very much like their actor counterparts, you 
 begin to piece together part of your past through the series trademark flashbacks. You initiate 
 conversations with survivors, which are broken up into questions categorized by Quest, General, 
 Inventory, and Trade. The conversations are fully voice acted, but they sound a little off due 
 to the original actors not reprising their show roles (with the exception of Ben, Michael, and 
 Juliet from what I could tell) .
  
  Flashbacks are all organized the same way. As a photojournalist, your character is tasked with 
 taking a very specific snapshot to "remember" the scene and look for more clues in the flashback 
 to piece together more of your memory.
  
  Interspersed in the flashbacks are some puzzle solving, some short action sequences, as well as 
 some cave and forest exploration sequences. There are only two types of puzzles to solve... both 
 of which are frustrating. The first type of puzzle is a fuse panel type. Your job is to redirect 
 a current through a fuse panel in order to get the proper amout of power to as many as 6 different 
 meters. There are three different types of fuses that can be used to complete the goal. These puzzles 
 are very frustrating and can take upwards of 30 minutes or more for most gamers (unless you're 
 a savant of some kind) .
  
  The other puzzle, which doesn't occur as often, involves identifying the next number or letter 
 in a sequence on one of the Dharma Computers in the various hatches throughout the game. These 
 are easy if you're good at mathematics/logic but a pain to figure out if you aren't. Trial and 
 error comes into play ad nauseum here.
  
  The game's action sequences involve you running away from the black and hiding in trees when it 
 gets too close for comfort. These sequences come into play while exploring the forest going to 
 the hatch or the Black Rock. The other sequence has you running away from the smoke away from the 
 camera. You have to either jump over or slide under environmental hazards.
  
  Achievements are easy to come by in the game, the majority of which you earn just by playing through 
 the game's 7 episodes. The remainder you get by taking pictures in the game at specific times. 
 These can easily be gotten by replaying sequences from the game's main menus.
  
  The game ends in typical Lost fashion with a very strange twist that fans of the series will be 
 talking about for some time. This is your reward for playing through unoriginal and repeating sequences. 
 So I'll say once again, that Lost fans will eat this up. All others will do best to stay away
 
  
  Buy, Rent, or Avoid: Rent (for fans) , Avoid (all others)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  In lost you play the role of a new survivor named Ellies. A good fun game a good action game in 
 lost your charceter ellies has lost his memory and in the game your trying to get your memory back. 
 If your a fan of the TV show you will probaly like the video game. This game is really fun the 
 graphics a realy good amazing good damn this game is a kick ass game and realy fun the show is 
 realy good and so is the game. Watch LOST every thursday at 9/8 ct on abc. Their are alos of landmarks 
 from the tv show in the game and their is the black smoke that is also in the tv show so if your 
 a fan of the tv show than you should check out this game.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IH8H8H8ers
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Lost Via Domus is by no means a difficult game, although some of the fuse puzzles can be difficult. 
 Having said that, it has an excellent story and some cool environments that fans of the show will 
 definitely enjoy exploring. 
  
  The environments for the most part look fantastic. Sure they are scaled down, and especially with 
 the initial plane crash, the game lacks a little bit of the hectic feeling that the show has but 
 it still looks pretty good. The sound is also decent. They only got a few of the original actors 
 to play the characters but for the most part, with only a few exceptions, the characters sounded 
 pretty close. 
  
  The biggest problems with the game are a) the length and b) there just isn't enough variety in 
 puzzles. The game should take no more than 10 hours to complete, it is pretty short, and seems 
 to zip through what took the show two full seasons to explain. The puzzles pretty much consist 
 of placing fuses in the correct spot, which can actually be more challenging than what it sounds. 
 The problem with this is that it becomes more tedious than fun and as already explained, it isn't 
 always easy. There are a few other puzzle things that play more into the story that are pretty 
 easy to think through using only a little bit of common sense.
  
  The game is a lot of fun from the perspective of a Lost fan. There are many easter eggs for viewers 
 of the show to stumble upon, not to mention just running around to different areas that we see 
 week to week in Lost. 
  
  Overall, it is a decent game, although I'm not sure that someone who doesn't watch the show would 
 find it quite as enjoyable. None the less, it is a decent action/adventure game and if nothing 
 else is, is worth a rent.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-Fei
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Game which will return you on island in which there are events shown in the same serial. You again 
 will meet the grown fond heroes of a serial such as: Jack, shannon, Harley, Charley, Locke, but 
 you will play for which new hero was not in serial Elliot Maslow. Game represents adventure with 
 simple riddles which easily to solve that who looked a serial. Game begins after wreck of the plane 
 where the protagonist having regained consciousness with full loss of memory. Gradually during game 
 after performance of the next task memory gradually comes back to him. For passages of some levels 
 to you it will be necessary to buy the certain subjects .You ask whence money? You will earn them 
 finding on island different subjects: fruits, bottles with water, canned food, etc. and selling 
 their basic heroes of a serial. Good game .Reminds a mix Uncharted: Drakes Fortune And Indigo Prophecy.
 
  Good: Atmosphere of a serial is created
  Bad: It is not enough puzzles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaracyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up the game and was tickled pink that I could actually be a part of the show. 
 Fans of LOST will get a kick out of this if for no other reason you get actually experience key 
 elements the development of the castaways, even participating in their "flashbacks" (which I thought 
 was very clever how they set up) .
  
  Gamers on the other hand will be wanting more. The over all feeling of game play feels a little 
 stilted, however the graphics are beautiful and you really get a sense you're part of the castaways 
 (although I wish they could have had Locke's actual voice... the Jack sound-alike is convincing 
 however) .
  
  Although I haven't completed it yet, I get the feeling if I sat down in an afternoon, I could probably 
 play through it rather quickly. Therefore, it's replay value is probably limited to nostalgic feelings 
 of the show. I can only recommend this as a rental really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_android
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  So, I, myself being a rabid fan of the cult television program LOST, have to admit I was eagerly 
 anticipating this game after I picked up my Xbox 360. At the very beginning, when I first saw the 
 trailer, my reaction was tepid at best, due to the fact that SAWYER DIDN'T EVEN LOOK LIKE SAWYER! 
 However, I managed to overcome that after watching the second trailer, and as more details about 
 the game were slowly trickling out before launch, I found myself becoming more and more excited.
 
  Well, it's finally here, and I have to say, I was a tad let down, primarily by the controls. The 
 camera can be frustrating, and at times I wish it would mirror the cameras of Assassin's Creed 
 or Dead Rising. However, it doesn't hinder the gameplay all too much, except for when you need 
 to direct the camera towards an item of interest on the floor, such as luggage or fruit. The rest 
 of the controls are pretty intuitive, and they shouldn't be a challenge for seasoned gamers. 
 
  As for the story... I haven't played through the entire game, but what I've played through so 
 far was pretty enthralling. The protagonist of the game, Elliot Maslow, is a photojournalist with 
 amnesia (HOW CONVENIENT!) , and as you step into his shoes, you must figure out his troubled past 
 through flashbacks triggered by conversations with the survivors. What I appreciated the most were 
 the subtle references to the show, whether it was a crash survivor that happened to be in one of 
 Elliot's flashbacks, or a copy of Alice in Wonderland scattered from the wreckage of the plane. 
 The script also mirrors the show in terms of the characters' behaviours and the writing style. 
 
  The graphics are above average for an Xbox 360 game, and the characters are pretty decent at resembling 
 their real-life counterparts. Since Ubisoft apparently couldn't get their hands on some of the 
 actual actors for voiceovers, they had to hire stand-ins for several of the core characters, such 
 as Jack, Locke, Sawyer and Kate. Some of them are bearable, but the voices for Locke and Sawyer 
 can become infuriating at times, especially when you're forced to initiate a dialogue.
  
  All in all, the game's above the standard of cash-cow tie-in videogames, but gamers that aren't 
 fans of the show should stay away, but for those who can't get enough LOST (like me) , it's well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoFX_Freeq
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was mostly made for fans of the TV series. If your a regular gamer who isn't familiar 
 with the series, this game isn't really for you because most of the game will leave you "lost" 
 on whats going on with the plot line making you very confused of whats going on. 
  The game could be a bit longer. There are only seven episodes to be played and each episode takes 
 an average of about 15-20 minutes to complete. The graphics are incredible and the environments 
 are very realistic to environments of the show. The game gets very difficult at times but is not 
 impossible. Like I said, not neccisairly a game for players not fans of the show, but if your looking 
 for a different game with many puzzles to solve, this game is worth at least a rental for the game 
 is very short. But if you are a fan of the show, you will enjoy the game for its story line, the 
 gameplay can get kinda boring at times but the puzzles are somewhat challenging and gets your mind 
 working. Probably worth picking up once someone trades it in at a gamestop. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
