-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/lostplanet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Massive bosses and thick swarms of enemies keep the action intense.
 Large, varied stages.
 Great-looking environments, effects, and creatures that don't cripple the frame rate.
 Addictive multiplayer will keep you playing after you've finished the single-player game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player game can easily be finished in seven or eight hours.
 Scatterbrained story doesn't make much sense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 90 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 8,271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Jan 12, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost Planet: Extreme Condition makes shooting giant bugs every bit as fun as it should be, and even 
 though it ends too quickly, you'll have a blast while it lasts. 

  With a game like Lost Planet, in which you do nothing but shoot giant insects in a snow-covered 
 wasteland, you'd almost expect publisher Capcom to come up with a tagline like, "The world is covered 
 in ice, but the action is just heating up!" But Lost Planet: Extreme Condition takes itself more 
 seriously than that, despite having a distinct  Starship Troopers -on-ice feel to it. The exaggerated, 
 almost campy sci-fi theme works well for this game, though, because while it is a very simple, 
 straightforward shooter, the action moves at a brisk pace, there are always plenty of things to 
 shoot and blow up, and the larger-than-life enemies are incredibly fun to fight. As Lost Planet 
 skillfully proves, you don't need much else to make a great game.  

          With a name like Wayne, this guy might not have much of a shot at becoming the next iconic 
 video game hero, but at least his game is a lot of fun.     

  The game takes place in the distant future, when humans have left Earth in an attempt to colonize 
 other planets. On the frozen planet known as E. D. N. III, the colonization efforts seemed to meet 
 with some success, but eventually the humans ran up against some strong opposition in the form 
 of massive insectlike aliens known as Akrid. In battling the hostile Akrid the humans figured out 
 that the creatures contained within their bodies a thermal energy source that could be gathered 
 and used as a source of heat and energy -- two vital components of a comfortable life on a barren, 
 snow-covered wasteland. Instead of fleeing the planet in search of, say, someplace  not  frozen, 
 the humans decided to stay on E. D. N. III and develop heavily armed mechs known as Vital Suits with 
 which to fight the Akrid and hoard as much of their precious thermal goo as possible. But the humans 
 aren't just fighting the Akrid -- they're also fighting each other. Groups of outlaws known as snow 
 pirates roam around in their Vital Suits collecting thermal energy and generally causing trouble. 

  You play the game as Wayne, a snow pirate who was discovered buried under the snow and ice. He 
 has little memory of his past, but he does remember that his father was killed by a large Akrid 
 known as Green Eye. So Wayne sets out to hunt the Green Eye and avenge his father's death. The 
 story gets more convoluted and weird from there, as oddball characters are introduced and abruptly 
 go away and nonsensical plot twists get the story all tangled up. There are some lengthy cutscenes 
 between each mission, but they aren't the least bit compelling; you can easily skip every one without 
 missing much.  

  The weak characters and confounding plot don't derail the game, though, because like those of most 
 action movies, the story in Lost Planet is completely disposable. It serves its purpose in that 
 it sets you up to fight lots and lots of aliens and humans using a wide variety of superpowerful 
 weaponry, and that's all it needs to do. You play from a third-person perspective, controlling 
 your movement with the left analog stick and your aim with the right. The default control scheme 
 does take a few moments to get used to, simply because your character moves and aims slowly, and 
 rather than remaining fixed in the center of the screen like most shooters, the targeting reticule 
 moves around independent of the camera. Again, it doesn't take long to get used to, but it is a 
 bit off-putting at first. There is also an aim assist that will snap your fire to nearby targets, 
 but you can turn it off if you don't want the help. The controls for doing things like dodging 
 or crouching are also awkward. Performing such a simple action requires you to push in the left 
 analog stick and hit a button, or hold in the stick as you move around, which just feels cumbersome 
 and slow. There are alternate control schemes, though, and even though you might not find one to 
 be perfectly ideal, all of the most important actions are intuitive, quick, and easy to perform, 
 which means the control issues rarely get in the way of the game.  

  As Wayne, you're dropped into a variety of environments in which you have to wade through scores 
 of enemies to get to a boss at the end. The bosses range from massive spiderlike creatures that 
 dwarf your character, shake the screen, and cause huge chunks of snow and ice to rain down from 
 above, to nimble enemy mechs that attempt to pulverize you with ceaseless volleys of rockets and 
 lasers. The boss battles are the highlight of the single-player game, and they rarely disappoint, 
 even though their patterns and weaknesses are very plainly spelled out for you.  

  Between boss battles you'll fight scads of smaller aliens, many of which are simply scaled-down 
 versions of bosses you've previously defeated. You don't have to actually kill any of these enemies; 
 if you want, you can just sprint through each level to get to the boss. You are given some incentive 
 to fight, though, in the form of thermal energy. Wayne has a special device on his arm that collects 
 thermal energy and uses it to replenish his health and keep him alive in harsh conditions. Your 
 thermal-energy supply is constantly drained, and when it's gone your health will quickly start 
 to deteriorate, until you eventually die. Conveniently, all of the enemies you kill drop blobs 
 of thermal energy that you can collect and store. You can also find data posts throughout each 
 level that will refill your thermal energy as well as activate a map to point you in the right 
 direction.  

          The Vital Suits might be a bit slow and cumbersome, but their heavy weaponry more than 
 makes up for it.     

  The constant energy drain is an interesting concept that could add a great sense of urgency to 
 the game, requiring you to sprint between data posts and choose your battles according to how much 
 energy you have left. But it doesn't quite work that way in Lost Planet. On the normal difficulty 
 setting you'll almost never have to think about your draining energy, because it's so abundant 
 that you'll rarely come anywhere close to running out. It does become more of a consideration on 
 the harder difficulty settings, but even then the concept doesn't feel as though it's being implemented 
 as well as it could be.  

  Contrary to what you might have seen of the game, Lost Planet doesn't take place entirely in vast 
 open fields of snow. There are some indoor environments to explore as well, including fiery volcanoes 
 and underground industrial complexes. The levels are all large and fun to explore, especially because 
 you have a grappling hook that lets you reach precarious ledges and rappel from structures to reach 
 new areas below. If you're feeling destructive you can spend a lot of time tearing the levels apart, 
 because each stage is full of destructible walls, vehicles, towers, rocks, explosive barrels, and 
 storage tanks. Combined with the aliens, guns, and explosions, the environments go a long way to 
 keep the action intense. There's a decent amount of variety to the levels as well, and on the rare 
 occasion that you aren't blasting aliens or snow pirates, you might find yourself taking in views 
 of some of the great-looking landscapes.  

  There are also some nice weapon effects to please the eyes and ears. The weapons range from the 
 traditional assault rifle and shotgun to more advanced weapons like plasma rifles and grenades 
 that deploy inflatable, explosive decoys to confuse (and explode) your enemies. You can even pick 
 up mech weapons and wield them on foot, which certainly looks cool but severely limits your movement. 
 Most of the guns are appropriately satisfying to shoot, with the rocket launcher in particular 
 producing some fantastic explosions. There's not much reason to go looking for extra weapons, though, 
 because with the standard-issue assault rifle and grenades, you can take on just about anything. 

  As great as Lost Planet looks, the sound doesn't quite match up. There's some dramatic music that 
 ramps up when the action is heated, but it isn't distinct or memorable. Still, the music is one 
 of the high points of the sound and fits the game quite well. Some of the weapons -- the rocket launcher, 
 in particular -- sound nice and powerful, but others lack punch. The mechs sound great; they crunch 
 through the snow with their huge, heavy feet, and most of the enemy creatures shriek and scream 
 menacingly enough. The voice acting is stiff at best, and sounds completely phony at worst. It's 
 not a major issue, since nothing the characters say ever really matters, but it still makes the 
 cutscenes a bit harder to watch. The human characters in the game will also shout remarks at you 
 while you're fighting, but they sound hokey -- still, there are only a few lines that get repeated 
 often.  

  You can finish all 11 missions of the single-player game in about seven or eight hours on your 
 first play-through. It will take considerably longer if you're hunting all the hidden target icons 
 in each level, which you can collect to earn achievements. Fortunately, Lost Planet doesn't end 
 with the single-player game. The game supports 16-player online battles with eight maps and four 
 different game modes. There are the obligatory deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, as well as 
 an all-against-one fugitive mode and a team-based mode called post grab, in which each team tries 
 to activate and defend all of the data posts on the map. Because there are only eight maps available 
 at the moment, you'll quickly be able to memorize the general features of each stage. However, 
 you can select several different layouts for each map, which changes the location of data posts, 
 weapons, mechs, and starting points. All of the maps are huge and are fairly well designed, with 
 plenty of towering structures to climb with your grappling hook, as well as underground tunnels 
 to explore, and even some underwater areas.  

          One thing this game does really well is give you lots of guns and things to shoot.     
 

  As you play online you'll earn points, which raises your level. As you increase in level you'll 
 unlock new character skins to use in future matches. The leveling system is also a good way of 
 judging how experienced other players are -- although, of course, experience doesn't necessarily 
 coincide with skill. The servers aren't segregated based on territory, so you can find yourself 
 playing with people in Japan, France, the UK, and elsewhere. It's a great way to ensure plenty 
 of available opponents, but you might run into issues when trying to communicate with teammates 
 who don't speak your language. In our experience that didn't matter much, though; we found plenty 
 of exciting, lag-free battles online with people all over the world.  

  Lost Planet is a great action game because it focuses on tense, thrilling battles that don't require 
 much input beyond a constant trigger finger and healthy desire to kill everything that moves. There's 
 very little downtime in the single-player game, and there's always plenty of stuff to shoot. That 
 makes it easily entertaining if you're just in the mood to kick back and put your brain on standby 
 for awhile. The multiplayer requires much more skill and a slightly more sophisticated, though 
 no less manic, approach. As a result, the multiplayer game is an excellent complement to the single-player 
 action. The brief campaign is a disappointment, but while it lasts, Lost Planet holds its own among 
 the abundant shooters available for the Xbox 360 -- and considering how great some of those other 
 games are, that's no small feat.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (614 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LocustWarlord
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  okay. sooo, i got some pocket money :D and I went to the local game store and found this game called 
 Lost planet. I thought to myself. this looks 'cool'
  so i decided to buy it.
  
  got home, put the disk in, for a while it was. AWESOME! a giant green monster thing! :D you have 
 to kill something called the green eye, for a while I thought that was the main plot of the story. 
 to beat a giant green ugly beasty and reheat the world. yes, thats what I thought. I bought the 
 game because the killing giant bug things was pretty cool....
  
  what a f******* LET DOWN!!!!!!!
  
  I spent five pounds, FIVE POUNDS TO KILL SOME MUVVAFU******G 
 MONSTERS, AND WHAT? YOU MAKE ME KILL MORE HUMANS THAN WHAT I WANTED TO DO. 
  
  NOT FORGETTING THE AMOUNT OF LEVELS THERE ARE. ON THE BACK OF THE BOX, IT SAYS, 12 MISSIONS! WELL, 
 SOUNDS LIKE SOMEBODY CANT COUNT BECAUSE THERE ARE ACTUALLY 11 MISSIONS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 OMFG
  
  the graphics are good. :P
  
  overall:
  
  Storyline: Dont even go there/10
  
  Sound: 
 7/10
  
  Graphics 9.0/10
  
  Gameplay 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of Mech games I was immeditately interested in Lost Planet. The idea that you 
 could pilot different Mech suits and switch in between them sounded like heaven to me. But for 
 whatever reason I delayed in getting this game. Perhaps I was too afraid of being let down by limited 
 Mech (or VS as they are called in the game) use or poor controls.
  
  I'm happy to say that I was not let down in any way. In fact I was surprized at how much VS action 
 there was and how easy they were to control. You can switch in and out of VS' with ease, change 
 the VS weapons and stomp about laying waste to the enemies. 
  
  As you play the game you need to constantly collect a resource called T-Eng (short for Therman 
 Energy) . The premise is that you are on a distance ice planet and the only way to survive the cold 
 is to collect the T-Eng from fallen alien bugs and pump it through your suit. What this amounts 
 to is that you just need to pick up the red ooze that's left buy dead bugs or in tanks or at way 
 stations. It forces you to keep moving because if you linger too long in one place you might just 
 run out of the T-Eng as your suit slowly consumes it. The reality is there is so much around I 
 rarely found myself feeling pressured to find some.
  
  On this planet you battle hordes of Akrid (bugs) that live here and some NEVEC troops that stand 
 in your way of completing your missions. The bug designs are excellent and extremely varied. It 
 seems like you find different species all through the game. They put up a decent fight but all 
 have a weakness of some kind that you can exploit to defeat. That goes also for the HUGE Akrid 
 boss creatures at the end of most levels. The boss battles are the icing on the cake for the this 
 game because you will battle a lot of them and they are all different. They all require a specific 
 strategy to defeat and some are down right tough. 
  
  The gameplay on the middle (normal) difficulty level was almost a bit too challenging for me at 
 times. Some of the bosses are very tough and the battles can last 10-20 minutes some times. But 
 once you've defeated one the satisfaction is tremendous and you walk away thinking "That was COOL!" 
 The gameplay between boss battles is typically quite easy so the tough boss battles balance it 
 out to make the normal difficulty a good challenge.
  
  Most levels consist of a trek through some part of the planet during which you'll use the VS suits 
 you find lying around to fight off the Akrid and NEVEC troops in your way. Most levels are fairly 
 short and you find yourself getting to the boss stage wishing there were more to do before you 
 got there. And that is the big downfall of the game. It's very short. Because you need to keep 
 up a decent pace to avoid running out of T-Eng you end up burning through the levels fairly quickly.
 
  
  Graphically this game does not look like an older title. The textures, effects and HDR make this 
 look as good as any game. Even though the world is covered in snow and you actually see some maps 
 twice it always feels fresh. The huge Akrid bosses are fantastic and some are so big you can't 
 see them all at once. 
  
  The sound is superb. The VS suits make a ton of appropriate noises as you stomp about and it really 
 adds to the feel that you are piloting a Mech. 
  
  The story is a little Total Recallish but very captivating and well told with some long cutscenes. 
 There are a few twists and turns as well to keep you wondering how it will end.
  
  The achievments are heavily weighted toward the multiplayer and I only grabbed a couple hundred 
 playing through the campaign. You can replay the campaign to collect items in the levels which 
 will net you a another hundred points but you'll need to get into the multiplayer to get most of 
 them. The multiplayer is still active to a degree so that could be possible.
  
  Bottom line is this game is a very well crafted game with engaging story, very accessible gameplay 
 and lots of memorable boss battles. It's criminally short and will take most people 10 hours or 
 so to complete all 11 levels. If you can find this in the bargain bin you should definitely check 
 it out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phishyphishy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I actually started to play this as a joke. I bought this game about a year ago when I had a buy 
 two used games get one free. Then recently joking around with a friend of mine I said I would only 
 play Lost Planet from now on. So I put it in when he signed into XBoxLive and started playing. 
 At first, like Dennis Green says, it was what i thought it was. The game had these horrible cinematic, 
 the game seemed stupid, shooting bug aliens and collecting thermal energy that restores life (which 
 i though was the dumbest thing I have seen in a game in a long time) . My first impression was Lost 
 Planet was a horrible, horrible first-person shooter. But for the first time in a long time, I 
 was wrong.
  
  Lost Planet turns out to be a very interesting adventure-shooter. The game provides a unique arcade-esqe 
 experience through the use of TEng which ends up acting like a clock. The only huge issue with 
 Lost Planet is the B-movie like story line. I am a huge stickler for storytelling in games, and 
 Lost Planet sets video game story telling back 20 years. This problem would usually make me drop 
 the games score way down, but the amazing game play overcomes this tragedy that is the games story.
 
  
  By the time you finish this game you will realize the brilliance of the game play, however it must 
 be admitted that the sometimes awkward controls makes it hard to get into at first. Strange mapping 
 includes reloading by clicking the right joystick and constantly changing controls depending on 
 the VSs you pilot (the robots you get to drive around) . Once past this learning curve, the game 
 play shines. The game offers a refreshing challenge. This game is definitely not for the easily 
 frustrated. The challenging bosses remind me of playing old school NES games, where you had to 
 be almost perfect to defeat them.
  
  And I think that is what I really loved about this game. I is almost a throwback to the old school 
 video game challenges, but stays true to this next gen style. Hurray capcom! Now I am actually 
 excited about Lost Planet 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_vader787
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  Lost planet is one of those games which has one look on the box and one completly different game 
 when you actually play it. When I saw the box art I thought of an immersive rpg or a horror (frozen 
 hell) sort of game from the art, but unfortunatly I was treated to an abysmal turd of a 3rd person 
 shooter, seriously that is the only name it deserves.
  
  In the game you play as some acne-riddled teen/young adult named Wayne who was undergoing a mission 
 with his father when suddenly it all goes bad, his dad dies to an alien called green eye (real 
 origional naming capcom) and gets buried under a mountain of ice for 30 years before being rescued 
 by a small group of space pirates, thankfully I've forgotten their names but the characters in 
 the game are unorigional, annoying and unlovable, the most annoying of which is some 'whiz kid' 
 who apparantly only 13, I think. The funny thing was that capcom tried to make us like this character 
 by making it look like he died in the explosion and bringing him back halfway during the next level, 
 wow, capcom did'nt even give us time to miss him at all, in a good storyline when a character looks 
 like he dies they 'die' halfway through and bring them back at the end, giving us more time to 
 miss the apparantly berieved.
  
  But enough about the characters with as much personality as a plank of wood, let's move onto gameplay.
 
  Wayne the hero is controlled by a third person camera, with the same bog standard controls as 
 any shooter, but with one cool extra, the zipline.
  
  The zipline is a grappling hook which allows Wayne to move up tall objects, or to help him zip 
 down ledges, and it seriously is a fun and handy gadget to have, and is probably the only reason 
 this game has three points.
  
  The rest of the gameplay however is shoddy, Wayne moves like an arthritic old man through the levels 
 making me reliant on the zipline to move fast, and seeing how Wayne survives on thermal energy 
 which drains as time goes by or as Wayne gets shot to pieces by the enemy it's stupid the characters 
 slow, for heaven's sake master cheif is covered in platemail and he moves far faster than Wayne.
 
  
  Also another crappy element is the robots, now the idea of using robotic suits to help you sounds 
 cool, but lost planet saps all the fun out of that, dodgy controls, appalling weapondry and the 
 annoying fact THAT EVERY FRIGGING CHARACTER HAS A ROCKET LAUNCHER makes the machines pointless, 
 also with that fact the rocket launchers produce a huge cloud of smoke so half the time you're 
 trying to mave your character through a bucketload of smoke cause of the fact most enemies have 
 rocket launchers and unlimited ammo, and beleive me it's far more than annoying.
  
  Thhe only time you need to depent on them is when the bosses attack, cause they'll thrash your 
 backside without it but capcom decide to **** up even more with this, in one particular boss fight 
 where you have to fight a robot, you really need to use the suit to win, but instead of starting 
 the fight in the suit you start outside of it, so while you try to clamber in as fast as you can 
 that cow of a boss gets to take at least four cheap shots at you cause it takes ages for Wayne 
 to use the bloody thing, could it have killed capcom to just start the fight inside the robot?
 
  
  So in a nutshell Lost planet has a crappy plot, gameplay, and seriously crappy effort as if the 
 developers thought that the smoke graphics were enough to keep us players going, it's far better 
 to axe the series than produce a sequel cause frankly it has'nt got any real strong points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  
  
  + Offers a mildly fun online mode.
  + Game over screen is cool.
  
  
  - Absoulutly horrendous camera control.
  - Still carries 
 out the pointless blueprint of RE's story.
  - Tideous time limit forces you to pick up thermal energy or die.
  - Graphics are black and white 
 for some reason.
  -Aweful voice cast that, once again, keeps up with RE.
  
  ---
  
  
  Why is Capcom, possibly the most overrated game developer company in the world, streching from 
 the Nes games to now, absoulutly crowned royal? Its even more hilarious how it manages to mysteriously 
 climbs its way up til it can only come down simply by making hlaf-sideprojects from RE. After 5 
 disapointing games in a row from Capcom, I still continue to ask myself with this question. Lost 
 Planet is no surprise. However, it takes quite a bit of effort to cram in a game featuring black 
 and white horrendous thrid person alien shooting. Fortunetly, instead of suffering the game yourself, 
 you have a buddy to experiance the pain of this game along with you.
  
  
  Your buddy is Wayne (an extremly randomly picked name) . He's a completly memory-less army marine 
 set in near-future. His memory stripped from him, the only thing he remembers is that he is a solider 
 hired to 'mildly' kick alien arse. The story is as simple aliens invading and somebody has to kill 
 them all one by one, only in a snowy winterscape. So after he suffers a few cutscenes, with a RE 
 rip-off chick named Luka saying that he's "weird for not knowing what a snowpirate is", the memory-less 
 bum is cast into the snowy winterscape to defeat the alien threat. No kidding, this is as bad as 
 the storyline can get.
  
  
  
  The first atrocious element you find when you first start playing this game is that the camera 
 controls is either broken or was intedned to be fusterating. Think of Gears of War. Then think 
 about the Gears of War camera moving at 1 mph. The result is Lost Planet's gameplay. You can't 
 adjust the camera in-game. Capcom decided to torture the player by making it so the only way to 
 adjust the camera senseitivity is to quit the game, lose any progress, and adjust it at the main 
 menu. There's no way to be sure if its at your perfered sensitivty so you have to start the game 
 again and test it out. And if it still isn't right, you have to exit the whole damn game again 
 and adjust it once again. Riveting job, Capcom.
  
  
  
  This will obviously never happen, but lets pretend that after 6 useless hours wasted that you actually 
 got the horrendous camera at the right sensitivty. The game still isn't that fun. You just randomly 
 run through a level as such a slow pace, shooting some aliens, and hope that the end of the level 
 is at the next turn. The graphics are devoid of any color whatsoever. Everything in the levels 
 are either white snow or black caves or aliens so you will not see any other form of color in the 
 game. What's even worse is a "time limit" form added to the gameplay. Since its a snowy world out 
 there, Wayne is supplied by thermal energy that decreases overtime. By killing aliens, he replenishes 
 the supply, but it forces you to move along without any hesitation. If you take too long in a level, 
 the thermal supply bar reaches zero and effects Wayne's health. Even if you pick up thermal pickups, 
 it decreases so fast that it doesn't make a difference. Basically, you are timed in every level, 
 and if you can't beat the level in the time, you die. The reason why Capcom has a tendency to put 
 a damn time limit in every game is beyond my mortal comprehension. 
  
  
  Wayne is equiped with a standard machine gun, as well as some other weapons burried under the snow, 
 but you never have time to use them, thanks to the time limit. In short, Lost Planet has no gameplay. 
 The 'gameplay' if you want to call it isn't about shooting aliens. Its all about trying to finish 
 the level as fast as possible, hoping to dear god that your thermal energy doesn't run out before 
 you reach the end. Even in shorter form, there is no point to Lost Planet other than to just run, 
 run, run before your thermal runs out. Just run, run, run, run, run.
  
  
  
  Lost Planet now tries to bribe you away from its awefulness with numberous veichle sequances. While 
 these are alot better than some games, they're also really annoying. You can pilot Mech-like walkers, 
 but none of them are fun to use. They got guns and some cool stuff, but you move alot slower, and 
 conisdered that Capcom put in a 'time limit' you rarely want to use them unless your up againest 
 semi-bosses or lots of aliens, which actually, you still do not want to use them. When the veichle 
 suffers enough hot ones, you'll be given a button command to eject before it explodes. Even if 
 you hit the button in time, you still explode and die, but Capcom appearantly thinks its fun to 
 hit a button before dying. They also didn't notice that given your going to run out of thermal 
 energy soon, its easier just to keep running to the exit. Just run, run, run, run, run, run.
  
  
  
  The only good thing I can say about Lost Planet is that online beats singleplayer. 
 However, Lost Planet can't even get that part of the game right. Online is still the black and 
 white graphics, the same controls are still in effect, and the only real difference is instead 
 of just Wayne to suffer the game with you, you have millions of other people to suffer as well. 
 It really isn't that different.
  
  
  
  Lost Planet has about 5% replay value. Lost Planet is just a simple side project to RE. Lost Planet 
 is an episode of just run, run, run before your thermal runs out. Just run, run, run, run, run. 
 Just like when you see this game at the store. Just run, run, run, run, run, run.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  THIS is my opinion if you don't like it don't waste your time reading it...
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  It's true graphics don't make the game fun and this statement goes with this game. 
 The graphics are pretty good but the cutscenes are not that impresive.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's frustating and boring. 
  
  Story:
  
  It's different from other games I've played but 
 not that interesting. 
  
  Replay:
  
  not even worth playing once. after mission 1 i stopped. 
  
  Overall:
  
  I really didn't 
 care about writing a detailed review. I was very dissapointed with this game. There were too many 
 creatures attacking you and you run out of t-energy very fast which means your health will not 
 restore anymore. In general being a shorter and all it's no fun at all. Compared to other games 
 it doesn't go beyond what you expect. I recommend you rent it first since I see how many people 
 like it. I'm just not good with a game that times you that's all. 
  
  
  I hope lost planet 2 is much but much better and take out the t-energy all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When army of two came out, it was considered a gears of war clone.
  But when this came out, people said "I wanted a cover system".
  
  
  lost planets story is 
 although confusing but immersive. Wayne? what? 
  Who? Rick? huh? Luka? NEVEC? confusing
  sorry for spoiling it
  
  Lost planets levels are good but what really hits the bar is the multiplayer.
 
  In multiplayer, you have a number of modes to choose from,
  PC and Xbox 360 gamers can meet eachother and it is lag free.
  
  the only bad part of this 
 game is the B pickup button which is mixed with B enter button. if you are trying to enter a vehicle 
 that is surrounded by a bunch of weapons, well then good luck with that.
  
  
  also the mechanics in multiplayer are not as good as we expect a game with great graphics. GRAPHICS: 
 AMAZING
  
  if you are knocked down by an explosion, the odds of you dying are 70% before you get up.
  
 
  anyway it's a nice game for anyone but won't steal time played on COD4 or Halo 3:)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tower75935
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a fantastic, intense and downright awesome game. Let's start 
 with the Graphics, they are smooth and solid making a pretty nice environment (no issues with performance) . 
 The gameplay is good, but could be improved in a lot of ways. For instance, the aiming system is 
 poor, making it nearly impossible to shoot one of your foes. Multiplayer does not feel quite as 
 good as single-player because the game modes are poorly executed and quite honestly, boring. The 
 sound/music is a nice touch but it has been heard before, a few times. The storyline is good but 
 It doesn't necessarily pull me into it. It is not addictive but it is interesting. Wayne is an 
 unexplained character making him kind of confusing.
  Overall, A fantastic and enjoyable game that will pull you in for a couple hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet tries to have a good story but fails because of horrible voice acting and slow cutscenes 
 that nothing interesting happening. The gameplay is somewhat like a dumbed down version of socom. 
 The weapons are not that impressive, all there is: the assault rifle, shot gun, rocket launcher, 
 sniper rifle and this one weapon that shoots some kinda of laser but the damage is weak. The graphics 
 are really good. The music fits in at the right times and sound effects sound like they have not 
 been used before. The first 2 levels are fun to play and the some of the other ones are fun to 
 play again too. Lets talk about the good parts of the game. U have rechargeable health, the enemies 
 change often so dont get bored, the weapon load out is easy, and the graphics look great. Ok, now 
 for the bad things in the game. The story is lame, voice acting is freaking gay! Environments seem 
 to be the same, weapons load out is generic, enemy AI can be really stupid. If u enjoy good looking 
 games and third person action shooter games lost planet wont disappoint.
  
  Story: 4.3
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Graphics: 8.8
  Controls: 7.6
  Re-play Value: 8.0
  Overall: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinytoe007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  The story is that tyhere was something wrong with earth so they sent people to this world they 
 lived there but then were being attacked by Akrid (type of monsters) they sent the people back to 
 earth, oh just that you would know that planet is filled with snow. But than they found out that 
 the Akrid had thermal energy (type of energy) so they fought after almost everybody left, the only 
 people were the snow pirates and the NEVEC group which hated snow pirates. Yoe use a charecter 
 called wayne you first start fighting Green Eye (Akrid Boss) Than your father dies and you were lost 
 in your VS (type of vehicle in the shape of a two legged thing) Then you are found by some dudes 
 called Yuri, Luka and her brother. And it continues but i~ll continue the story the next time I review 
 lost planet. You get a variety of guns and VS`s too. Multiplayer is so awesome as well. Unfotunetly 
 there is no co-op in the game. Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition was one of the first Xbox360 games that I bought, and I wasn't disappointed. 
 In Lost Planet you play as the main protagonist Wayne as he tries to regain his lost memories, 
 defeat the giant Akrid Green Eye, and ultimately stop something called the Frontier Project. Lost 
 Planet is a shooter so the battle system is of course real-time and all you weapons are guns, but 
 one of the cool things about the game is that you spend alot of time in these mechs called Vital 
 Suits (VS) , which there is a very large variety of. The graphics are of course great, can't say 
 a bad word about the graphics (it is the 360 after all) . The voiceover for the game are actually 
 pretty good though I thought Rick could have had a better voice (he sounded like some pre-pubescent 
 teenager) but besides that the voiceovers are great. The soundtrack for the game is okay but definitely 
 not the best I've ever heard, though it is pretty good in a couple of parts when fighting the Akrid. 
 So overall Lost Planet is a very good shooter (which is saying something for me I usually don't 
 like shooters) that I would recommend to most Xbox360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  The structure of this game is a very classic one, a series of linear missions which all conclude 
 with a BIG DIFFICULT BOSS to fight. This was engaging about 10 years ago, but today it just feels 
 aged.
  
  I don't know what it is with Capcom but I have not played a single game by them on the XBOX 360 
 that felt complete or finished. 
  
  The best part of this game is the GUNS! which are many and all look and work Brilliantly. You can 
 really feel the Power when you blast off a Rocket, or toss a Grenade. The VS suits are also very 
 well designed and remind me a lot of the cartoon "Techno Man".
  
  The game has a quirky character, which is typical of a Japanese game and the explosions are the 
 best I have had the joy to experience.
  
  But there are flaws and faults in the game ......... and you will need 2 hands to count them on.
 
  
  1. The crouch function works so you have to constantly press it down if you want Wayne to remain 
 crouched. This makes the crouch function difficult to use.
  2. Items will disappear if you do not pick them up on the wat through and instead decide to go 
 back for them later.
  3. Some of the enemies are really tough. This is mainly due to the sluggish movement of Wayne and 
 the VS suits he fights in. 
  4. You are discouraged from exploring the environment and if you do you will realise that they 
 contain very immediate boundaries.
  5. This foreign planet for some reason is littered with OLD MODEL CARS from the 1980-90's?? Isn't 
 this supposed to be the high tech space age??
  6. The humans soldiers and VS's are far more interesting to battle than the Akrid, who are supposed 
 to be the stars of the game. Also the battle scenes involving humans combatants are far more engaging 
 and offer far more possibility.
  7. The storyline is a bit over the top, and it isn't helped any by the constant cliche one liners.
 
  8. Just feels outdated due to the lack of any modification available in any aspect of the game. 
 
  9. It is very unclear on how to tackle some of the BOSSES, I'm especially talking about BOSS 1 
 mission 10 and BOSS of mission 4.
  10. The game lacks any real depth. 
  11. You can destroy some of the cars/trucks littering the environment and not others? why?
  
 
  Overall its a fun game, with a few really good battles but don't expect too much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  I got this one at Circuit City (the buzzards are pecking away at it already) for $12.98. That's 
 a good deal. I've played much worse games than this after paying lots more money.
  
  Still... it's definitely got some issues. 
  
  Good: I like the story line. It might seem convoluted, 
 but it's really not if you pay a little attention. I'm confused at how many people can't seem to 
 follow it. 
  
  I like the "concept," of being on a frozen planet with thermal energy required. It's unique, which 
 can be hard to find. 
  
  You get to utilize some heavy duty machinery called "VS's" that let you throw some wanton distruction 
 around.
  
  It's got a nice selection of guns to play with and blow stuff up with, and the sound comes through 
 a surround sound setup as well as any game I've ever played.
  
  The Bad: The level design on most of the game is just plain awful. One particular level (Mission 
 3) can literally involve running along a rock wall until you reach the end. That's bad.
  
  The bosses can be brutally difficult, even on "Normal," setting. This game seems to cry out "buy 
 strategy guide, lest ye die." That's become common, but is annoying nonetheless.
  
  The game is very short, and from what I hear has online that's pretty much dead.
  
  Capcom 
 includes a link on their own menu for XBox Live! downloads. There aren't any. ...?
  
  Overall, this game is completely hit and miss. It can be quite fun, and it can be  
 frustrating. So... if you have a penchant for pain, or can sort out through the bad to enjoy the 
 good, then have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg258
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Over all score..9.5/10
  Game play....10/10
  Graphics...10/10
  Sound....10/10
  Keeping your interest..10/10
  Multiplayer..5/10 ( have to 
 be online for 2 - 16) 
  
  I personally think this game was awesome ive never played a game like this one before it kind a 
 reminds me of a anime series. there's 11 missions that you have to go through with thermal energy 
 to say alive, the game give you a lot so you don't have to wary really about it. The mission can 
 be long and full of action. There's heavily armored vital suits that you can use and pick up weapons 
 for the suit that you find on the ground to help you fight of the Colossal Akrid some of these 
 monster are so big that they tower over you and try to kill you. The game lets you have a sh** 
 loud of ammo so you'll really never run out of it. Its really a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a third-person shooter. You will be on foot most of the time 
 but you can also use Vital Suits also known as a VS. A VS is a large mechanical type robotic thing 
 that has two heavy weapons on each side making blasting through enemies very efficiently.
  
  Lost Planet takes place in the future where conditions on Earth have become too hostile to 
 support human life. The planet E. D. N. lll is cold and snowy and was originally inhabited by a species 
 of aliens known as the Akrid, who forced humanity to abandon E. D. N. lll by strength of numbers. 
 When T-Eng or Thermal Energy was found as a powerful source for energy in the Akrid bodies this 
 made the humans fight the aliens for this new power. The Vital Suit is powered by Thermal Energy 
 and you also need to gather it as you kill enemies so you can withstand the freezing climate.
 
  
  Most of the game revolves around combat. Wayne, the main character, can use many weapons like machine 
 guns, shotguns, rocket launchers, etc. When on foot Wayne is able to remove the giant turrets from 
 the Vital Suits to use as a weapon. You can carry up to two weapons at once, not including grenades. 
 You will be fighting the Akrid for most of the game but on some levels you will be able to fight 
 Snow Pirates and Mechs. In both single and multiplayer modes there is a Thermal Energy bar below 
 the characters health. This counter continually goes down so if it reaches zero you die. It can 
 be filled by collecting pools of glowing orange heat from dead enemies, activating data posts, 
 or from other things such as explosive barrels. The T-ENG is also used to power plasma rifles and 
 energy weapons.
  
  Online can support up to 16 players in a match. There are four types of game modes; fugitive, elimination, 
 team elimination, and post grab. Killing enemies, destroying VS or hacking data posts will add 
 to the players score. There ia a leveling system so if you just played a match that score is added 
 to your current score from all your matches. The highest level is 99 0r 200 if you have the Colonies 
 Edition.
  
  The multiplayer mode is so much fun that you will want to be playing it again for hours and hours. 
 There are also stuff to unlock when you raise up in your level so it will keep you busy for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Really fun to play and when I first played it I thought it had the gears of war feel which was 
 a good thing and I thought the storyline was good to they tring to terraform this planet and make 
 the enviroment safe for humans and there is this conspiracy going on and you have kill these huge 
 bugs which has to be one of the best parts of the game the giant bugs a prettyg well designed and 
 at times can be pretty challenging to kill another good thing would be the boss design there are 
 alot of bosses and they are all good especially the purple earth worm the game has alot of nice 
 touches like the VS mechs which have to be the best part of the game (especiall the ending) this 
 part of the game is well done and pretty detailed there are many different kinds of VS mechs like 
 the tank and jumper and veriety is always a good thing but there still should have been more reguler 
 weapons the worst part of the game is its to short and pretty easy other then the boss fights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet to put it quite bluntly is one of the worst titles I have played this year, and one 
 responsible for more frustration than any other. The myriad of flaws in the game come together 
 to create a highly frustrating poorly construed third person shooter that seems to be making an 
 attempt to return to the old school days of shoot em ups and failing miserably by not really delivering 
 on the fun. 
  
  Lost Planet takes place on a ice covered frozen world which humans are colonising, unfortunately 
 humanity soon discovers it isn't alone and hordes of aliens also inhabit this world. Being humans 
 of course we don't give up and create some huge mechs to fight back against the alien menace and 
 fly back there to kill them en masse, trying to obtain the precious heat energy inside them for 
 our own purposes at the same time. Essentially that's the plot, your one of the troops battling 
 the aliens, your Dad gets killed by an alien you get owned by the same said alien and you join 
 up with a team of snow pirate salvagers to get revenge. The cast you team up with aswell as you 
 as a lead all are fairly bland, dull and unlike able and some of the plot revelations are delivered 
 with laughable simplicity, but seeing as this is an action game a bad plot could be forgivable, 
 so lets look at the gameplay
  
  Gameplay in lost planet involves you on foot or in a mech fighting hordes of enemies, alien, human 
 and machine alike and occasionally fighting large boss encounters. You run around blasting away 
 with your guns, collecting thermal energy (which constantly depletes due to the cold) to stay alive 
 and occasionally grappling onto things. In premise things sound o. k but a lot of the gameplay doesn't 
 actually work. First off the constant collection of thermal energy is annoying. It depletes at 
 a steady rate anyway, but when your injured depletes even faster, you have to constantly locate 
 the glowing orbs or your going to be dead pretty speedily. This is usually ok but some moments, 
 particularly in boss fights when you need to be looking at the boss instead of hugging glowing 
 orange orbs for warmth can be very frustrating, what's wrong with just having a reasonable health 
 bar?
  
  A major gripe I have about the games combat is not really the gameplay itself but more the games 
 visual effects affecting the gameplay. For example when in a mech you can launch a rocket at a 
 large alien and boss, have a huge amount of smoke and explosion fill the screen, then be dead 2 
 seconds later as you couldn't see what the hell was going on due to the explosion and for some 
 reason the enemy could. Similar situations arise from grenade explosions, snow storms etc.. and 
 while it could be argued the grandiose effects add to the realism and atmosphere of the game, for 
 me they were a real pain and resulted in many a death. Could they just last a bit less time?
  
  By far, FAR the worst issue with this game though is the controls, particularly the grappling 
 hook. Everything from on foot to mech control feels like your encased in a block of shower gel, 
 slow, unresponsive and clunky, and when your fighting fast huge aliens this can be a major issue 
 and usually results in them eating your head. The grappling hook is by far one of the worst features 
 I've come across in a game and even climbing up a simple ledge can be a challenge as you need to 
 get to the exact spot on the ledge or you'll be plummeting to earth again. The addition of swinging 
 across chasm's later in the game (plus some dire first person jumping) only makes the uselessness 
 of the tool become more evident and frustrating as once again you get a face full of snow covered 
 rock face and plummet to your doom. Lovely.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is actually (thankfully) a bit better than the single player 
 offering a fun and addictive blast if a bit too devoid of variety to be played for more than a 
 few weeks, it's the one redeeming feature the title has to offer in the cesspit of it's gameplay. 
 Things are a bit more even if your fighting someone having the exact same problems as you, especially 
 as the human players you fight in multiplayer don't have huge spear like legs ready to impale you 
 to death or burst out from the snow beneath you ready to dine on non-interesting lead character 
 legs.
  
  In short Lost Planet is badly made, badly executed and really doesn't have a redeeming feature 
 other than the brief solace that is it's multiplayer. If you really want an old school shoot em 
 up, I suggest you actually buy one of the old ones instead as they are invariably better than this 
 dross
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I am lucky enough to have a hi def television, so I love to get a game whose graphics just jump 
 right off of the screen. This is one of those games. The cut scenes are absolutely beautiful.
 
  So are the in game graphics. That being said, considering that for most of the game you are a 
 guy running through the snow, with very little variation, those graphics tend to get boring quick.
 
  Game play is easy to learn and master. There are eleven hours. It took me about an hour and twenty 
 minutes to complete each one.
  There are many kinds of weapons so it does not get boring.
  
  What makes this game, is its online play.
  
  I started playing the demo almost as soon 
 as I got X-box live. I at one point called into work because I stayed up all night ( literally 
 ) just playing the demo.
  
  There are many maps with many different styles of play for up to sixteen people.
  
  This game 
 did not exactly burn up the charts, but these days it can be had for less than twenty dollars and 
 is definitely a steal at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ifritreaper69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best types of third person shooters out there but, it shouldnt really have 
 the energy level just a time limit for a snow storm to come and u die from it. The overall gameplay 
 was very good but there were very few flaws and short buffs but otherwise it was one of the best 
 out there. The wepon selection for the the whole games was quite large but some of the wepons needed 
 to be upgraded. I think the wepons should of had upgrades such as the first wepon (the assault 
 rifle) like u get a grenade launcher on it or faster shots or more powerful shots. The aliens needed 
 to have more ways to attack or be a little bit more stronger. The people needed to have a a little 
 more inteligence so they didnt kill themselfs even though it was reallly funny. Overall thouh i 
 liked the game even though there were a few nicks and buffs here and there but they werent serious 
 at all so, overall the game was really fun and hard so to end this reveiw i say THIS GAME IS AWSOM!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6StringShredder
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I spent time to complete maybe half of the game and soon decided this game was not worth playing 
 any farther. The plot is good but the voice acting could be better. Controlling your Character 
 could be better, you can tell they wanted something different but only made it annoying. The collision 
 detection is awful as well. Scaling up walls or jumping from platform to platform in a mech is 
 a pain in the rectum because you will find yourself easily getting stuck to walls and having to 
 start over on climbs. Fighting snow pirates after snow pirates after snow pirates gets extremely 
 repetitive and boring. You will encounter massive snow monster things and boss's but is not too 
 exciting. The action is pretty damn fake standing face to face rarely having to take cover for 
 your life, and there are no points in the game that pumped me up or that were epic. The cut scenes 
 are cooler than the game, making you think it is going to be sweet, than it isn't. Id say rent 
 it or borrow it, because it isn't worth 30 dollars to me.
  
  Graphics-6/10 
  Sound-5/10
  Gameplay-3/10
  Mechanics-4/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Playing the demo in my nearest DickSmith electronics, I assumed that the rest of the game would 
 be fairly enjoyable and replay value worth the money. Boy was I wrong. 
  
  Lost Planet, is simply a dull boring game with no substance to storyline or game play. To me it 
 seemed the creators decided 'Hey! Let's just make the graphics insane and maybe they won't notice 
 our lack of storyline!'
  
  Great, plus for them, the graphics are fairly good. Although they get a massive minus for storyline. 
 Throughout the entirety of the game, I had absolutely no idea what was going on. Why was I in one 
 area, and then suddenly in some random cave? Explained? No. 
  
  Subsequently, the game play side of this game brings a further minus to the game with unrecognizable 
 button layout, and not to mention undoubtedly stupid weaponry. 
  
  However, One thing that I did like about Lost Planet was how many difficulties there were and how 
 easy it were to die on a given level. The 'health', as such, can be recharged by an energy bar, 
 energy can be recharged by collection various T-Eng droplets from enemies, giant tanks, etc. This 
 added a degree of annoyance to the game, as you would be constantly searching for T-Eng when attempting 
 to complete a level. 
  
  Not only do they have a range of difficulties but they have collectible medallions hidden throughout 
 each level and there respective difficulty levels. This also increases the time taken to complete 
 said level, as you would be searching for this medallion as well as collecting T-Eng.
  
  All of these factors are to increase the replay factor of the game, but undoubtedly caused the 
 game to be less appealing as it would take too long to complete 100% of the game. This would not 
 only turn off hardcore gamers but achievement junkies as well. 
  
  Most of the achievements in the game regard campaign mode along with some online multiplayer ones. 
 The problem with this is: no one plays this game therefore no one is online and the campaign ones 
 mostly require you to complete EVERY difficulty.
  
  Apart from these factors, Lost Planet can be a fairly fun game. It creators and enemies are very 
 well designed, it's just the game as a whole that seems unfinished and half-done. 
  
  Summary - 7 / 10
  Online (XBL) : Not worth it.
  Achievements: Get half and dump the game.
 
  Storyline: Doesn't make sense.
  Multiplayer: Fairly fun, if your playing locally. (if that's possible)
  Gameplay: Simplistic, 
 yet annoying.
  Button mapping: Unrecognizable.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  In Lost Planet: Extreme Condition you play as a guy named Wayne. In the beginning of the game you 
 see yourself on a snowy planet with other people from the military surronding you. Your dad is 
 the general of the squad. While in a tunnel, a massive Akrid (alien things) called the Green Eye 
 kills your dad and the whole squad. You are left to get in a robot machine with guns, called a 
 VS (Vital Suit) while walking in the middle of no where in the suit it shows Wayne almost die. 
 You wake up with a thing pumping thermal energy into your arm. A group of three friends saved you. 
 Now I don't want to tell you what the thing on Wayne's arm was, because that would spoil half the 
 game. So a bad corporation called NEVEC is trying to run a massive planet wide program called "The 
 Frontier Program" which will eventually destroy the program. You and your three friends will do 
 all you can to bring down NEVEC and do away with the Frontier Program. You will battle NEVEC, snow 
 pirates, and akrid along the way with shot guns, machine guns, rocket launchers, gum grenades, 
 hand grenades, plasma grenades, VS suits, and plenty more. The game is short with only 11 levels 
 to take down NEVEC. Gameplay will get old after a while. I would say 8.0 would suit Lost Planet: 
 Extreme Condition well.
  
  -ShawnEffect_58 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is now a Lost Gem, and it's definitely worth checking out, for Xbox 360 owners. Packing 
 amazing graphics even to this day, and a grapple hook!
  
  The story goes a little something like this, you're on a planet infested with alien bugs called 
 The Akrid. The humans later on find out that they carry an energy source, and start hunting the 
 Akrid, with the intention of extinction. There is a intro movie telling you the history of this 
 plan.
  You play as Wayne, after his base was being attacked by Akrid and his father slain in the heat 
 of battle. You follow him on a mission to rid the Akrid one by one, by going to Akrid hives. Later 
 on the story spreads out including other characters.
  This story is flat, but it's expected for a first game of a new IP.
  Storytelling isn't that 
 great, they are done from Cutscenes, but are incoherent, for example you'd be done a level, and 
 magically be back at the base.
  
  Gameplay is like Contra, or other classic 2d Shoot'em ups, but in 3D! Just like Stranglehold, you 
 shoot everything mindlessly, only this time the story justifies a meaning. You got your assault 
 rifles, shoguns, rocket launchers and grenades to mention a few, and then you got the grappling 
 hook, you can use it to get onto higher levels, and it beats walking.
  Along side the standard equipment, you get a walking robot, called a Vital Suit (VS) , which packs 
 a punch, it can be equipped with a shotgun, assault rifle, laser guns, and other tidbits.
  
  Some issues I came across was that when you were attacked by a great amount of force, you'd 
 be launched into the air and fall right back down, now there's nothing wrong with it, but once 
 you get into the animation of getting back up, you get hit again and thus creating an annoying 
 loop.
  The highlight of the game are the boss battles, they are pretty memorable and big, but thanks to 
 the VS, some battles can be simple and quickly accomplished.
  
  Graphics are one of the best out there right now, along with Halo 3 and Unreal Tournament 3. The 
 contrast/brightness ratio is excellent, motion blur is nicely applied and the special effects such 
 as explosions, sparks, creatures bleeding are truly amazing. When you look at textures closely, 
 they can be blurry, but the level of detail in the environments totally makes up for it.
  Animations are excellent as well, the Akrid move naturally, and look like organic beings.
  The 
 game do have those black borders on the top and bottom and small text for those Stand Definition 
 TV owners out there, which is a bummer.
  
  Audio is well done, but nothing spectacular. Music, and Akrid noises and voice acting are decent. 
 Your primary weapon, the assault rifle can sound a little weak and annoying, but the shotgun and 
 rocket launcher sound very good.
  
  Lost Planet is truly a Lost Gem, I'd suggest you buy it at a cheap price, or rent to experience 
 this game. Capcom has made a great first attempt. I'd be more than happy to play their next installment. 
 And the movie adaptation. Go David Hayter!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet cost me $16. For the price I am hard-pressed to think of a video game where I felt 
 like I got a better deal, save Final Fantasy Tactics for $15. Lost Planet was an early XB360 title 
 that should be available for a low price used at your local game store, and you should buy it.
 
  
  The premise is paper-thin action movie stuff that's not really worth discussing. This is essentially 
 a really long arcade game. You move your character around shooting stuff with extremely satisfying 
 guns, using your zip-line to scoot around the reasonably varied levels and generally kill stuff. 
 There is no real variation from this. That said, eleven missions of killing things really doesn't 
 get as old as it does in the generic sci-fi FPS that gets pumped out at a rate of six a month anymore 
 for a few reasons (hint: none of them are the plot) .
  
  One is that this game has a great sense of pace. Because you require a constant supply of Thermal 
 Energy to survive in the freezing temperatures, you have to keep moving so you can find enemies 
 to kill who provide you with this resource. Your life is regenerated by Thermal Energy at a good 
 clip too -- this is a great system as it doesn't resort to the old school 'find the health kit' stuff 
 which can get boring but rather forces you to constantly keep moving and killing stuff.
  
  Secondly, the weapons are fairly varied and actually each have upsides and downsides. All sound 
 very good and are quite satisfying to blast bugs, men and robots with. The robotic weapons, in 
 particular, are fantastic; shotguns the size of a man, four-barreled missile launchers, giant lasers 
 that make futuristic charging sounds, and the like are all well represented.
  
  Finally, the online multiplayer rocks -- chaotic sixteen player battlefield affairs with machineguns 
 and rocket launchers blazing. The community is stuff pretty active so it's easy to find games. 
 Really great stuff, good stat tracking, and some fun modes.
  
  All in all, this game is a winner. It's obviously next-gen but has a very arcade, old-tyme feel 
 that more games should frankly be ripping off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  From a frist look at Lost debut trailer, it has the makings of a great game. The game appears to 
 be and all out war between the humans and native scourge of a colinized planet. However this is 
 not the case, your charecter is basically a one man army agianst the insects of the planet. Here 
 come the poor concepts of the game that were clearly not thought through. When fighting these arachnid 
 enemies once they are killed they realese this thermal energy and your charecter must collect this 
 in order to live due to the harsh cold enviroment. So basically, once u think about it, if your 
 charecter would have to fight 24/7 in order to live in this enviroment. Your charecter is not the 
 only one who suffers from this need for thermal, the entire colinizing population needs it. Here 
 comes the prediciment, once you look deeper humanity has to kill these bugs inorder to survive, 
 but if there are non of these bugs then they won't survive. Plot holes such as this are apart for 
 any person with a high enough IQ to see through the unitreging story line. 
  
  Gameplay is third person shooter which also involves mechs. The basic third person on foot combat 
 is midly satisfying but the problem comes in with the mechs. At first they are semi fun and cool 
 but still bring a bit of cheeseyness to the game do the impractical nature of the machine, espicalley 
 in a snow covered enviroment, and the combat is only middly satisfying for in an mech enemies rarely 
 provide a challenge. Also often, there are boss battles that were so enjoyable on older consoles, 
 but in this modern era of video games the whole boss concept is kinda of old, and often the only 
 way to accomplish these battles is using a mech. For instance, spoiler alert: On the final mission 
 u aquire and super mech, that can fly and do all sorts of neat tricks, and u battle another mech 
 in the air. The battle has to be the worst ending and least satisfying mission ever in a game. 
 It consists of you shoot, and spinning around in circles with your rival mid flight. WHich bothers 
 me, mechs aren't ideal for flying, why they hell wouldn't the final boss just have a plane. 
  
  Graphics, in the game the graphics aren't terrible they aren't really amazing, throughout the 
 majority of the game your in a bright snowy enviroment, which isn't particullarly breath takin, 
 all that is really specail about it is the foot steps you leave behind look somewat real. Indoor 
 enviroment at much to look at either, the caves are what you would expect, caves with bland colors 
 and textures, it really desnt feel like your in a hollow cavern where, each shot would creat an 
 echo. The buildings themselves have typical colors and textures, just designed enough to imply 
 that ur in a building. The charecter design on the enemies, for the bugs is pretty well done, wuch 
 as the large moth, giant ground worm, and the spikey twirling boss. But on the Ice pirates, and 
 smaller bugs that come in swarms the graphics are rather uninspired. 
  
  Online, is poor and just consists of running around and shoot with the od mech to pick up. The 
 game types arent that amusings their the regular death match, but there is also a fugitive type 
 one, which doesnt provide much amusement. 
  
  My final conclusion, with a story that has no depth and is full of holes, mildly amusing gameplay, 
 gimics that don't aid the game at all, poor online, alright graphics, and terrible ending this 
 game at best deserves a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  When I sat down to play Lost Planet for the first time, I honestly didnt know what to expect. On 
 the one hand, I have what is supposed to be one of the better 360 games in terms of both looks 
 and gameplay, but on the other hand I have a TPS game where you are shooting through enemies on 
 an alien planet with your time constantly running out. Trust me when I tell you that one makes 
 the game worth playing, while the other stops it from being one of the best 360 games on the platform. 
 Well, thats not true. It's not so much the fact that you are shooting aliens on an icy planet, 
 but more than sometimes, the game feels almost cheap in what it wants you to do. However, the fact 
 that I continued to play the game tells me that it is at least worth picking up.
  
  Now, as previously mentioned, the game has its up and downs. Let's start with the downs, so I can 
 eventually end the review on a happy note. First off, the story is a major let down. It makes little 
 sense and in all probability will leave you not caring what happens to the main character or the 
 supporting cast. The main antagonist is so absolutely evil that I half expected him to show up 
 wearing a Nazi uniform, while stabbing a baby, driving a hummer and keeping mother theresa's head 
 under water with his foot. He is just so absolutely evil. I dont know about you, but I like there 
 to be some humanity to my antagonists! They need to have a vision that you can almost understand, 
 but then you remember that it is evil and you want to kill that person. The protagonist on the 
 other hand is strange and heavy handed in terms of dialogue. The game isnt exactly well-written, 
 and trust me its noticeable. If you are looking for a story-driven game, try looking elsewhere.
 
  
  So I guess after that comes combat. The combat is standard run of the mill TPS shooting. You aim 
 and fire at the bad guys, essentially. However, with the akrid, they usually have a "soft spot" 
 you have to shoot to get rid of them (the bigger ones do anyway) . This is fine for most of the 
 game, but it can get annoying in some of the boss fights. The green eye boss battle (you chase 
 him for the first half of the game) is pretty annoying and doesnt feel as insane as it should. 
 Plus, I felt as though my manueverability was severely limited. Honestly, that boss battle didnt 
 feel as amazing as it should have, considering that the whole game had been leading up to it. However, 
 the other boss fights thankfully do not suffer the same way.
  
  What probably makes the combat weak in some ways is the mechanics of some of it and the setups 
 you are placed in. For starters, you will be forced to deal with the most annoying knock down animation 
 in any game I have ever played. The knock down animation takes forever to resolve, and then of 
 course if you get an enemy that can knock you down easily, there is a chance you will get stuck 
 in a nice little loop being knocked down over and over again. However, I shouldnt make it sound 
 as drawn out as it sounds, seeing as how you will die pretty fast. Even on easy its not very hard 
 to watch your health plummet to 0. Even if you manage to not die, then all of your thermal energy 
 will be drained and then you will be screwed anyway. Honestly, this game would have been just as 
 well off without the whole "thermal energy" mechanic attached to it, and since thermal energy cant 
 carry over from mission to mission, there will be times when you wish it wasnt there. One last 
 thing, if you get pitted against a VS, and you arent in one yourself, and you do not have a rocket 
 launcher handy, kiss you *** goodbye.
  
  Okay, so I have beaten on this game a good bit, so now lets talk about the positive aspects of 
 the game. First of all, the game is stunning to look at. The levels are well detailed mostly, and 
 the enemies are varied and beatiful (well... the graphics are nice I mean to say) . Explosions have 
 a great animation to them as well, so trust me when I tell you that you will not get tired of looking 
 at this game. The sound work is okay (with the exception of the dialogue) and the music will keep 
 a nice pace with the combat most of the time. At least it wont seem out of place, like in some 
 other games.
  
  The combat is manageable and can actually be enjoyable for the most part if you dont get placed 
 in annoyingly tough situations that seem deliberately cheap (basically the first half of the game, 
 and parts of the second half) . There will be times when you genuinely enjoy playing the game, and 
 then there will be times when you want to throw the disk through your window. It will be a love-hate 
 relationship, with no emphasis on either side.
  
  Lost Planet is a remarkably short experience, so the fact that you can pick it up for under 20 
 bucks is a plus. The online really doesnt add much to the game, and there are much better online 
 games out there, so wasting your time here is inadvisable. In the end, it comes down to if you 
 can deal with the shortcomings of the game, and in the end enjoy what is sitting in front of you. 
 If you can, then you are in for a reasonably enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games that you don't want to know about it but once you hear about it how 
 good it is your gonna want to play it over and over. It is a cool online game. You get to choose 
 through six characters play during online. and 4 patterns for there costumes. I the single player 
 mode you get to search for these little disks that hidden around the whole level. I mean these 
 disks are hard as hell to find. COG tags are harder to find but there not very goodly hidden. Sometimes 
 it not the best thing to play. if you had a choose of Gears of War or Lost Planet it would be Gears. But 
 the upside of thing, in the game you get to us a mech. It's a Big robot suit that you can use to 
 kill the akrid. To me this game was very, very short. only eleven levels. Gears of War had four 
 or five but in each chapter they had at least 4 parts of the chapter. overall gameplay was good. 
 but could use a tweek or two. it was alright I think. It one of those game you should borrow from 
 a friend or rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  this have nothing special, and it is not that fun the way some players described it...
  
  there are tow thing about this game that made me give it 7.5:
  first its graphics and it is good, the 
 faces are well made and the machines are good too, but the enviroment is not so cool cause it is 
 all snow and some time you will see some volcano and other small parts of it...
  
  the story is kinda old style of sc-fi, and it has some weird stuff about it like being in a coma 
 for 30 years and being fine after that, those creatures are not even close to be a real thing.
 
  
  the places that you will fight in are not so good and the map is like crap!!
  
  the fightng techniques are just the old ways, nothing new exept some guns and machines...
  
 
  one more thing the achivments are so hard to get and that one makes me sick, cause every game I 
 play i get alot of them in it...
  
  and with all do respects it does not deserve a rate of 8 at all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemacondo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Reviewing an old game here, but I've been trying to give credit where it's due. Lost Planet was 
 a peculiar third-person shooter, brimming with interesting gameplay ideas and graphical flourishes, 
 and yet hampered by a mostly awful storyline and some wavering difficulty. It's primed to be a 
 worthwhile franchise, and in action it proves itself to be one of the must unique shooter experiences 
 available on a console.
  
  The storyline should be initially mentioned: it's primarily badly written melodrama that is, in 
 turn, badly translated. I can often intuit a bad Japanese translation with a few key giveaways: 
 the nauseating repetition of character names (you will hear the word "Wayne" to the point of indigestion 
 in this game) , awkward pauses in the dialog, and wavering emphases in the voices that don't click 
 with the flow of the script. So I'm willing to bet that there's a better story in Japanese underneath 
 this translated murk. What's beneficial is that although the script is a kind of mess, the grand 
 drama of the story is well demonstrated. The first level is beautifully grandiose, and there are 
 various surprises that, although really just set dressing, do well enough to frame the game's exciting 
 set pieces. You'll probably watch every cutscene at least once, to get an idea of why you're accomplishing 
 the next level.
  
  I found parts of this game easy, and parts of it brutal. I've read reviews where other people consider 
 this game a cakewalk, and I don't see it. I suppose you could really dash through every level and 
 complete this game quickly and with less destruction, but I enjoyed taking my time with it and 
 vanquishing the enemies piecemeal. Everything just "feels right" as far as the controls go, and 
 after playing a while you realize you're juggling a healthy number of buttons with ease (Grenade, 
 hook, gun, perspective change) . Even your crosshairs feel right, as they never do in games of this 
 nature; others have described them as "wavery," but instead of feeling like a flash-game point-and-click 
 it feels like a true extension of your character's weapon.
  
  The levels (and several impressive enemies and bosses) are enormous - you are slow. This has been 
 another annoyance among gamers, but I find that it adds to the game's epic feel. When fighting 
 a monster that is literally 15 or more stories tall, it makes sense that you can't jitterbug around 
 it. Otherwise, when you are trudging your way through a desolate landscape or a beautifully rendered 
 post-apocalyptic cityscape, you feel appropriately small. I find this an impressive aspect of the 
 game, reminiscent of Shadow of the Colossus and sometimes equally haunted. The sounds of the wind 
 rushing over the snow, the crunch of it under your boots, and the distant call of some strange 
 alien species before a furious firefight - these are all party to the Lost Planet experience, and 
 many levels like to shift in tone between the busier parts and this grand feeling of melancholy.
 
  
  The enemy set is robust. You'll often have more trouble fighting off the myriad alien species than 
 you will your human aggressors - they are often little more than fodder - but they mix and match 
 well enough. The game will often put you in well-designed battles of attrition, where it's you 
 against a hundred, but some careful planning, quick reflexes, and use of cover and the grapple 
 will win out in the end. Some of the very best fights involve the mech-suits, and the game eases 
 you into their use nicely.
  
  Without the suits, Lost Planet would still be an excellent experience. However, their inclusion 
 does elevate this game to warrant its high score. Quite simply, they're a fantastic addition to 
 the action. The levels are often balanced towards their usage (meaning: certain areas are all but 
 impossible without them) , but you could try your luck without them for a challenge. There's a rich 
 variety, and the ability to mix and match their armaments is clever. I definitely had an "oh #$!@" 
 moment the first time I tore a weapon off a destroyed mech and lugged it around, or when I realized 
 that one of them transformed into a bike reminiscent of the "Venus Wars" anime. Overall, rather 
 than afterthought, the mechs are essential to the game and really affect its mechanics in a meaningful 
 way.
  
  All to be said about the bosses is that they're excellent and cap off each level nicely. The levels 
 are long, and sometimes you fool yourself into thinking a challenging set piece actually WAS the 
 boss, and find yourself surprised to find something even more imposing at the end. Certain moments, 
 which I won't describe too much at the risk of spoiling, are inspiring (fighting Greeneye the second 
 time is one of many levels where you get your money's worth) .
  
  Overall, this game is your best bargain-bin find. I purchased it late and in turn paid very little 
 for it, but it's easy to see why there is a rich community built around it. Games like this make 
 Halo feel like a dull high school class. A plethora of game mechanics and interesting ideas, wrapped 
 up with a thin story that at least serves to move the action. If this game had a sharp plot with 
 characters a little less cookie-cutter, you would have one of the 360's perfect games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  when I purchased the game firsthand I didn't expect a whole lot from Lost Planet, but I also didn't 
 think the game would be this far from my expectations. Exploring a Vast Isolated Artic world and 
 fighting Gigantic insects sounds enjoyable, But the game doesn't offer too much and it shows through 
 my single run. The game seems much more promising, but it falters in just a few places that the 
 experience is watered-downed. Indeed, it is a Third Person shooter but its doesn't stray too far 
 from the Action Genre, in most respects that is the type of game you'll be playing, not A Full 
 Blown shooter. But Sadly, the game has major potential to become something way more spectactular, 
 but it chooses just to be a bit above Average. Everything you need for the game to truly suceed 
 is right square in your face, but the game doesn't really build up on it. The game is fun, no doubt. 
 But If Capcom would of put lots more of time in its development process and built on its halfbaked 
 features, lost Planet would be a hit.
  
  Now that I got that off my chest, Its time to focus on better things, when you stare down at lost 
 planet from the store shelf and think its a epic must play experience, turn away immediatley and 
 buy something else. but if its a straight foward, no hassle treat you'll looking for, then step 
 right up in your spaceship to explore.
  
  The game takes place on Edn. III, a icy, snowy planet that is filled with Giant insects called the 
 Akrid. These supernatural monstrosities are very lethal and ran out the humans that wanted to colonize 
 on the planet. Those that were unfortunate enough to escape ,are trapped on Edn. III and are forced 
 to fight the Akrid and the planet's deadly elements. Also, there is an small group soldiers and 
 a mysterious organization left to strive and face the akrid and find means to warm the planet. 
 you are Wayne. one of these soldiers. One day you and your father are on a mission to stop a monster 
 called "green eye" ,but all goes wrong and your father and your squad mates die in front of your 
 eyes. But as always nothing is what it seems. After the confrontation, you are left stranded on 
 Edn. III but you have seemed to lose your memory of the events that took place previously of the 
 attack. you must attain your memories, survive, and take down a mysterious organization. The plot 
 is well done, and its action packed its just that the story is weak in its other points. For one 
 thing, i felt like it was rushed a bit, everything went so fast you will be asking yourself a line 
 of questions and a lot of pieces of the cutscenes could of been expanded or added, and some more 
 polish to narrative as well. It is emotionless in some ways, I wish there was something other the 
 game's main fight against the akrid and the organization but its nothing other than that, the connections 
 between Our main protaganist and the Npcs needs to be more Dramatic and such. Otherwise, The game 
 wouldn't feel so stale in some respects. But there are also points were you have been no stranger 
 to the concepts, as sometimes the game can be predictable. (fallen hero faces evil forces, bad diabolical 
 villain etc.)
  
  Lost planet plays exactly like a third person action title, but with the core concepts of both 
 shooters and Giant Mech fights latched on. The battles rarely get intense in its main gameplay, 
 but lost planet's strongest showing is in its spectacular boss fights. Besides that, The little 
 battles in between; against a range of different enemies such as Robots, The Akrid, "space pirates", 
 and so on are little bit boring and repetive. Its not too bad to face them, but you'll never really 
 get a kick out of facing the game's repetitiveness. As I said the game shines in its boss battles, 
 every single bout is different and its such a blast to take on Collosal sized monsters that gives 
 you chills. The reason though for Lost Planet's repetiveness is that the game seemingly throws 
 the same challenges at you. For one thing, i hate attaining my thermal level (which you have to 
 keep up before freezing to death.) , shooting the boring weakspots in the minor enemies over and 
 over, and grappling (x button) all over the place. The game uses no puzzles, no Shock and awe exploration (which 
 is a serious downer.) and its split up into levels. I don't expect it to be a free roaming game, 
 but with this much potential in lost planet's world, its bound to be at least interconnected areas, 
 with hidden hotspots and so on. Instead we get generic runs through decently sized enviroments. 
 with that, capcom could of did much more with its story, its cutscenes, and action points. The 
 shooting doesn't take much skill, but its not complex either or strong enough to compete with other 
 third person shooters, but gladly its slanted towards the action side more than its shooting roots. 
 The giant mech units are a welcoming feature, that grants the user a line range of brute force 
 and abilities, sadly your buddy wayne isn't that fun to go around with, cuz he is so ability empty. 
 You should be able to do a lot more than shoot with weapons, not because im picky, its just than 
 it feels more like a action title than a shooter, that its demanding.
  
  Graphicly and sound wise, I've seen better. As for the graphics its presented in poor fashion threw 
 its menus, but its also very visually stunning, with a decent art style and animations. The snow 
 is very lifelike, and is used in many ways, it'll fly towards the screen, enemies will kick it 
 up, you'll leave footprints and so on. But sometimes the ragdoll animations of wayne got get a 
 bit annoying, especially when your enemies won't let you get up. sound wise, the game is slightly 
 medicore. The sound effects are nice, but its way too silent, and uninspiring, with solid voicework.
 
  
  Online play is complete garbage, Its just too hard to find a game in its unpopulated network. And 
 when you do its nothing very exciting, and you've played way better. the weapons don't have much 
 balance either.
  
  In conclusion, you'll have a decent time with Lost Planet if you work with its huge problems, and 
 slightly poor playability. But in the end, its something unique and fresh but its just not that 
 good. But should be played, if you enjoy great action titles and shooters alike. As I said, if 
 the game was given more time we would have ourselves a completely different game,. But as for now., Lost 
 planet is shockingly decent.
  
  *Subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics- 8.0
  
  sound-6.5
  
  controls-7.5
  
  story-7.75
  
  gameplay- 7.75
  
  Fun factor-7.5
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet looks like a cool game where you fight giant aliens and have huge boss fights with 
 a good multiplayer mode. Am I wrong? I haven't actually played the multiplayer, so I can't say 
 anything about it. I'm sure it probably would've boosted my score to a 7/10 or 7.5/10, but since 
 I haven't experienced it before, I can't add it to boost my score up. Judging by the single player 
 campaign, Lost Planet both plays and feels like a missed opportunity.
  
  The game takes place in the future when man expands to different planets. However, hostile alien 
 forces are the beings that inhabit the planet, and it's your job to get rid of them. The story 
 can be a bit confusing at times, which doesn't help the plot. There are other hostile human soldiers 
 on the planet, but them being there kind of gets confusing. The voice acting is generally quite 
 good, but that doesn't fully cover up some of the goofy dialogue put into the game.
  
  There are some good parts about this game, like the graphics and sound. The aliens, environments 
 and objects all look good. Like I said before, the sound is also very good, since you hear all 
 of the aliens screeching and your character plodding through the thick snow. What this game lacks 
 in is its gameplay. Pretty much you go through snow-covered environments killing off aliens throughout 
 the entire game. There are bosses and other hostile humans, but the core gameplay is just against 
 aliens. The control layout can get a little getting used to, but that's not the game's biggest 
 problem. The two major problems that I had with this game is your health system and the game's 
 repetitive and sometimes frustrating combat. Your health system is pretty much a number like 2000 
 on the side of your screen, and it goes down every second since the air is so cold. If the number 
 reaches 0, you die. This is understandable, but it doesn't really make fighting enemies any more 
 enjoyable. Some of the enemies are frustratingly difficult, plus the game's checkpoint system isn't 
 that well done. And the game itself just feels too repetitive, with you just blowing up aliens 
 with your guns.
  Story: 5.9/10 -- way too hard to follow
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10 -- this game has really good graphics, which is the best aspect of the game
  
 
  Sound: 8.4/10 -- the voice acting along with the in-game sound are both great
  
  Gameplay: 5.5/10 -- it's good if you like blowing up aliens for hours and hours and hours, but it 
 gets way too frustrating and repetitive, along with the poor health system and lack of checkpoints
 
  
  Enjoyment: 6/10 -- fun for around an hour but just has too many problems dragging it down from being 
 a fun game to play.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like action games or like to just blow the crap out of a bunch of big aliens, 
 rent the game. For anyone else, consider renting or just skip this title altogether. The achievements 
 aren't that easy, either. Is Lost Planet a bad game? Not necessarily. Is it a great game? Far from 
 it. I saw potential in this game, but it's just not a whole lot of fun for very long.
  
  Final Score: 6.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet Had A Lot Of Hope Good Story, Great Voice acting, Awesome Mechs And A Great Camera You 
 Were Actually In Control of But We Must Face It All games have Issues Heres My Problems with it 
 1. It's Short Oh Cmon I Start Playing And Bout 10 Hours Later Im Done It's Like Making contra Easy, 
 Or Making Halo Without fricken Master Chief It Just Ain't Right So Yeah. 2. A FREAKIN TIME LIMIT 
 I've Got A Fricken Timer Bar And When It Reaches zero I FREAKING DIE I MEAN WHAT THE FREAKING CRAP!!!!!!!!!!! 
 3. checkpoints Now Checpoints In Games Have always Suck But This Is Bad Not As Bad As Ratchet And 
 Clanks Checkpoints But Still Pretty bad. Now Despite These Problems It's Still worth A Rent With 
 It's Good Story, Nice Voice Acting, And Good Shooting. So Just Rent It Unless You Insist On Buying 
 It. But Just So You Know I Did Like This Game It Just Wasnt For Me Guess I Dont Like Timers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngnikolaos312
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is another attempt of Capcom in giving us frenzied action, a story that makes little 
 sense, and lots and lots of dead bugs.
  
  Story:
  You are Wayde, an amnesiac VS pilot who was frozen after an encounter he and his father had when 
 fighting Green Eye, a humongous Akrid (an alien race that resides on a frozen planet) . When he 
 is recovered by a band of Space Pirates (fancy name for a bunch of garbage collectors) , he realizes 
 that his fate is tide with the fate of this planet.
  
  Yup, the story is silly, even though the cut scenes are made in such a way that the game looks 
 serious, polished, and above all, engaging. I'm not really sure if you'll relate with any of the 
 characters, but it's hard not to applaud at a ludicrous scenario being executed in such a professional 
 manner (a feat that only Capcom seems capable of) .
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of the game are awesome. Frame rate is solid (although not at 60 fps) and helps create 
 a movie-like atmosphere. The Akrids look as if they were taken straight out of a sci-fi flick. 
 The explosions are some of the best in the industry, although you'll curse them for obscuring your 
 vision in the heat of battle. The chaos of war is clearly evident in this game, especially when 
 you mount the massive VS, and the game goes Armored Core on your ass. Character models are exceptionally 
 detailed, although they look more like CG anime characters rather than real people. Capcom did 
 a splendid job in the visual department.
  
  Music / Sound Effects
  The music is rarely heard, but the themes are movie-inspiring and dramatic, just too short. Sound 
 effects are nice and polished, but the Akrid sounds are kind of monotonous after a while. The English 
 dub sounds just fine. It's not sucky, but it's not amazing either.
  
  Gameplay:
  Lost Planet basically has two gameplay styles: on foot, and inside a VS (a mecha, if you will) . 
 On foot is a great way to spend little Thermal Energy (your VS fuel and life support system at 
 the same time) and reach places your VS could never reach, but larger Akrid are going to make burgers 
 out of you. Inside a VS you can kick some serious insect bellies, but you spend fuel too fast, 
 and cannot enter small buildings and entrances. You have to mix the two play styles to achieve 
 complete victory. The game's difficulty is just fine, although it is too short, and may force players 
 to replay the game in harder levels to get more kicks out of it (or go multiplayer) . Sprite collision 
 works just fine, but there are some small issues that prevent the game from getting a 10/10. For 
 starters, big explosions and attacks will throw away Wayde as if he was a needle in a maelstorm. 
 And while he's getting up there is a good chance that he'll get thrashed again and again. This 
 isn't happening often enough to make the game unplayable, but it does tend to be infuriating on 
 some occasions. Thankfully, good tactic decisions on your part can seriously lessen the extent 
 of butt-kicking Wayde receives. Another thing that bothered me was the Thermal Energy decreasing 
 even when on foot, causing you to run all the time rather than catching your breath. I hate time 
 limits in video games. 
  
  OVERALL:
  Lost Planet is the equivalent of a high-budget pop-corn flick. It's not deep or thought provoking, 
 and its purpose is to knock you off your seat with explosions, monsters, shooting, and mechs. Highly 
 recommended to any fan of 3rd person action-shooting games, this game was one of Capcom best attempts 
 at greeting the X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Now I normally don't play Capcom games finding they all follow the same path of being totally far 
 fetched as far as story goes and they let the story distract themselves from the gameplay that 
 then suffers where it should be keeping the game afloat. 
  
  Yet I said "What the hell" and bought Lost Planet. I burned right through the story missions in 
 about a week's worth of casual playing. While the game was fun for maybe the first 2 days I only 
 really kept playing for the achievements on XboxLive! The story didn't appeal to me at all seeing 
 as it was maybe a few adolecents and some space pirates fighting off evil heat draining monsters. 
 
  
  The game play was just plain awful. The levels were excrusiantingly linear, most pretty much leading 
 you down a narrow hall and then into a square room where you stand and shoot. One thing that just 
 plain annoyed me was how slow the main character moves. It's like he has led bricks in his boots. 
 The weapons are just generic stuff, assault rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher (which i might add 
 makes some pretty good explosions) , then there is the plasma rife.
  
  Maybe about 15 minutes into the game you are then exposed to AV suits which are like mech suits 
 for those of us who played Mech Warrior games way back. They are walkers with the capability of 
 holding 2 weapons where there are guns.... that's pretty much all there is to describe them. They 
 only really are necessary for some platfroming parts where you need the thrusters and almost the 
 ONLY way to win a boss battle.
  
  Which brings me back to one of the reasons I dislike Capcom games. They all seem to follow the 
 MegaMan formula. You shoot your way through a couple of halls and a few obsticles then you are 
 faced with a boss....
  How many of the great games actually still use boss battles as a way to wrap up a level!? Well 
 Capcom still clings to it and in my opinion bosses don't fit well in shooting games. The boss battles 
 make you glad that you don't start at the beginning of the level because many of them are just 
 plain ANNOYING! A game doesn't want to make bosses so challenging that they stop the flow of the 
 story. Especially when the boss is just a random entitiy that the developers through in.
  
  For example you get to the top of a cliff, (for some reason I'm not really sure anymore) and you 
 just fight a giant moth like Akrid (oh yeah the aliens are called Akrid) It just flies in out of 
 no where, not indicated at by anything in the story and what I finally remembered after 5th try 
 on this boss battle was that why the hell did I scale this mountain anyway!?!?!
  
  That seems to be the thing with Lost Planet, It doesn't bring anything new to the genre, it is 
 an unexciting story and after wards you can't help but ask "Why the hell?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aven13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Pros: 
  -Very detailed, crisp graphics, especially in the Akrid; nice lighting as well
  -Can be mind-numbing fun on the easier difficulties
  -Multiplayer is well balanced, and the maps 
 are interesting, if occasionally repetitive in feel
  -AMAZING boss battles
  
  Cons:
  -Steep learning curve, especially in aiming your gun
  -May be too slow paced for many
  -Occasionally 
 feels like a shoot, move, shoot, hide, shoot, etc. game
  -Although I have not finished the game, from what I've heard, it's only going to take about ten 
 hours to finish
  
  
  
  Lost Planet is, in my opinion, had some of the highest expectations I have ever seen. And although 
 the game is a fun time-waster for awhile, it can be very difficult.
  In Lost Planet, you play as Yuri, a brainwashed mech pilot, who wants to avenge his father's death. 
 In the opening level, a sort of prequel, you meet the killer: a giant green vermin, whose name 
 is something like Green-Eye, or Eye-Monster, or some other spam title like that. Anyway, it's you 
 against the aliens, and it's not looking very Yay! for you!
  Graphically, Lost Planet doesn't disappoint. Not only is it taking advantage of the 360's CPU, 
 but it really does make the snowy realm of EDN-3 come alive in your living room.
  Gameplay can be very fun. Nothing says edutainment like mowing through a row of giant flying bugs. 
 Oh, and I have to mention the boss battles, my favorite part of the game. Prepare to be amazed, 
 and I'm not kidding. If they made a "Shadow of the Colossus" port with the bosses from this game, 
 I'd be the first to buy it. There are giant worms and Pokmon abound, and you have to kill them 
 all. Yay
  Multiplayer is another treat. There are many, if occasionally repetitive, levels to kill each other 
 on, and with an easy to use menu system, a nice party mode, and a good deal of fun to be had, anyone 
 with Live and the game wouldn't want to miss it.
  However, there are some MAJOR flaws with this game. First and foremost, the difficulty. I marked 
 it as "hard" because, in itself, the game is not very difficult on the lower difficulty settings, 
 and on the highest, it still won't pose a giant challenge. Even though there are some definite 
 choke points, the game, as a whole, is never too hard. What makes the game so hard are the very 
 difficult controls. Don't misunderstand me. The controls are well thought out, and are definitely 
 usable, once you master them. And that, my friends, is where the problem lies. Yuri runs like he 
 has one of the people from the obesity ward on his back (yes, he does have a bit of a hunch) , and 
 without any sort of auto aim, and your aim controlled by the oftentimes-finnicky right thumbstick 
 (ALONG, I might add, with your camera) you'll find yourself lowering the aim sensitivity often, 
 just to get a handle on your gun.
  Not only this, the game can feel very like a hack-and-slash (with guns) at times. You'll be mowing 
 through wave after wave of Akrid, over and over again. And even though it may feel repetitive (Damn, 
 how many times have I used that word in this rewiew?) , the single-player campaign, from what I 
 have heard (I haven't finished the game) , is over in about ten hours, WAY too short for a full-price 
 game.
  So, if you're in the mood for a time-wasting romp through a snow-covered planet shooting giant 
 bugs (Wow, is that a niche!) , then this is the game for you. Although it can be very repetitive 
 (Again!) , the controls could use some more tweaking, and the game itself is too short, the graphics 
 and multiplayer almost make up for it. I give Lost Planet a 7.5/10. See Ya!
  
  -Aven13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  When Capcom's Lost Planet hit the shelves, I was one of the first to buy it. While I was not disappointed 
 with its pretty graphics and abundance of aliens to kill, its tangled and uninteresting story makes 
 it a pretty mediocre game.
  
  Lost Planet revolves around the protagonist Wanye who is seeking to avenge his father's death at 
 the hands of a giant Akrid called Green Eye. As you progress through the story, it gets mixed up 
 in its own plot as you continually fight through hoards of the hostile alien race, the Akrid and 
 rebel human colonists known as Snow Pirates. While the game-play is engaging, the story is not 
 so, and you can easily skip the cut-scenes without missing very much.
  
  Despite the lack of an exciting and absorbing story, Lost Planet manufactures some of the best 
 boss fights in a next-gen game. The bosses range from towering spider-like creatures to huge eight-legged 
 tank-like machines. While the prospect of facing such beasts seem intimidating, in most fights 
 you will find a Vital Suit, which are in essence mechanised suits that your character can climb 
 into and dish out a whole load of firepower in the form of chain-guns to devastating grenade launchers. 
 These suits are an imperative part of the game and in destroying some of the more hardy Akrid creatures 
 that your machine gun just cannot kill.
  
  While the game has some gargantuan monsters to face, there are also the smaller Akrid. The weaker 
 Akrid are more commonly found as you progress through a level and usually emerge through noticeable 
 spawn alien-like pumping stations which will continually pump out these smaller aliens until you 
 destroy it. By killing the Akrid, you can gain thermal energy from their carcasses which are used 
 to replenish your health keep you alive in harsh planetary conditions. As you play through the 
 game this energy is continuously drained until you eventually die. This energy drain is an instant 
 concept but from playing through the game on various difficulties you will rarely have to worry 
 about it on the easier difficulties as it is so easy to get your hands on.
  
  Graphically, the game is excellent and the game is not always played out on snowy plains. The level 
 design is also great and most levels aren't too linear and offer a bit of exploration with the 
 aid of your grapple hook which can be used to grapple onto ledges or rappet down to areas below. 
 The levels are also pretty varied as on occasions, you may find yourself in vast concrete-slabbed 
 complexes, in rocky mountainous regions and in what appears to be abandoned cities. There are also 
 various storage containers, barrels and machines which can be blown up which creates some beautifully 
 crafted explosions. Overall the game's graphically and visually superb.
  
  The game also has plenty of weaponry to use ranging from the standard assault rifle to varied guns 
 like a plasma gun. You can also pick up the Vital Suit weapons which wield devastating attacks 
 but severely hinders your movement. The weapons also sound great to from the pulsating rounds of 
 the assault rifle to the huge explosions created by the grenade launchers. Not only do the weapons 
 sound great but everything else sounds excellent from the screeching cries of the Akrid to the 
 crunching noise made from walking in the snow. Everything sounds as it should on Lost Planet.
 
  
  The online portion of the game is also pretty good. You can fight it out on several different maps 
 that are spacious and look and supports up to 16 players in four game modes ranging from Team Battle 
 to Data Post Grab (capture the flag) . There is also a basic level system so buy playing games you 
 can increase your level, while it bears no real rewards, it is an incentive to keep playing.
  
  Lost Planet is an action-packed game which will provide you with plenty of fun and excitement. 
 While the singleplayer is a short ride, it makes up for it in an enthralling multiplayer mode that 
 will offer you plenty of enjoyment out of a game that is a lot of fun to play, overall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Marl
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a pretty amazing game. The action in it is pretty tight and the combat style is 
 just to die for. It's always fun to shot giant aliens, humans, and VS's but after awhile, it kinda 
 gets old. What I mean is, at first, levels are simple and kinda short, but towards the middle of 
 the game, you'll fight more VS's (let's just say robots) and you won't travel on foot that much. 
 That may sound like a good thing, but you'll be nearly forced to stay inside a VS and command it 
 around the place. Whatever happened to a good ol' classic shootout? Besides this minor problem, 
 Lost Planet is a good game to get if you're just bored and you need something to pass the time 
 (kind of just like I did) I don't think it's worth buying full price for however. Find it cheap 
 and have a good time with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagedesire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a fun game with lots to do. The entire game is very linear and 
 fighting off constantly respawning enemies gets very old and tired after not too long. That being 
 said there are some very good things about this game. It offers an enticing story line that is 
 interesting and hardly predictable. The control system is easy to use with a slight learning curve 
 which offers very little room for control mastery so what you start with is what you get. This 
 game will have you running around searching for enough plasma to keep your frigid stick body from 
 freezing to the side of a rock and you'll have a good time taking out a frequent supply of enemies 
 with some very challenging boss fights. All in all I am glad that I played this game and I did 
 have a fun time playing it, there was just something about it that made me not want to finish it, 
 probably due to the extremely repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  If you have bought this game, u have captured a very rare game; one of simple Japanese story line, 
 and incredible game play. Your choice of either a VS (Vital Suit) which is a big 'F'-ing robot, 
 or your own blood. You're on an essential time sketch. You heat weighs down as u progress thru 
 the game. You need orange goop, which in the future, is Thermal energy. You need a constant ammount 
 of that or you're toast... ahem, excuse me, you're Ice. Luckily every enemy has Thermal energy, 
 it's how they keep warm. When they all die you get their thermal energy, and you get to see a very 
 cool simulation of the enemy's body solidifying as it loses it's thermal energy. There are other 
 ways to get thermal energy, but that, my friends, is the most convenient. After you mast the art 
 of feeding yourself energy, you must control your actions. Every step you take zaps Thermal Energy 
 away from you and jumping around, holding lasers' thrusts for too long, rolling around, and all 
 around, being active, takes your life right out of you. Besides the Reaper of Thermal always reminding 
 you to get Thermal Energy, you can run around in a big 'F'-ing suit. This is just a larger version 
 of yourself, only a robot. Instead of only using one gun at a time and carrying two, you can carry 
 two and use them at the same time. Some combinations better than others. But it's quite astonishing 
 to see the VS's guns in proportion to your's and think, "I have that gun..." and it blows a hole 
 right through your enemy's with a Blast Gun (Mega Shotgun) and obliterate them with the Gatling 
 Gun (Mega Machine Gun) . This game is a lot of fun for the 360 b/c there are so many achievements 
 that are so easy to finish, and consume very little time to find. If you're a sucker for Anime 
 robots, you'll love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rharrigal
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I bought an xbox 360 in the fall and lost planet in the winter (I know I am a little behind) . I 
 finished the game and decided it was just to awesome not to review. First of all, the guns feel 
 good, the grenade effects are cool, an the grapple hook adds an innovative platformer feel to this 
 larger then life shooter. Secondly, the mosters are the coolest things you will ever see in a fps 
 today. They are huge, menacing, and just awesome. The bosses are even cooler, and later on the 
 take skill and firepower to defeat. There are also two 'super'-bosses that you never really defeat. 
 When you play through this game the first time, it is a good idea to run and hide. After beating 
 the campaign though, xbox 360 owners can harvest another 100 g on fighting these giant insects. 
 Oh and that reminds me, Lost Planet is NOT just about fighting larger than life bugs. These are 
 ALIENS, dont worry, this is not a stupid arcade attack of the bugs game. Anyways the giant bosses 
 are always exciting to fight, and to take them on again after completing the story is a considerable 
 challenge. Besides this, I never really had any trouble with the difficulty curve. It was smooth 
 and steady, so that when I had to actually fight challenging opponents I was ready. The Aliens 
 are far more interesting than fighting the humans, however, and fighting the Vital Suit Mech Bosses 
 are initially fun, but when they become everyday things they get annoying, I kept begging the game 
 to go back to the fun of the aliens, but towards the end of the story It did so less and less. 
 This game is also SCREAMING for a SPRINT BUTTON. Come On. I know that Wayne can run faster than 
 that. When he goes lumbering towards cover as a VS is about to blast him to pieces, you realize 
 how slow he is. Also after encounters, as he is progressing through the level, you find yourself 
 lumbering along for minutes without finding anything. Usually, in these cases however, an Alien 
 is supposed to jump out of the ground and you are in the wrong area to make it happen. Also, there 
 are rarely shortcuts in these levels. Stop Searching. Despite how annoying VS Battles can get, 
 the last one is just plain awesome. Im not going to say anything else about it. On the Multiplayer 
 side, the lack of the sprint button never really pulled me into it. I hope that the Colonies edition 
 will fix that so I can enjoy the multiplayer. Overall, this is an experience often underrated but 
 definetly something someone should experience once. I know Lost Planet has become the Blade Runner 
 of Video Games, but I think capcom is trying to get everyone to at least try it once before they 
 release a sequel. And if you are not sure about this game, you probably did not read my whole review. 
 I know I wrote a lot. Even if you are still unsure, rent it, capcom has some fun in store for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Cyborg
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  First off, the low ratings on this game are unjust. It is a fun game with a few flaws but hey, 
 it's not half bad. In fact, it is a highly enjoyable game and totally worth the $20 I bought it 
 for. One of the things you will hear about this game is that the plot doesn't make sense. Well, 
 that is slightly true. However, when I bought the game I played it expecting the whole plot to 
 be utterly absurd and worth sneezing at. And it actually wasn't, I did notice a few points in the 
 plot where it seems flimsy at best, but if you give it the benefit of the doubt you will find that 
 the plot is actually pretty cool. Not the next great science fiction plot to be sure, but it is 
 not all that bad. The gameplay itself is spectacular. Let's face it, there is hardly any better 
 way to blow an hour or so than to fire repeatedly at a humongous alien with a machine gun at point 
 black range. To make a long story short, the game is underrated and actually is a LOT of fun to 
 play. (And as far as graphics go, two thumbs WAY up) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a cool shooter that has you blasting alien bugs to bits. While some of the levels 
 are kind of boring, and the last boss is so-so, the rest of the game is full of intense firefights 
 and exciting fights for your life.
  
  The parts I enjoyed the most in Lost Planet were the huge, wide open fights against the humans. 
 These were usually tough yet fun fights that made you use the skills you have learned from the 
 game, and you put them to action. One part of the game, you come upon an enemy settlement with 
 towers and men everywhere, but if you fire at the barrels under the towers, they are sent exploding 
 and enemies are flying across the screen, fire is everywhere, all while bullets are flying and 
 you are jumping and rolling around, taking shots at your foes when its safe.
  
  The aiming in Lost Planet is really cool too. The left stick controls your character, and the right 
 stick controlls your aiming reticule, so you can keep moving and make acurate shots at the same 
 time. I think this really helps in close encounters when there are grenades flying around. In this 
 game you need to keep moving because you are usually outnumbered by bugs or humans, or both, and 
 you need to constantly be on your toes.
  
  Overall this game is really cool. The online is pretty fun, but not addicitng. I rented it and 
 got through the story rather quickly, then played the online for a while. It was so pretty fun, 
 but im glad I didnt spend $60 on it. You'll find yourself playing Halo 3 or Gears of War online, 
 but the action and intensity in Lost Planet is definatley up there with both those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlim615
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game because I could play in third-person (I tend to get motion-sick with first-person 
 shooters) . The visuals were awesome, especially the aliens. And the fighting was smart and thrilling.
 
  
  The story was average, though, and at times sloppy. Characters came and went, and no particular 
 themes or internal conflicts were developed.
  
  And the best mech was reserved for the last level, and it was a short level at that. I guess having 
 the most bad-ass mech earlier in the game would have taken the challenge out of it.
  
  Anyway, the game was fun enough to play the whole way through, and even to replay a few levels 
 to make sure I squeezed out those achievements (I didn't play the online game) . I wonder if there'll 
 be a sequel? I'm guessing it won't be on this Akrid-infested world, but on some other rock in this 
 "Lost Planet" universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Does the thought of crossing the blue tundra of an alien world appeal to you? How about while riding 
 in Earth's most advanced all-terrain, combat-adapted transport unit, the Vital Suit (VS) ; nay, 
 driving it. What about being among the first to colonize a strange and mysterious new world for 
 all of humankind, driving out hordes of monstrous insects and annelids with the twin gatling guns 
 at your VS shoulders? Harvesting their gooey orange innards, ripe with thermal energy, to keep 
 yourself alive and at the ready to fight another day. 
  
  Lost Planet: EXTREME (yes, extreme) Condition invites you to embark on your very own Corp of Discovery 
 to a lonely frozen world inhabited by hostile creatures known as the Akrid. You play as Wayne, 
 the son of a great soldier who pilots a badass custom VS until his death at the hands (claws) of 
 the most EXTREME Akrid yet seen, the mammoth Green Eye. Wayne, having been rendered an amnesiac 
 in the battle that took his father's life, must join up with a team of rogue colonists (Snow Pirates) 
 if he hopes to gain vengeance on the Green Eye and learn the truth about the corporations controlling 
 the colonization of the Akrid planet. 
  
  The game looks good for being about giant bugs and lots of snow. The snow you see (and you will 
 see) is the cleanest, best looking snow that you're likely to find in a video game for a long time. 
 Indoor environments and military installations show attention to style and artistic design as well. 
 The Akrid themselves are the bright spots, however: Enemies with their own visual personalities 
 and physical presences that range from the size of a dog to an apartment complex. 
  
  Sound leaves something to be desired but its hard to expect a lot of noise when you're battling 
 against the elements, isolated in the frozen mountains outside a Snow Pirate base. The Akrid screech, 
 the Akrid roar, and your machine gun fires and fires until the trigger just clicks and the worms 
 are dead. The soundtrack is appropriately EXTREME at times. 
  
  Lost Planet is a third-person shooter with a floaty aiming system that takes practice to master. 
 You can switch to FPS mode but the game is not designed for such perspective unless you're lining 
 up that sniper reticule for the winning headshot. But it will take more than a steady aim to demolish 
 the Akrid and defeat the other Snow Pirate groups that roam the planet. You must also master Wayne's 
 grappling hook to reach important vantage points and the almighty VS, whose gun and missile attachments 
 obliterate everyone and everything between heaven and hellin the right hands. 
  
  The online multiplayer is decent but nothing award winning. A revamped version of the game titled 
 "Lost Planet: Colonies" recently became available, complete with new single and multiplayer modes. 
 If you are intrigued by the slaughter of extraterrestrial insects, big explosions, and a storyline 
 that doesn't take itself too seriously, consider looking into that as well as Lost Planet: EXTREME 
 Condition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Starting out knee deep in snow this game never was able to loss its trudging sticky feeling. It 
 really felt more like an arcade game then a polished action shooter. The whole time i felt kind 
 of like i was at the circus shooting gallery, lining up the targets and shooting them as they passed 
 front and center of my aim. While I found this game mediocre at best there were some things that 
 i liked about this game. I liked the epic scale of some of the bosses, so massive sometimes that 
 only ten percent of their mass could fit in the screen. Taking down one of those behemoths was 
 very satisfying. 
  
  The graphics were for the most part very good. it has been a while since i have played this game 
 but i remember them being at least par. That goes right along with the environment which was also 
 good. There were a lot of open areas that offered some pretty cool views. Also some of the machines 
 that you could command were very cool and entertaining.
  
  Story line was forgettable. I dont even remember what the plot was to be perfectly honest. I do 
 remember the characters being particularly dumb though. Im not even going to write about them because 
 they were just horrible. The only thing worse then the characters was the end. The end was so over 
 the top and frustrating that i cant even describe it. I hated it. 
  
  So with that said this game had some very low lows and some not so high highs leaves me to say 
 that this game was forgettable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shujikun07
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The main reason I play this game is to play online. It has lasting power, it's simple to learn, 
 but difficult to master as tactics, skill, etc all come into play against a wide diverse of players 
 from all over the world. 
  
  Definately worth it if you can find it for 15-20 bucks, but buyers beware, a new version is soon 
 to hit at the end of May that will not be backwards compatible with this game. That's to say, players 
 who have this game wont be able to play online against players who get the new version. Don't ask 
 me why, I think it's a shoddy design move, but the newer version is looking like it may just be 
 worth getting instead of this.
  
  Regardless, the game itself is great. Single player's story leaves a little to be desired but overall 
 is decent enough to enjoy playing through once or twice. Multiplayer... well I picked this up last 
 August, and I've been playing it on and off since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Excellent visuals
  Fun multi-player
  Huge bosses
  
  THE BAD:
  Terrible story
  Linear levels
  Short single-player game
  Repetitive and annoying gameplay
 
  It's all been done before
  
  I'll admit that Lost Planet wasn't exactly high on my list of 360 games to play. I originally rented 
 it when it launched last year, but found it so boring I couldn't even bring myself to beat the 
 first level. It wasn't until a year later that I would rent it again. People kept saying was a 
 good game, so I decided to give it another go. This time, I could only get halfway through the 
 second level before deciding I had more important things to do.
  
  It's not that Lost Planet is a bad game. It's just so middle of the road. It does do some things 
 well. But for everything it does well, there's something else that holds it back. Nearly everything 
 about Lost Planet has been done before, and better. Sometimes this isn't a problem. Look at the 
 game Mafia. Grand Theft Auto was better in nearly every way. But Mafia also had an excellent story 
 and setting. That alone held the game together enough to turn an average game into a fairly good 
 game.
  
  Lost Planet doesn't have a good story or a good setting. In fact, it seems like a teenage Japanese 
 schoolboy penned it while he was bored in class. It has so many Manga and Anime clichs that it's 
 not even funny.
  
  Here's a run down of the story. In the future, mankind leaves Earth for unexplained reasons. Someone 
 had a brilliant idea of colonizing an ice planet called EDN III, and everyone was apparently OK 
 with the idea. While the planet was colonized, a large race of insect like aliens called the Akrid 
 were discovered. The Akrid were immediately hostile to the humans, and drove them off the planet. 
 It was later discovered that the Akrid's bodies held thermal energy (T-ENG for short) , which could 
 be harvested to heat the human colony. The Vital Suit or VS was also invented to help combat the 
 Akrid. This is basically just your typical anime style robot.
  
  At this point, a re-colonization of EDN III is occurring. You play the role of Wayne, a Japanese 
 looking soldier who looks like the sort of person that would write a story like this. The opening 
 level has Wayne and a group other soldiers being lead by his father Gale, exploring the ruins of 
 a sheltered part of the colony called "The Dome." During the ensuing fight with the Akrid, they 
 encounter a very large Akrid dubbed "Green-Eye." Green-Eye supposedly kills Wayne's father before 
 knocking Wayne unconscious. Wayne is rescued by a group of snow pirates, and conveniently gets 
 amnesia.
  
  This group of snow pirates is your typical cast of anime characters. You have the mysterious, white-haired 
 leader named Yuri. Who might as been be holding a sign that says, "I will turn out to be evil, 
 or die." Then there's Rick, the nave funky haired tech expert of the group. Finally, there's Luka. 
 She's the overly happy girl with huge juggs that are oddly exposed despite the temperature being 
 sub-zero. At this point Wayne sets out on a path of revenge, and after reading the Wikipedia entry, 
 the story only goes downhill from there.
  
  Gameplay wise, Lost Planet is just average. You control Wayne from a 3rd person camera angle. You 
 can carry two weapons plus grenades at anytime. You also have the ability to use a grappling hook, 
 but this is really more of a gimmick than anything actually useful. You can only use it to get 
 to higher ground in a couple locations. And when you do use it, you can't fire thus leaving completely 
 exposed to enemies. You can also hop into various VS units that you find, but piloting them is 
 like driving a pinto through a 7-foot deep snowstorm.
  
  Sure, it can be fun to fight the Akrid (especially the boss fights) , but they might as well be 
 suicidal. Their weak points glow bright orange, and the AI controlling them follows very distinct 
 patterns that are easy to avoid. When you do defeat an Akrid, you have to walk over the glowing 
 piles of T-ENG to replenish your supply. This T-ENG meter is constantly draining. If your T-ENG 
 supply runs out, you'll freeze to death. T-ENG also heals you automatically if you are injured. 
 T-ENG is almost never in short supply, which makes the game very easy. The only time I died was 
 because I fell off a ledge.
  
  I mentioned that you need to manually walk over the T-ENG to pick it up, and the same goes for 
 weapons. Although this makes sense for the weapons, what makes it annoying is that you need to 
 press RB to actually pick up ammo for a weapon you already have. This becomes very troublesome 
 during firefights when you need to stop and pickup more ammo because you ran out. You should just 
 be able to walk over ammo to get more.
  
  Lost Planet's graphics are probably it's most attractive feature. Blowing snow obscures your field 
 of vision, and comes up to Wayne's knees. While running through the snow, Wayne looks like he's 
 actually struggling. The longer to stay outside, the more snow will accumulate on Wayne. It will 
 even melt once you go back inside. Perhaps best of all is the explosions. They are some of the 
 best I have seen on the 360. The fire looks great, and expands outward.
  
  But the sound in Lost Planet, like the gameplay, is just average. The voice acting, while not bad, 
 is nothing to write home about either. In a way, it actually seems appropriate considering how 
 childish and predictable the characters are. The bright spot for the sound is the combat effects. 
 Gunshots sound great, and the afore mentioned explosions sound as good as they look. Even the VS 
 units have a nice mechanical thump to them.
  
  There isn't much lasting single-player value. If you can get past the terrible story, you'll find 
 that the game is over in about 6 to 8 hours depending on difficultly and player skill. Although 
 the multi-player is fun, it's nothing that hasn't been done better. The VS units in multi-player 
 might as well be a huge bull's-eye. They can dish out damage, but they're so slow and go down too 
 easily that it's almost always better to go on foot. The grapple hook plays a bigger role here 
 by allowing you to get to higher ground quickly. But more multi-player options would have been 
 nice.
  
  Achievement wise, Lost Planet is also average. Most of the achievements come from the single-player 
 campaign, and involve collecting hidden medals that you need to shoot. There are a couple for multi-player, 
 but most of them take a while to unlock, and most players won't bother to unlock them.
  
  Lost Planet is by no means a bad game, but its just so clich. Nearly everything about it has been 
 done better by other games. Maybe if it had a better story, some of the gameplay elements could 
 be overlooked in favor of getting to the next interesting story sequence. But that's not the case, 
 and Lost Planet will test your tolerance of boredom.
  
  STORY  4.5
  PRESENTATION  7.0
  GAMEPLAY  7.0
  GRAPHICS  8.5
  SOUND  7.0
  VALUE  7.0
  
  OVERALL 
  6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaindog666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  You really can't go wrong with picking up this game if you like 3rd person shooters.
  The weapons are great, even though it's the standard loadout of weapons nowadays they're strangly 
 all fun to use in this game. The game is pretty cheap to buy too. I picked this up for $30 (Canadian) 
 at Bestbuy about 3 months ago. 
  If you're into Sci-Fi shooters you have to get this game! 
  The aliens look great and are a blast 
 to kill (no pun intended) . Plus there's a lot of different Mechs to climb into and use. They all 
 handle pretty well and you can swap out the weapons on most of them. The Boss battles are excellent 
 too and fairly memorable.
  The one thing I didn't like is that fact that you really can run through the level most of the 
 time without killing anything (if you wanted to) . If you do that you're pretty much wasting your 
 money though. KILL STUFF.
  
  For the cheap price it's worth a buy. The levels are fun enough that you'll come back and play 
 it again every now and then even after you've beat it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: odinbld
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I originally downloaded the demo of this game from XBOX live, but really didn't like it all that 
 much. I didn't think it handled well because the controls were awkward. But after hearing amazing 
 things about this game, I decided to pick it up once it went to a greatest hits thinking... it 
 was just a demo, they probably fixed the controls. Well they didn't.
  
  First of all let me say that the graphics are quite amazing. Explosions are realistic and the snow 
 is pretty, but the game play and the story... OH GOD the story... are horrible! Being used to games 
 like Halo and Gears of War, the character movement is hard to get used to. You will try and look 
 to the right, but the camera only moves once the redicle goes so far. Also, Wayne can't look straight 
 up. Actually, he can hardly look up at all. You'll find yourself moving backwards just to hit something 
 above you. The camera can be stupid at times as well, especially while it a VS. It's hard to shoot 
 something when you are back against a wall and all you can see it the back side of you Mech. Another 
 thing that grinds my gears is once you encounter multiple enemies and they all start shooting you 
 at once, you can easily find yourself unable to move. Every time you get hit by a missile, you 
 fall down and struggle back to your feet, but the enemies don't seem to mind taking advantage of 
 this and just keep shooting. So you fall down get up and then fall right back down again. That's 
 a slow and frustrating death. 
  The story of this game, including the cut scene "acting" are so horrible, I'm not even going to 
 waste time ridiculing it. Just believe me, it sucks!
  
  At best, I'd say rent this game. Because even at the reduced price, I feel like I was ripped off 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This has been a great game and a blast to play!
  
  I enjoy the grat graphics and gameplay and the characters and atmospheres are well developed. There 
 are a lot of great action sequences and great weaponry and visuals to go along with it.
  
  Driving certain vehicles and using the artilary have been a blast and appear very lifelike! The 
 effects that come along with the weapons have great effects and great sound to go along with it.
 
  
  I like the snow atmosphere and the caves with dangling objects and all the creepy life-like bugs 
 that come after you throughout the game. I would definately recommend this game to any sci-fi alien/bug 
 shooter fan out there, this is a definate winner!
  
  Only problem I see is that the game can be completed shortly in 7-8 hours in one sitting. It was 
 very hard to put down and I have blisters on my thumbs as we speak from playing the game straight 
 through without being able to put this down!
  
  Check this one out, it will not dissappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cukr7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a fun and addicting 3rd person shooter. The solo campaign gameplay isn't strikingly 
 memorable, but it offers fantastic snow-filled environments to play in and explore with a plethora 
 of weapons choices.
  
  Each time I play I always wish I could start making snow angels. The snow levels are original in 
 comparison to other shooters out there, but where Lost Planet breaks apart from other 3rd person 
 or 1st person shooters is not only the beautiful environments, but the fact that your feet aren't 
 glued to the floor. In most action shooters you can walk, run and maybe even jump, but in Lost 
 Planet you can grapple onto roofs, hang down over walls, or even get into a tree to ambush or snipe 
 your enemies. 
  
  During campaign mode this is just part of gameplay, but on Xbox Live, that's survival. There are 
 countless hiding spots on original maps not from the campaign game where I've been pleasantly surprised 
 with the ingenuity and creativity of other players in mastering some of these hiding spots and 
 the techniques they've employed. The terrain is part of the game. It's not just a map; it's an 
 element of gameplay. This is especially true in the online play.
  
  Speaking of online play, kudos to CapCom for using locality flags to represent the countries other 
 players are from. Lost Planet is truly an international game, and I have enjoyed playing with others 
 from around the world despite not being able to speak some of their languages. Nonetheless, a great 
 and educational experience. (I only wish some of people could recognize the fact that not everybody 
 in the world speaks English, and respect those players without the immature harshness) . 
  
  Anyhow, when you are playing with others you can communicate with, it's a wonderful playing the 
 team matches, elimination and post grab. The terrain and variety of weapons allow players to play 
 to their strengths. With the terrain you can take cover, get camoflaged or ambush. The selection 
 of weapons allow you to be up close and personal with your opponent or in the crosshairs from afar. 
 Again, a good game to slowly get your feet wet without necessarily having to start running for 
 your life as soon as the match starts. 
  
  For me, the campaign mode was a warmup for jumping into the online action. I'd give Lost Planet 
 a higher rating, but because it's solo play isn't so memorable, I have to knock it down. It's good, 
 but it lacks something. This game is a winner for online play, and I can't wait for additional 
 maps or sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is an amazing game. It will keep you busy for hours.
  The graphics are just what you expect from a 360, the audio is clear, the gameplay is of course, 
 fantastic. Loads of fun, but at the same time very frustrating. Sometimes you can't figure out 
 what to do or you just keep dieing and get pissed. But all the while, it's an amazing game, and 
 you'll feel proud of yourself when you beat it, it's hard. But not too hard, it's just right. I 
 haven't beat it yet so I'm looking forward to it. The level design is another great thing about 
 LP. They are intricate, interesting, just, fun to explore. Also, the story is great. But also, 
 unoriginal, honestly, how many times have you seen the *Lost Memory* thing in movies and games. 
 While it's a great story and it's interesting and keeps you hooked and wanting to find out whats 
 next, there are some things about the story, and all the game that are unoriginal, and some that 
 are fresh, cool, and innovative.
  It's worth the money, 8.8 / 10. If you have a 360 but haven't picked up Lost Planet yet, get to 
 GameStop or some other game store now. Get it, you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a shooter that takes place on a frozen world in which you battle these bugs called 
 the Akrid. Most of the time you just run around and shoot lots of these bugs with a wide variety 
 of weapons. Whie Lost Planet has some great weapons, and enemies, a lot of the campaign can be 
 pretty mindless action. For one thing when you fight humans, they basically don't have a brain. 
 They do very little except walk out into the open so they are easy targets. The only remotely smart 
 thing they do is jump away from grenades, but sometimes they will jump into the wall, where you 
 threw your grenade and end up dying. There are a whole lot of enemies to kill, but after awhile 
 you realize that you don't have to shoot everything, and will occasionally just run past them. 
 The swarms of lots of bugs and can make the action enjoyable, and because there are so many, the 
 challenge comes mostly from the large amounts of enemies to shoot. You can also get in vital suits 
 in Lost Planet, but these moments aren't really special and end up being kind of annoying. For 
 one thing you move really slow, so it's really hard to avoid shots, and it doesn't take long for 
 enemies to weaken you to the point where you have to eject from the vital suit or die. Also one 
 thing that really annoyed me was the fact that enemies will shoot you while you are down, and sometimes 
 you will not be able to stand up, which becomes ridiculously stupid after awhile. Another extremlly 
 stupid part caused me to stop playing the game altogether. In Misson 7 you go down into this base 
 where these little lazer things, will track you, and if you are caught in them enemies will find 
 you and keep trying to kill you. Well in one area the lazers were invisible, and I had no idea 
 where they were, when suddenly I have eight enemies trying to kill me. I escaped them for awhile 
 but then I had to stand on this ledge, and grapple to the other side, but I was unable to do so, 
 because the enemies would shoot me off every time, and after dying eight or nine times, I gave 
 up and called it quits. I have to say even though the game has a lot of annoyances I did have some 
 occasional fun with it. The boss battles in Lost Planet are generally excellent, and it does do 
 somethings to differentuate itself, like collecting thermal energy to stay alive, and the mech 
 suit fights can occasionally be fun. But it still doesn't add up to much and still tends to be 
 a pretty average shooter. Overall 6.5/10 Lost Planet is pretty much just another shooter, that 
 does absolutely nothing to stand out from the pack. It does offer some occasional fun, but in the 
 end it's definetly not worth a buy from anyone, and only worth a rent for those really into shooting 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I had pretty high hopes for this game from the previews I had seen for it and for the most part, 
 this game delivers on its promises. The main reason I didnt rate this game higher was because of 
 its single player campaign. It has lots of gorgeous cutscenes and an epic soundtrack, but it was 
 a little too easy on the standard difficuly and I only found the campaign challenging when I upped 
 it to extreme mode (which, to its credit, is very tough) . The story is also mildly disappointing 
 since the game throws a lot of information at you and doesnt bother to piece it together and make 
 it truly compelling. Nevertheless, it is still an entertaining experience to play through. However, 
 what caused me to log 100+ hours into this game was the multiplayer. Since this game was received 
 well worldwide, people from all across the world play this game online, which means that you'll 
 likely never run out of people to challenge. The gameplay itself holds up very well online, and 
 it truly shines during the Post Grab, which requires a lot of teamwork to succeed. Its the best 
 game mode of the bunch, and it caused me to play this game much longer than I ever intended to. 
 I also appreciated the rank system, which let you gain experience, level up, and unlock new costumes. 
 The rewards for ranking up arent as cool as Halo or CoD 4, but its another nice addition to the 
 game. Ultimately, this game isnt the best 360 game, but its a very good game with breathtaking 
 visuals and a fun multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  In the future, humans have attempted to colonize the frozen planet of E. D. N. III. Colonization 
 efforts failed because of the various insect/aliens called Akrid whose bodies contained a thermal 
 energy that could be used as source of heat and energy to transform the frozen planet into a habitable 
 planet for humans. To stay on the planet, humans created large Vital Suits that were armed to combat 
 the Akrid. Outlaw snow pirates roam the planet searching for thermal energy needed for survival.
 
  
  You play as Wayne, a colonist's son who was frozen for years beneath the snow before being found 
 by snow pirates and took him in as one of their own. He lost most of his memory, but does remember 
 that his father was killed by an Akrid known as Green Eye. Wayne sets out to avenge his father, 
 and help the snow pirates while discovering his past. 
  
  The game is fairly much a pure linear shooter with the plot revealed only during the cut scenes 
 between missions. There is a little bit of fighting strategy for the boss fights, but otherwise 
 it's just a matter of shooting your way from point A to point B. The actual game play requires 
 the use of a large variety of weapons while on foot and the use of heavily armored and equipped 
 mechanical VS suits with various other capabilities. The actual fighting is fun and offers enough 
 variety thought-out the game to hold your interest and not became bored with just mashing buttons.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: septa_r1dah
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I honestly did not know what to expect when I bought this game. I turned it on, died a few times 
 from running out of plasma and shelved this game while I beat gears of war again. When I put it 
 in for another test run and made it past the first level I was hooked. This was one of my favorite 
 next gen experiences to date. The graphics are great, the mechs control wonderfully and feel like 
 the heavy, beastly machines they are. I felt this game did a great job splitting up the gameplay 
 between mech fighting and on-foot fighting. The controls on foot remind me of Syphon Filter, the 
 classic PSone game, don't know why that came to mind over other third-person shooters, but it did. 
 The grappling hook was a great feature too. Just add these things up and make the realization yourself: 
 great graphics, wide variety of cool mechs with different abilities, great control, grappling hook, 
 enormous goo-filled bosses that are a blast to splatter; and what do you get? A very fun game that 
 is rewarding from start to finish. I highly recommend this for your 360 library, especially if 
 you haven't gotten to it at this point, get it cheap and love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is what can only be described as 'Epic'
  I don't mean that its one of the greatest games ever, but that the sheer size and feel of the planet 
 you run around and the aliens you fight is so huge that the only way to sum it up is 'epic'. 
 
  The way your character 'Wayne' runs and controls takes a little while to get used to, it feels 
 a bit sluggish at first. But this only helps to make everything seem as large and on a huge scale 
 as it is.
  You'll run and shoot your way through 10 stages (11 including the boss) and each of them, though 
 similar, brings a new set of challenges, as well as the usual blow-up-everything-you-see gameplay 
 that is at the core of each level.
  The snow covered levels can begin to get a bit boring and samey by the time you reach the end of 
 the game, but they do enough to try and distract you by throwing in VS suits and indoor/lava levels.
 
  If you've read reviews for this game already then you'll know that its supposedly quite a quick 
 campaign and not too difficult. 
  I don't think so. 
  Yes, you can complete this game quickly if you choose to simply run past all your enemies, killing 
 only the bare minimum to be able to advance and get to the end destination as quickly as possible.
 
  But if you want to properly experience this game and give it justice, you'll have to repeatedly 
 do sections over to find the best route to take to get to the end without being shot down by the 
 snow pirates hidden behind walls and ontop of bridges. KIlling the majority of your enemies can 
 get very tricky but
  play the game this way and Lost Planet will give you well over 10 hours of fun, sometimes frustrating 
 but in the end rewarding gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  You know, it's amazing that in this day and age, you can have a game with spectacular graphics 
 and unbelievable surround sound and the game is just.... blah.
  
  I mean, graphically Lost Planet is pretty nice. Beautiful, actually. There are some boss battles 
 that are pretty astounding in how they are presented. There's one moment at the very beginning 
 where a creature named Green Eye appears and the size of this thing is enough to make your jaw 
 drop. There's also another moment when you're running across an open field getting chased by this 
 monstrous worm thing that is an experience on its own. This is definitely a game that benefits 
 from being played on an HDTV setup with surround sound.
  
  But then the story kicks in and you can't deny that it makes very little sense, not to mention 
 the fact that the hero of the story is really not an interesting character to begin with. The gameplay 
 itself is a bit repetitive and really, the game just amounts to little more than eye and ear candy. 
 Even when you're not on foot and riding around in the mechs, it just doesn't add up to any memorable 
 experience.
  
  The online portion of the game isn't enough to make you want to play it a lot, especially with 
 games like Gears of War and Rainbow Six: Vegas out there. It's kind of stale and just not that 
 interesting.
  
  I'm really down the middle on this game. I'd say that it's worth a rental and then if you like 
 it, get it. I wouldn't call this an outright purchase as it just didn't grab me the way I would've 
 expected it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  OK, so i bought this game from F. Y. E and i went to play it and well, i loved the game. That's what 
 i should say. What i like about 360 games are they are less confusing than the other old game-system 
 games. What i mean by confusing is u don't know where the hell 2 go. There were a few confusing 
 parts in the levels and it was maybe because of the environment or maybe because they did it on 
 purpose. Now, this game had a very good story. By good story, i mean its very detailed. I like 
 games' stories when u have to beat the game a couple of times to fully understand the story. This 
 is one of those games. There is so much to the story. U might think its confusing at first but 
 i think if u play it a couple of times, u will know what its really about. the game is about a 
 guy named Wayne whose father died trying to put a stop to a project called the Frontier Project. 
 Wayne ran away from his home and froze in the snow on the planet, E. D. N 3 and so 30 years later, 
 3 snow pirates [u'll know what those are once u play the game] find him and now he has been rescued 
 by them. He has lost all of his memory but can only remember 2 things; that his name is Wayne and 
 "green eye" the akrid [creatures that live in E. D. N 3] that killed his father. He must use his 
 past to survive on the planet and finish what his father started: put a stop to the frontier project. 
 The graphics were well done. The gameplay got challenging at time but was still good. The bosses 
 were fun and challenging. Let's get to the bad things about the game. when i aim a gun at a guy 
 or akird and fire, it fires at the guy or akird by it instead. I don't know if its auto-aim or 
 they screwed up but it got annoying. people say that this is a pretty short game but i dont have 
 any problem with short games. In fact, i think its better when its shorter than when its so freakin 
 long like Half-life 2. When i play a game and its long, i just get sick of playing it and just 
 want to quit. Because the longer it is, the more dumber and boring it'll get unless its Halo or 
 Call of Duty 4. I think thats all that u should know about this game. If u feel like this is a 
 good game, then just go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OB-47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a 3rd person shooter. It is is the first game to display direct x 10 graphics, and 
 it shows. Its great visually because theres thing like the blur when you move Wayne (You) . The 
 enviroments are great like great snowy places to enclosed caves full of The HIVE. Theres other 
 small things too, like when you Wayne walks around the snow moves around and when its deep his 
 foot gets in it. And can you believe you can that you can dig through the ground to get new weapons! 
 Same with vehicles. Say your Mech Walker was to tall to get under a cave and you need the weapon 
 on it, simply get off and take the weapon of the walker! One thing that dissapoints me is the short 
 campaign and the story. This game is too short and story is very confusing. Atleast the multi player 
 gives it some added time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet was Fantastic! I don't know a better third person shooter for the 360
  Its action packed filled with thrills and remains incredibly satisfying. The Game play never gets 
 repetitive and at the end of the game you really miss it and want more. The Campaign was very short 
 and I felt like i needed a bit more maybe 20 missions rather than 12. I hope they make a sequel 
 because it would definitely be possible and could work out great! As for the story line i actually 
 found it pretty good if you can follow it properly. It was a bit complicated but i knew of this 
 before i played the game which meant I put in complete concentration and even though the struggled 
 telling the story i actually found it a really good one. So make sure to really focus on the story 
 line.
  There is not a dull moment in this game and when you get to a boss fight you really really do get 
 scared just like in god of war. The multiplayer is easily the best out of the third persons but 
 just under Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3. And you will get hours and hours of enjoyment out of it.
 
  This game can be enjoyed by fans of shooters and brawlers around the world so i say give it a 
 go if your a destruction gamer.
  enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The story is not your typical one but it has it's merrits all the same. You play as Wayne, who 
 is genetically enhanced. You start out trying to kill the Akrid (the giant insects) and snow pirates 
 but soon you find yourself fighting against NEVIC which is trying to completely reform the planet 
 and in the process killing all life on the planet.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple and easy to master. You can only carry 2 types of weapons which makes 
 it more realistic. But you can switch between the 2 pretty easily and the reloading time doesnt 
 take that long. You also can carry one type of grenade which is extremely usefull in clearing out 
 masses of enemies. There is a wide variety of weapons to choose from such as: Machine gun, rocket 
 launcher, energy gun, plasma gun and a shotgun. This is for when your playing as a human. You can 
 also control a wide variety of Mech's which each have their vast weaponry. There are chain guns, 
 shotgun, rocket launcher and a few different lasors. With the Mechs you can jump really high and 
 hover or fly as well. Obviously the weapon power is much greater as well. But most of the Mechs 
 are very slow moving.
  
  One of the most important aspects of the game is to collect thermal energy from defeated enemies 
 and containers throughout the game. This energy will keep you alive but slowly drains as you move 
 and play. If it does run out and your hit, your life bar will not re-energize and you die. This 
 energy is plentiful in the game though and you really would have to be hit a lot in order to run 
 out. 
  
  As for the enemies... there are a vast array of giant bug and humans alike. The bugs themselves 
 are what makes this game so enjoyable. They each have there own attacks and weak points you have 
 to exploit. Normally they are super large and attack in swarms but nothing too overwhelming as 
 the A. I. isnt overly aggressive. The major level Bosses are normally larger that the screen and 
 take a variety of attacks to being down but you always seem to have a Mech available which makes 
 the fight so much easier. Eventually with some patience each BUG has its own pattern. The only 
 thing i was dissapointed about was as the game progressed, the amount of Bug was reduced and replaced 
 by humans or enemy mechs. Not that this was all bad but I really wanted to fight more giant bugs. 
 Even the last major Boss fight was just a Mech flying around. I would have preferred a super giant 
 Bug.
  
  The game itself was very fun to play and I found myself playing it all the time. It was kinda addicting 
 and even though some people thought it was too short, I thought it was a good length. The game 
 was just kinda easy so it felt like it was too short, but it was 11 missions long and if you do 
 a lot of searching and bug hunting it can take up a lot of time. Overall if you enjoy shooting 
 giant bug and flying around in a variety of Mech's then you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was actually pretty good I played through it did some online then basically quit it. 
 I still play it occasionally and I enjoyed it while I played it.
  Heres my review.
  
  Story-8.0 Confusing but fun. Okay voice acting with a good but hard to understand storyline. The 
 story is short. I beat in about 6 and a half hours.
  
  Multiplayer-8.0 What the story didn't have the fun multiplayer made up for it. Good 16 player battles 
 with good game modes. You'll have quite a bit of fun while playing this games multiplayer.
  
  Graphics-7.9 Good but glitchy and sometimes blurry. the characters look nice. Okay enviorments. 
 The enemies aren't very good.
  
  Gameplay-8.1 Fun gameplay with awesome gunfights and huge booses the gameplay is really fun.
 
  
  Sound/Music-8.1 Good music that sets the mood for certain fights. The sound effects were actually 
 pretty nice. The explosions and gunfire was realistic and good.
  
  Controls-7.9 The controls were good but sometimes complicating and hard to use succesfully.
  
 
  Overall-8.0 Great game you should either rent or buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  this game has some postives for it but many negatives also come for it. The single player you play 
 as a man named wayne that does not remember anything about his past. this adds alot of confusion 
 to the story of lost planet. and it just gets weirder from there. the gameplay is pretty good which 
 adds a plus for lost planet. The single player is also very short you should be able to beat the 
 game within 8 hours on the nrmal difficuly setting. Luckily the muliplayer saves lost planet from 
 mediocrity. it offers 4 modes and a few maps thats makes it fun and fresh from the average shooter. 
 All in all its an okay game hat should have been a multiplayer only game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  first let me tell u something... this isnt halo3 or gears of war... its lost planet. ok first when 
 u buy this game, when u start the first level... it will awesome! the first level will probaly be 
 the best part in the whole game. if the full game was like the first, this game would be awesome. 
 first level is good because u have team mates, and all good stuff. then after that, it gets boring 
 or u kinda get that feeling... 
  campaign : campaign is ok, its intense but the story is crap.. just plain crap. the gameplay is 
 good, enemies r great, climbing things with ur rope is fun. but once u finish the campaign then 
 comes the pain...
  
  good
  u get to use a rope
  great enemy!
  fun boss battles!
  everything works perfect.. no lags nuttin
  the robot.. mech thingie is cool
  
  bad
  i could 
 use a team mate or a team...
  the thermal energy thingie gets annoying
  THE MULTIPLAYER
  
  its all fun and games until u finish the campaign... then u say "ok i wil play the multiplayer"... then 
 comes the pain. alot ALOT of flashing stuff in multiplayer. you dont no who's shooting u. multiplayer 
 needs alot of work. i bought this game, but if i were u.. i would rent it. finish the campaign, 
 then return it. just rent this game dont buy. you'll probaly stop playin this game after u get 
 another game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm wasn't sure exactly what to rate this, but I decided on a 7.5. Lost Planet does have 
 potential, and the gameplay/controls are superb. However, it has no multiplayer, and some phases 
 of the game are just, well, boring and repetitive.
  Let's start with the story. It has a decent, well executed plot, but thats about it. The voice 
 acting is extremely sub-par, and the cut-scenes can get a tad to lengthy.
  Then there's the gameplay, which (for a 3rd person shooter) is extremely satisfying. The controls 
 are laid out well, and the thermal energy idea is executed impressively (I won't get into much 
 detail, but it's kinda like a shield) . There are some parts in the game when mixed with good level 
 design (which is unfortunately a bit sporadic, see next paragraph) that the game flows and has 
 you blowing up giant bugs and kicking the crap out of NEVEC soldiers effortlessly. The VS's (mechs) 
 work well for the most part, barring some confusing control schemes.
  Then there's the level design. It can get very dull, sometimes forcing you to just run right past 
 enemies instead of trying to kill all of the some 8,942 giant bugs in a room. The enemy mechs are 
 way to frequent of an opponent, and sometimes you find yourself ill equipped to even put up a good 
 fight. Personally I think that you should fight human soldiers the whole game, as it flows much 
 more and they're easier to kill. Facing giant bugs the whole game seems more like an arcade game 
 than a shooter. The boss battles are good, and some can get quite challenging.
  Anyway, this game is a good bargain for 30$ bucks, but since it has no multiplayer (which is kind 
 of retarded) rental is the best option (I beat it in like 8 hours) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  well as a game Lost Planet is good. the weapons and gameplay are good. but there are two major 
 factors in Lost Planet that made me give it an 8.0. first of all, the game is WAY to short. i finished 
 the game in about 10 hours and after that i replayed the levels a couple times. second, the stroy 
 is kinda stupid and occasionally confusing. the story and characters have an anime style feel, 
 and i HATE anime. 
  the story is basically about a "snow pirate" named wayne. mankind has left an uninhabitable earth 
 and settled at a planet (i forget its name) that has freezing temperatures and giant aliens. to 
 survive on the planet you have to collect thermal energy contained in the aliens. some cooperation 
 called NEVEC is doing something bad and you need to stop them. im not even sure what NEVEC was 
 doing too, thats one thing about the story that is confusing. so then you kill the leader of NEVEC 
 and live happily ever after. one annoying aspect of the game is that everyone betrays you at one 
 point but then they become your fiend again. 
  the shortness is what delivers the death blow to this game is its shortness. theres nothing i hate 
 more than a good game thats just too short to derive that much fun from. due to the length of this 
 game i think that if you rent this game you will have made the "lost planet" inhabitable for humans 
 in no time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby_joe_is_in
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  So it was a little short. Who gives a *****. All I care about is that the graphics are good, the 
 concept is good and the game period is good. If you like games, you should really think about buying 
 Lost Planet. The best of Capcom. The best. ( Maybe Bionic Commando will take it's place) But till 
 then, Lost Planet is at the top. (This next text is to fill in the blanks for the review) fgjsghsdfjkg 
 ldfjkg fdsgkldfs jgjlkdsfjgljksdfglksdf gfd gdjsf slgkj dfslk gjdf gjlkdf glkdfjg ldfsgjsdfkjghf 
 dsghisf hgkjh fdskjhg kjdfs hkgjsdfh kgjdf hgdfkj hgsdklfhglkdsfjghsd klfjghsdjfkh gjkdsfgkjdf 
 hg jdfskjg hdsfkghkdfsghklsdf ghlkjsdhfgkjfhd k gjdsfkjghsdk fjhg kjdfhsd hfgkhsdfkjgh sdjkfh gkjdsflhgjsdhfghwariuhg 
 ifdhsgi ufdhhgb earb hgfiuds gireu hgifd sgbvbifdsghdf gjhi eusrghudfisg hiraue hgdfhjgfasif dugsag 
 df gdsa fgisd ia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icetray86
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Capcom had a good taste of action gernre, no question about it, but apparantly, they did not put 
 it to good use here.
  
  
  The Gameplay was all mixed up. When you turn around, you move so slowly. And its almost impossible 
 to fix it right the way you want it in options. You'll probably make it too fast or too slow and 
 you can't change it In-Game options so you have to quit the game every time to fix it.
  
  
  And moving... what about moving!?! I know your all covered in snow, but you run like 1 mile 
 per-hour! And when you walk backwards, that Wayne dood strafes forwards and backwards which is 
 very annoying. And the thermal energy thing is pretty annoying too. I know its all snow 'n stuff 
 but does it ever seem to you that it runs out so quickly, and its so hard to find more?
  
  And the storyline makes no sense at all. I was really expecting better out of this game. Although 
 I still play it rarely, it's pretty much a letdown.
  
  I recommend you don't get this game; Dead Rising is the way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet has an interesting setting and some very nice looking graphics, but some of the gaming 
 mechanics make this experience at times very frustrating.
  
  Earth has become inhabitable and mankind has now started to colonize an icy planet known as E. D. N. 
 III. You play as Wayne, who is a snow pirate that has lost his memory. About the only thing he 
 knows about his past is that a giant creature called Green Eye killed his father. This Green Eye 
 is an insect-like being called Akrid and now Wayne is out for revenge to kill this Green Eye. Fortunately 
 the plot is a lot more interesting than what it first appears to be. There are frequent cutscenes 
 to progress the story, but it doesnt make a difference in terms of gameplay and every mission 
 follows the same basic structure. After mission 06 has ended theres some kind of Act 2 in the 
 story, as if the designers had originally meant the game to be shorter and added an extra episode 
 into the same game.
  
  Graphics are impressive and in my opinion its a great achievement, because most of the games 
 action happens in large plains of snow and pretty much nothing more than an occasional building. 
 In the course of your experience the frame rate takes a hit just a few times so nothing you cant 
 get over with.
  
  Sound and music are also great. When a giant Akrid screams and rushes towards Wayne you can really 
 feel the chills going through your spine, because its actually pretty scary. Using different guns 
 and vehicles is very satisfying because of the masculine noise they make. In battle there really 
 is no dull moment in terms of sound.
  
  Gameplay on the other hand has some issues. Every mission has a same structure in it: you fight 
 your way from point A to point B and in the end theres a giant Akrid or some other big enemy that 
 you need to take out. Mission complete. Still it needs to be said that those big Akrid battles 
 are very well done and maybe the designers have learned something from Metroid Primes boss fights.
 
  
  As I said the environments and graphics are great, but Wayne has a meter of thermal energy  TG 
  which is constantly running down and the way to get it up again is to kill enemies. This means 
 that there is not much time to just stop and explore the environment. I think this is a missed 
 opportunity to let the player move around freely instead of putting him or her just running one 
 narrow pipe or a corridor.
  
  Save system works, but it could be better. There are checkpoints during and between missions, but 
 there is no way to know when you have reached one until you die and try it. Also in my opinion 
 there should more checkpoints.
  
  Lost Planet is by no means an easy game. I had to start the game again on Easy after three missions 
 on Normal, because I was constantly getting my ass kicked. Unfortunately some of the challenge 
 comes from a frustrating source: Wayne flies backwards every time his getting hit and it takes 
 a while for him to get up, during which you are unable to attack. This means that in an intense 
 firefight you only get to see lots of puffing smoke and witness how your character flies around 
 the battlefield until he dies. 
  
  Multiplayer has pretty much the same action as in the single player campaign, so if you enjoyed 
 that you will also like what the multiplayer has to offer.
  
  Lost Planet is by no means a bad game, but theres just much better games to choose from. I recommend 
 for example Gears of War instead of Lost Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PimpinJellyRoll
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  May I first start out with some good that Lost Planet is really one of the most visually stunning 
 games I have ever played. It's chuck full of detail all the way from the snow to the pretty explosions. 
 Another rather nice element to the game is the story, which is usually one of Capcoms strong fields. 
 But now with the bad. Game play wise it can be good but there are many many annoyin little bugs 
 that just really mess with you. First, there a just a lot of explosions in the game and it seems 
 you are constantly in the battle feild and everytime there is an explosion anywhere near you your 
 body is just stumbling everywhere to the point where you cant even move and its a real drag. You 
 are just stumbling around in the snow like a complete drunk with no control of your character and 
 thats when a giant worm comes up and bites your face off. Another aspect is your character is so 
 stiff along with the mechs that are given. It seems as if you are walking around like a robot. 
 And lastly you are constantly having to pick up these little power balls to keep your health up 
 and really the producers need to know that the player just wants to have fun with the game and 
 doesn't wanna have to continually pick up all the "balls". Other than that though the sound is 
 good, story is good, and graphics are a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloX5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  The idea for lost planet was one of those games you look back on and say what a classic, the combo 
 of Mechs, Akrid (bugs, and People, was brillant and it game was a well spent idea that got what 
 it deserved.
  The game bases around a planet called EDN III and is infested with a insectile alien race known 
 as the Akrid. There are also two human factions the Snow Pirates (which is your side) and NEVEC 
 the power hungry psychopaths. Your character is Wayne a kid who has lost his memory from a tragic 
 accident while on a mission with his dad. He wakes up and all he remembers is his name and that 
 the Akrid called Green Eye killed his dad, now teamed up with a Snow Pirate Group with Luka, Rick 
 and Yuri they seek out and destroy the hives plauging the land, and as you may have guessed the 
 do run into NEVEC and The Green Eye eventually.
  The device which is Waynes arm known as the Harmonizer is a advanced piece of technology his father 
 left to him along time ago and is has a purpose that is reavealed later on in the game as is Waynes 
 past.
  New members do get recruited and others get lost but there is one rule in the game a tip...."quote: 
 Keep you finger on the trigger"... and aim for those weak points always think before you act because 
 you dont know whats round the next corner, just because you have a Harmonizer that can auto heal 
 you doesnt mean to go jump in YOU CAN still die, as if you heal you lose your Thermal Energy (T-ENG) 
 and you need that..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a very fun game that suffers from a less than spectacular story. Lost Planet combines 
 explosive mech combat with slower some-what tactical infantry combat. When on foot you'll have 
 a variety of different bars to watching including your health and you warmth. Your warmth bar is 
 something that really attracted me to the game, it's an interesting little detail that really makes 
 the game seem more real. Some of the weapons in the game are different from your typical. The mech 
 battles are fun and fast paced. The multiplayer is decent. All and all it's a very fun game that 
 lacks in the story department, but that's ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a rare gem in a sense. Some people would argue that this game is just average, it's 
 better, but not by much. It uses so many elements that come together so nice. The mechs are incredibly 
 fun to use and can take out most of the landscape. When you fight other humans it becomes like 
 a fun action stealth game, mostly because you have very little advantage over the enemies other 
 than your skill, however you don't die as much as you think. The way points break up the game so 
 that if you do die, you don't get set all THAT far back. The thermal system makes for a survival 
 style gameplay when you get too hurt. Every time you hit a way point you get thermal energy, which 
 does almost make it so that you want to just rush past some parts that could be more fun if you 
 were going slower. The thing that really makes this game stand out is the storyline, there is almost 
 nothing like it, it changes at every turn, you know nothing from the start and you never know who 
 the good guys are. The boss fights in the game are fun, high passed and beautiful.
  The Enemies in this game are also very original, I know that the mech and human enemies are boring, 
 but at least the humans are mostly pirates, and pirates are cool, but ninjas are better, sorry. 
 Anyway, the aliens are all distinct and interesting, all of them seem to need something different 
 to be killed. One thing is the weak spot-please-kill-me indicator, it makes it a bit easy to kill 
 them, which is made up for by the enemies being strong and fast. Overall I would like to seem more 
 games like this, maybe not in the snow setting, I don't like it too much, but certainly something 
 like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  this is one of those games that could have been alot better, but its not. the whole kill everything 
 to get heat to survive thing is really annoying, and they could have made lost planet a free-roaming 
 game. but, the story isnt too shabby, the mechs are fun to drive, and some land areas are nicely 
 put together. the guns, however, are ok to shoot, but some just dont sound that good. now, not 
 all the sound is bad, lost planet has some aliens that have some really cool noises. some enemies 
 are really fun to go up against, but some of them are as dumb as rocks. and the difficulty, oh 
 man, its very pathetic. the higher the difficulty, the faster your heat goes down, pathetic. i 
 thought it would be an improvment to the games ai, but no, they make your heat go down. the graphics 
 are very very nice, there are some glitches though (doesnt every game?) . its satisfying to see 
 some of the stuff they do (im not going to spoil some of the details) . over all, this game is good, 
 but it could use alot of work, but still say buy it because its got nice graphics and some ok gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcloss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Intense Combat, Lots of different creatures, good graphics, controls well.
  The Bad: Too short, Story is weird and makes no sense. 
  
  Lost Planet is the first game I 
 played on my 360, and immediately I loved it. I've played quite a few 360 games since then, some 
 better, some worse, but when I go back and play Lost Planet, its still a solid game. 
  
  The Basic premise of the game is to shoot giant bugs, called "Akrid" that roam the Cold and deserted 
 planet EDN III. These aliens are difficult to kill, and there are plenty of different types of 
 Akrid to keep you busy. Also, There is a substance in your suit called T-ENERGY that keeps you 
 warm, and it slowly depletes as you move around the world. This may all sound very difficult, but 
 it really isn't. There are a couple of tough boss battles, but It shouldn't take you too long to 
 finish Lost Planet. Graphics-Wise, Lost Planet looks great. The Facial animations are really good, 
 especially. The bugs look really cool, and the explosions and gunfire look and sound great. But, 
 There is one major problem with this game: The story. The story makes perfect sense about three 
 quarters of the way through, but the ending is so weird, It made almost no sense to me. But still, 
 Lost Planet is a good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3viliv3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Okay, hate maybe a bit strong - disliked or annoyed are more appropriate. I rented this game the 
 first time, played about 1/2 way through - I don't remember what annoyed me, I sent it back. 3 
 months later, I don't remember why I don't like it, I rented it again, now this time I remember 
 why.
  
  1. How can you put the same damned B button to enter a Mech AND pick up weapon? I'm sure you can 
 map it some other way or let the users do it if you can't map the damned buttons right!
  
  2. You think faster than the character can turn - I turned the sensitivity to high and it still 
 turns slow as hell. In real life it doesn't take you 2 second to turn left or right - if that's 
 the case, I'll probably get sucker punch in my face during my MA class so many times! Mind you, 
 it's gun fights in this case, you're supposed to be dead! I'm sorry, it's a game. Still...
  
  3. Movements - I understand the snow can slow you down, but concrete also? He runs so slow 
 it looks like he's going for a marathon or something regardless of the surface and condition. Although, 
 I like that if you jump, you get off balance that adds a little realism there. Or if the ground 
 is rumbling, you also get off balance. But not helpful for a game when you're trying to blow stuff 
 up and kill STUFF! That's right, STUFF! And that brings me to:
  
  4. STUFF TO KILL - there are enough stuff to kill that you just constantly killing stuff. I have 
 to say they balance it okay that the weapons they give you can take care of the amount that is 
 coming. But the character is awesome-r than Rambo though, he takes out a planet of STUFF while 
 Rambo could only took out villages... but Rambo is still kewler than the character... I don't even 
 remember his name, go figure...
  
  5. Weapons - they're either clumsy, weak, or too powerful that you blow yourself up. Nize with 
 the Zzz! Snipping in this game isn't as satisfied as in Gears of War or even Call of Duty - the 
 victims just... drop dead... that makes me want to kill him again even though I shot him in the 
 head... did they make this game for 5 years old or something? Where there are guns, there SHOULD 
 BE blood and gory!!!!
  
  Other than that, I do have one good thing to say about this game even though it didn't impress 
 me. I'm FPS and a Mech junky, if you put them both together... the world shines like a second coming 
 of the sun (I have no idea what the hell that even means) . The concept is there, but need a bit 
 more work. I hope the second one fix some of the issues. I didn't want to torture myself any longer 
 after I took out the giant worm, so I returned it. 
  
  I think I'm done torturing myself with the painful memory I had with this game and you. Now, go 
 play something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  After Dead Rising I thought capcom was all about making great games. I played the demo for this 
 game the day it was released and preordered the game because I thought this game was gonna rock. 
 The gameplay is fun but get boring after awile. Graphics are amazing compared to other 360 games. 
 This game was great fun at the start but I never finished it because I got bored because Gears 
 of War came out and I eventually traded this game in.
  
  The multiplayer is really fun with this game but it could have been better. The action packed game 
 was to be one of the best of the year but fell short, I may rebuy this game because this game wasn't 
 all that bad of a game.
  
  Overall this is a average game that could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haven79
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game has a lot of good aspects. The gameplay is a lot of fun, but it gets repetitive 
 fast. Every single mission seems like the one before. Controling a mech was really fun, and the 
 boss battles are challanging, but the game doesn't have enough of those few good parts. It is fun 
 gameplay, but after a few missions, it does get old. The story and the cut sceens are lame too. 
 Overall, there are other games that you should spend your money on, but if you have some extra 
 cash, and a few games to trade in, go for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  In Lost Planet you play as Wayne, a man who loses most of his memory and sets out to kill the monster 
 that killed his father. Lost Planet has eleven missions that take you all over the planet of E. D. N. 
 III battling an alien race called Akrid. Each mission is full of hundreds of Akrid for you to kill. 
 There are two ways to get around in Lost Planet on foot and in big mechs called VS. On foot you 
 can hold two weapons at a time and you can choose from machine guns, shotguns, rifles and rocket 
 launchers. On a VS you also are limited to two weapons with a choice of gattaling guns, rocket 
 launchers and gernade launchers. Since E. D. N. III is completely frozen you are going to have to 
 find a way to warm up. You do this by collecting thermal energy from data posts and from the enemies 
 you kill. Thermal energy not only regenerates your health but also powers some of your weapons. 
 After you finish the rather short campaign (about 7 hours) you can battle other people through 
 Xbox Live in modes like deathmatch and team deathmatch, a fugitive type mode, and post grab where 
 you activate and defend data posts scattered around the map. 
  
  Lost Planet is a great game with an intense but short campagin, and great multiplayer that will 
 keep you playing for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  LOst planet isn't very good there is nothing really that good about it except the graphics. the 
 single player is short and is like a ps2 game when you have to kill the monsters and they have 
 a life bar that you can see. and have to shoot a certain spot to kill it. thats all i can say on 
 the single player really. the multiplayer isn't that good either. on most levels you spawn then 
 you run to a v. s (a big fighting machiene that you control) or to the sniper and it is just the 
 same. i like the rank system because there is 100 ranks. but the maps are very big and there is 
 alot of maps to download from the marketplace. a bad thing about the whole game is the little animations 
 when you fall over they got me really angry when you couldn't move because it was doing that. i 
 would not recomend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  The Below expectation, Great game!
  The much anticipated game Lost Planet is out. Does it live up to expectations? No. But it is still 
 a very fun and exciting game that's totally worth buying.
  
  Lost planet takes place in the future on the planet E. D. N III, this planet is completely frozen 
 besides its deep inner core. As humans decided settle in on this planet they came into contact 
 with an enemy, the Akrid. The akrid consist of small and large alien life forms that were near 
 impossible to kill for humans. Through the countless battles they had to endure with the Akrid 
 they discovered the Akrid kept inside them Thermal Energy which became a must have thing for humans 
 to be comfortable on the frozen planet. Humans were about to flee, but managed to produce a type 
 of exoskeleton that was suitable to battle the Akrid and collect lots of their thermal energy. 
 These proved mighty successful and they decided to stay. These exoskeletons are called: Vital Suits 
 which are known through the game as VS's.
  
  As well as the Akrid the other villans in the game are the humans that were left for dead, these 
 are known as Snow Pirates, and are out to get anyone that's not a member of their faction.
  
  The main character in the game that you play as is VS pilot named Wayne. You discover quite 
 quickly that he seeks revenge on the huge Akrid called Green Eye. Who killed his father, just after 
 saving Wayne from imminent death.
  
  That's just the basic intro story it gets much more strange and interesting as the game progresses.
 
  
  In game play you play as Wayne, he can carry two of whatever weapons. He has a grapple hook attached 
 onto his arm. The grapple functions just as a option to get you from point A to point B. You cannot 
 swing on it. And quite disappointingly you once you fire your grapple as you fall to the ground 
 you cannot fire it again in the air. One thing I was happy about is that if you ever fall off a 
 edge Wayne will quickly fire is grapple onto where he just fell off and save his life.
  
  In my opinion game play is a lot slower than other intense games such as gears. Generally there 
 are either masses of small Akrid which take one or 2 shots to kill, or 1 large Akrid, or a group 
 of snow pirates. The AI for these is quite bad. You can pretty much pick off a human without getting 
 hurt. The large Akrid just run at you and do the same move or two until they are dead, these require 
 a bit of strategy as you have to shoot their weak spot which is highlighted in orange which also 
 indicates thermal energy. The major reason I say the AI is bad is that at some stage there is a 
 fight happening between other groups of enemies, and you just run through, 90% of the group will 
 stop and chase you, instead of continuing their fight.
  
  Whatever you kill you collect thermal energy, you constantly use up this energy and if it drops 
 to zero you will die very quickly. If you have thermal energy left and you get hurt, the energy 
 will jump in and put your health back to full. You collect so much of this you only really need 
 to look at how much you have during boss fights.
  
  
  Boss fights are great, They look amazing they are tough enough to make you feel awesome after you 
 beat them. Some are bit too frustrating. And a lot of them have a heap of strategy to them. The 
 game takes the cake as to having some of the best looking boss fights around.
  
  There are 11 levels in the game each with a boss, Sadly the game takes about 6- 7 hours to beat
 
  
  The graphics are great; it may not be Gears but its quite close, explosions look amazing, you collect 
 snow on your clothing as you run through it. Cut scenes are as though you are in the movies.
  
  Sound in this game is not as good as you would hope, a lot of guns instead of making a "bang" 
 sound they make a "put" sound it kind of takes away the feel of it.
  
  Multiplayer was fun for a while but I got bored of it quite quickly, it was just not exciting enough 
 for me. The best part is a map with only rocket launchers.
  
  Overall the game is a great fun game, that may not last as long as you would hope, but is quite 
 enjoyable and leaves things things that will make you want to play through it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OXMpimpboy14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  when i first started playing lost planet i had mixed feeling but as u play the game gets fun but 
 grows old very fast. The story was a cool consepted but all of that just for his dad and some random 
 people that found him. but on the side is some great Vs's that are feally fun and all the enemeys 
 that come sorming after u. the online play is the best part of this game, running around with a 
 michine gun that is sweet and killing people its really fun, also sense the story mode is short 
 and the replay value is really low the online play will give u something to do after the game is 
 over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webhunter
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I have tried to get to grips with this game for a long time now, and have failed miserably. I have 
 played through most of it, and I can't help but thinking that the story is complete rubbish. The 
 controls are clunky and in general the game is not fun. I am giving thumbs up for excellent graphics 
 but they do not rescue this game from my "could-have-beens" pile.
  
  I think a better tutorial section to learn the operation of the vehicles and the various weapons 
 would be a major plus for this game. As it is it is not worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Since I play games for fun I try to keep my reviews focused on how much fun the actual game play 
 is. Story and graphics while they can add to the experience of the game are to me secondary, but 
 when they interfere are interrupt my enjoyment of the game, well... that becomes an issue. Let 
 me start with the good. Both the graphics and the game play are excellent. The story however is 
 so bad its laughable. 
  In this game you play as Wayne... Wayne is a snow pirate which should say a lot about the story. 
 Their is further back story about why you are on this planet and why and how you became a snow 
 pirate its all really bad. Skim to the important part the world is covered with snow their are 
 alien creature that have thermal energy inside their bodies your job kill them and collect the 
 energy. 
  The game has you going on mission to wipe out hives of the creatures. Whats disappointing is that 
 if you want you can run straight to the boss which i think is cheap as all hell, and makes me long 
 for the days of 2D side scrolling games where you couldn't advance without clearing the stage. 
 Still if you take your time fighting though the alien hordes the game is quite fun, and each mission 
 should take about an hour or less to beat, which is great if you have the time. However if you 
 want to quit and go to bed or go eat there is a problem with the save feature because can't just 
 save anywhere any time the game will save automatically forcing you to complete a level before 
 it will save. 
  Once you complete a level you are treated to a cut scene which takes you out of the game in order 
 to advance a really poor story in which every you met betrays you and then becomes your friend 
 again. Its also heavy on the melodrama so much so that Keanu Reeves would be proud. Eventually 
 it revealed that the Nevec corporation is doing something really bad and you have to stop them. 
 
  And on you go fighting aliens and the Nevec co. Which will lead you right up to the last boss which 
 is sadly the easiest boss fight in the game. 
  Seriously SNOW PIRATES!
  Mowing down aliens was pretty cool though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Essentially Starship Troopers on ice, Lost Planet casts players as a tooled-up space warrior battling 
 armies of giant insects on a remote, snow-capped planet. But while the interstellar bug-squashing 
 may seem strangely familiar, Lost Planet introduces a clutch of unique features that mark it out 
 from other Xbox 360 blasters. As well as the familiar running and gunning, players are given access 
 to a range of robotic exoskeletons, each of which blesses you with amazing powers  from a machine 
 that morphs into a snowmobile for quick getaways, to the sprightly suit that allows you to leap 
 high into the air and rain fiery death on any enemies cowering below. The heros Bionic Commando-style 
 grappling hook also adds variety - allowing you to save yourself from deadly falls or reach inaccessible 
 platforms  and the frequent boss battles punctuate the relentless carnage with more strategic 
 shooting.
  
  The frantic fights that assault players with swarms of eight-legged horrors may not feel as realistic 
 as the tense shootouts in Gears Of War or F. E. A. R., but Lost Planet is further proof that the 360 
 is the place to be for quality gunplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  losp planet is a great shooter game because when you kill the swarms of bugs you get some satisfaction. 
 the game shows pretty good graphics and the sound is great. the storyline is creative but confusing 
 and the farther you move into it the more tangled it gets. the diferent worlds makes the game very 
 fun. the mech units make the game what it is, original (alonghside the the bugs) because their 
 totally creative not just a copy of gundam wing or other anime. the campaign is too short for my 
 taste but the bosses are fun to beat. overall is a great game that any shooter player should at 
 least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is an exciting game that any 360 owner should invest time in playing. From the interesting 
 location, the mixture of third and first person shooting, to controlling mechs, Lost Planet has 
 something for everybody. Maybe each of those parts by themselves don't add up to much, but the 
 way that all of those elements are put together in Lost Planet make it a fun and exciting game 
 to play.
  
  Lost Planet takes place on another planet called EDN 3. The planet is a frozen wasteland inhabited 
 by insect-like creatures called Akrid. As the story begins, you find out that the humans have been 
 trying to populate the planet for quite some time, but have been losing badly in their fight against 
 the Akrid. Most of the humans flee the planet forcing those who remain to very much fend for themselves. 
 These remaining colonists become what the game calls Snow Pirates. Some time passes and the humans 
 invent weapons that are capable of fighting the Akrid and so the re-colonization starts. This new 
 weapon is the Vital Suit (more or less a mech) . All of this information is covered in the first 
 cutscene of the game. From there, you are introduced to your character, Wayne, and are dropped 
 right in the thick of a battle between humans and giant Akrid. Long story short, you barely get 
 out with your life and are found frozen in your Vital Suit (VS) by snow pirates. They nurse you 
 back to health so that you may begin avenging your lost family and friends from the previous battle. 
 Much of the plot happenings are covered in long cutscenes, that in my opinion are beautifully rendered. 
 They explain a lot, the characters show a lot of emotion, and the voice acting isn't bad. The basic 
 summary of the plot here, without giving too much away, is that as you fight for revenge, you find 
 out that an evil company called NEVEC is trying to eradicate the planet of ALL life, human and 
 Akrid, so they can begin terraforming the planet into a tropical paradise. You have a mysterious 
 past with NEVEC that you slowly uncover, which ends up explaining why you have . . . certain special 
 abilities and technologies attached to your body.
  
  The gameplay of Lost Planet is simple and a lot of fun. The game is meant to played from the third 
 person perspective, but can be played from a modified FPS (you don't see your gun) . The game really 
 should be played from the third person perspective because then you can see all of Wayne's great 
 animations of running, rolling, jumping, stumbling, etc. While playing as Wayne on foot, you are 
 quite agile and able to take care of a number of enemies (which is good, because they come from 
 everywhere) . Quite often during the game you are given the opportunity to get into various VS's 
 found throughout the world. There are several different VS's and each has it's advantages. While 
 you are no longer as difficult of a target to hit while in a VS, you can dish out a heck of a lot 
 more damage. The VS are armed to the teeth with different weaponry, and you are able to jump and 
 sometimes fly. Wayne's health in the game is two-fold. You have a standard health bar, and you 
 have something called thermal energy. The thermal energy is constantly diminishing and must be 
 replaced by blowing up thermal tanks, killing Akrid, or humans who are using thermal energy (all 
 of them) . If you get shot, hit, etc. your health goes down, but the thermal energy you carry very 
 quickly raises your health back up to full, but your thermal energy is used much more quickly. 
 It's an interesting balance of health and shields, and the fact that the thermal energy is always 
 going down gives the game a bit more a frantic feel.
  
  The weapons in the game are well done because they take a note from what Halo started. You can 
 only carry two weapons at a time, and there are only about six or seven different weapons that 
 Wayne can choose from. This is a good way to handle weaponry because you are given the freedom 
 to choose which weapons are most effective in a certain situation, but you are also limited by 
 the number of weapons available and in how many you can carry. The VS's work on the same model. 
 Anything from a gattling gun to a rocket launcher can be put on a VS, but you can only have two 
 weapons at time.
  
  Lost Planet's graphics and sound are top notch as well. While you may not noticed the graphics 
 all that much, they are good. You won't notice them that much because there is not a lot of variation 
 in the color pallet. Everything is white, because it's an ice planet, but all of the characters 
 look good close up and the Akrid are sufficiently detailed as well. There are no framerate issues 
 that I came across either. I would say Lost Planet has some of the best looking explosions too. 
 Whether you are shooting explosive barrels or an enemy VS, the explosion is always big, powerful 
 looking, and loud. Speaking of sound, Lost Planet is a great sounding game. You definitely want 
 to play this game with a subwoofer because the power of explosions and walking VS's is carried 
 well through the sound in the game.
  
  Gamespot gave Lost Planet an 8.1, which is a good score, but not high enough. With as much as the 
 game gives you and the variety of ways it does this, the game is a must play. It's fast paced, 
 it's varied, it's unique in premise and environment, and the plot is decent. Definitely give Lost 
 Planet a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  In Lost Planet: Extreme Condition you control a Space Pirate known as Wayne. While trying to hold 
 off an insect invasion (Akrid) he gets frozen and looses his memory. The story unravels as he recovers 
 his memory and tries to stop what his father was trying to stop.
  
  Gameplay: Fun and easy. The game is third person, so you get a wider view and a better shooting 
 range. In this game you can shoot normally, on foot, or you can, when available, use robots, which 
 is really cool. Every weapon in game is very useful, and have alot of ammo, when using a robot 
 it's very easy to kill any enemy, but at the same time fun. Since there's a Thermal Energy meter, 
 which keeps the game on edge, it's very necessary and fun to kill as much humans and Akrid, as 
 you can. The game is at most 20 hours long, but it's pretty fun, and the online mode delivers. 
 Playing online with a good view and alot of weapons to choose from is pretty fun.
  
  Visuals: Pretty awesome for a third person. Everything is very detailed, the facials are pretty 
 well done, especially Wayne's face. You'll be seeing from human, to insects, to colossal insects. 
 The environment is pretty good too, though most of the time it's just snow.
  
  Sound: Good voice acting, and good music for the right moments. You'll be hearing funny scared 
 dialogue from enemies such as saying Mama every now and then :P
  
  Controls: They are pretty easy, no combos except on the final battle, but I wont be giving any 
 spoilers.
  
  Overral: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a pretty good game. It truly delivers to your expectations, 
 and the online is just plain fun. If you want to play a good third person shooter that ain't exactly 
 military, here's your option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad4death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a backwards Halo game in 3rd person, getting compared to Halo is a good thing. If 
 there was more weapons and faster recoil from melee, this game would be a perfect. I strongly recommend 
 this game to teens and up, also fans of First-Person Shooters, Action, and even Strategy game players. 
 This game neds to be brought to the attetion of more people, especially because it's over rated. 
 Online time you'd want to waste on, selection of characters is better than expected, good mobility, 
 awsome map detailing, and creation.........
  
  Bad Review
  
  More Weapons, needs more area on single-player mode, needs an offline multiplyer mode, one thing 
 that it needs is more VS's (Mechs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  All the ingrediant of a good game, graphics, sound, gameplay are all pretty good. The only problem 
 i have with this game is that your on a health timer and you pick up health to increase your time 
 all while is consistantly going down by simply standing there. So you lose health to get health 
 running around picking up health constantly to keep the timer going takes away from some fun game 
 play.
  
  I would have liked the opportunity to explore a little and not just go for the health timers
 
  
  Recommend a rental.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 8
  Gameplay - 6
  Irritation Factor - High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FF12BK
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  When I was young, I watched Star Ship Troopers and I felt this movie is cool. Having an armies 
 killing bugs, sounds exciting. Times goes by and now Wayne came and killing all those bugs in Xbox 
 360. The differences? He came alone, the planet is covered with ice, and the BUGS are much more 
 bigger...... i should say they are Gigantic!!
  
  The graphics and sounds are great. Not only a planet that covered with snow, while you're playing, 
 you will have chance going though mountains, caves, military bases, and alot more. Each place will 
 give you different specific experiences in both graphics and sounds. Moreover, there will be some 
 shocking experience appears though out the game that will blow your mind. Examples like when suddenly 
 a Gigantic bugs appear in front of you and you have to try the ways to defeat it. The game play 
 and control are both right. Is easy to play and you don't have to use much time to learn. However, 
 one disadvantage is that when you climbing mountains or buildings, the focus of your steel robe 
 is not that accurate and it makes player have to aim it a few times before you can reach the destination. 
 The things that I think are not so good about this game is that the storyline is not that enthusiastic 
 and the gameplay is abit too short. Anyway, I don't want to ruin it to anyone, therefore, i think 
 you should play and see the storyline by yourself :)
  
  Overall, Lost Planet is a great game that player should definitely try. Although it is not a game 
 that can compare to those masterpiece like GOW or Halo, but I think it is worth to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatzombiepigeon
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Games like Lost Planet: Extreme Condition ooze mediocrity while their developers walk away with 
 smiles on their faces because they just sold one million units in less than a month. There's not 
 one thing that will just blow you out of your mind about this game, and you'll begin to wonder 
 why you were ever hyped for it in the fist place.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The game starts out with you, Wayne (because all the cool names were taken) , getting your buttocks 
 handed to you by Green Eye, an alien named after the distinctive color of it's many, glowing eyes. 
 In case you're one of my less intelligent readers, they're green (shocker!) . You watch this monster 
 obliterate everything around you as it drags itself around a big dome, and after it kills all your 
 friends, it finishes the job by murdering your father and then blowing your mech to bits. You wake 
 up weeks later and learn you were found frozen inside your mech, but were revived thanks to your 
 new friends. After a curt nod for your father and introductions are passed, you're sent out on 
 missions only the most unlucky shmuck can be duped into doing. You're basically supposed to walk 
 or drive to every single hive of the Akrid, a big insect alien race of which the Green Eye is part 
 of, and then destroy them. Unfortunately, big monsters are in your way, and they want you killed 
 dead. This all takes place on a big frozen rock called E. D. N. III, which is officially the dumbest 
 name to bestow upon a planet. If we've found so many planets we've begun to name them in abbreviations 
 and numbers under the same code, why did we ever try to terraform this frozen hell? Isn't there 
 some other planet we can work with? Anyway, you take off, in your mech, as you follow the other 
 character's instructions. Trust me; the story does not get better.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The gameplay is about as exciting as the story. And unless you're just the biggest Scifi junkie 
 EVER, there are better aliens to blow up and better planets to fight on. The game works on the 
 most basic of levels: You can shoot stuff. The single player mode has two different sets of enemies: 
 Humans and Akrid. The human AI is stupid, with your enemies simply standing there as they fire 
 their guns at you and rarely moving or doing anything else. You shoot them, and then they fall 
 down. Sometimes, they'll pilot a mech, or VS (Vital Suit, because that name is just AWESOME) . Still, 
 a few rockets or grenades take them down, and it's not like they're the sharpest knives in the 
 drawer. The Akrid are a bunch of bugs. Some are small, some are huge. Shoot them on foot or in 
 a mech and they eventually fall down and die. Bosses are always the biggest and pose quite a challenge 
 and can be fun to fight and are great, but sometimes they will infuriate you and sometimes you 
 just don't care. You just wonder through frozen wastelands until you come across enemies, then 
 you shoot them. That's it. A shooter on the most basic of levels. Have fun.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The online is far better than the single player, but is still far from amazing. It's basically 
 a third person battlefield, only with less players, less excitement, and a lot less fun. Let me 
 explain: In both the single and multiplayer modes, getting caught in a grenade explosion drags 
 your character into this super long animation where the studder around on the ground before finally 
 managing to regain their footing. This happens a lot, and also happens if something is swung at 
 you or almost hits you. It becomes infuriating to stand there like an idiot after someone tosses 
 a grenade, and what makes it even better is that they can throw another grenade before I regain 
 my control over my character. Basically, anyone who knows how to manipulate this element can kill 
 anyone just by slightly hitting them with a grenade, then tossing another one. You can also get 
 knocked around by Akrid like this, and using the grapple hook sucks because you can't just get 
 up a ledge, you fling yourself up there and have little control of your landing spot. Zooming sucks 
 because it's done with the DPad, while you control with both analogue sticks. Online is basically 
 sixteen player deathmatchs and other typical assortments, but with mechs. Don't buy this. Play 
 Halo 2 (Or now that it's out, Halo 3) some more. Play Vegas. Play Perfect Dark. Not this.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The graphics are great, on the bright side. If you like to just stare at pretty pictures and huge 
 breasts, this game hits the nail on the head. But if you actually want something else, too bad. 
 The music and voice acting aren't exactly bad, but aren't superb either. Just do yourself a favor, 
 and buy a different game, will you?
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Score: 5.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I really was excited for Lost Planet. It was my most anticipated game of the year. The demo blew 
 my mind with its amazing gameplay and graphics. The game was released, I was excited. I bought 
 it, I liked it. But I was dissapointed. The demo actually had one of the best levels in the game 
 on it. The story isn't half bad. A guy is in some kind of a war, his dad dies. Okay, I'm not good 
 with stories. The main point is always gameplay. The gameplay on it is good, but gets old very 
 fast especially with its not so great assortment of weapons. You kill multiple enemies, aliens 
 and humans. One part that I do like about this game is its epic boss battles. At the end of each 
 level you'll face a boss. Good news, they're not boring. Enemie variety isn't so special unfortuantly. 
 Most of your enemies are the same. Although they look awesome, you'll defiantly fight them a lot. 
 Now about the VS' (Mechs) . They are pretty flipping cool. Their are a pretty big variety, most 
 with unique powers. One thing that really annoys me, the length. The game is short, oh so short. 
 You can beat this in about 6 or 7 hours easily. Bad news, after you beat it and want to try it 
 out online. Good luck. The online is laggy, its hard to find servers, you get kicked out of servers 
 that you do find. The online should just be ignored here. Its defiantly nothing you'll want to 
 get into. Overall I think the games fun. However, its repetitive, short, and the multiplayer sucks. 
 I recommend renting it unless its $25.00 or less. Graphics- 9/10
  Gameplay- 7/10
  Sound- 8/10
  Multiplayer- 4/10
  Replay Value- 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_Stu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow look at the snow so pretty... oh look at the cute lil alien bang bang you die... HOLY C@AP look 
 at the size of that one! Lost Planet is a very satisfying 3rd person shooter that involves Mechs 
 to the mix. Not just like a level or two... there are mechs all over the place all sorts and sizes, 
 and you could interchange or use for yourself the mech arms , their are many arms each with different 
 fire power... pretty cool eh! The action never seems to dull out and the enemies are mighty impressive 
 some of them are so huge like.... WOAH MAN take it easy... haven't played the multiplayer , but 
 I think I might be pretty dull. I had fun with this one, I don't really see myself playing it a 
 second time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The world that the game is staged on is under extremely cold conditions which make it necessary 
 for you to maintain a thermal device that keeps you from freezing to death as you fight. This thermal 
 device connected to you arm needs to be recharge constantly by killing giant bugs and absorbing 
 their thermal energy, there are also tanks and towers that have thermal energy in them which gives 
 a little rest from constant warfare. Apart from running around shooting big bugs you can mount 
 Mechs to fight other Mech Warriors and even larger bugs. The game is like other games in its genre 
 so the controls are not hard to adapt to and the graphic are not mind-blowing but get the job done 
 for back drops and detail. The plot in this game is pretty original and develops at a reasonable 
 rate, but is short overall if you asked me, which you did otherwise you wouldnt be reading my 
 lame review. I am a huge MechAssault fan as well as the Halo series, but I am not saying that this 
 game is going to fulfill you dose of either, but it is pretty cool that you can get a taste of 
 both in this game. My major gripe with this game is the brevity; this game is otherwise a pretty 
 solid concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  it was the first game i got for my 360.... and i loved it... the levels are amazing the frozen 
 bug things (akrids) are kinda freaky when they pop out of the ground but there pretty easy to kill... 
 graphics are amazing its like its really snowing... the only part i think i didnt like is that 
 when you kill a Akrid there body turns to ice and then you hit it and the body shatters kinda lame... 
 ya... you can also fight humans there called snow pirates and want to kill you... the best part 
 in this game were the boss fights i dont know why but they reminded me of the boss fights in the 
 legend of zelda very good.... for weapens you can use things from shotguns to lasers to mechs and 
 grenades
  
  but its not all that good of a game its very short.. and gets boring after awhile... theres barely 
 anything to kill in any level and it takes to skill all you have to do is shoot them and they die. 
 replay value... hmm... it has none if you try to play a lvl over agian... well you just wont.. 
 you beat it ounce it was fun you go agian its like dieing...
  
  anyways its a good game but not great i liked it and i think you would too its 30$ used at gamestop 
 pick it up sometime
  
  thanks for reading, Polishkid99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrutoz
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Sorry to all my friends out there ,but come on, 2 hours into the game and I felt like playing my 
 $100 PSP more than my $400 (at the time) Xbox 360. Let me tell you why, Dont get me wrong the graphics 
 look great, but graphics dont make a game, (In most casses) gameplay does. For me there is only 
 one good weapon, the enemys die too easily, and you know what makes the hero look weak every freakin' 
 boss battle there is a VS suite. In fact the VS suite is the best thing about this game. So here's 
 to y'all RENT IT FIRST if you like it then buy it (unless you already beat it on the first day, 
 and for those that only like a game for graphics sell your nintendo WII, Xbox 360, and all your 
 handhelds and save up for some next-gen consoles.
  
  Peace out, yall
  (yes it was short this was my first time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Fun for a while but it wears pretty thin as the gameplay is slow and repetitive with alot of features 
 that are just as annoying as stupid as DMC2.
  
  Not worth buying for several reasons.
  
  1) if you have seen the adverts you will expect alot from the campaign. Dont be fooled. its 
 crappy at best. the missions are disjointed. noting much is explained and its not worth the effort.
 
  2) its pretty easy. i wasted 5 hours of my life beating the campaign and felt no sense of achievement 
 or experience for having done so. dissapointment
  3) graphics. snow looks good but metal effecst are pretty bad mostly.
  
  only 5 main weapons 
 on a shooting game. WTF?? need i say any more.
  
  oh and by the way there are only 4 main types of enemies. lame.
  
  Multiplayer
  -elitist.
 
  -difficult to get into
  -gameplay is slow and poorly put together.
  
  overal a very dissapointing game. 3rd person shoot-em ups are rarely good and this one is no exception 
 to that rule. graphics 7/10
  gameplay 5/10
  sound 5/10
  weapons/enemies - 3/10
  multiplayer 2/10
  
  overall 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  You play as a man that just lost his memory in a freak akrid (Alien) attack and now needs to go 
 and kick alien ass to find out who he is. Other then that the story line doesn't make much sense.
 
  
  The game is entertaining in the fact that.... well its not really entertaining at all to be honest. 
 All I did was shoot down aliens for 3 hours. It get extremely tiring at that moment of truth that 
 this game sucks. (In my opinion)
  
  What i do like about this game is the VS or Vital Suits. Basically these are big human like machines 
 that you drive through levels blasting anything you see.
  
  In my opinion, this is my least favorite 360 game. Due to its repetitiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  in lost planet you get to play as a guy named wayne who has lost his memory and has been taken 
 on board by a group of snow pirates.
  
  the massive planet E. D. N III, is populated by an alien species called the akrid which aren't to 
 happy to see you there. the game is rather short but it is incredible while it lasts. the visuals 
 are top notch with the brilliant snow and the awesome explosions polishing it off. the sound is 
 good with some ok voice acting and nice sound effects.
  
  the game is played from a third-person perspective and has great controls, it also includes cool 
 things like a dodge roll and grappling hook. the weapons are good and varied and the grenades are 
 pretty cool too. add this stuff with the fact that you can ride in massive machines that destroy 
 everything and then you have a winner on your hands.
  
  this game is terrific and i would recommend it anyone who has a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  One of the best things about Lost Planet has to be the fact that all of it feels so tight. I don't 
 mean tight as in, Dude, this is tight! , but I mean in like the game feels like it's almost perfect. 
 The controls are perfectly mapped and the action never reaches a level where it feels too out of 
 control for you to handle. All of the difficulty levels, while each having their own frustrating 
 points here and there, never feel like they need any kind of tweaking or restructuring. The visuals 
 are top notch - there are quite a few scenes where you can almost tell yourself you're watching 
 a movie; most notably in the opening sequence. The smoke effects are all great, even though you 
 can tell they're not really traditional particles - but they still fit in somehow. It's funny how 
 they did that. Lastly, the way the game bounces you between on-foot action and action taking place 
 inside the various mech units in the game is fantastic. While you're on foot, you'll be happy to 
 see a discarded mech lying around and once you power it up, it's like you're in heaven. The mechanics 
 for either on-foot action on in-mech action aren't terribly complicated, which makes Lost Planet 
 accessible to those which might find other shooters too daunting for their tastes.
  
  The Bad
  
  As mentioned above, each difficulty has moments every once in a while that can be 
 extremely frustrating. One example is a boss fight about halfway through the game in which you 
 simply can't see anything because every attack it lets off completely fills your screen with smoke, 
 which you can't see through. The fight is more trial and error than anything else and you can expect 
 to die a few times. In the story area, while the story is fairly compelling given the3 nature of 
 the game and story scenes take place as intermission periods in between mission, some of the intermission 
 scenes can end a bit abruptly, leaving you with no real closure from the last mission. In addition, 
 the game throws a little too many plot twists at you for your own good, introducing characters 
 in the storyline which appear only once and the completely disappear without any real reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddmanout895
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Okay, okay, I havnt even beaten this game although it is really short from what I hear. I made 
 the mistake of playing it online before beating the game. This is absolutely my cup of tea. I love 
 a lot of games where you battle in giant mechs, especially games where you can get out of those 
 mechs and fight also. Even better is being able to fight up to 15 other players. This has all the 
 elements of a great game to me. THERE IS NO BAD WEAPON IN THIS ENTIRE GAME. Reguardless of what 
 you say every gun/grenade has its strong/weak points. Its probably even more evened out than the 
 weapons in Halo. What I like even more about this game is the challenge. When I fist started playing 
 it I thought it was annoying with all the animation you get caught in and get blasted away because 
 of. I soon realized that you cant be rambo in this game, you have to constantly think about what 
 your opponent is doing and what you have to do to beat him before he gets to you. Every aspect, 
 from your terran, to the weapons you have to the weapons your opponent has you have to take into 
 consideration. This game, once youre good at it is more like a live action strategy game, whoever 
 becomes more creative and thinks outside the box is going to win, its not just skill or accuracy, 
 its also tactical. The graphics are absolutely stunning. Nothing makes me happier than when a rocket 
 goes flying by your head, hearing that whirring sound and almost crapping your pants at how close 
 you were to dying. Theres a constant feeling that someones behind you or with a sniper rifle about 
 to pick you off. Around the next corner there can be a colossal mech armed with an array of laser 
 cannons, giant shotguns, grenade or missle launchers. Even so, you always know there may be some 
 chance that you can win. Sometimes you can launch a huge rocket at someone and they can come tumbling 
 out of the smoke unscratched if they time their dive just right. If your VS (mech) is about to 
 explode you can jump out of it and take one of the huge guns off of it and carry it around with 
 you, and if you want you can even put it on another VS you find. Theres so many good things to 
 say about this game but I still only had two problems with it. One, as with most games playing 
 online once in a while youll come across some bad lag, where such things as teleporting opponents, 
 dying before you even realize it, and dying up to 5 minutes after you were supposed to can occur. 
 My second problem with it was that on some of the larger maps (they're freaking huge!!!) which 
 were made largely for VS battle, become annoying if you dont have a VS and have to walk everywhere, 
 especially if you die and have to start from your spawn point. Its like here we go again. and you 
 have to walk another 10 minutes just to get back to where you were going. That is what brings it 
 down to a 9.0, otherwise this game is totally worth getting and buying. Also, give it a chance 
 and dont get frusterated at it, theres always a way to improve. At fist you may think the animations 
 of your near deaths is annoying (being stunned by a grenade that almost blasted you away, causing 
 your guy to stumble) but you can use that to your advantage, and also learn to avoid that situation 
 next time. Alls I can say is I cant wait to see what capcom does if they make the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king8211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  fun, if i hade to i would play it was fun but i world really would rather play halo or rainbow 
 six vegas but i do like some fetures of the game like the grapple it is fun to use it. and the 
 vs bots where fun to. if you love shooters get this if you want a game that is like all the other 
 shooters. so another good game is rainbow six vegas or lock down if you have a ps2, so if you get 
 it i hope you like it have a great time. bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I only bought this game because I finished all my games and there was no other shooter out there 
 at that time. I usually prefer FPS, but enjoyed this just as well. What bothered me at the beginning 
 was the abundance of white which made it difficult to see many details, but fortunately this is 
 just in the beginning. The missions are extremely challenging and the boss matches are insane. 
 Halo is a baby toy compared to this! While in Halo you can simply run by most enemies, here you 
 hardly have a chance. If you try, you get attacked from all sites, rolled over, thrown in the air 
 and trampled on. You can be lucky to find a way to escape!
  
  Just like in Halo you can operate different vehicles and robots. The only other time I was able 
 to operate a robot was in The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay . With those robots 
 it's a blast to attack the enemies, although it doesn't make you invincible.
  
  This game will keep you busy for weeks, especially since you cannot save during a mission. If you 
 turn the Xbox off without finishing a mission you have to start the mission from scratch. This 
 is the only critic I really have. I'm having troubles with the boss in mission 10. After hours 
 of trying to defeat the boss, I had to go to bed, knowing that next time I start the game I have 
 to start the whole mission from scratch in order to get back into the boss fight. Something I really 
 don't look forward too, and it happens that I will simply abandon the game and move on to the next 
 one.
  
  If they would have made an option to save during a mission, this game would be rate at a 10, but 
 without this option I can only give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HessenKnight
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Your first impression on Lost Planet is Damn, this looks good but inside this empty shell lies 
 a storyline that rivals Steven King's recent works (No, that isn't a good thing.) and a gameplay 
 pattern that rivals Curdling. Polish the track, and keep that rock going.
  
  First, the storyline is something I need to touch on. It's impossible to follow, and it wouldn't 
 matter if you skipped passed the half-baked cut-scenes. All you'll probably pick up is something 
 about Space Colonists, Snow Pirates, Orange Goo, and some amnesiac that noone gives a rat's ass 
 about.
  
  The story-line is hard to follow. You'll be led along a linear path, just shooting randomly at 
 the static enviornment and the lifeless enemies within, then you'll be treated to some crappy cut-scene... so, 
 you shouldn't buy the gme for it's story.
  
  The actual game-play isn't as good anyway. You'll be holding down the trigger, assisted by an overly 
 generous auto-aiming mechanism. You're supposed to be under constant pressure by the ticking clock. 
 The EN meter ticks down slowly, and when it runs out, you can't refill your health or pilot mechs. 
 This sounds good on paper, but it doesn't work so good in action. The clock is usually jacked up 
 to an assinine number due to the constant supplie of EN Energy, or Goo . So, the EN Meter doesn't 
 usually pressure you, only in that rare one-out-of fifty moment.
  
  There isn't much innovation in the other aspects of the gameplay either. This is a straight-up, 
 honest-to-god run-and-gun shooter. You guide your little avatar in the barren, yet pretty enviornment, 
 shooting junk up. The closest thing Lost Planet has to innovation is the unusually usefull Hook-Shot.
 
  
  Another thing that might bother you is the frustating moment when you are knocked down relentlessly, 
 getting up, and having it happen to you again. It can make your brain explode, and it happens one 
 to many times.
  
  Aside from that, Lost Planet's presentation is top-notch. The graphics look great, but the sound 
 is mediocre, along with the voice acting. Motion blur and animation is stunning, along with the 
 general enviornments. All in all, Lost Planet is just a good way to test out that new HDTV. This 
 isn't something to drop sixty clams for an enjoyable experience. Either rent it, or borrow it from 
 a buddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x360_plaaya
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet 
 Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet 
 Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost Planet Lost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost PlanetLost 
 Planet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozo9182
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet, a great game with outstanding graphics and and awesome online mode. Whats great about 
 this game is the variety of weapons to choose from and the ability to get inside a mech (robot-type 
 vehicles) . But probably the best part of this game is the online mode, so if you don't have XBOX 
 Live, I suggest not getting this game. While playing online, you can play many different maps, 
 as well as FREE downloadable ones too. You start out as level 1, and as you progress to level 99 
 you unlock new characters and outfits! The online mode in this game is very addictive.
  
  The bad parts of Lost Planet is that campaign mode is short and has probably the wierdest, hardest 
 to follow, storyline ever. Online mode also sometimes has lag too, but other than that... Its a 
 great game and definitely worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Capcom saw the 360 graphic Capibilites and so they said hey lets make some games for the system 
 So they made two new titles comming only for the Xbox 360.. The First game was Dead Rising.. Zombie 
 game we have all seen a lot but had some good features in it.. Then in early 2007 they got the 
 2nd 360 Exclusive Capcom game Called Lost Planet.. If you ask me Lost Planet is a much better game 
 then Dead Rising..
  
  The story takes place in the Far Future where Earth is no longer livable so the humans migrate 
 to a new planet.. This New Planet however is not like earth.. the big difference being that the 
 climate is extremely Cold and should be unlivable to humans.. Then it you pushed right into the 
 action, your main base is being attacked by the Green eye (really huge Monster) and you need to 
 defeat it. So your father takes you around and you get used the the controls.. After that you are 
 attacked by the green eye and your no match.. You then are discoved by a small team of Snow Pirates. 
 You get cut scenes showing the rest of the story but you will have to play the game to find out 
 he rest of it..
  
  The Gameplay is actually very unique.. After a cut scene you have different Missions that you must 
 complete to progress the story. The game is a 3rd person over the sholder shooter.. i really like 
 that, and it fits the game much better then if it was another 1st Person shooter. The Game also 
 features something very important.. Thermal Energy.. Thermal Energy keeps you warm and the Humans 
 warm from the cold, it also keeps you alive in battle. The Game has a recovering system using the 
 thermal Energy. After you shoot down a Enemy little red blobs come out.. collect them to recover 
 more Thermal Energy.. As long as you have thermal energy you will recover your health.. but your 
 warmth is also failing unless you activate a pole thing (idk what you would call it PDA adapter 
 maybe) or collect Red Blobs.. Most games do not do this.. so something new is always nice!
  
  In the game you also get massive amounts of weapons and bullets.. There are all kinds of guns 
 like machine guns, Rocket Lanchers, Lazer guns, and Shotguns.. you can hold two wepons at a time 
 unless you get a big gun. Big guns have to be held at all times if your walking on land. If you 
 want to switch you must drop the gun.. Also while walking with one of these guns you cannot walk 
 while shooting.. you must stay put. Now the advantage of these big guns is that you can put them 
 on your Mechs. Mechs. are robot vehicles that you can use to destory enimies.. there are all kinds 
 of Mechs. that do different things, Like some can transform, while others can double jump or hover 
 or maybe even have a melee chain saw attack! While in the mechs you cannot loose damage yourself 
 but the mechs loose damge and cannot be refuled like your health.. so if it takes too much damage 
 be prepared to jump out of your mech.
  
  You also have gernades.. You are supplied with a ton of gernades.. you can hold 20 at a time and 
 there are also different types of them. Like some can stick onto enimies! Using the gernades can 
 make destorying hives and large amounts of enimies simple. Now its time for a Gamers best friend. 
 the Grappling hook. there are many ways to use this and its very very helpful in the game.. Using 
 the Hook you can climb down into pits.. While still attacked to the ceiling and shoot down whatever 
 is down in the bottom.. You can also use it to jump yourself to enimies so you can shoot them down 
 from upclose.. and you can use it to defeat weaker enimies! Also the main use for the Grappling 
 hook is for climbing up places and getting to stuff faster.. In the game you move very slow.. you 
 are covered with so much pretection that its hard to move.. if you find a ledge or something it 
 will bring you there in a flash.. When you see a place you can't jump to use the hook to get yourself 
 up there.. its cool when your needed to get away from a large creature or another band of Snow 
 Pirates.. And there is a reason they call it a Gamers Best Friend! :)
  
  The only thing i wish they had was a roll move. Another Game classic is missing from the game.. 
 it would be very helpful to dode enimies who attack you in super fast speeds.. plus to get to their 
 weak spots.. The best part of the Game is the Boss Battles, they are normally huge and with tons 
 of cool features.. you will be amazed about how cool each boss looks like.. some of them you can't 
 even defeat! All the Charcters have unique personalites witch makes it seem more realistic. Also 
 what makes the realistic is that the computer seems to learn what you do.. so its not always the 
 same enimies doing the same thing.. So the enimies can chage there approch to you.. and that is 
 really cool!
  
  Lost Planet Uses Xbox Live Very well by having online multiplayer.. You can have many different 
 options in Multiplayer many guns and cool maps.. You can also use mechs online! the online feature 
 is one of the best for the console.. You will have a blast playing people around the world using 
 Xbox Live
  
  Overall This is the 2nd best 3rd person shooter on the 360 Behind Gears of War.. but to me its 
 very close behind. I love the idea of this game and its a blast to play both Single Player or Online 
 Multiplayer.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Simple yet hard.. it has this sort of old school feel while playing, many guns, creative 
 levels, Mechs, and the Grappling hook make this game so enjoyable!
  Graphics: Very Good.. cutscenes are pretty good for the most part, and the creatures are full of 
 life. The snow effect is amazing Sound: they have a soundtrack for this game.. most of the music 
 is soft style music for a selected auidence but sets the mood well. also creature sounds and voice 
 attacking are top tier
  Value: fairly long story but with multiplayer and xbox live prob. going to give you some downloadable 
 content, this game will last you for as long you enjoy it
  Overall: Capcom makes another great game. one of my favorite series hopefully they have sequel 
 in talks.. if not its still a great game to play by yourself or with Others
  
  Final Score
  9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Yes it is. this is a great game it is fun not only in campaign but also online.
  its a typical 3rd person shooter various weapons give u different ways to approach different situations. 
 But lost planet has a little twist in taht as you progress through the levels you ocational find 
 a VS (basicaly a Mech/robot) , these are great fun to use a since their are several models each with 
 different abilities they also are great fun. My favourite thing in this whole game has to be the 
 boss battles they are basically incredible and they build up as you move along the storyline from 
 something that is maybe 10 times bigger then you to somthing that is hundreds of times bigger then 
 you. Obviously you take on these bosses with the VS suits, these battles are great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livefnalfantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, Where can I start. How about the turn offs.
  Plot; Was quite confusing in the beginning, but later on you will quickly be able to understand 
 it.
  
  The button commands; Absolutley ridiculous. The shooter trigger was fine, ditto to the grenade 
 throw. But once you find a VS to control, thats when it all goes down in flames. B is to enter, 
 B is to remove the weapon, also attaching it, B is to pick up a weapon, B is to dig. B is basically 
 your action button. But once its VS getting in time. B skrews up. If your trying to get in the 
 VS you may possibly on accident remove the weapon, once in the VS and you see a Rocket Launcher 
 persay on the ground. you will go and pick it up, thus BY ACCIDENT getting out.... with B!
  
  The Length; Quite short. yet the missiong are tough. including the boss fights. It is a game 
 you can sit down and have it beat by the end of the day.
  
  The turn Ons;
  
  Plot; very very interested.... you'll enjoy it..... Unfortunatley If I go into to much.... I may 
 throw some spoilers.... therefor I will not.
  
  Graphics; Magnificent. Beautiful, I mean what else can you expect.
  The pixels were crazy as 
 you journeyed through sleet and snowy areas.
  The physicks were wonderful, as for the model designs.
  I know you guys will enjoy this one. 
 Go out and buy it, play it, beat it, and rate it.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game really isn't all that much to get excited about. You're a little human using big machines 
 to kill other machines and big bugs. That's it. Oh, and the graphics are a real beauty. But other than 
 that, it's pretty monotonous. Killl bugs. Run around. Get in a big  
 achievements are really easy too. Beating levels and collecting hidden coins is really are there 
 is, aside from online achievements. And speaking of online, no one will EVER be on. I had the game 
 for about a month before getting rid of it, and i was only able to play around 5 REAL legit online 
 matches. The others were just dumb boosting matches for the achievements. Really, unless there's nothing 
 else you can or want to play on your 360, don't get this. It's a really run of the mill action game, all 
 gussied up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: under_achiever
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Picked up this game and was pleasantly surprised at how this arcade-style shooter looked. The game 
 seems like a mix between Starship Troopers and Mech Assault, which isn't the best thing. The graphics 
 for the Akrid are beautiful and in the earlier levels, the game play as Wayne was entertaining. 
 Although there were limited hand held weapons the ones that you did have were effective for the 
 job. The walking across some of the larger terrains was a bit of a drag, most of the levels had 
 enough constant action that there wasn't any empty voids.
  
  My major problem with this game is the VS. As you start out the game you get a brief tutorial, 
 and limited time within one of these suits, which seems a little odd, because in the later missions 
 its all you seem to be in. This is where the Mech Assault comes in. You end up walking through 
 the levels in a VS fighting other VS (kinda like mechs) . You will also run into larger Akrid that 
 put some variety into the enemies that you are facing.
  
  The story in this game is a little skimpy, not necessarily because there is no story, but due to 
 the short cut scenes and the larger levels, the game seems to skip some dialog, and/or plot lines 
 that would make the story a little more deep and meaningful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leaping-tiger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  this is a good game but is too short. i completed it in 8hrs. it usually takes me ages to complete 
 games. i would definately suggest you rent this game first. the graphics are good and the story 
 is great but it gets a little repetative. you seem to just walk aroud shooting aliens and then 
 its finishes. i payed &pound;20 for this game. i'm glad i waited until it was cheaper. in summary 
 - a good game but too short and a little too easy. buy it when its cheap. if you want an alien 
 shooter wait for halo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoami111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  I don't know why so many people like to get lost in Lost Planet, this game has cheesy voice acting 
 and is boring as hell. Almost every level, all I am doing is staring at a white screen shooting 
 some red alien dick. Plus, the level is so short and this game is called Lost Planet. How the hell 
 can you get lost in a level the size of a shoe box? Alright, sure the graphics are good but they 
 make me want to fall asleep. Its nothing but snow and some midget transformer wannabes that look 
 so freakin' dull. And plus the character you controls only moves like 2 mph while your enemies 
 can move so fast it looks like they are constipated. Because of the unbalanced speed it makes the 
 game extremely frustrating. The only good thing I like about the game is the boss fights. The boss 
 fights were the only part of the game I actually found fun. And other than good variaty of weapons 
 and some interesting looking creatures, there is not much about the game that makes it good.
  
  So overall, this game is not so great, the only part of the game is actually not boring is 
 the boss fights. Its a good thing I only got this game for 8 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  In Lost Planet: Extreme Condition, you play the role as Wayne Holden as he tries to redeem his 
 father who had been supposedly killed by an akrid (alien lifeform that the humans found on the 
 planet E. D. N. III) known as Green Eye . Along the way, Wayne is acquaintanced with many unique 
 characters, and a group which is known as snow pirates, colonists left behind after the evacuation 
 of E. D. N. III. Wayne fights with revoulionary weapons, as well as mech-like robots known as VS' 
 (vital suit's) . The game delivers astonishing graphics and great gameplay, along with amazing multiplayer 
 which is one of my favorites on the xbox 360. Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a must have for 
 any action lover who owns an xbox 360 or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperion886
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a very good and fun game to play. The only drawback is that it is a short game, 
 and some of the bosses are a bit frustrating to defeat. Despite those, the controls are solid and 
 gameplay is very good. Weapon variety is good and the use of machines makes the game even more 
 fun.
  I haven't played much on Live, but it is a very fun environment to play in. The maps are good and 
 the other players make the game somewhat challenging and refreshing.
  Overall, the game is satifying to play, but it is probably worth just a rent unless you will be 
 playing on Live alot, in which then it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Plot
  
  The game's plot focuses on the amnesiac character Wayne Holden, his father, Gale Holden, and the 
 past and future of the planet E. D. N. III. After a particularly vicious battle against a large Akrid 
 (alien) known only as Green Eye , Gale is supposedly killed, and Wayne lost on the icy planes of 
 E. D. N. III. The planet of E. D. N III is perpetually cold and snowy, originally inhabited by a species 
 of aliens known as Akrid, who forced humanity to abandon E. D. N. III by strength of numbers and 
 surprise. Initially, the Akrid deterred humans from colonization, but this changed when T-ENG was 
 discovered. Thermal Energy, or T-ENG, is a powerful energy source, found only in Akrid bodies, 
 made humankind determined to fight them, for which purpose they created the Vital Suit, or VS, 
 technology, essentially mechs powered by T-ENG, carrying mounted weapons.
  
  At the beginning of the game, Wayne is found on the snow planes by a small band of snow pirates, 
 colonists left behind after the evacuation. References from Rick, the gang tech wiz-kid, suggests 
 that the gang may have been larger at one point, but because of an attack by a rival gang, they 
 are all that's left. The band consists of the cool-headed leader, Yuri Solotov, the wiz-kid Rick 
 and his sister Luka. From the beginning, attention is put into a device implanted in Wayne's Arm. 
 Called the Harmonizer, this device feeds from Wayne's T-ENG reserve, and uses this energy to heal 
 his wounds. The game starts off with the gang suiting up for the trek trough the mountains leading 
 to the dome where Wayne last saw Green Eye. Along the journey they meet a woman named Basil, who 
 has VS piloting skills and an arm-mounted device similar to Waynes Harmonizer. She's looking for 
 a man named Solotov, who has apparently at this point vanished from their party. She also lets 
 the crew know about a third mysterious faction called NEVEC. Shortly afterwards they find Gale's 
 VS, described by Rick as possibly the most advanced VS ever produced, and use it to defeat Green 
 Eye. After the battle, NEVEC soldiers show up, along with a commanding officer, named Shane Bandero, 
 who also has a harmonizer-like device though far more crude. His appearance triggers Wayne's memory, 
 making him realize it was not Green Eye who killed Gale, but it was Bandero who made his soldiers 
 kill him. After a short battle between Wayne and Bandero's VS's, Wayne is forced to retreat on 
 Luka's scooter. They leave the dome to discover that their trailer has been destroyed and Rick 
 captured by NEVEC troops. To compensate for their losses, and continue hitting NEVEC, they recede 
 to guerilla-tactics, hitting NEVEC convoys and the like. After one of their raids, they discover 
 Rick and Basil in a small shelter. Rick was actually attacked by NEVEC, but Basil rescued him and 
 helped him though the year after his separation from Wayne and Luka. Now big events start to take 
 flight. By capturing a NEVEC soldier named Joe, and negotiating with him, they learn about NEVEC's 
 Frontier Project, a terraforming operation to make E. D. N. III habitable by humans without the aid 
 of T-ENG. At first, it seems harmless enough, though the truth is far from harmless.
  
  The Frontier Project will not only destroy the entire Akrid race, but will also kill any human 
 beings left on the surface of the planet. In their attempt to stop it, they meet Bandero again, 
 along with his superior, and the commander of Nevec, Dennis Isenberg. Meeting Bandero a final time, 
 and killing him, thereby reclaiming Gale's VS. They find Yuri, who has been tortured by NEVEC. 
 Yuri then hands Wayne an attachement to his harmonizer, allowing him to realize Gale's VS's true 
 power. Their plan to take down the Orbital Elevator goes into action. Basil sacrifices herself 
 to hold off NEVEC troops, while Joe plants high-strength charges to take out the Elevator itself. 
 At this point, Wayne is seen installing his Harmonizer's attachment, which causes great transformations 
 in his VS, which, among other things, allow it to fly, and use dual energy swords. Wayne then flies 
 up the elevator and battles Isenberg in the skies around the Elevator. Isenberg's VS is also top-of-the-line 
 second only to Gale's. After Isenberg is defeated by Wayne, Wayne's memories are erased again by 
 the attachement.
  
  A year passes, and Luka and Rick have picked up where Yuri left off in his more safe attempts to 
 terraform at least parts of the planet. They use modified data posts to warm the local environment 
 up considerably, melting the snow and revealing earth and grass, Luka saying that this is a small 
 but important step, and also mentioning she wished Wayne was there to see this. Almost as if he 
 planned it, Wayne appears out of nowhere, proclaiming he never expected to see dirt on E. D. N III. 
 Luka stares at him, confused, then reintroduces herself, leaving the player to wonder how it goes 
 from there.
  
  Combat system
  
  Most of the game revolves around combat. Wayne can use a variety of weapons, like machine guns, 
 shotguns, and rocket launchers. In addition to hand-held weapons, Wayne can pilot an assortment 
 of robot suits (mechs) , called Vital Suits (VSs) . Weaponry is used to combat the planet's native 
 species, the Akrid. The Akrid are a hostile, insectoid species, which come in many forms. They 
 can range from smaller than a person to several times larger than a mech. Wayne also fights groups 
 of enemy human soldiers, called Snow Pirates. The Snow Pirates use the same kinds of handheld weapons 
 and VSs that Wayne does. There are multiple Vital Suits available for use. Also, when on foot, 
 Wayne has the ability to remove heavy weaponry from these vital suits for upgraded firepower. For 
 battlefield mobility, some of these vital suits can Transform into a faster, more agile form. For 
 instance, one light-weight vital suit can transform into a Snowmobile-type transport with a chain-gun 
 attached to it. As for weapons, there are some of the typical science fiction weapons such as sub-light 
 speed lasers and slow-moving plasma bolt guns. The main weapon in the game is the previously mentioned 
 machine gun, which somewhat resembles a FAMAS. It is quite effective at both medium and short ranges 
 when against humans and small to medium-sized akrid, but is of limited use against boss akrid and 
 VSs. Wayne can carry a maximum of two weapons at once. He, and multiplayer characters, are capable 
 of using a grappling-hook type tool to gain vantage points.
  
  In both the single-player and multiplayer game modes, there is a T-Eng (Thermal Energy) meter below 
 the character's health. This counter goes down continually in the cold, and can refilled by collecting 
 pools of glowing orange heat that drop from dead enemies or other heat sources, such as an explosive 
 barrel. It can also be replenished by activating data posts. The T-Eng is used to refill Wayne's 
 health in the single-player mode, and is used to power energy weapons such as plasma rifles and 
 removable mech energy weapons. If the T-Eng drops to zero, Wayne's health will begin to drop..
 
  
  Xbox Live support
  
  The game has multiplayer support on Xbox Live with up to 16 players online in a single game. Players 
 can compete through four game types; Fugitive, Elimination, Team Elimination, and Post Grab. Killing 
 enemies, destroying VS, and hacking data posts will add to the players score while getting killed 
 and committing suicide will take away points. The point total at the end of the game will be added 
 to the player's overall score across all of their games. This score will be used to determine the 
 player's level. The highest level is 99. Players can unlock new character models and patterns. 
 There are eight (nine in SE version) multiplayer maps: Crimson River, Dark Town, Diplidation, Training 
 Facility, Canyon 810, Lost Coast, Pirate Fortress, and Frozen Wasteland (plus Battleground in SE 
 version) .
  
  The weapon variety in Lost Planet becomes obvious when playing in multiplayer matches; the game 
 features 5 varieties of grenade, 15 distinct weapons (7 of which are dual-function in that they 
 can be carried by infantry or attached to a mech) , and 6 mechs ranging from transforming tanks 
 to jump-jet walkers. Weapon placements are randomized for each match, as are a player's grenades 
 upon spawning.
  
  On March 2, 2007, Capcom released the first gameplay patch for Lost Planet's multiplayer modes. 
 The patch includes fixes that allow players to easier discern the nationality of their fellow players, 
 to tell who is speaking during matchmaking and gameplay with an added speaking icon, as well as 
 a connection speed/strength indicator. This speaking symbol is also added in the results screen 
 at the end of the match. It also contains a number of bugfixes geared to prevent major glitches 
 and exploits during online play. However a few people have not been able to enter a match, due 
 to the host quitting the match. This problem has been linked to the NAT settings on a player's 
 router, and can be rectified by making sure the NAT setting is OPEN. This can be determined through 
 the network setting's diagnostics test from the 360 dashboard.
  
  Multiplayer Map Packs
  
  Capcom has announced that they intend to release three sets of map packs for 400 Microsoft 
 Points each. The first set included Radar Field and Island 902 and it was released on March 9, 
 2007. The second map pack was released on April 6, 2007 and includes Hive Complex and Trial Point.
 
  
  It has been announced that Hive Complex, Trial Point, Radar Field and Island 902 will be available 
 for free on Xbox Live Marketplace on July 20th along with extra content for pc and a new patch 
 addressing connectivity.
  
  The third map pack featured three new maps on June 21, 2007 and included Ice Drop , based on a 
 glacier, Ruins , based in a jungle, and Lost Technology , described as a throw-back to the good 
 ol days of pixelated 8-bit gaming. 
  
  Additionally, Battleground, a map which was only available in the limited edition version of the 
 game, was released for free download on June 7.
  
  On August 16, 2007 the third map pack became available for free on Xbox Live Marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickythenewt21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a very fun game for the Xbox 360 and/or PC. With crisp graphics for the time of 
 its release and new innovations (such as T-ENG and VSs) , this game should have been a killer app. 
 But some things held Lost Planet back from that title. For one, let's take the single player mode. 
 With a confusing plot and just being plain short, the single player is pretty much only for achievements. 
 This isn't saying that the single player isn't fun (because it is) , it's just that it's much too 
 short. There's only 11 missions to play. I would've been happy with 16 or 15, but it had to be 
 only 11. The plot has many twists and turns, with characters coming in and out of the plot a lot. 
 I also couldn't figure out if the really pale guy was Wayne's brother. They kept talking about 
 a sibling rivalry, but I just couldn't figure it out. They also didn't have enough anger between 
 Isenberg and Wayne in the final battle. I didn't really get why Isenberg was so mad at Wayne. They 
 should've had Isenberg introduced earlier in the plot. That would've made much more sense. The 
 multiplayer is very fun. If you have Live, then I highly suggest getting Lost Planet. Which is 
 weird, because they don't have co-op for the story, yet you can play on Live. But I highly suggest 
 this title, which is why I give it an 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet sets you up on a great story where you are surrounded by a graphically great environment 
 where you take huge creepy aliens face to face. There's not much bad that can be said about this 
 amazing game, except that it could last longer, but with an online multiplayer, Lost Planet should 
 be able to keep anybody interested for a respectable amount of time.
  In this game you play as a character named Wayne, he was found buried under the snow, and knows 
 nothing of what's going on. Nevertheless, like in every game you must be the hero, and in this 
 case you must use a slick array of weapons, gadgetry and mech suits to destroy your enemies and 
 harvest their heat sources so that humans may use it to take over other planets and live there 
 happily. Along the way you will meet a small cast of clever characters, and will move throughout 
 a large variety of scenery. However, the story is eventually buried deep under the intense action.
 
  
  The game has an extremely easy to pick up and learn control scheme and you will notice immediately 
 that your surroundings are nothing short of incredible. You step into a rich detailed world with 
 these crazy aliens popping out of everywhere. Even though the world is very detailed, the powerful 
 Xbox 360 is able to keep the game running smoothly and it never gets messy, and the game is able 
 to keep a consistent frame rate, that might only very rarely jump a bit.
  
  Amazingly the sound is able to keep up with everything going on on screen. Everything that is happening 
 on screen has a sound. The mech suit movement, guns, and the screams of the horrid aliens, name 
 just a few of the incredibly done sounds you with witness. Also adding to the drama is some decent 
 voice acting, although there have been better voices in other games.
  
  As you jump through the different scenery you'll probably never be to surprised with what you find. 
 Enemies, weapons, and the mech suites seem to stay pretty much the same throughout all the missions. 
 And there is no variety at all when it comes to collecting, the only collectibles are those orange 
 heat balls that fall out of the aliens.
  
  All these things are great, but the single player campaign doesn't last very long at all, so that's 
 when players should jump over to the sixteen player online mode. The online consists of four modes. 
 There are the classic death matches and team death matches. There is also a Fugitive mode where 
 everybody must hunt one player. Lastly there is the Capture the Post mode, which is probably the 
 most clever mode, where teams must capture all the data posts to achieve victory. The data posts, 
 are another source of thermal energy both in the single player campaign and in the multiplayer.
 
  
  The shooter has been done many times on Microsoft consoles, but this game is a new way to approach 
 this game genre. Lost Planet is hardly slowed down by load times, and keeps consistency in all 
 categories, and although it may be short, it has 3 difficulty settings that should each be tried, 
 and a decent multiplayer mode. In the end Lost Planet should be a game in most Xbox 360 owners' 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama89
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I was not expecting anything great when I bought this game, but what I got was a frustrating, and 
 half @$$ed third-person shooter. The first half of the game is pretty fun, you know, kill some 
 monsters, pilot a mech, defeat a couple of bosses. Then you get to the climax of the game, a dramatic 
 series of levels inside a volcano! Whoo hoo! Cool, right? Now, if you know anything about this 
 game or even looked at the cover, you know it takes place on a snow covered planet. While you are 
 out in the snow you slowly lose heat, which is this game's health. Well, you still loose heat INSIDE 
 A VOLCANO, which makes no sense at all. Then you get to the point where three mechs are in-front 
 of you and a scorpion monster is to your back and the mechs all have rocket launchers which are 
 shooting you so you are getting knocked back and the scorpion is attacking you and it extremely 
 frustrating! And there are many encounters like the one I described throughout the game. I mean, 
 after the halfway point, it seems like every bad guy and their dog has a rocket launcher! So, that 
 is my beef with this game. It is frustating and not very fun. The graphics and sound are also not 
 next-gen (or I guess it would be current-gen now) quality. If you get this game, please don't pay 
 $59.99 for it like I did. Wait until it is like, $20 or less before you get it. File out, that 
 is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a sci-fi third person shooter where you fight these furious alien bug life forms 
 known as the Akrid. You've play as a character Wayne, which early in the game have been found frozen 
 in ice and can't remember a thing except for an Akrid called a Green Eye who killed his father. 
 Through this game you can control these robot, which are known as VS (vitual suits) to harness the 
 warmth resource supply in the Akrids. Throughout the game you will also fight humans known as Snow 
 Pirates. The gameplay I have to admit is a little repetitive but still satisfying enough for you 
 to get through the game. There is no depth in the gameplay so all you have to do is keep shooting. 
 That still doesn't make it a bad game because the single player is still worth experiencing. There 
 are some epic boss fights throughout the game and you can gun hordes of Akrids. The enemies are 
 unforgiving and will do what ever it takes to kill you. (and by that I mean constantly attacking 
 without anytime for you to get back up and move somewhere) . The VS in the game held up quite well 
 and is fun play around with. The graphics I have to say is superb. The snow is one of the best 
 snow I ever seen in a game. Every foot print you leave behind and walking around in deep dunes 
 of snow very graphically design. The sound is good with a cool soundtrack but the weapon sound 
 is really lacking. The machine gun burst sound sounds like shooting out rusty bullets. Anyways 
 the Akrid and human voice acting is really well done. The online portion of the game is pretty 
 fun. You can play up to 16 player (including yourself) and some battles can be really chaotic. Some 
 of my favorite moments are VS battles and everybody is shooting every and it is just crazy. There 
 are four modes to choose from Elimination, Team Elimination, Post Grab (territories) , and Fugitive 
 where you must kill a certain person under a time limit. There is a cool ranking system which is 
 a lot like an RPG. For every player you kill you get a certain amount of experience to level you 
 up. As you progress through your level you will get new costumes and characters. Overall the game 
 is decent but not the best game in the world for me. It is just a standard shooting up alien game 
 but I still had fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLamezero991
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You'll play as Wayne, a young man who holds a mysterious past of sadness and technology. When you 
 first put in the disc your setting is a warehouse under evacuation, for a huge alien, buggish, 
 crabby looking monster is destroying just about everything in sight. This level is basically a 
 tutorial for it makes you excercise most of your characters gadgets and gismos. Eventually ( and 
 I hope you were expecting this) you will have to fight the behemouth. Ofcourse, since this boss 
 has some signifigance in the game, as much as you try you willl not be able to kill the titan. 
 So now your left frozen until a group of space pirates find you, and thats where the story begins......
 
  
  Now for the graphics. The visuals in the game are beautiful, althought they are nothing compared 
 to Gears of War they do have their own little wow moments diffrent from Gears. For example the 
 explosians are 100x better than Gears of Wars will ever be, but then again, how bad could the graphics 
 even get when your surounded by snow 80% of the game. But with that said the graphics and visuals 
 of the enemys and enviroments will not disappoint you in anyway.
  
  And now we move on the sound of the game, not much to say about it really. Nothing spectacular, 
 much like the graphics and gameplay of the game.
  
  Finally, for the moment you've all been waiting for..... the actual gameplay of this game. Like 
 I've stated before, there is really nothing spectacular or inivative about the gameplay at all. 
 The mechs' ( although very cool) bring nothing special to the gameplay, its all very dull and underwhelming, 
 its all just shoot, dodge, shoot. And when your out of the mech it feels like playing a free Xbox 
 Live arcade game would be better. The game takes little to no skill when played. You run and shoot 
 and even when you get shot, blown up with a freakin' rocket launcher your still A. O. K. You'll understand 
 later on in the game that the little machine on Waynes arm is the main reason he can take all those 
 hits, but when it comes down to it, it just doesn't make any sense. In one cutscene he gets shot 
 once and hes down, but meanwhile in-game you could get mode down by a steam roller and Wayne will 
 be alright ( doesn't really happen in the game but if it did you would probably survive.) So as 
 you could tell, the gameplay is really un-challenging and because of that the game gets really 
 repetative. And if you want to know, the multiplayer isn't much diffrent either......
  
  So their you have it folks. Lost Planet, a beautiful third-person shooter that's gameplay doesn't 
 quite live up to its visuals. If your still intrested after this review I would say rent it, but 
 its really nothing special.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theemptyquiver
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't entirely sold on Lost Planet, but I borrowed it from a friend when he was finished with 
 it. The game isn't incredibly hard, unless you play in the highest difficulty, nor is the game 
 incredibly long.
  The shining asset of this game is the battles and the graphics. Each boss battle takes a different 
 set of skill sets to work out, and makes each fight unique enough to keep the game from being too 
 monotanous. The game doesn't offer anything special in the ways of level design except that each 
 level is timed by the amount of thermal energy that you have keeping your body alive. None of the 
 levels provide anything challenging to get through and the character can handle a fairly large 
 amount of damage before giving up the ghost. I thought the game was worth playing through, but 
 it wasn't anything as special as it seemed from first glance. Play it and have fun and then find 
 something better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is alright. I love the whole killing aliens and things like that.
  
  Character moves really slowly didnt really like the Mech Vehicle thing that you get to drive around 
 in. But where i thought the game really blow it was the multiplayer.
  
  I think the multiplayer Online aspect of the game could have been so much better done. It looks 
 retarded when you play an online game and theres 15 other players jumping all over the screen. 
 Its weird... the aiming in this game is bad. And again the characters move so SLOW!!!!!!!!
  
  I lost intest in this game very VERY quickly... it is a must rent game first and if you enjoy 
 the game play which many people may then go out and get it but i dont think there is enough in 
 this game for replay value what so ever.
  
  I give this game a 7.5 out of 10 based on killing aliens which is awesome... the sounds in the 
 game are really nice guns and snow crunching and explosions and the visuals are great as well... 
 but the downfall was the controlls for me couldnt really get the hang of them and the multiplayer 
 was garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  While the campaign will take the average player 6-8 hours to finish, there is a decent multiplayer 
 component to try as well. It has you and 15 others fighting it out in standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, and territories. One mode, called fugitive, is the most entertaining as it has the 
 host trying to hide from and pick off all the others in the room. The multiplayer has it fun moments 
 and will supply some hours of entertainment, but there are other, better multiplayer shooters out 
 there. The controls take even more getting used to online since you? re fighting smarter opponents. 
 Expect to be killed a lot when you first start out.
  
  Lost Planet is a great action game because of its beautiful graphics and solid gameplay. It will 
 supply plenty of value for those willing to put the time into the multiplayer, but those just looking 
 for a great single-player experience wouldn? t go wrong checking out Lost Planet. It? s not a long 
 as we would have hoped, but for the time it lasts, it? s a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huntar12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet: Extreme condition is one of the best games the Xbox 360 has to offer. It offers intense 
 action 60 seconds a minute. sometimes it can be really hard and you'll probably die a couple of 
 times and throw things around but hey! nothings impossible just keep trying. Its kinda short but 
 its definitely worth playing. it has a really good ending and the last boss fight is cool
  
  good:
  fun game play
  thousands of weak aliens to kill (some of them aren't weak at all)
 
  nice graphics
  the ultimate last boss fight
  
  bad:
  sometimes really hard
  kinda bad storyline
  to short!
  
  i give it 8.5 because its a really good game but not perfect 
 but still a must in your Xbox 360 game collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition isn't about a compelling story that draws you in with every single 
 cutscene, it's not about inventive and a new way to play shooters. It's about shooting bugs, killing 
 dudes that are in your way and trying to survive in a wicked cold planet. That's enough for my 
 simple mind and I don't ask for anymore.
  
  Graphics: This was really the best quality of the whole game. The faces and characters all animate 
 well, and look detailed. They make the Akrid as cool as they sound they would be. And all the environments 
 (and smoke/fire, THEY ARE AWESOME!) is all very well-done and is nothing to complain about. 
  
  Gameplay: Nothing new. Nothing amazing. It just works well, and that's what you need for a 
 shooter. There's no taking cover like in Gears, but you also can't always stand out in the open 
 with a bunch of dudes around you. And trust me, in the later stages, dudes and bugs are everywhere! 
 Wayne (main guy and who you play as) moves a bit slow (even though he's pretty fast in the cutscenes 
 when he's running) and the target isn't in the middle, which isn't all that bad, but it's confusing 
 why they didn't just put it like any normal shooter does.
  
  Sound: The guns and explosions all sound great. The voice acting isn't something amazing, but it's 
 not terrible where you'll put music on to drown out the awfulness. It's not terrible and it's not 
 amazing. 
  
  Value: This doesn't have much replay value to it. You do get 4 difficulty levels to play on, but 
 it's nothing like a Gears of War where you can play it on the higher difficulties and it's actually 
 fun. I tried out Multiplayer for a bit, and it's actually pretty fun. Your character still moves 
 really slow which sucks when you're just starting out and all the masters of the game own you so 
 badly, but it's fun enough to have good multiplayer. Also, this campaign is pretty short with only 
 11 missions and I pretty much breezed through this game in about 7 hours. Nothing long at all, 
 but good enough for a rent.
  
  Overall, I give this game a rent. While it's not a buy for me, I still give it a really high score 
 because it's an extremely fun game while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  This was one of the 2 games i bought when i bought my 360 and its good at first when you see the 
 amazing graphics but it becomes anoying. I then stopped playing it quite quickly as there isnt 
 many check points and the missions can be quite long.
  
  I found story line good and quite in depth but lost interest half way through. I started playing 
 the game again after i started to complete the games in my stack of games. And then loved the game 
 more to the end of it but the majority of the game was dissapointing.
  
  The games graphics are very good and the characters look amazing. Also the xbox live part of this 
 game is very entertaining and i find is much better than the single player part of the game.
  
  I would buy this game for a challenge if your finding your games to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a fictional game that is awsome. Lost Planets main story is about how you have to 
 stop this company named nevec from exterminating the human race on this lost planet . the main 
 characters name is wayne. In the story mode you are able to use VS technology which are suits built 
 of metal and they have guns massive guns. the missions are about to 25-40 minutes long and their 
 only 11 of them. so the game is short. the online mode on the other hand is basic and its nothing 
 big. Some modes are team elimination, elimination post grab, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Capcom's Lost Planet is a amazing action game . You play as Wayne who's father got killed and he 
 has to avenge his death . The story takes place in imaginary ice covered planet called EDN - III 
 . The planet is inhabited by tons alien bugs called Akrids , and here humans are trying to set 
 up thier colonisation .Wayne has been left for dead after his father got killed , but finds himself 
 revived by good characters after a long time .Now he has to destroy whoever or watever was responsible 
 for his fathers death . The Akrids themselves pose a great threat to humans in EDN III and for 
 starters Wayne has to defeat tons of different kinds Akrids and Akrid Bosses . Humans working for 
 a Scientific Facility called NEVEC are threats too to Wayne . Wayne gets to controll different 
 kinds of futuristic heavily armoured mechs called VS to eliminate his enemies . His health is restored 
 by a thermal energy which is found in Akrids bodies called T-ENG . The mechs are very superior 
 and carries array of arsenals . Wayne himself gets to use tons of futuristic weapons too . The 
 boss Akrids are very huge in size and wayne has to defeat them one by one . In the game you get 
 many boss fights .Plus you have to kill hordes of colossal akrids , enemy humans , enemy mechs 
 to survive . In the game pretty much everything is destructible . You get high voltage action in 
 the game .
  
  The game has superb graphics / visuals . AI is smart .Soundquality fine .The voiceacting , storyline 
 , character presentation , cutscenes in the game is excellent .Sets and settings of the environment 
 in the game rocks. Overall single player gameplay is short tho , but exciting at every step . The 
 Game has got good multiplayer too. You get intense 16 player multiplayer action . I recommend this 
 game highly to Xbox 360 and P. C action lovers .This is a must play for action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madman10
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, but like a lot of other good games it has a few problems. When I first 
 heard of this game I thought another mech game I don't know what the big deal is so I guess I can 
 give it a try. I expected the mechs to be slow and clunky but really the only model I have to complain 
 about is the one on the first mission (not the intro mission.) All the other mechs have different 
 capabilities and special actions and running speeds (most of which are faster than the first model.) 
 The weapons look and sound very nice. Explosions look great and sound powerful. The downside to 
 this game however is mostly the story. To be honest I had a very hard time keeping up with it, 
 like a scatterbrained person thought it up, the events are all disorganized and sometimes, just 
 doesn't make any sense, and also the story doesn't give you any motivation and half the time you 
 don't even know why your doing what your doing. Besides the story there are only a few minor annoyances 
 such as the character stops running when switching weapons or throwing grenades. Also the enemy 
 A. I. isn't that great I've had many experiences where I was shooting an enemy that was trying to 
 get to me while I was in a small tunnel and the enemy (because of his size) could not fit, yet 
 he kept trying until he died. On another note the single player is very short only 11 missions 
 long, I have had a chance to check the multiplayer yet. All and all the game is very action pacted 
 and one that isn't as difficult as some claim it to be. I have when through on normal on only instinct, 
 there was no strategic thinking involved. It was my first try with the game and my only real difficulty 
 was the last boss, but a few tries and I cast him aside. After that I began to experiment with 
 the game a bit and found out how many elements there where that could be used in a strategic point 
 of view such as the common weakness most of the mechs share and can be exploited to stun or destroy 
 it a lot faster, even with the standard weapon the machine gun. A game that is definately worth 
 looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a great game but has it ups and downs. The story is very confusing. I've beat the 
 game at least 2 or 3 times and I still don't get it. On a plus side the bosses are a great challenge 
 on extreme difficulty. I like that they put a bunch of enemies at you and the levels are long. 
 The nice added feature is that you can use mechs called VS to destory the bosses and enemies that 
 come at your way. Other than the story mode the Xbox live multiplayer is great. The battles are 
 intense and they have a great level system that at the end of a ranked match they give you points 
 that goes to your level and it goes up like on rainbow six vegas but you have ranks on rainbow. 
 You can also use VS on Xbox live multiplayer. You could make a player match with your friends and 
 have VS battles with your friends. I think this game is a must buy. I wonder if they do how is 
 Lost planet 2 going to be like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgplaya
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, good graphics, good story, good sound effects, (kinda) good music, just average 
 gameplay.
  
  You play as a amnesic guy named Wayne, and picks up his memory the more you play the game. You 
 are on a snow covered planet E. D. N III infested with a alien type creature named the Akrid. And 
 you have to save the planet.
  
  Everything looks very realistic. The snow moves around like it should. It makes you feel like you 
 really on a snow covered planet. Everyone also looks very realistic. The characters are very detailed. 
 And the environments are very alive.
  
  The sounds are very realistic. It really sounds as if your shooting a machine gun. It also really 
 sound like an alien was screaming at your face. It'll be really be worth your money.
  
  The only lacking thing. Gameplay. Running around the snow is kinda slow, even with a VS is just 
 slow. I mean, some innovative things like hangin' and climin' a wall with a rope attached to a 
 gun. But sometime (most of the time in multiplayer) , you just don't feel as if your gun is actually 
 damaging a player/Akrid. And it's just not for everybody. This game is good. But just not for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Lost Planet? It is different. Before I even started playing it, I knew it 
 was going to be a breath of fresh air for the third-person shooter genre. While Lost Planet is 
 a fairly conventional shooter, it has many small elements added in that, when all mixed together, 
 make it much better than the average shooter.
  
  To begin with, the first thing you notice about almost any game is the graphics. Lost Planet definitely 
 succeeds in this area. Its graphics are beautiful and full of lush environments. The game supports 
 HD up to 1080p if your TV supports that. The cut scenes are particularly nice, with highly detailed 
 characters and great voice acting. Particularly impressive are the explosion effects in the game. 
 I find myself shooting every barrel in the game just to see them explode. It is incredibly satisfying 
 to blow up a barrel right beside an enemy and see them be engulfed in a beautiful ball of flame. 
 The graphics sometimes take a small hit when they are many enemies on the screen all attacking 
 at once, but overall the frame-rate stays pretty solid throughout.
  
  The story in lost planet is incredibly confusing. I found myself skipping most of the cut scenes 
 because I couldnt follow anything, but basically, I think its about a really cold planet infested 
 with aliens known as Akrid. You play as Wayne, a guy enhanced with a robotic device that caused 
 him to lose his memory, out for revenge against the people who killed his father. Its basically 
 just an excuse to shoot a bunch of aliens and snow pirates. The characters in the game all have 
 distinct personalities and develop well throughout the game. Unfortunately, the games story mode 
 is pretty short. At only 11 missions, youll breeze through it in about 10-20 hours. Thankfully, 
 the game has enjoyable multiplayer that I will discuss more later.
  
  The combat in the game is non-stop and intense. You have the usual assortment of machine guns, 
 shotguns, sniper rifles, and rocket launchers, but you also get a couple of energy weapons and 
 plenty of grenades. This game takes a hint from Halo by having incredibly powerful grenades. You 
 can easily turn the tide of a fight with a couple of well-placed grenades. Or course, if you run 
 out of ammo (which is very unlikely) , you can smack a guy with your gun, with does a considerable 
 amount of damage.
  
  What really sets this game apart is VSs. A VS is a vital suit, which is a mech. I know what youre 
 thinking. Woohoo another Gundam rip-off (dripping with sarcasm) . But youre wrong mechs are great 
 in this game. Plus, it isnt one of those things where you are forced into a stupid mech sequence. 
 You almost always have the choice of getting in a mech or not. Sometimes it is a better choice 
 not to get into a VS. But usually it just comes down to personal preference. In the two or three 
 sequences when you have to be in a VS, youll be glad you have to. There are also many assortments 
 of VS. In the end sequence of Lost Planet you get an awesome VS for the final battle, but I want 
 spoil the surprise for you. You also have stationary turret-ish things that are pretty fun to use. 
 Thankfully, VSs dont overpower the game. If you hit a VS with a couple of rockets or a few headshots 
 from a plasma gun it will go down in a beautiful explosion. This makes staying on foot just as 
 viable a choice as getting into a VS. Unfortunately, your VSs sometimes feel a bit underpowered 
 against some enemies.
  
  The multiplayer in Lost Planet is fun and offers many different games modes, but just isnt as 
 fun as many games out there. It also only supports online play, but no split-screen, which is a 
 huge hit. But if you have Live it is still pretty fun.
  
  Lost Planet is a game that you can play for hours and you will still want to play it. Overall Lost 
 Planet is a game that has both an immersive storyline and is a great looking shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7X311
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a perfect blend of strategy and survival. The only thing that I didin't like was how 
 it was in 3rd person. I think if it was in 1st person it wouldv'e been better, but all in all it 
 is a great game. I think that a game that requires you to keep a certain amount of an orange substance 
 plus fighting humongous creatures is a good challenge. I would definitely recommend this game to 
 anyone that like a good shooter game. Screw you losers that said this was a crappy game who have 
 nothing better to do than complain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefal420
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  i played the game on hard and i don't think i died more then twice the whole game... it was a joke, 
 but when i tried the game over on extreme the bosses were just retarded... they throw so many akrid 
 at you that its impossible to even move i get knocked down and before i can get up i get hit again. 
 As soon as it loads me again a rock falls on my head and from there i just get gang banged by huge 
 bugs... maybe the programmers wont fail completely next time they try to make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  were should i begin, well lets start with the single-player.
  The cinematic cut scenes look amazing, the in-game graphics (game play generally) looks very solid 
 and sometimes stunning.
  The sounds and music works perfectly synchronized with the environments and situations planned 
 towards the script.
  The game play is very addictive and keeps you hooked especially when it comes to the multi-player 
 on X-BOX live.
  
  The multi-player is nice because you may use the huge environment as you're advantage.
  You may 
 use a VS robot machine, or you work as a solid snake kind of guy, so the use of a sniper rifle 
 is very handy. On-line you got a lot of huge maps, but when you're tired of the same old maps,
 
  you can always go to x-box live market-place were you may purchase 3 or 2 new maps for only 400 
 points.
  
  Conclusion: A Must Buy Game, the great single-player and flawless multi-player keeps you going. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I thought this can was gonna be wicked awesome, but when I got it, it's not as amazing as I thought. 
 Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad game, just not great. The single-player is fairly lengthy and 
 is pretty fun. The multi-player is pretty good too but the really annoying thing about it is that 
 if you're waiting for a match to start, the host quits a lot and than the match shuts down, that 
 gets annoying and has happened to me a lot. I think the main good graphical point of this game 
 is the smoke and fire effects. I heard they were good, but when I saw them I was amazed, way better 
 than I expected. I don't think this game is worth as much as what the price is now, but I don't 
 think it's that bad. If you like third person shooters, and like shooting giant bugs, you should 
 get this game. but I can especially recommend it if you have live gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. The campaign is best in store. Really fun, never gets boring. But the actual storyline 
 isn't very good. I couldn't really get into that part and was confusing to follow, there isn't 
 really much of one really. So you play as this guy who's dad dies and you try to kill the akrid, 
 snow pirates and the lava guys. Are you trying to get revenge or what are you trying to even do. 
 What are the snow pirates and why are you against them, why did the Earth freeze over and monsters 
 came out. The campaign is amazing and really fun. But the actual storyline it's self is not very 
 good.
  
  The multi-player is really fun. But the VS's (mechs) , really piss me off at times. And i hate how 
 when u get shot you cant move or pretty much can't defend yourself. If you host a match, I think 
 there should be an option for turning mechs off. Just like you turn friendly fire off. But what 
 I mainly hate is that it's too hard to level up from ranked matches. You can do wicked good throughout 
 a match and get tons of points towards your level by getting kills and capturing flags. But every 
 time you die it subtracts 860 points from your score. It sucks. But I still have fun playing this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanos3600
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  i got this game some days ago. i know its late but i wanted it so much and i couldnt afford it 
 before. i am telling u that this kind of games is what xbox needs. ok its not like gears of war 
 but it is still one f the best games of xbox. i played it just for 15 hoursd and realize that i 
 was going t play it for much more time. xbox live is excelent and the visuals even more better. dont 
 know wy some people the cutscenes i them. sound is nice bt not perfect. love the boss battles. 
 the bosses are realy big and excitingto fightwith so u finish a chapter and say t your friends 
 i killed a giant moth!!! enough said is up t u to choose if this game is good or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Lost Planet on the commercials, I was like I have to play that game and now that 
 I have it I am very pleased. The story tells the story of Wayne he's on the Lost Planet trying 
 to colonize it, but after the first level he gets amnesia and all he remembers is that his father 
 was killed by an Akrid called the green eye. The game plays really good giving you great combat 
 controls and mech controls. You're really slow, but that makes sense because you're just a guy 
 with a bunch of guns so yeah thats makes sense. The game looks really good great graphics through 
 out. It sounds good too, it has great music and good voice acting. It is worth it to go through 
 the missions again, multiplayer is good too. Anyway if you like shooters go play this game, because 
 this is a great game that makes third person shooters fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulo111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a fairly good game. The good:
  Good graphics
  Awesome monsters
  Good setting
  
  The bad:
  Normal enemies are too easy whilst bosses are extremely hard
 
  Storyline is strange
  Weird controls
  
  The graphics for this game are good, but that isn't much of a challenge when almost everything 
 is snow! The monsters are truly brilliant, the Akrid are varied and powerful in all their forms. 
 Its setting is somewhere that I have never seen a game be placed before; a snow covered world, 
 filled with monsters. The normal enemies are way too easy to kill and it will take you no time 
 at all to get past the majority of them. But, annoyingly, the bosses are extremely tough and appear 
 to do more damage to you whilst being able to take more as well. The controls take some getting 
 used to, especially the way the gun moves on its own and then your body follows it. All in all, 
 a good game, but it can be annoying. I would advise you to rent it or borrow it from a friend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piggyzpen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely epic - graphically stunning and seemed to get better and better as the 
 game went on - glad I played it thru to the end, worth every minute. Ya there was weapons and mechs 
 and monsters and blah blah - fun stuff. Storyline and voice scripting was very Japanese and that 
 is fine by me - nothing wrong with that. Around 11 levels and a boss fight at the end of each one 
 - hell i've been doing that since 8bit nintendo days - works for me!
  Cutscenes were long enough to go smoke get a drink and dive back in.
  
  I really disagree with 
 the reviewer here at Gamespot - If I recall Wayne didnt just wake up after 30 years and want to 
 go revenge his green eyed fathers death- (ya I knwo he didnt say that - but the story didnt go 
 like he reviewed either)
  There is a decent story, its japanese - not hollywood. I got into it - it was cool
  
  ITs just 
 as good as any other great game on the xbox - and then some!
  
  Id give it a 9.0 - but im putting 9.5 to make up for some of the shi@#y reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a game wher you can easily find yourself lost between the amazing graphics and awesome 
 gameplay. I longed to play this game and here it is on mpy shelve , and YES!! I'm spending great 
 time plying it on my Xbox360. Let's look at the most astonishing aspects of this game:
  
  Graphics: I'd rather say nothing here because no matter how much I say I know I won't be able to 
 describe the marvelous graphics that this game could pull together. however, the strongest point 
 in Lost planet is SNOW! and when I say snow I mean real and authentic snow ... anyways, the graphics 
 are top notch.
  
  Gameplay: tow words: addictive and fun; I kept playing this game for hours and still could not 
 get enough especially with the available bunch of weapons and grenades .. and ... Robots of different 
 sizes and kinds that you can use to tear apart anything that moves. In addition to the variety 
 of boss fights that you can replay several time and believe me, it never gets old. Sound: strong 
 dialogues, immmersive gunfire and explosion sounds as well as the sweet sounds that you get to 
 hear when using a Mec or reloading a weapon.
  
  The only thing I found frustrating about this game is that fact that you can find yourself ina 
 tricky situation when there are tones of enemies around, the camera sometimes fails you and whenever 
 you attempt to get up you get knocked down by another enemy; which can be frustrating but doesn't 
 spoil the fun in any case. well, I can hardly think that this game won't appeal to any kind of 
 gamers because it has the sort of fun that suits anyone who plays videogames... I personally find 
 lost planet an amazing game that can fill up hours of fun and excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The world is covered in snow so at first you might think its not fun because oh great 
 everything is in snow What Difference in environments this game will have. But thats not so you 
 actually go alot of different areas in the game. The Single player Is only 11 missions long with 
 a storyline thats not even worth mentioning, but thats not what makes this game great its the online 
 that makes me keep crawling back. 16 players online, You can level up be keep doing matches unlocking 
 new costumes, Updates all the time including new maps. On the downside if you don't have access 
 to Xbox Live this game is worth a rental for single player. Also if you just ran out of your gold 
 XBL account and you want to play online for a bit every copy comes with a 48 hour Gold access just 
 for Lost Planet online (you dont get all the Gold Features) . The major feature about this game that 
 is different is the use of T-Energy (or Thermal Energy for the ones who don't know) you have to 
 watch that the most in single player because once those numbers hit Zero you will start to loose 
 health you get more T-Energy by killing the Akraid (monsters) , taking Data posts (which also give 
 access to a radar) , or killing other Snow pirates. In multiplayer you don't have to really worry 
 about this because once T-energy hits Zero your health does NOT start to decrease. In online its 
 used to get in VS's (Vital Suits or giant pilot able mechs) . Or some of the energy based weapons. There 
 are also T-energy pools online that all you have to do is stand in them and it recovers your T 
 energy. Gameplay 10
  
  Graphics- Are superb its not necessarily the character animation and graphics that are great (although 
 they are well done) its the environment that makes it look awesome. All the snow in the game looks 
 real, and the places that have Lava or Water aren't slouches either. When you first play this you 
 will be like you have entered this chilling world. Graphics 10.
  
  Sound- Much more to be desired. The soundtrack in single player is O. K. Music is kinda bland though 
 and since there is no music online until the last minute of the match its basically non existant. 
 So a 6 for could be better
  
  Value- Gold (a 9) for awesome
  
  Tilt- Awesome game, With online and collecting all of the medals in single player stages will keep 
 you coming back. Tilt 10.
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacejake
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the trailers for this game I though... oh man I am definitely going to buy this game 
 when it comes out. And when the day finally came I locked myself in my room with a twelve pack 
 of coke and enough hot pockets to survive the a winter storm. But by the next morning I was kind 
 of perplexed by what I just played. Don't get me wrong the graphics were awesome, the weapons and 
 vehicles are pretty fun to use but when I finished, I was left with a weird taste in my mouth. 
 For example, the plot was non-existent which doesn't mean much but for some games, but for this 
 type of game you would expect somewhat of a story line. And the concept of having to keep your 
 thermal pack refilled didn't make it better. In fact I found it somewhat annoying. But that is 
 where my dilemma begins, although I thought the game play was kind of dry and not really all that 
 innovative it was a pretty good looking game. And if you care for any type of co-player game... good 
 luck because this game does not have it. So if your more of a gamer whose into pretty pictures 
 then this is the game that's totally for you. But if you care for somewhat of a plot and a multi-player 
 function, this game will not suite your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid45
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and great gameplay. The single player is short but very fun. But the 
 multiplayer will keep you entertained after you completed the single player. The game has a wide 
 variety of levels and weapons for the multiplayer and you can double the fun with friends. The 
 controls may seem weird at firsst but once you play the game a little more you will get used to 
 them. the sounds and explosions are awesome but it can cause a little frustration ( you cant see 
 through smoke) and if your looking for a easy game or hard game or really hard game then get this 
 since the four difficulty levels range from easy to very hard. So in the end lost planet is a great 
 game that a lot of people should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Basically, another humans vs. aliens shooter. It has a pretty good pace to it, and the levels/missions 
 pretty much consist of the same thing: run through some snow or buildings, blow up a bunch of bad 
 guys, then fight a boss. In that regard, it's very typical of most action games. It does have 2 
 very strong points going for it, one is this sort of grappling hook that you can fire to pull yourself 
 up onto ledges and things like that. The other is that it has one of the best boss combat sequences 
 i've ever experienced. For those of you who have played Star Fox, the boss sequences are somewhat 
 like that, in that you can't usually just blast away at a boss randomly until it blows up or keels 
 over dead. You have to target specific spots (which in this game tend to glow a bit so its not 
 too hard to figure out) to hurt the boss and move on to the next level. Another unique feature 
 is the way in which your character's health is managed. You have an energy bar, which gradually 
 depletes as you move through the level. Killing things or blowing up certain objects leave behind 
 litle energy orbs, which replenish your health. Adding to the variety is the fact that you can 
 jump into these robot combat suits, kind of like a mechwarrior type thing or something like that. 
 these will be crucial in some parts of the game, especially the bosses, where just standing there 
 with a rifle or whatever won't get it done. there are also different types of these machines, which 
 adds a little variety to the game. Also, you won't always be fighting aliens (most of which resemble 
 some manner of overgrown insect) , there are human villains as well.
  
  Anybody that genuinely enjoys blowing up lots of stuff, killing aliens, and the like should check 
 this game out. It's not CONSTANT mindless mayhem, there are a few challenges that are platformer-esque 
 in that you might have to run, figure out how to get up to an outcropping or ledge, or something 
 like that. But, for the most part, it consists of you shooting at stuff, so if you like action 
 and/or shooters, you probably won't be disappointed. I WILL say however, that from my experience, 
 my inclination leans more towards a rental than a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Ive only just got this game after so long after its release and all i can say is. 'Oh my god!' 
 The atmosphere, explosions and general chaos that ensues in this game is the best ive ever seen. 
 there is barely any slow down and the animations of the mechs, aliens is absolutely flawless really. 
 All i can say is if you are thinking of getting this game, dont think any longer and get it as 
 the experience is great. Like i said its pure chaos when your fighting. The online is still pretty 
 strong, ive played 4 games since I got it this morning. I cant really go into too much detail about 
 the game as ive only just got it, this review comes as a first impression blast. The GS review 
 is a bit unfair really and makes the game seem a bit lame. If your sick of gears, halo, cod and 
 any of those other shooters this offers something a little fresh. Go play it. Its ace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PluG-
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I am very disappointed in the game. After seeing all the commercials for it, i was excited to play 
 it. But the game is so boring. I beat the first five levels, then mailed it back to gamefly. The 
 graphics are ok, the gameplay sucks, and the cutscenes are dumb. In most levels you can ignore 
 the bad guys and just run all the way through, makes it too easy. From what I saw, the story line 
 was dumb. And the voice acting was terrible. I did not play the multiplayer because I hated the 
 singleplayer so much. Oh, if you are in an area where the bad guys have a lot of rocket launchers, 
 you are screwed. By the time the cloud of smoke disappears, allowing you to see again, there is 
 already another rocket in the air. That quickly gets extremely frustrating.
  
  There are much better games out there, do not waste your time with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxf-Kicker
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  The game is so bad, that after i played it for like 20 minutes i wanted to take the CD, and throw 
 it out from the highest building in the world. The game is really bad, and the grapich is ugly. 
 Gameplay is borring, history is like the same.. Kill some orbes, and then kill a boss. I know im 
 a little bit hard, but with a really borring history and a **** multiplayer mode, the game hit 
 the bottom and for god sake stay at the bottom!
  
  And whats wrong with the 3rd person view? Everything! Its annyoing and confusing, running around 
 like an idiot, because the camera view sucks.
  The game is really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link12394
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, the graphics are great, you have a spectacular background wherever you go! 
 Plus lots of things too shoot at. You never run out of guys to shoot. Online is fun and expands 
 gameplay time, But HOLY CRAP why is the single player campaign so SHORT! took me like 5 hours to 
 beat (two days!!!!) i would say this game is worth the money but if you dont play online expect 
 to get tired of this game in a week... after you beat it 3 times. Plust the boss fights are spectacular 
 and can sometimes be quite challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAPMONGROL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Most people will say this game isn't that great. I've played all the other popular online games 
 for the 360, and none of them match up to this. Alot of people will say the online sucks. I would 
 hate it to if I continually got killed over and over, and never understood why. The online requires 
 alot of skill, and once you figure out the tricks, become a good team player, this game will be 
 a blast. This game has the best graphics I've ever seen, and most detailed charecters ever. The 
 online features, to me some of the best online maps ever made, and you can always change your multiplayer 
 experience, by changing the maps layout, and sometimes weather. Usually it sounds like a real war 
 as well. Usually theres about 20 explosions going off, and hundreds of bullets being fired, and 
 there are no online glithces, and usually no lag. No host advantage either. Underated game, personally 
 i think it's much better than Gears of War, or Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buff_nerd12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  lol gears of war, rainbow six, fear! Those games are nothing compared to lost planet, if you want 
 a fast paced thrilling third person shooter then look for lost planet! Positive: splendid graphics, 
 thrilling gameplay and adrenaline spiking sounds! Negative: a few annoying bosses, a bit short 
 for $60. there you have it, this game is simply a must have for all shooter fans! dont waste your 
 money on a game you may regret and get what you know is good! screw flanders screw flanders screw 
 flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders 
 screw flanders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  YAYS
  SUPERB boss battles; amazing graphics and lighting; interesting enemies and weapon variety; large, 
 complex and varied levels; very good blend of mech and run-and-shoot sequences; trying to stay 
 warm adds a good deal of tactics...
  
  NAYS
  ... but also lets you miss out on other things; good story but no good character development; controls 
 initially take a lot to get used to; could be slightly longer
  
  Lost Planet is a unique game, in that although the themes it covers have been dealt with in other 
 games and movies, the execution is a great blend of different genres and is incredibly fun that 
 keeps you wanting more.
  
  The story has a very simple and typical man colonized other planet but are now facing trouble theme. 
 You star as Wayne, referred to as a snow pirate, who lost his father in an awesome (and playable) 
 fight against a giant bug called Green Eye, and wakes up some time later after being rescued, but 
 unfortunately has amnesia. With only some clues, cool weapons, and a zest for killing aliens, you 
 set off on a journey to uncover what happened to Wayne's father and to see what is the Frontier 
 Project is about.
  
  The story gets interesting and gives you some purpose to navigate through the levels, but it isn't 
 entirely engaging and is very typical. The characters don't necessarily develop any emotional connection 
 with you, but as a plus they are very likeable and not annoying at all, so they'd give you good 
 company. Story elements are dispersed in between levels, and provide a very good break from all 
 the action. They're well choreographed and are pretty lengthy and flashy. Skipping them is only 
 slightly detrimental to the experience but there's been an effort into making the scenes so why 
 not watch them.
  
  When you're not watching and hearing the story unfold, you'd be doing lots of intense fighting, 
 which is the meat of the game. As Wayne, you have a good variety of weapons at your disposal, like 
 a machine gun, shot gun, rifle, laser rifle, rocket launcher and several types of grenades. You 
 can carry only two hand weapons and one type of grenade at a time though, so you'd have to be picky 
 with what you choose. Typically, the machine gun works perfectly as a main weapon - but it is the 
 secondary weapon you'd worry about. Should you take a shotgun for the up-close combat with the 
 huge bugs? Or the rocket launcher - you never know when mechs decide to show up. Thankfully though, 
 in a given area, there is usually a good variety of weapons so it only requires that you run up 
 to the weapon you want a switch. This of course wastes time and thermal energy but I will get to 
 that later.
  
  When you're not traveling and fighting on foot, you can opt to mount one of the wonderfully designed 
 and varied mechs that are lying about. Each mech has its own health bar, and, when it depletes, 
 it becomes unusable and typically explodes, so you need to get out of it soon. Being in a mech 
 has great advantages and some disadvantages. The advantages of course is that the mech weapons 
 are much more powerful and devastating, you can take much more damage, you have access to inaccessible 
 areas (depending on the mech's abilities) , and you can easily bring down bosses and other mechs. 
 The downside is that of course they're too bulky and trickier to move around, and you'd waste a 
 lot of ammo to kill a human soldier, and of course the thermal energy depletes much faster. Being 
 in a mech is always cool but sometimes not practical. Thankfully though they are always lying around 
 in strategic places should you wish to ride one.
  
  I've been talking about thermal energy a lot but now it is time to explain. Being on a frozen planet, 
 you need heat to stay alive, and this is thermal energy. The thermal energy is always depleting, 
 and when it reaches zero, your health bar gradually decreases until you freeze to death. You can 
 easily increase your thermal energy by collecting thermal orbs that drop down from fallen enemies. 
 There are also other thermal outlets, like thermal posts, exploded mechs and a large array of destructible 
 objects in the environment - anything from cars to tanks to containers. Usually you'd not worry 
 too much about thermal energy, but it does psychologically limit you from exploring the environment 
 well for secrets, because you don't know how long it will take you to scavenge every inch and you 
 won't know when you will get a good dose of thermal energy next. In boss fights, it provides a 
 sense of urgency because not only do you have to worry about your health (mech or yours) but you 
 also need to worry about killing the beast before your thermal energy runs out. There are check 
 points of course, but starting off a boss fight with an already low thermal energy can make a typically 
 easy boss unusually difficult.
  
  All of this goodness is presented to you in a great graphical delight. The lighting is amazing 
 and realistically bounces of all the snow and buildings. It is highly dynamic, and so are all the 
 other special effects as well. The beasts and mechs are all well detailed, varied and animate beautifully 
 without any hint of slowdown (with negligible exceptions) . The bosses are over the top and frantic 
 and put up a lot of challenge and fun. The music is really good, not great, but it never feels 
 out of place or too cheesy or too archaic. It is just right.
  
  The single player campaign is made up of 11 missions, which take you an average of an hour to complete, 
 so you'd get as many hours of gameplay. The game is highly replayable though, so it will be good 
 to have a second run through on higher difficulty settings and try to get all the secrets for extra 
 achievement points.
  
  Lost Planet does a good job in combining several elements from different genres and games to create 
 an original and fun game that should definitely be in your collection, if not for its novelty, 
 but for its unique atmosphere and fun gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  When lost planet came as a demo, it was really fun and promising.
  The final game however just makes you wonder, why did i think it was fun a while ago? 
  
  Seriously, 
 lost planet really has a lot of good qualities to it, but also it has many major flaws.
  
  Lost planet has a story, but the story is so confusing and uninteresting that i really didnt bother 
 to remember it and tell you it in this review. All i can say is that you start off fighting roly 
 poly monster bugs with your father and a couple of comrades. Then this giant monster called green 
 eye comes and freezes everything. The story breaks apart from there.
  
  Lost planet is basically just a shooter with mechs and some platforming qualities.
  
  You have 
 many weapons that are really unnecessary. There are machine guns, rocket launchers, shot guns, 
 and these mech weapons that you can carry, except all of these weapons do the same thing. Not literally 
 though, its just that there is no certain weapon that makes you say to yourself okay, im in this 
 level, i need to use this weapon now. 
  All the weapons just shoot and kill, some might kill in a much more fancier way but it gets pretty 
 boring and the laser weapons do get pretty tedious to use.
  
  Lost planet has a strange heat meter that shows how much heat you have left. this is a really annoying 
 and unnecessary gameplay gimmick because it is really tedious to have to find some when you need 
 some and most of the time you have enough of the energy to not even care about it. The only times 
 you would care is when you are almost out of it..... and that part is annoying. one thing thats 
 pretty funny is when you destroy heat filled containers, you get heat power, yet when your in the 
 level where you are in the planets core thats filled with rivers of lava, you dont get any heat.......
 
  
  Lost planets shooting action is really pale when you are on foot because shooting soldiers is really 
 boring. Your enemies are really stupid and they have stupid physics. human enemies are really boring 
 to fight because your weapons dont seem to affect them in the right way. (you could shoot a guy 
 with a shotgun and then he flies away, you think hes dead but then he gets up, its pretty confusing)
 
  
  Shooting action with the akrid (the giant bugs) is actually pretty fun because they explode and 
 they seem to act right with their AI. The wierd flying akrid that overpopulate the sky are probably 
 the worst enemies in the game because they always get in the way, having a rocket launcher when 
 these guys are around is headache inducing.
  
  Fighting bosses in lost planet is pretty intense and some of them are fun to play, but most of 
 them are fought in the same way as every other boss and it kinda just gets boring. The cool this 
 is is that the bosses look really cool, and the cinematice of some of the boss fights are really 
 amazing.
  
  The flaw with on foot action is that things are pretty clunky. the camera follows your aim, and 
 turning around can be a pain. There are buttons that let your camera shift left and right but its 
 pretty hard to get used to and you'll find yourself just guiding the camera.
  The grappling hook is okay but it makes you wonder why it just can be used when you are jumping 
 so you can act like spider man.
  Getting tumbled by an explosion or a charging enemy is really stupid because you have to go through 
 a 6 second scene of your character stumbling and getting up, only for it to happen again.
  
  The cool thing about lost planet is the mechs. There are over 20 mechs in the game, some of 
 them are redundant but a lot of them seem really cool.
  
  Some have special abilites like a saw for meeleing, and some might have and glider, some might 
 have boost jumps etc. A lot of the mechs however are only used in certain levels, and the coolest 
 mech can only be used at the end, and it rapes!
  
  Lost planet really doesnt have much depth to it. Its sad to see such a beautiful game with amazing 
 graphics, amazing boss battles, and great mechs, has nothing to it.
  
  The game is very linear, and there are no side quests besides the find these tokens which is boring 
 and pointless unless you want the achievement. the story is terrible and the acting is pretty straightforward. 
 The characters arent lovable or memorable. This multiplayer in this game is cool but has many problems. 
 The game is glitchy and the mechs arent balanced. Its actually not that fun to try and find a game, 
 and once your in it, it just gets buggy.
  
  This game is only looks...........
  try it out, but your not gonna remember this game anytime in future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juventus_10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a great 3rd person action shooter which gets everything done right. The game play 
 is awesome and involves fighting against large insect type aliens, other humanoids, and futuristic 
 mechs. You have the standard arsenal of weaponry ranging from machineguns, missile launchers, lasers 
 etc. The great thing is that all of the weapons are equally useful when used in the right situations 
 and actually need to be used to play effectively. Lasers are great against weak enemies because 
 they are heat seeking, machineguns work well if you need good flexibility and speed, plasma guns 
 work great against machines. Also, thrown into the mix is a grappling hook which can be used to 
 quickly ascend onto a ledge for a better vantage point, or to get out of harms way. When the aliens 
 are too big and scary to fight by yourself you can get into a one of many mechs to level the playing 
 field. Mechs have heavy firepower and armour and each type has its own special abilities. The standard 
 mech has a good jetpack, the tank mech has a devastating drill, another type can transform into 
 a super fast motorbike, and the ultimate mech has swords. There are cut scenes between the levels 
 and from a presentation point of view they are high quality. Unfortunately, they are a bit boring 
 and I wanted to just get right back into the action. The graphics are wicked because they have 
 that beautiful mix between detailed realism and aesthetics. The snowy wastes of a distant planet 
 and hideousness of freak scorpion aliens come to life with great texture mapping, animation, colours, 
 special effects and lighting. The sound is pretty descent and accurately reflects what it is supposed 
 to represent, the music fits the action, the voice acting is professional, but nothing here stands 
 out as great. The game should take around 10 hours to beat, however it packs enough punch to merit 
 another go at a harder difficulty setting. There are hidden medals in each level to collect which 
 unlock achievements and all the standard online play modes such as death match. The game really 
 creates a great atmosphere of fighting aliens/mechs on a lost snowy planet and is loaded with excitement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delongman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Bugs, explosions, Ice Age!!! This game has got it all! I just love the way things go boom!!! The 
 greatest parts of this game must be the ones when you're in the different mechs! The gameplay is 
 quite cool but Wayne is a bit too slow. The boss fights are a bit hard and very frustrating at 
 some point... but you feel really satisfied when you're done with each one!!! One annoying thing 
 is the way the game saves! Geez if you stop playing for any reason just before the next waypoint 
 you'll have to start from the previous one! But anyways that's just a little flaw.
  
  The multiplayer is really cool and challenging! Nothing is really spectacular about this game but 
 the innovation with mechs is quite spectacular! It's worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  some people may think differently but this game is great!
  
  well there's a complex story but if you understand it somewhat satisfying,
  graphics are amazing 
 if you can tell from the screen shots.
  game play is great since you get a grappling hook you can use it to get to the top of the map and 
 snipe people or if outnumbered quickly escape to the rooftops and big ass mechs to crash around 
 in which mixes the gameplay in a good way sounds are good and clear akrid (monster) sounds are so 
 realistic good vice acting.
  a solid 11 levels which should take a while after that there's a 16-multiplayer online mode
  
 
  
  
  base line
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  good: nice grahics, nice mix of gameplay, a soild 11 levels, good voice acting, online mutil player 
 is sweet, really really complex story good if understood, online custmaztion
  
  bad: really really complex story point less if not understood, match making can take a while, sometimes 
 freezes it pisses you off!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa86
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Where to start? This game has so many flaws. What a waste of 60 dollars.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is ok.... for campaign. Online is a horrible mess. People lag and they are 
 there one minute and the next they are gone. I shot a guy four times close range with a shotgun 
 and he didnt die. He turned around and shot me once and i died. PLUS when you shoot someone with 
 a shotgun and they fall on the ground you cant shoot them while they are on the ground. That is 
 so stupid.
  
  Graphics- Nothing that will blow you away but the graphics are good.
  
  Sound - Ok I guess
  
  Value- Buy it if you like it. But if you are looking for a good shooter... STAY 
 AWAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was horrible. The controls for the controller were hard and dumb and the difficulty of 
 this is unbearable. I got hit down in a mech suit and the stupid enemy did a chain of combos for 
 which I got back up fifteen seconds later with 10% of my health remaining. The game gets repetative 
 as you are always fighting the same beasts. The game always says beat the worm or beat the moth, 
 but the moth and worm are always hiding and come out when you don't want them. This game is so 
 boring in story mode because there is basically no story to it. It is just a compilation of 11 
 missions where you basically do nothing all the time but run around looking for thermal energy. 
 Speaking of thermal energy, you have to constantly find thermal energy or you will die. This is 
 hard when you fight a boss in a mech because you have to watch your thermal energy and your mech 
 suit health. explosions always happen and they take out a load of thermal energy from your body 
 which means your energy is constantly depleteing as you get attacked. This thing will drive you 
 crazy. The other bad thing is the online play. DISAPPOINTING!!! There is basically nothing to do 
 and the deathmatch mode gets on my nerves. Your enemy can camp your spawn in a giant robot suit 
 and kill anyone that comes back after getting killed. This always happens and that takes the fun 
 out of the game... if the game was ever fun. Get Gears of War and if you have it already, I heard 
 there is a new game out called The Darkness. I wouldn't go wrong with that one either. Just hate 
 this game. This game was not as good as the previews claimed it to be. Big step down for Capcom 
 creator of Zombie horror and survival. Stick to zombies Capcom!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azupanda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I started my first game on Xbox Live or from the moment I started to play single 
 player. I was overwhelmed with how great this game really looks. Though it lacks a little because 
 most of it is in snow, however the snow looks pretty. The snow effects are spectacular leaving 
 footprints in the ground, snow blowing on you screen, or diving around and then standing only to 
 see that the snow is stuck on your body until you go inside where it is warm and it melts. After 
 getting in my first mech. or VS I blew u another mech, and my jaw just dropped. The explosions 
 have to be the best of anything I've ever seen. It looks so cool when you are online and there 
 are constant explosions going off, it's almost blinding.
  
  Other neat little things this game has is when you look at the sun and look back down it is very 
 hard to see! It's kind of annoying at first because when you have to grapple up somewhere sometimes 
 you just look at it on accident, but if you think about it, it's a really cool feature that lots 
 of games lack.
  
  The Acrid or the monsters that you are fighting even look great. The bosses look creepy scary and 
 the little monsters looks awesome as well. This game just looks amazing on an HDTV.
  
  The Bad:
  There are minor flaws to the game-play that aren't to big but could piss off most gamers 
 who can't just have a good time. One thing is, when you are getting shot at, it's hard to move. 
 Also, when you get shot it tends to stop your shooting so you have to constantly be running, diving, 
 crouching, etc to avoid bullets. Another minor flaw is if you got knocked on the ground, you can't 
 get hit. Awesome for you, yes, but if you knocked a guy down and wanted to finish him, you'd have 
 to wait till he gets back up. Spawn camping with mechs is another thing people enjoy doing. Even 
 though you have a shield for a few seconds when you spawn, the mechs just keep shooting and eventually 
 kill you. The final flaw to the game is that if you shoot a rocket and it hits the wall behind 
 or the ground right next to a person they sometimes don't die. However, a patch is coming out to 
 fix a few minor things. Some could say that the controls are clunky but after you played a game 
 or two, like most games they will seem perfect. Not much of a problem, but people complain about 
 everything these days.
  
  The Good:
  Now that I told you the negative part about the game, time to hit you guys up with what makes this 
 game one of my favorite Xbox 360 titles. First and foremost are the weapons. They are just awesome. 
 There are your simple guns like a machine gun, a rifle, a shotgun, etc. Then there are your futuristic 
 weapons like homing lazers (which can be dodged by diving or hiding) , and mechs. Oh, did I mention 
 that you could walk up to a mech that isn't being manned and take off its gun. Yup, you can take 
 a shotgun, a gattling gun, and a rocket launcher, off a mech and run around with it to kill the 
 other team or other players. The reload button is also great. You reload by clicking in the right 
 thumbstick, seems odd, but when your running and looking around it works out that you never have 
 to take your thumb off the sticks.
  
  The grenades are also pretty sweet. Even though you can only one type of grenade at once, that's 
 all you need. There are two grenades that can stick onto people. There's the Gum Grenade that can 
 stick to people and walls but can't be thrown that far, then there is the Disc Grenade or as I 
 call it the Frisbee grenade. This grenade can be thrown across the map and can stick to people. 
 There is also a regular Frag Grenade and a Plasma Grenade . The plasma grenade stuns opponents 
 and mechs temporarily allowing you to unload on them. Last but not least there is the Dummy Grenade 
 . When this is thrown, it pretty much makes a cheap imitation of you that doesn't look even close 
 to what you look like. It also floats. However, it is super powerful and if you shoot it, it will 
 explode. It's probably my favorite grenade because you can throw it at the stop of stairs so it 
 floats and gets stuck on something. Then when someone runs by you shoot it and explode the person. 
 Resulting in a death for them, but a kill for you.
  
  Grenades are very helpful (try to have them on you at all times) because any grenade can be shot 
 to have it explode. So watch out when your throwing a grenade that it doesn't explode in your face.
 
  
  You can also pilot many mechs online. One of my favorite mechs is the one that has chainsaw attached 
 to it. You can press the X button to use it or hold it to keep it out. If you ever find yourself 
 going up against another mech and your in the one with the chainsaw, here's a tip on taking it 
 down. Press and hold the Y button, this enables a dash/slide that allows you to get behind your 
 opponent. Next, press and hold X to chainsaw him or her in the back.
  
  Online is also similar to an RPG. As you win or lose you gain experience points that go towards 
 your online level. The points system is based on how good you do, not your team. You could lose 
 and have 8 kills and 2 deaths and still get a good 3000 experience. Unlike Halo where if good, 
 but your team still loses, you have to suffer. As you level up, you gain new character models to 
 play as and you also gain new patterns for them to wear online. The max level for online is level 
 99, I've seen countless players at that level so it is actually attainable. An easy way to gain 
 levels is to just host a ranked Fugitive match and have a friend join. Then kill him and grab a 
 post to get a nice 4000 experience. Then have him host and kill you. If the fugitive wins, he gains 
 lots of points. It takes about a minute to do if you are on Pirate Fortress and have the starting 
 weapon as the Rifle .
  
  There are multiple game types to play. There is Fugitive which is one guy (the host) has to survive 
 against a bunch of other players. There's also Post Grab which is similar to Halo's territories. 
 The game also includes Elimination and Team Elimination . Another cool feature about online is 
 you can join ranked games with your friends, or host ranked games and have your friends join. While 
 they won't be able to receive an invite, they can still search for your game in the list of lobbies.
 
  
  Overall new players might be put off if they lose their first couple of games, but once you start 
 getting a hang of it and learning new strategies the game is a blast to play with solid controls 
 and enough online game types and features to please anyone.
  
  Lost Planet has a fantastic soundtrack. To me, it sounds similar to the Batman Begins soundtrack. 
 Nothing is better then running in the middle of plain of snow and all of a sudden a Giant Worm 
 Acrid comes out of the ground and the panic music starts. The music fits perfectly for the game 
 and is probably one of my favorite soundtracks to any game.
  
  Some guns sound kind of weird but nothing to drastic. Firing the mech shotgun makes me laugh because 
 of the noise it makes. But if you think about it, that's the type of noise it should make. If you 
 want a good laugh, shoot your grappling good X a bunch of times in a row. The explosions on the 
 other hand sound sweet. There is nothing better then drying to escape from someone in a mech and 
 you hear the explosions happening behind you. I enjoy rotating my camera while running just to 
 watch him shoot at me.
  
  The sound effects in the game are also very pleasing. You can be inside a building and hear the 
 people running around outside because of the noise their feet make while running in the snow. Or 
 you can be on lower floor of a building and hear someone running around on the top. Also if you 
 taunt, hold start in game and press any direction the D-Pad (each direction does something different) 
 you can hear your guys cloths move, his hands clap, or hear one of the characters slap his ass.
 
  
  To wrap things up, Lost Planet is a blast to play alone or with buddies. Great graphics, great 
 music, and great game play lead will put you in a happy place. However, some gamers will be put 
 off from a) getting owned right as they start to play b) not taking the time to get used to and 
 appreciate the controls or c) they aren't big fans of third person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmarno2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  ALL DAY LONG!! That's how much time I'm capable of spending blasting aliens with guns, grenades 
 and mechs. Here's a list of why Lost keeps me on the couch:
  
  1. Great weapons. The arsenal is small and sturdy, like a mule. Nothing special but gets the job 
 done! The basic machine gun is sufficient for almost anything you will encounter in the game. Everything 
 else is supplemental; except for the mechs. Although slow and cumbersome, they provide a great 
 break from the standard weapons.
  
  2. Controls. Refreshingly simple and easy to use! My man jumps, runs, turns and grapples with ease. 
 Its nice in this age of increasingly complex games to be able to jump right in and git to gittin 
 .
  
  3. Gameplay. The game flows well and there is no downtime when you're running through the story 
 mode. From the first stage in the game, you're jumping, shooting and blasting your way through 
 hordes of aliens. Not too easy, not too hard, it fits the bill.
  
  4. Graphics. Aside from the well constructed in game graphics containing exotic and wonderfully 
 detailed aliens, the cut-scenes are breathtaking. You can see the microsoft muscle in these sequences 
 as the characters appear life-like and warm even in that frozen wasteland. You can almost feel 
 the chill yourself!
  
  5. Reliability. Seriously, if it gets any better than blasting through aliens with a machine gun, 
 shotgun, rockets, grenades and mechs, I don't want to know about it. Lost takes the formula from 
 Doom and Halo -- of enemy dense environments with good weapons -- and delivers a game that you can 
 throw in anytime and enjoy.
  
  6. MULTIPLAYER!! AMAZING!! The best Live multiplayer so far. Keeps you going and going like its 
 dollar beer night! You have to experience it to understand. The level playing field lets the greenhorns 
 play without feeling wholly outmatched.
  
  Because of all these characteristics, I am able to overlook the confusing story which is unclear 
 all the way to the end. This is pretty standard for true Japanese games however and wasn't unexpected. 
 CAPCOM came through with this one and I'm looking forward to their next release.
  
  Lost is the game that everyone should have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloox2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  As I said above the best Xbox live game Ive ever played mainly because there is always a full 
 lobby and the games are so evenly balanced regardless of what level you are. I havent really played 
 the single player alot neither has anyone else I know on Xbox live just because the multiplayer 
 is so good.
  The level system is good on Xbox live you dont level up very quickly which keeps you interested 
 and wanting to always increase youre level and going back for more multiplayer mayhem. Definitely 
 recommend this game to anyone with Xbox live tis an instant classic which has kept me playing since 
 the day it came out and hopefully will keep you playing to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game within a week of its release, i played it for like 1 hour then got bored. (i 
 had no xbox live at this time) . I recently played it again and realised OMG!!! THIS IS AWESOME 
 ONLINE! Its great online. This game in my opinion has the best graphics anywhere. This game is 
 thorougly enjoyable and beautiful! For example, the multiplayer level "frozen wasteland" is amazing. 
 The vastness of the level is huge and the look of the whole area is fantastic. The draw distance 
 is truly fantastic. Although most levels dont have a huge amount of free space. Oh, i also getalot 
 less lag on Lost planet than what i get one say "Gears of War". I think that they have more dedicated 
 servers so. In conclusion this game is awesome. I love it, I hope you will/do too. You will probably 
 find it in a bargain bin somewhere, and if you do, dont hesitate, grab it and leave, well pay fot 
 it first, thats usually the best way to get games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Lost planet was a great looking game and managed to toe the line in terms of environments becoming 
 repetitious because of snow and similar looking bases. However, they threw in enough variations, 
 some lava and a throwback to Gun Valkyrie on the way up to the main boss.
  My issues with the game were that it was very time consuming and I completed it on hard difficulty 
 and the A. I. was weak until you got to the bosses. You just burnt thermal energy faster and had 
 less of it. It was challenging, and took me longer to beat going through 7 levels or so finding 
 the target marks on hard as well. That proved to be tedious and just replaying the stage on easy 
 usually saved you time.
  With the final boss some of the hits didn't recognize and with so much going on Capcom almost pulled 
 all the explosions and enemies off but when the action got going at some points there were massive 
 frame rate drops. Overall, the gameplay was decent but my personal preference leans away from treasure 
 hunting for achievements and the experience was one I would have to leave for a few days to a week 
 and then come back. But I finished it and the story was passable. Granted I was taking breaks between 
 playing it so the story naturally isn't going to be as immersive for me, but it would have made 
 for a good anime episode.
  The loading screen you encounter is quick and it was cool to have slight interaction with it. It 
 isn't huge believe me but taking a couple shots and hearing a grenade blow up w/o was just a cool 
 little addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet : Extreme Condition is a good game but they have missed the chance to compete with 
 Gears of War, which still is the best Action game on XBox 360. Graphics are really very nice, with 
 decent size environments and almost no load time. Big infact huge creatures. The gameplay was not 
 the best thing about this game. The gameplay occassionally becomes very much furstrating &amp; 
 due to the single tasking nature of the hero, gameplay really tend to suffer. On the positive end, 
 it is a fast paced action game, that keeps you on your toe. Single Player campaign is a bit short 
 but I think its becoming a trend to make single player campaigns around 10-12 hrs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrul
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game in normal mode in about 10 hours. Although it was fun, it did leave me wanting 
 more playing time. The graphics and game-play are solid, specially the grenade and rocket blasts 
 look amazing. There are tons of cool mech style suites you can control and each has its own characteristics. 
 The developers did a pretty good job in their controls and overall feel.
  
  The levels are filled with creepy crawlers and enemy soldiers and you basically gotta fight them 
 to reach the boss. There really isn't any strategy to it, atleast not in normal mode. Some levels 
 do get a little tough and you will have to snipe and plan your actions. But overall, except for 
 some tight areas, its mostly run and shoot anything and everything that comes in your path. But 
 even with this dumb run and shoot style, the game manages to keep you on your edge and makes you 
 look forward to the next level. The highlights of this game are the boss battles. You encounter 
 huge bosses at the end of each level and each will require special techniques to conquer. These 
 battles are basically where most of the gaming fun lies. As far as the story goes, although it 
 seemed interesting at first, it was unsatisfactory at the end as too many rogue elements were introduced 
 and unexplained. The story was patchy at best.
  
  Well, If you like running around and killing giant bugs, evil soldiers who're up to no good, and 
 giant bots, then this is your game. Its a good 10 hours on a lazy Sunday :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  All right. Lost Planet is a great game but I gonna talk about the failures to avoid say that everyone 
 knows.
  
  The characters are well-designed but theres is a problem, the first and the most itchy is that 
 the history runs so fast that you dont understand with exactly Banderos want for exemple.
  
  The graphics are amazing I dont have problem with that.
  
  The gameplay, is more or less 
 designed, Its very bad when you hit and fall and the foes attack when you are face down. You died 
 plenty of time but thats ok in fact the sci-fi traileres have that type of game.
  
  The robots, the characters and even the atmosphera is designed for Japanes people. And I dont dislike 
 it at all but I think the porpuse of Lost Planet was to envolved the Japanes people in a Xbox and 
 not to give fun for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  So the story takes place on this new planet u inconter. When u get there u find out that there 
 is a life threatning alies on this planet. They r called the akrid. The akrid have this week poin 
 in all of them that u can hit to kill them. So later in the game ur father is killed by something 
 called the green eye. The green eye is this huge boss u fight later in the game. Then u pass out 
 and u wake up connected to a t engergy tank. T enegrie is something that can heal u in the game 
 and also fuel wepons without it the akrid freeze up or if ur at a hotter place burn.
  The fisuals for this game is not as good as gow but close. I I havent played the multyplayer but 
 i heard its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded the demo for this game I was floored by the amazing graphics. At that point, 
 I decided that I would fork over the $60 for this game. I even tried to buy it when I was in Tokyo 
 (it was released there first) but it didnt work on my 360. If you have played any first or third 
 person shooter, then you will be right at home with playing this game. There is nothing incredibly 
 new here; running, shooting, grenade throwing, etc. However, the gameplay is so refined with enough 
 tweaks, that it feels innovative in some ways. For example, the Mechs (or VS as they are called 
 in game) are incredibly well realized. When you get in one you get a sense of weight and power 
 from the major firepower to the shacking of the controller when they walk. Also little touches 
 like the grappling hook help out.
  What further enhances the gameplay are the gorgeous graphics! These are some of the best graphics 
 ive seen on the 360 to date. Worth not are the monsters (or Akrids) which look incredibly real 
 and lifelike despite there otherworldly characteristics. The explosions are incredibly awesome 
 and satisfying especially when when you make them happen.
  What detracts from the game overall is the story. In short, it made absolutely no sense at all! 
 It was a incoherent mess, no doubt the victim of the Japanese to English translation. I found myself 
 ignoring the story altogether. Multiplayer was fun with the usual assortment of options (this is 
 the part of the game i have the least experience with) . All in all, if you love Sci-Fi based shooters, 
 then you will love this game. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  story line is quite humurouse bcuse the main person looses his meomery twice but all i can say 
 this game that holds it up is the multiplayer single player is a good source of achievement points 
 but doesnt give many options go thorugh level kill boss go thro level kill boss but overall its 
 a good game but i hate when the T energy goes to 0 and :) and well ur practicly dead could add 
 few weaopns and cars or somthing but that takes care of it with map packs and bunch more updates 
 but this game is awsome and well can get boring after a  
 long time well i give this a 9.1 for being a good game but not satisfying the rest of the awsome 
 stuff it might hold this game is overall a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgporto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a great game, but has some flaws that doesn't let the game be a total hit. Graphics 
 are fine, the snow, the smoke (the greatest ever seen) . The storyline is confusing, looks like 
 it caught lost in translation. It is also a little short, but quite difficult some times. The giant 
 bugs are awesome and so are the VS's. Another flaw though is that sometimes when you are hit by 
 a rocket from a VS, it doesn't give you the chance to get back on your feet, it slams you again 
 into the ground. This can be frustrating. The end of the storyline is more confusing than the rest 
 of the game. Out of the blue, you battle in a flying VS. What's up with that? But ok, all flaws 
 aside, it's a great game. Great multiplayer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Poonero
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of gears of war, and you like third person shooters, you should check Lost Planet 
 out! The Graphics in this game are great, take for example the explosions, sometimes during the 
 game you don't know what the flip is going on around you. A negitive side of this game, is the 
 Single Player the story is so bad and confusing. But this is made up by it's amazing multiplayer 
 mode. While playing multiplayer you also have the ability to changh the look of you character your 
 playing as. This game is great but if you do not own Xbox live I would suggest not buying this 
 game because, personally I find it's the multiplayer that makes this game a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  It better than i tought it was going to be but not that good. The graphics are good and bring a 
 relief to me because of the bad graphics on some of games. The story is pretty good but we've heard 
 it a million times. The gameplay is ok but I'm not a big fan of some of the controls. Basically 
 its not as good as they said it was going to be but it was better than i thought it was going to 
 be. There are some really annoying things in it like how your thermal energy runs down constantly 
 cause of your medical condition. That I don't like and should not of been put in. But the selection 
 of weapons is good . I like the creativity that they had in making the weapons. So this game is 
 ok but it is not better than other 360 3rd person shooters ouy there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvuxboix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Wayne Holden. he is the protagonist (or hero) of this video game. Ok, enough pointless chatter, 
 let's get down to business!
  
  Lost Planet is a great game with many great things. The storyline is pretty good. You are Wayne 
 Holden, son of Gale Holden. You are in a war against aliens in an icy planet. While fighting through 
 hordes of Akrid (the aliens) , your father is presumably crushed and killed by a giant Akrid called 
 Green Eye . After his death, you fight the Akrid, soon to find that Akrid and kill it. Much more 
 happens, but I don't want to spoil anymore. The gameplay is simple. Anchor up here, shoot this, 
 shoot that, get in a VS (Vital Suit, or a giant robot) , shoot more of this shoot that, fight boss, 
 good. The graphics are phenomenal. The snow in the land is very detailed, keeping your footprints 
 even detailed. You can even see your own breath in the icy planet! Characters are well detailed, 
 with the environment looking great. Sound isn't the best thing in this game however. There aren't 
 too many ambient noises, just the hustle and bustle of shooting Akrid, Soldiers, and Pirates (Snow 
 Pirates if you didn't read my review deck) . Online is great as well. Brutal 16 player matches with 
 4 game types (2 solo 2 team) , plus a level up system that gives you skins when you level up to 
 certain levels. Even though released a while ago, worldwide players still play it to this day.
 
  
  All done with the review. I give Lost Planet a 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duanejake
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Boss Battles were pretty good... but it had one problem, wtf was up with the god dammn robots (VS) ... i 
 mean come on.. ive driven tht thing a few times cool... but it gets soo repetitive, almost every 
 boss u come across u'll be fighting in a VS. The game started off pretty well, although the story 
 lines pretty rough... n u have no clue as to what is going on and the intro... dont even get me started 
 on that. But on the positive side this games got some real cool sound and graphics... heyy real 
 deccent weapon designs too... very innovative.. and sometimes driving the VS's aint soo bad (only 
 when ure taking on a bunch of not so tough guys armed with nothin but machine guns) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamsterLV
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin... I thought about buying this one, but then I got it as a birthday present from 
 a friend... At first I thought, great, I don't have to spend my money, but then I started playing 
 it!
  GAMEPLAY
  Lame, boring, old! Nothing new, nothing interesting, at least not for me! Just run around shoot 
 stuff, get into lame robots, run around shoot stuff! It was O. K. first few minutes, but I got bored 
 real fast. This game is just about shooting different stuff with different weapons. Enemies change 
 as you proceed, they get tougher and there are more of them... lame! Seen a hundred times already! 
 Some parts was O. K. like Moth, but it didn't make any difference to me cuz I just wanted to play 
 through AFAS! When I think about it, the gameplay wasn't the worst about the game, it was storyline... 
 :roll:
  STORYLINE
  Oh God! I hate this Japanese stuff Robots, monsters, transformers, unreal gadgets I bet many 
 people love this stuff, I dont say its bad or anything, I just DONT LIKE it, A LOT! I am not 
 a fan of sci-fi, but I enjoyed first HALO and Star Wars movies and the new one were also O. K., 
 but this stuff This games story feels like it was seen many times before in cheap movies. Filled 
 with clich&eacute; s, predictable twists and of course, HAPPY ENDING! Pft! I mean come on! 5 people 
 against the evil empire which wants to kill everything! Damn! Thats a fresh one! The dude gets 
 amnesia, looses his father, but as time goes on he remembers everything and the spirit of his dad 
 is with him and gives him super strength and eventually helps defeating THE EVIL behind everything 
 which as always is this one guy you face in a final epic showdown! By the way out hero meets 
 enemy soldier who realizes that he is a pawn in evil scheme and helps the good guys in their 
 fight! Damn! Thats something! Makes me wanna become a pokemon master! :roll: : ( GRAPHICS
  :| For a game on 360 horrible graphics! I didnt buy HDTV to look at these crappy textures in 
 HD! HD just makes it worse, cuz you can see how bad this stuff really looks! Even cutscenes look 
 crappy cuz only main character faces are done detailed enough for next gen! LAME!
  SOUND
  Not bad, but not great either. Mediocre. Doesnt make a difference in this one.
  OVERALL
  Lame 
 gameplay with STUPID story makes this an experience worth a bottle of schnapps to help you forget 
 it ASAP! Looks like CAPCOM decided to make a quick buck on this one, I dont appreciate. Feels 
 like a cheap HALO rip-off, much like Total Overdose for GTA!
  NOTE: I didnt play MULTIPLAYER, maybe its the gem of this game, but from what I have seen (watched 
 multiplayer videos) its just as lame as the rest of it! Feel free to disagree, its just my opinion! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rein77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Very good game and looks great, runs great, only thing I hate is.. when is part 2 coming out? I 
 love the way the snow falls and white out weather makes it hard to see at times and that is fun. 
 I love how the big bugs bust out of the ground and come at you fast. I really like the guns in 
 this game, I love taking the rail gun off the mec or canon and just going to town on them. I do 
 like our character in this one, seems capcom makes their characters have some kind of past that 
 goes on forever and that is good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a great game. The gameplay is awesome, the graphics are amazing, and the multiplayer 
 will keep people playing this game for a long, long time. But, Lost Planet isn't for everyone; 
 it has a style that is very different from the more recent shooters on the Xbox 360.
  
  The style of Lost Planet goes back to the days before shooters were all about strategy and cover. 
 It is a run-and-gun, balls-to-the-wall third person shooter. This is the same style as many other 
 great games (like the Halo series?) but it has caused many people to give Lost Planet a low rating. 
 Gears of War, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, and Rainbow Six: Vegas have given shooter fans the 
 need to have every game be an ultra-realistic tactical shooter with a cover system. Lost Planet 
 goes a completley opposite direction, and it's a good thing it does. Personally, even though I 
 love Gears of War and Ghost Recon, I am a bit tired of the slow paced combat and having to think 
 about every move I make before taking action. Lost Planet is like a breath of fresh air. Instead 
 of focusing on a realistic experience, the game tries to create as much raw action and fun as possible. 
 Players can run out guns-a-blazin' causing as much carnage as possible, not bound by severe (but 
 realistic) limitations imposed on the character's abilities. Wasn't this one of the reasons why 
 Halo was so much fun?
  
  If you like that type of gameplay, then you will love the rest of the game. The graphics in the 
 game are stunning. All of the character models look great (both in campaign and multiplayer) , the 
 snow and environments are truly astounding, and the explosions and smoke effects will practically 
 have you drooling. They are something you have to see to truly believe. There are some negatives 
 to the graphics, however. Some textures, mostly on buildings, are pretty lackluster, and a few 
 game objects, such as barrels, could have used a little work.
  
  Campaign is a lot of fun, but it is a bit too short. It only took me eight hours to finish the 
 entire game, but those eight hours were awesome. I had to put the game down halfway through because 
 the explosions and action were so intense that I was a bit tired. The boss fights especially stand 
 out. They are very engaging and actually enjoyable (I normally hate bosses) . As I'm sure you have 
 heard, the story in Lost Planet really sucks. This is true. There is a story there, but it is very 
 difficult to understand what is going on, and the cutscenes are not linked to the gameplay at all. 
 At the end of one cutscene, the main character will be sitting indoors, drinking his hot cocoa, 
 and then when the level starts, he will be standing out in the middle of a frozen wasteland. This 
 is a little annoying, but doesn't take away from the campaign too much.
  
  Multiplayer is awesome. Just like the campaign, it has that arcade-shooter style, and focuses on 
 just raw fun. Its very chaotic, and requires little planning or cover. Players can dominate the 
 map when they use VS's, or mechs, against the other players on foot. Most games are sixteen-player 
 team deathmatch in one of eight huge maps. These maps have a wide variety. Some are indoors, some 
 are outdoors. Some take place on top of a mountain, others are on a coast (and you can go underwater) . 
 Some are very cold, others have lava everywhere. In some maps, the weather changes. It changes 
 from night to day, and some fog rolls in every once in a while. Overall, it is a very satisfying 
 experience that doesn't get old.
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  Gameplay: The aiming is quite weird at first, with the fact that you don't turn straight away when 
 you move the analogue stick, there is a an invisible box. However you can make the speed higher, 
 and you get used to it. Each alien type requires a different strategy for killing. Human enemies 
 are nothing special. A lot of bosses that will definitely take more than one try. (some people 
 like it, some hate it; it's a + for me)
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Textures are amazing, rocks inside caves look great, and the lighting is great.
 
  
  Sound: It has some good alien sounds, but I would like the weapons to sound more deadly. The machine 
 gun sounds like a BB gun at times.
  
  Value: Fairly short (took me about 9 hours to complete) , but it has online multiplayer which is 
 always a bonus.
  
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  In Lost Planet: EC you'll play as Wayne, seeing he lost hid dad to the attacks of huge mutant-bugs 
 that partly rule the Lost Planet, he gets in touch with a mercenary group that also hate these 
 bugs and snow-pirates.
  
  The game isn't anything new to its genre, with the exceptions of T-Energy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
 You'll have a rather small arsenal of weapons, which is a dissapointing add to the game since I 
 was expecting some fun weapons in a Sci-fi TPS, you'll also get a grappling hook, which can be 
 used to hang on to ledges to prevent you from falling to a bloody death, or to get to higher places.
 
  
  T-Energy isn't really a enjoyable feature, you are forced to storm thru levels and pick up orange 
 ooze that dead insects leave behind, if you don't do this, you'll die a freezing death.
  
  Bosses are a great addition to the game, you can take them out by taking you're small arsenal of 
 weapons to a obvious key-point to destruct them.
  
  The game is pretty linear, the camera will direct you to the path you need to follow.
  
  Theres 
 some additions of Mech-walkers in the game and they have features like doublejumping and high-damage 
 power, their pretty much overkill bug-zappers.
  
  The multiplayer is worth a try, its addition of grappling-hooks and T-Energy make it a fastpaced 
 game with something about mechs, I didn't play the Multiplayer alot personally because the mechs 
 mostly owned 90% of the map.
  
  Graphics:
  Lost Planet has some great graphics, from the frosting landscapes to the cinemas and bosses that 
 take up the whole screen, Lost Planet is no exception graphic-wise.
  
  Characters look great, you'll encounter the same looking bugs a few times, but some great explosion 
 and fire effects will burn them out quickly enough.
  
  Bosses seem to have some something prehistoric about them, there was this boss who looked like 
 a Steggosaurus.
  
  AI:
  
  Enemies bosses are easy if you can find their easy-to-find weakpoint, normal bugs never attack 
 in straightlines and go sideways with squads, not that they are hard to beat tho.
  
  Is it a good TPS:
  Despite some flaws, Lost Planet is good game with a good amount of action 
 and great graphics, you might want to give the game a rent if you're into these kind of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickminty
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a very very fun game. Its not very complicated however. You'll spend most of the 
 time just pointing and shooting, but they manage to make that extremely fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  As far as the gameplay goes, theres not a ton of change in the game. You point and 
 shoot, not that hard. But even something as simple as that they make very fun. You will be shooting 
 everything from normal human being to 20-story high alien worm monsters. And every alien you kill 
 is so rewarding, beause they just explode into a pile of green alien blood, it just so rewarding. 
 Along with a large arsenal of weapons ranging from your standard machine gun, to your crazy awesome 
 laser sniper weapon that deals a ridiculous amount of damage, they all work very well.
  
  Graphics:
  Not the BEST graphics, but FAR from the worst. The best part of the graphics is deffinetely 
 the effects. They are without a doubt... amazing. Sometimes there is so much smoke and so many explosions 
 crashing through the level, I dont even know where I am and where the enemy is. Its simply crazy. 
 And does the framerate dip? No. I only really noticed the framerate dip once, and thats when I 
 shot a can of gasoline just as an alien bug exploded into a mass amount of blood and as the platform 
 I was standing on fell with the great physics the game has, and as about 3 grenades went off, and 
 with about 20 guys shooting at me. I think its pretty understandable that the framerate would dip.
 
  
  Sound:
  Not too much to say about the sound. It doesnt really stand out or anything, but its not bad. The 
 voice acting is pretty good, and all the gun sounds and the explosions and what not sound like 
 they should. Its all there, but with all the action that your looking at, you dont really care 
 that the sound isnt top notch.
  
  Value:
  Once you have completed the game on the easy difficulty level (which you will probably start off 
 with) there is still the medium and hard difficulties to tackle. And the game is deffinetely worth 
 going back and playing again anyways, even if you just selecting some of the missions which you 
 can go back and play any time after youve beaten them once. There is of course the multiplayer, 
 which is very good aswel. Amazingly its simpleness really helps in the multiplayer game, because 
 its far more about real skill than luck. Because the game is so simple, it lends well to aiming 
 better, rather than just shooting and hoping the bullet find your target.
  
  Tilt:
  It all sums up into a good game, so the tilt has got to be good too.
  
  Overall:
  If you 
 had anything bad to say about this game, you would probably say its story. It doesnt really make 
 much sense, and it moves at a rapid pace, as major things happen instintaneously. But the story 
 doesnt really matter, because you wont pay attention to it. The game doesnt re-invent the wheel, 
 but it does make it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actr4evr93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was good the weapons weren't the best but graphics and that grappling thing was cool. The 
 online mode was good though i hated the single player mode. The game was good but nothing special. It 
 is a good game worth checking out. And the online mode is worth playing. The graphics were good 
 especially when you were fighting tons of enemy flying things. And the story wasn't too bad and 
 it wasn't short. I said I don't like it but its not cause it sucks its just me. So this makes a good 
 xbox 360 game thats worth checking out. So check it out rent it but don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamst3r
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  um k i think its awsome such a fun time for awhile anyway campaign was sweet! u got to do all this 
 stuff i loved it its kinda hard to explain some parts of the game got dull annoying i was just 
 not dieing but getting bounced wich makes you have to try and try without dieing to kill these 
 things i just yelled letme shoot em !!!! i kept getting bounced so that got annoying then i couldnt 
 figure out watta do so that also got annoying but so much fun graphix are beutiful i loved em looked 
 really good so then i went on multiplayer and.. it was pretty good i wasnt as good as other people 
 so i couldnt have to much fun doin that but really cool multiplayer if your wwilling to play it 
 alot overall: *.@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2kitz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  lost plannet is the first game i owned on xbox 360, and on its first day out too, before then i 
 was never a fan of xbox and infact hate its gut for the first console's design but after a while 
 i decided to try the 360 for its infamous title gears of war, however, lost plannet is the first 
 game i got for my xbox 360, and at first, playing the game doesnt seem to get me the kind of feelin 
 that im living inside the game, the prologue is good, u fights with the akrid and ur father died, 
 u suffered from amnesia and woken up 20 years later frozen and alive because the device on ur hand 
 saved u somehow, anyway, at first the story was suppose to be killing akrids and rid of them so 
 the colonization of this lost plannet to be continue, but somehow, u tripped over and found urself 
 fighting with nevec, what da hell? what happened to the story? people left without saying anything 
 or any reason? i know theres a plot into it but the game doesnt give u much details on the story 
 and theres too much changes, as if the game was made by improvised storyline pick up and go, and 
 u have a standard mech which look the best in the game, later wtf? it can fly? i like the flying 
 element and gundam like gameplay but the whole time, that mech can fly? and uses laser sword and 
 some energy shockwave at the boss battle, that does make sense but it doesnt make any sense at 
 the same time, however i like this game, but hope for capcom to continue on with this kinda of 
 gameplay but please make another game similar to this but not the sequal of this game, the first 
 one **** it up and i dont want another sequal. make a new game, but similar game play, foot action 
 and mech fights, thats awesome, but shooting down aliens senselessly isnt a good thing.
  
  graphic: its freakin awesome, the explosion and stuffs, well, even though it blocks the view sometimes 
 but it gave me the feeling of being surrounded by smoke and fire, and trust only instinct to move 
 around.
  
  gamplay: kinda slow movements but it fits in with the scenery (snow) wide range of weapons but never 
 have time to use them all. mech is awesome, good firepower and some flashy dashy maneuvers but 
 still slow but it suits the weight of the mech.
  
  story: gets rid of akrid but somehow foundout that ur father's death wasnt cause by the greeneye, 
 and yeah a few twist, its pretty good prologue but hell, the middle story is comepletely suck!! 
 everything passes too fast and u dont know where u suppose to be and what happened before then. 
 felt like a cut in between.
  
  sound: awesome but it aint original
  
  drama: crappy voice acting with no passion and expression.
  
  conclusion: this game is worth 
 playing and worth buying because of its graphic and endless action with the rush of limit time 
 in game, however the story scrambled the good franchise.
  
  future expectation: please dont make a sequal, i dont want to buy it anymore but if there is i 
 would, but still i'd rather capcom to make a new game with a good story but stick with the foot 
 action mech gameplay, and TPS game FTW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  In Lost Planet: EC you'll play as Wayne, seeing he lost hid dad to the attacks of huge mutant-bugs 
 that partly rule the Lost Planet, he gets in touch with a mercenary group that also hate these 
 bugs and snow-pirates.
  
  The game isn't anything new to its genre, with the exceptions of T-Energy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
 You'll have a rather small arsenal of weapons, which is a dissapointing add to the game since I 
 was expecting some fun weapons in a Sci-fi TPS, you'll also get a grappling hook, which can be 
 used to hang on to ledges to prevent you from falling to a bloody death, or to get to higher places.
 
  
  T-Energy isn't really a enjoyable feature, you are forced to storm thru levels and pick up orange 
 ooze that dead insects leave behind, if you don't do this, you'll die a freezing death.
  
  Bosses are a great addition to the game, you can take them out by taking you're small arsenal of 
 weapons to a obvious key-point to destruct them.
  
  The game is pretty linear, the camera will direct you to the path you need to follow.
  
  Theres 
 some additions of Mech-walkers in the game and they have features like doublejumping and high-damage 
 power, their pretty much overkill bug-zappers.
  
  The multiplayer is worth a try, its addition of grappling-hooks and T-Energy make it a fastpaced 
 game with something about mechs, I didn't play the Multiplayer alot personally because the mechs 
 mostly owned 90% of the map.
  
  Graphics:
  Lost Planet has some great graphics, from the frosting landscapes to the cinemas and bosses that 
 take up the whole screen, Lost Planet is no exception graphic-wise.
  
  Characters look great, you'll encounter the same looking bugs a few times, but some great explosion 
 and fire effects will burn them out quickly enough.
  
  Bosses seem to have some something prehistoric about them, there was this boss who looked like 
 a Steggosaurus.
  
  AI:
  
  Enemies bosses are easy if you can find their easy-to-find weakpoint, normal bugs never attack 
 in straightlines and go sideways with squads, not that they are hard to beat tho.
  
  Is it a good TPS:
  Despite some flaws, Lost Planet is good game with a good amount of action 
 and great graphics, you might want to give the game a rent if you're into these kind of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gears_user
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most realistic looking game that i have ever seen, the grafics are awesome 
 and the shooting is great!!! They make everything look so good, the detail is perfect!! And the 
 creatures are pretty awesome and so are the vehicles you can get. You can drive vehicles that are 
 snow quads that turn into a mini robot or you can use a huge robot. That leads me to the guns, 
 the guns are absoulutely awesome and their design is great to. What i like is that they make it 
 realistic, like when you pick up a huge gun you can run as fast or cant jump as high and thats 
 realistic. The only thing that i wouldnt really like is the beginning of the story, i mean the 
 thing with his father and stuff is sort of old. The creatures are pretty unique and there based 
 on bugs and there all absoulutely different. Then theres the snow pirates which after a while get 
 pretty confusing because at one point your basically on the same side as the snow pirates fighting 
 this other division/company of some sort that are trying to destroy the snow pirates along with 
 you. And the thing is you not a snow pirate, its just you and three other friends... well one isnt 
 your friend because he's secretly working for the evil company!! But i 100% recommend this game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h4ngthedj
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Heres how it is. You play as Wayne, a guy with amnesia (obviously) on a snowy planet with a nasty 
 alien infestation. You kill big bugs and snow pirates with a small variety of weapons. You also 
 have to collect the orange goo that the aliens leave behind after you shoot them or you die.
  
  Gameplay: Not so hot. The controls on foot are very clunky, and turning is difficult when you 
 are getting shot from the side or behind. The game has a weird auto-aim system and its often difficult 
 to tell whether or not you have hit your opponent. It doesn't flow well either, bad guys pop out 
 on every side of you and in front of you, making it feel sort of like a light gun game on the NES. 
 Mech controls are even more clunky, and don't feel well integrated into the game. Sometimes rockets 
 get blown up near you and smoke fills the screen, making it impossible to tell whats going on. 
 The boss fights are tough (some a little too tough) but they were the most fun I had playing the 
 game.
  
  Graphics: Really nice. The character's are all well-rendered, and the cutscenes are pretty nice 
 to look at. The snow looks great with the sun shining off of it, and the lighting is really cool. 
 The graphics are the game's biggest plus.
  
  Sound: Bad bad bad. The music doesn't fit at all with the atmosphere, and makes the game difficult 
 to take seriously. The voice acting is TERRIBLE (fits right with the story) , some of the worst 
 I've ever heard.
  
  Value: There's not much here. The game can be beaten in 6-8 hours, and it wont leave you wanting 
 to come back for more. The multiplayer is bad, don't even bother.
  
  Bottom line: If you've beaten Gears of War and Crackdown to death and are looking for another shooter 
 to take up your time, Lost Planet is better than nothing. Otherwise, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruddypork1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  It's very easy to play this games for hours, and not knowing what time you will end. The graphics 
 are stunning, especially on a big *** HD TV
  Buy this game f you like weird but amazing things. Another thing are the AI
  they are very smart 
 even on easy. They will duck, and run away from grenades. The boss's are very very very nicely 
 animated. They look stunning, and all of them have a weaknees making them possible to kill. They 
 all look different from each other, making your gameplay even more interesting. I have not played 
 the mulitplayer, so you will have to get that info from somebody else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve12992
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  One things for sure, this was definitely a tough game. Especially on the bosses. Most of the bosses 
 took me between 5 and 10 times to beat, some taking longer than that. The game is also very slow 
 paced, which doesn't do justice for it's gameplay. With no bots in the multiplayer and no unlockable 
 content, there's no reason to keep this game. I'd recommend renting it. There's not much more I 
 can say about this game. Other than the fact that it has some pretty impressive graphics (like 
 mose 360 games) , and the sound is pretty decent as well. The story however, is dull, and you'l 
 just be wishing for the story to hurry up and get over with so that you can get back into the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It was kind of surprising how late I ended up getting this game, especially since it was so anticipated 
 for me in the first place. I guess that, as soon as it came out, I failed to see what made it so 
 different from other action games. Other than the fact that you had a limited amount of thermal 
 energy, it really seemed to be the same kind of run-and-gun we've all seen before. And sometimes, 
 maybe even most of the time, it is. However, this game is polished, solid, and fine-tuned to perfection, 
 and you get the sense that, action-wise, it almost completely capitalizes on its potential (which 
 really means a lot for a video game these days)
  You play as Wayne, a amnesia-afflicted... guy... on the frozen planet EDN III (at least I think that 
 what it's called) . Basically, humans came to this planet for some reason I forgot. (I think you 
 might be starting to realize just how much I care at this point) And found that monstrous insects 
 who survive by carrying thermal energy around in themselves. Normally, this planet would be too 
 cold to support life, and technically it is, but humans find that by taking the thermal energy 
 they find in Akrid (the inexplicably named insect things) they can keep themselves warm. As someone 
 who enjoys sci-fi, I think the idea of a frozen planet where creatures keep themselves alive by 
 storing extreme amounts of heat is a pretty cool idea. It's a nice touch that, after you knock 
 out their thermal energy, the planet's extremely low temperature causes them to freeze solid. On 
 the other hand, later on in the game you'll be in an extremely warm volcano area where the Akrid 
 will turn to lava rock instead of ice when you kill them. Which isn't a nice touch because it really 
 doesn't make any sense, nor does it make sense that your thermal energy still drops. But that's 
 just me being nit-picky.
  Most of these Akrid are too powerful to take on as a puny human, so you've got to get into your 
 giant robot, or VS (Vital Suit) to take them out. The game does an excellent job of balancing the 
 on-foot and in-VS sections, so that you feel like neither is left out. Especially since there will 
 usually be a point in those VS sections where you'll have to eject from an exploding robot and 
 go running from creatures one hundred times your size to look for another. Unfortunately, this 
 is the only time the game is somewhat intense, and I say somewhat. See, in this game you have constantly 
 dropping thermal energy that is restored by taking more from your enemies. I'm sure you've already 
 heard of that. What you may not know is that, until your thermal energy drops down to zero, you're 
 practically invulnerable on foot. The reason for this is because when you are hurt, your harmonizer 
 will automatically take away from your thermal energy and use it to heal you. This means that, 
 when you're fighting snow pirates who won't knock you down or blow you up, you can just charge 
 in, screaming like a madman, fill them full of lead, and you'll probably end up okay as long as 
 you make sure you have enough thermal energy. That being said, this game does a good job of NOT 
 making that feel bland. In fact, this game does an outright excellent job of making you FEEL like 
 you're vulnerable even though you aren't about to kick the bucket until your energy drops to zero, 
 at least when you're outgunned against enemy VSes and Akrid. However, this is only a small part 
 of the lack of intensity, another thing is that this game is simply slow paced. When you're on 
 foot you make Master Chief look like an Olympian track winner. And, even though you're faster in 
 a VS, most of those walk slowly to their destinations (the more advanced ones move quickly, though, 
 and some of them can turn into vehicles) . It usually doesn't end up being too much of a problem, 
 you don't get impatient with the slow-pacing, but it's definetely there. The third and final reason 
 why the game lacks intensity is the plentiful amount of ammo. You are never in any danger of running 
 out of ammo unless you're using a rocket launcher. Eventually, picking up ammo gets old, because 
 there's just an unreasonable amount of it. As an example, you can hold twenty frag grenades total, 
 and you start out with ten. I can remember an area in the game that was so early on the level that 
 I hadn't even had a chance to use three grenades yet, and there was a room where you could pick 
 up thirty of them.
  Yet, what Lost Planet lacks in intensity, it definetely makes up for in how fun it is. One thing 
 that should be noted is that, in the game, you can press RB or LB to turn 45 degrees to the right 
 or left instantly. The funny thing about this is that it would be so useful, maybe even ingenious 
 in a faster paced twitch shooter. But Lost Planet is anything but a twitch shooter, so it rarely 
 comes in handy. Another feature that actually is useful and clever is the grappling hook. In this 
 game you have a grappling hook equipped to you that you can use any time by pressing X. If you 
 fall off of a cliff, Wayne will immedietely throw out the grappling hook and catch on to the ledge. 
 Which is good, since a game where you don't die easily would be inconsistent if you could just 
 fall off of a cliff. The reason that the grappling hook is such a good idea is because the VSes 
 can jump much higher than humans can. This means that, in certain areas of the game, there are 
 platforms that only a VS could jump to. If you didn't have a VS at these points, you would be hopelessly 
 stuck, and that's why you have the grappling hook.
  The story in Lost Planet is the most disappointing thing about it, probably. The only reason I'm 
 actually mentioning it is because this game advertised itself as somewhat cinematic and story-based. 
 It succeeds at the former but fails at the latter. The characters never really grab you, and the 
 plot just doesn't make any sense at some points. And, the whole time, you can tell that it's subtly 
 ripping from other games, some of which really shouldn't be influences.
  As a whole, Lost Planet is a great game because it excels at what it tries, and mostly doesn't 
 try anymore than what it can excel at. It makes the whole game feel very polished, solid, and just 
 plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglebei
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  this game Graphic Sucks!
  I think Japanese game company is far behind in graphic engine. it looks like still in Xbox age. 
 the sound is also boring, altough the game so called use Dolby digital, but just like stereo sound 
 and very monotony. not like like real world, just sound like Midi music.
  And the story in game is also boring, they talk about the story at every mission begin, but you 
 can not feel and connection with story in the mission, just walk and kill, so stupid
  So I am very dispoionted with Japanese company game and will never buy it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: objbuilder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  First (3rd) person shooters aren't my favorite type of game but every now and then one of them 
 grabs me and Lost Planet definitely does. It's bar none the most beautiful game I've ever played 
 on a console. It's like a HI-Tech shooting gallery where you can't wait to see how things will 
 explode next. There's so many things going on at once and they are animated so beautifully it's 
 simply a pleasure blasting your way through all the awesome enemies- the evil Akrid! Well, mostly 
 a pleasure but I'll tell you the bad stuff at the end. The demo is a great example of what you'll 
 see in the full game. The mechs (vs suits) play a much bigger role in the game than I thought. 
 It was a good surprise since the controls feel so good. Nothing sweeter than emptying both torrents 
 into an Akrid at the same time and watching all the ensuing mayhem. The bosses are the best you've 
 ever seen. Over the top huge gigantic beasties and they have lots of evil friends! Sometimes you 
 just marvel at all the huge creatures trying to kill you at the same time. Your skills increase 
 quite a bit during play and pretty soon the boss you struggled so hard to kill a few levels ago 
 are just one of the many enemies on screen at once. One of my favorites is shooting your grappling 
 hook into the soft spot of a giant beast and zip-lining right on top of them and just unloading 
 a whole round of ammo before leaping off to watch them explode. It's just crazy good action! Also 
 appreciate the 'auto aim' option you can turn on or off at any time. I mostly had it off but there 
 were a few times I couldn't get past a certain boss so I just flipped it on and it gives just enough 
 help to get you through.
  
  ONLINE: This may be a terrible analogy but I would say the online mode is like a cross between 
 the online versions of Star Wars Battlefront and Socom. It is really good - much better than I 
 thought it would be. The maps are huge and very complex. Many different type of games and people 
 actually play a lot of different ones online.. which is pretty cool. If you're worried about the 
 controls, don't. You can change the control settings to be just like GoW if you want by selecting 
 'Fixed 5' from the control options. Some have complained about the default controls which creates 
 an 'aiming window' where you move your aiming-site around a little without panning the entire screen. 
 I feel the reason they chose this is so we can better appreciate all the wonderful animation that 
 is missed when everything is scrolling around. The voice acting isn't nearly as bad as some people 
 say and it's more of a script problem than poor acting - they just tried to make it too complicated. 
 Buy this game for the action, not the story. No game is perfect and LP has its fair share of issues. 
 However, none of them should prevent you from at least giving it a rent. The biggest problem is 
 the way some explosions knock you down so you can't move or do anything but sit back and watch 
 your character get smacked around for 4 or 5 seconds and it happens over and over and over again. 
 Not fun. Also, get rid of the stupid floating electric jellyfish. These things float into you and 
 freeze your character so you can't move or do anything for four or five seconds. I swear, what 
 is their fascination with making us sit around and do nothing for so long?? There are too few 'waypoints' 
 so when you die you must replay much of the same level over again. This gets irritating quickly 
 if you have trouble in the same spot more than once. Semi-related is that after you've completed 
 the game and you want to replay some of the past missions, you must start from the beginning of 
 the mission. It would greatly increase the replay value to be able to select the different waypoints 
 to start from. Single player campaign could be a bit longer. My final criticism is to improve the 
 AI of the enemies. They are very predictable and some seem only vaguely aware of your presence 
 so you can just walk around with not a care in the world with dozens of monsters all around gnashing 
 their teeth at you. All very minor issues compared to all the great things Lost Planet brings to 
 the table.
  
  I am now a fan of this series and I can't wait to see what they do with the next version. Lost 
 Planet is a great experience every gamer should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  lost planet has done so well by beating games like nfs carbon and fifa 07 taking them of the charts 
 and you cant help but get interested.
  
  story
  well your names wayne and your father was killed by green eye and all you can remeber is how to 
 fight and basically you are seeking revenge but at the same time killing the akrid as you progress 
 through the game. The akrid are tough but to kill them you must kill their heat life system which 
 is an orange coloured thing on their bodys which has to be damaged to kill them, once you destroy 
 this it turns them into ice and once you break the ice they leave you there heat which also keeps 
 you alive on the planet this is capcoms amazing plan and its really is just spectacular and whoever 
 thought of it needs a raise.
  The best thing is that you can use VS machines to kill as well they are another way of beating 
 your enemies.
  
  graphics
  In short stunning visuals and explosions makes these some of the best on the 360 and the smoke 
 effects are just stunning it is really like being in an avalanche its eye blurging.
  
  multiplayer
  there are a 4 game modes
  deathmatch
  team deathmatch
  post grab
  fugitive
 
  and amazing maps to play in with lots of places to go.
  The maps have more to them than meets the eye for example lost coast has loads of hiding places 
 for fugitve and it feels like each map was done slowly to create a savage multiplayer experience.
 
  Like the single player you need heat to live in the multiplayer so there are heat machine like 
 things that you stand in to keep your self alive.
  
  verdict
  lost planet maybe short but its explosive from start to finish never getting boriing and showing 
 how amazing the 360 really is pick this up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepantherking
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  At first the game semmed at little boring, but it really grew on me and soon i was having a blast. 
 The graphics and explosions are amazingly detailed. The bosses are incredibly well designed and 
 very fun to fight. And thats just the tip of the iceberg... Once I got into the multiplayer I was 
 sold. I personally think the multiplayer is as refined as gears of war, both are truly amazing. 
 While not as technical, it still requires some skill, adn still maintains a very casual gameplay 
 experience. Overall an awesome game and if you have a 360, you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesethcohen
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I must first say this as it's my only fault. it took me 4 hours to do first run through. therefore 
 is probally not worth buying but renting or borrowing is a must. The gameplay is brilliant and 
 there is plenty of mech/ weapon combo's to keep you interested. The action is as fast as you want 
 it to be or indeed as slow as you like. a typical mission is where you have to take down three 
 VS ( basically MS but more AC-ish) and they have about 4 smaller VS suport mechs. and you have to 
 ambush them.. this is brilliant as you have to make up a stratergy of how your going to do this. 
 thats probally a bad description, but it was soo much fun.. and the story is brilliant and there 
 is more twists than at an 80's disco. and the sound is exquisit the Mechs sound beautiful and every 
 weapon has an idividual sound and works in different ways. i can't state my opinion of online.. as 
 i don't have it but i hear its pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aveiga1000
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 28, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet seemed fun when I first played it as a demo at the store, but I was dissapointed when 
 I finally played it on 360. First the good news, the graphical looks in this game are amazing. 
 The environments were beautiful with the snow effects and the sunshine setting that, at times gave 
 it a nice orange tint to the snow. The enemies and your player were beautifully rendered and animated. 
 Let us not forget the large mechs you get to pilot in the game, a big plus! Yet it all failed me 
 when I needed it the most the controls! Your player and mechs can be confusing at times and your 
 character moves more like a tank than a person. The enemies were also not so bright, when i fight 
 snow pirates I expect them to be sneaky! The combat made the game feel more like a target range 
 than some real fighting. All in all the game is beautiful, yet the controls are lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  I got LOST PLANET the day it came out, and i thought it an average shooter. However when i took 
 a break from it for about 1-3 months and I became addicted. ^^ The game looks gorgeous in one of 
 the best snow settings I have seen in my gaming days, making it almost feel as though the snow 
 is coming out of your television screen and into your room! The Physics of the game are also good, 
 when u shoot a wall it will crumble properly, when u shoot a bullet into a hardened wall the bullet 
 hole will remain there for the rest of the mission.
  
  Plot is a little hard to follow and is quite short, but it is still great fun and a blast while 
 it lasts. Also the new feature T-ENG is quite inventive but can get annoying as I to explore the 
 game and discover more than usual gamers would like to explore. Also the grappel hook is a great 
 idea which makes the game even funner.
  
  MP can be fun if you play with friends but is annoying as when you are shot by a machine gun you 
 become paralyzed and cannot do anything to counter it. And The Homing Laser is for NOOBS ONLY!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameChest
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Awesome online gaming. Choose from 4 game modes: Team Elimination (up to 8 vs 8 players) , Elimination 
 (basically every man for himself) , Fugitive (one person vs everybody else. You are hunted by the 
 other players where you choose to run and hid or fight until the timer expires) or Post Grab (two 
 or more teams battling for energy posts .
  
  For ranked matches you can earn achievements, ranking levels, unlock characters, costumes and climb 
 the leader-board to have the bragging rights of being # 1. Lost Planet makes it simple to track 
 your progress.
  
  There's no shortage of weapons. You have 6 guns, 5 grenade, 7 Virtual Suits weapons, and 5 Virtual 
 Suits (Mechs with different functions and attacks) to start with and tons more are downloadable 
 through Xbox live. Lost Planet is a must have for any player who likes action-adventure, blow em' 
 up, shoot em' up games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The fact that I didn't care even a little bit about what happened to Wayne, the story's protagonist, 
 made it especially hard to enjoy this game. Dead Rising's Frank was at least a likable guy. A soldier-guy 
 with memory loss, Wayne hooks up with a band of opportunists fighting back against the bugs and 
 ice pirates that stand in the way of their search for sellable goods. Wayne, like every other character 
 in the game, suffers from terrible voice acting and a general airheadedness that makes it very 
 hard to take anything he says seriously. When deep dark secrets about the world around them or 
 the evil corporation start to be revealed, your reaction is one of boredom rather than intrigue.
 
  e title also concretizes the icy nature of the planet by forcing you to 'deal' with the elements. 
 You are essentially on a timer whenever you are out in the field, as a number representing the 
 heat stored in your body armor steadily decreases over time. Slaying enemies or breaking open stores 
 of a reddish gel replenish this substance, which also acts as an always-on shielding system. Like 
 the energy shields common to many FPS titles nowadays, as long as you have heat energy available 
 your actual health bar is very hard to damage. Another way of replenishing your energy is via the 
 data posts scattered throughout levels. These act as save points, heat replenishers, and radar 
 data points; activating one will net you information about the surrounding area in addition to 
 the other benefits. Neither of these mechanics are unprecedented, but give the game an interesting 
 tone that jacks up the tenseness of battle situations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a ok game up tell the last 3 levels than its super game. Lost 
 Planet is a good game from the people of Capcom. It takes place in the futare but on a different 
 planet over run with bug-like things. The story line in this game is a little odd but its all good. 
 One thing is, ITs vary short. This game lets you shoot up all the bugs you want than when you are 
 done with them you get to shoot up the evil human race. This game lets yuo also play with the fun 
 VC's (robots) . This game offers cool guns and lots of things to shoot. So thats all good. The gameplay 
 in this game is all good and nicly done. The graphics are good looking, the people did a nice job 
 and is good with the whole snow effect. The sound is nicly done and all good. Just one thing is 
 the value is not that good I would say wait tell its 30 or 40 bucks. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 19, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that you need to buy if you like big bugs, big guns and mechs. This game doesn't 
 give everything you would expect but what it gives you is just solid good game.
  
  Graphics aren't 100% next gen that you would expect. Explosions and smoke effects are just great! 
 Characters are also pretty good looking but enviroments are pretty lame. This generation gives 
 so much power to use so game developers should think the environments also!
  
  Gameplay is just solid. Controls are easy to learn and camera is also pretty good. One big downside 
 is the length of the game. You can play this game through about 5 to 6 hours... If you want to 
 get all the achievements you have to spend more time but story is pretty short. Beginning of the 
 story is pretty interesting but somewhere it gets just little bit boring. You can tell what happens 
 next. I'm big mech fan and I did love the mechs of this game. So if you are big mech fan love sc-ifi, 
 you will like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stockente91
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  its a great game gameplay is great enmeys great everything almost great but almost . i like not 
 better than Gears of war and Halo. stell one of the greats games i played before on the xbox360. 
 its a great game gameplay is great enmeys great everything almost great but almost . i like not 
 better than Gears of war and Halo. stell one of the greats games i played before on the xbox360. 
 its a great game gameplay is great enmeys great everything almost great but almost . i like not 
 better than Gears of war and Halo. stell one of the greats games i played before on the xbox360its 
 a great game gameplay is great enmeys great everything almost great but almost . i like not better 
 than Gears of war and Halo. stell one of the greats games i played before on the xbox360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 14, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Since the smash hit that is Gears of War hit the shelves simular type games have been trying to 
 capture the greatness and some have slightly done well and some haven't. Lost Planet is no exception.
 
  
  The set up for Lost Planet is that aliens have taken over the world and your a space marine looking 
 to destroy them. The graphics are top notch and Capcom did a good job in giving you a Gears of 
 War feel with the camera set up. The controls aren't quite as responsive as Gears but they are 
 set up the same. The music is a bit dynamic at times and the sounds aren't out of place. The things 
 that are different don't capitalize on the game play. The constant need to give your character 
 energy as the time counts down until he dies is a bit annoying. The use of the mechs feel kind 
 of latched on and don't really intergrate well into the game structure. Overall if you are looking 
 for another shooter because you have completely beat Gears of War, Lost Planet does a good job. 
 If you are looking for a completely new expierence this isn't your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  These days, original game series are becoming a rare commodity. Creativity is lost amongst the 
 endless Splinter Cell and Sonic sequels of the gaming industry. Then there is Lost Planet, a newly 
 created franchise by Capcom for the Xbox 360. New game mechanics such as the use of thermal energy 
 and Vital Suits (VS) are always welcome -- but Lost Planet is not without its flaws.
  
  The story line in Lost Planet is passable but certainly not inspiring. The game is set in the future 
 where humans have moved off Earth to colonise a planet E. D. N. III  and it is covered in ice. The 
 various settlements on E. D. N. III seem to be a success at first however the peace doesn't last. 
 The Akrid alien horde who colonise the planet attack the humans and force them into a bloody retreat. 
 You play as Wayne -- a highly unusual name fore a video game character. Wayne's father has been 
 killed by a giant Akrid called the Green Eye. So, just like any story of revenge, Wayne sets out 
 to kill the Green Eye that murdered his father. Along the way Wayne discovers all is not as it 
 seems on E. D. N III.
  
  Lost Planet's use of thermal energy adds an interesting twist to the game. Wayne's thermal energy 
 slowly depletes over time and if it runs out he'll die. The only way to replenish Wayne's health 
 is by walking over the thermal energy of your fallen enemies. This creates a sense of urgency to 
 the game as Wayne needs to fight to continue to live, yet if his health is low he may not have 
 enough power to win. Each breed of Akrid has different ways of being killed, adding variety to 
 the game-play.
  
  The game takes place in a third person perspective. The controls are fairly standard, with the 
 analog sticks control aiming and movement. Aiming, however, feels a little bit sluggish. It takes 
 far too long for Wayne's aiming reticle to move from the left hand side of the screen to the right. 
 You will be fighting both on foot and in mechs called Vital Suits (VS) . Fighting in the various 
 models of VS makes sending the Akrid to kingdom come very easy -- almost too easy at times. Each 
 model of VS suit has its advantages and disadvantages. Some are slow but pack awesome fire power, 
 whilst others are fast moving but pack little fire power. Just like Wayne's health the VS suits 
 require thermal energy to operate.
  
  Graphically Lost Planet is superb. As the game is set on an ice planet you would expect the snow 
 to look great, and it does. The light shimmering off the snow looks amazing. Explosions look natural, 
 however, it would have been nice if the heat melted away some of the ice. The character models 
 are highly detailed with bits and pieces dangling off their utility belts -- though human enemy 
 models are a bit disappointing, as there are only a few variety of skins. The character design 
 of the various Akrid is unique and creative. They range from flying suckers to heavily armoured 
 ramming Akrid. Even with dozens of Akrid on screen at once the game manages to maintain a smooth 
 frame rate.
  
  The audio in Lost Planet is decent enough. Explosions and gunshots all sound convincing. Unfortunately 
 the same cannot be said for the dialogue and voice acting.
  Some of the dialogue in Lost Planet feels like it was ripped straight out of a B grade action movie. 
 The voice acting is monotonous and un-inspiring. Luckily, the action is so enjoyable you don't 
 need to worry about what the other characters are saying.
  
  Multiplayer in Lost Planet is fast and furious. There are eight different maps for you and 15 other 
 combatants to duke it out with. With only eight maps to choose from you quickly become familiar 
 with their layout. Fortunately the levels are divided into several different sections with multiple 
 floors. Often when playing over Xbox Live you will find yourself playing with people from across 
 the globe. The great thing about having the servers internationally is that you will never have 
 trouble finding people to play with. The downside is that games can occasionally suffer from lag. 
 The game play in multiplayer is just as fun as it is in single player.
  
  Lost Planet has a variety of modes that include deathmatch and team deathmatch, all-against-one 
 and an assault type of mode called grab. In grab, you and your team must secure the various data 
 posts around the map from the opposing team. The team that holds the posts for the longest by the 
 end of the match wins. This makes for some hectic battles as the counter goes down to zero. VS 
 suits are also scattered around the map making killing the other players easier. Don't think that 
 because you have a VS suit that you become a one man killing machine. Other players also have VS 
 suits so you will need to be strategic about selecting your targets.
  
  Overall Lost Planet is an enjoyable shooter with easy to learn game-play. Complementing the fun 
 single player mode is its equally enjoyable multiplayer. If you can look past the corny dialogue 
 you will find a great action game that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bry3800
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 13, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the gameplay is pretty good but it is overshadowed by a bad story that doesn't even really 
 make sense and the multiplayer is not that great either. The game provides alot of enemies that 
 are fun to completely destroy, and trust me you will destroy them, but there WAY to easy, the bug 
 AI is really easy and the pirates are EXTREMELY dumb. The game does have its fun parts tho, the 
 bosses are pretty cool and getting in a mech is pretty sweet. The story is confusing and just does 
 not make sense, it gets annoying but you will keep playing because the gameplay is pretty good.
 
  
  UGH the multiplayer, i played for about an hour then quite because i got SO bored, dont even bother 
 with it because its SO boring.
  
  All in all the game isnt to bad, but its no masterpiece, the graphics are pretty good tho but they 
 aint no Gears of War, i say rent the game first then decide for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 12, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game a few weeks ago and I gotta say, it's pretty good. The graphics (particularly 
 the outdoor areas) look really awesome, and the explosions and visuals are all very nice. I wouldn't 
 say this quite stacks up to say, Gears Of War, but it shouldn't disappoint you, whether you play 
 on a high-def or regular television. Ditto for sound. The story isn't the most exciting or engaging, 
 but once you're knee-deep in a pile of Akrid, you shouldn't care. One thing that's really cool 
 is that there are LOTS of things to kill, including the Akrid (big bug-like aliens) , and Snow Pirates 
 (both foot soldiers and guys driving big mechs) . Aside from killing lots of bugs, you can destroy 
 much of the environment, which is sweet. The mechs, or VS suits are where the game focuses on. 
 Throughout each mission, you can climb into a nice variety of these big arsenals with legs. Some 
 can even transform into snow-mobile-ish things to get you around faster. Some can also hover around 
 and jump with jets, and stomp all over smaller bad guys. One thing I found really cool is that 
 some mechs actually have detachable weapons. For example, you may see a trashed, beat-up mech in 
 pieces, with a gatling gun or rocket launcher strapped on. The mech itself is useless but you can 
 salvage any weapons and put them on a working mech. Most can hold 2 different weapons, so you can 
 mix it up a bit. Even though much of the game has you driving a mech, you also get out and run 
 around on foot sometimes. Don't worry, there's a nice collection of guns to keep you company out 
 there. From shotguns, to machine guns, to sniper rifles, to rocket launchers... It's all there, 
 go nuts. You can also carry grenades which vary, from regular, to the sticky kind. One special 
 item you have is the grappling hook, and it's pretty useful. As long as you are close enough, you 
 can fire it onto a ledge and pull yourself up. This is good for finding a strategic sniping point, 
 or scouting the area better. And, if you accidentally fall from a ledge, the hook will grab the 
 ledge and save you, letting you rappel down, or climb back up.
  Overall I can't say this was a terribly deep game and it's over fairly quickly, but it's still 
 an enjoyable game, and even more worth it if you play on Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonpeggisace
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 10, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a great ride through a frozen planet infested with alien bugs and snow pirates. 
 The aim of the game is to blow up and kill anything that moves, and collect there heat source when 
 they die to conserve your heat against the freezing conditions.
  But it actually never gets boring!
  Although theres not really a story to it (you play Wayne 
 who has amnesia and he only remembers his dad being killed) and a group of pirates take you to 
 there base where you wake up and need to find out whats going on.
  The graphics on Lost Planet are proper ace, and the explosions are some of the best ever. It has 
 a very arcady feel and the pace is fast and furiuos, it doesnt let you take a breath hardly as 
 theres always snow pirates or bugs chasing you!
  Wayne has a hookshot that he can use to get to higher ground when it gets too hectic on some battlefields. 
 But the best parts of the game are when you get to go in the mechs. You can have machine guns, 
 rocket launchers, lasers, anything destructive and all sorts of weapons that cause HUGE explosions!
 
  
  Play the game listening to bands such as Bring Me The Horizon, Enter Shikari, any hardcore/screamo 
 band and it gets your adrenaline pumping!
  
  Overall Lost Planet is one of the better arcade shooters to come out, and its just a proper awesome 
 game!
  
  : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectParadox1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  The fact that I didn't care even a little bit about what happened to Wayne, the story's protagonist, 
 made it especially hard to enjoy this game. Dead Rising's Frank was at least a likable guy. A soldier-guy 
 with memory loss, Wayne hooks up with a band of opportunists fighting back against the bugs and 
 ice pirates that stand in the way of their search for sellable goods. Wayne, like every other character 
 in the game, suffers from terrible voice acting and a general airheadedness that makes it very 
 hard to take anything he says seriously. When deep dark secrets about the world around them or 
 the evil corporation start to be revealed, your reaction is one of boredom rather than intrigue.
 
  e title also concretizes the icy nature of the planet by forcing you to 'deal' with the elements. 
 You are essentially on a timer whenever you are out in the field, as a number representing the 
 heat stored in your body armor steadily decreases over time. Slaying enemies or breaking open stores 
 of a reddish gel replenish this substance, which also acts as an always-on shielding system. Like 
 the energy shields common to many FPS titles nowadays, as long as you have heat energy available 
 your actual health bar is very hard to damage. Another way of replenishing your energy is via the 
 data posts scattered throughout levels. These act as save points, heat replenishers, and radar 
 data points; activating one will net you information about the surrounding area in addition to 
 the other benefits. Neither of these mechanics are unprecedented, but give the game an interesting 
 tone that jacks up the tenseness of battle situations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 9, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  The question of whether a game is essentially valuable for its play mechanics alone as opposed 
 to being the sum of parts that include interface, pacing, story, features and gameplay among others 
 has never been as pertinent as it is when discussing Lost Planet: Extreme Condition.
  
  From a certain perspective, Lost Planet is a fine game. The controls are tight, the weapons selection 
 is varied and balanced (if perhaps a little predictable) , the graphics are solid and the challenge 
 level is appropriate and adjustable. In short, as long as you are actively controlling the game's 
 protagonist, Wayne Holden, it is completely enjoyable.
  
  Where Lost Planet stumbles is primarily in motivation and a remarkable lack of attention to detail 
 by game designers. The game's story is flat out asinine, the voice acting is painfully bad, the 
 dialogue is worse and the intangible elements of the game like creating memorable scenarios or 
 fostering a sense of satisfaction have been completely overlooked.
  
  The atrocities committed by the game's nonsensical story are too numerous to be detailed, but suffice 
 to say that even without the bad acting, worse writing and granted a post-game summary on a site 
 like Wikipedia or GameFAQs, there is still so little about the plot to find intriguing or even 
 worth mentioning that the game quite literally would have been better with no plot or backstory 
 at all. In fact if the game had merely consisted of the player taking control of a gun-toting nameless 
 hero on a random snow-covered, alien-infested planet and been told to go forth and destroy, the 
 game might have been a must-own. Such is the strength of the gameplay and likewise such is the 
 weakness of the story.
  
  Instead each mission follows the painfully overwrought story from one loosely connected setting 
 to the next with hardly any real sense of what the combat portions are supposed to be accomplishing. 
 On the up side, at least the combat is fun.
  
  Lost Planet seems to have combined the various elements that serve as some sort of identity completely 
 at random: Aliens, inter-species conflict, a snow-covered colonized planet, a sketchy revenge story, 
 armored mechs and weirdly precious heat energy. If you merely accept these things at face value 
 the way you might accept the set up for an 8-bit video game where you have some arbitrary goal 
 like rescuing a princess, it's perfectly enjoyable. But the second you start asking any question 
 that starts with why you're in trouble.
  
  And really this is the downfall of Lost Planet. If the story and various elements had been combined 
 in even the most basic, comprehensive manner there could be a great game in here. But as it is 
 there is nothing to distract your mind from the few gameplay quirks or flaws that might be overlooked 
 if you had something to think about other than what sea urchin came up with this dreck? 
  
  For example, as cool as the drivable mech suits (called VS' in the game) are, almost every single 
 model moves too slowly, even when the rocket boost is available and used. Also, the lack of ability 
 to acquire ammo from unused mechs without getting all the way out of your current one is annoying. 
 The explosive hit animation that sends Wayne flying is too literal and can lead to something akin 
 to a juggle combo where your energy is sapped while you get tossed helplessly around the map.
 
  
  Even things as simple as the energy system which makes no sense and serves a very dubious purpose 
 in-game gets brought into sharp relief because it is so poorly explained and/or dealt with during 
 the mercilessly long cutscenes. The list continues with the lack of a weapon-specific reload option 
 while in a mech (reloading forces you to stop firing completely unless you just wear your ammo 
 reserves to nothing each clip) and the fact that too many enemies are unremarkable human footsoldiers 
 instead of the far more exciting Akrid alien foes.
  
  All of which makes recommending Lost Planet a bit difficult. During the missions the game has the 
 potential to be great fun, but almost everything else in between is a miserable mess. Some people 
 will shrug off the complaints as minor and be satisfied with the genuinely exciting shooter aspect. 
 Others will try in vain to make sense of it all and fall short, leaving with a bad impression and 
 a nagging question:
  
  What, exactly, were they thinking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusgerbil
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I was watching football when i saw a commercial for this game I had not seen it and it looked cool 
 so later i got it. Well first off the single player is very fun but is kind of easy hard some stuff 
 is easy but some stuff is acctualy hard. And the story easily the worst part of the game this story 
 made me scratch my head and say wtf too many times the story is just plain retarded do yourself 
 a favor and skip the cutscenes trust me u wont miss anything important. The mechs are really fun 
 too and play just right you feel likea beast in them. The online play is fun and addicting u can 
 customize your character with skins and stuff and as u level up u get new patterns and character 
 models. The graphics are amazing the only better game may be gears of war the explosions are nice 
 and when you play a rocket launcher game things get crazy. Overall very fun game and definitler 
 worth the 60 dollars only complaints is the story. i give you lost planet 9.2 only thing lost in 
 this game is your story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 8, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about lost planet? Hmm well.. the let downs of Lost Planet are minimum at best. This 
 is probably the best lookin game (aside from Gears) on the 360. The visuals in Lost Planet are 
 awesome, the gameplay is great too! There are some awesome mechs you can pilot in this game. Not 
 to mention the awesome Akrid. These giant insect like aliens are what make Lost Planet great. You 
 just never now when a giant Akrid is gonna pop out of the ground or the wall and make you say whoa 
 . I also really like the controls for the mechs, it was smooth and responsive, and there where 
 pleanty to choose from too. Now with all these great things to play and do in Lost Planet, you 
 don't play this game for the story. The story in LP is probably the worst game story ever. It just 
 really makes no sense at all. Half the time I wasn't sure why I was going to an area, but I was 
 glad to because the gameplay is so fun. Towards the end of the game I just started to skip the 
 movie scenes all togather. I also noticed that the this game can get hard, frustratingly hard at 
 times, but as long as you can resist the urge to throw the controller and give it a couple tires 
 you should get past those tough areas. Well aside from the story Lost Planet is deff. a great addition 
 to your collection for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  People talk about how short that this game is, but it took me a good bit longer to beat than it 
 took me to beat Gears of War, which I beat in roughly 7 hours (two short afternoons.) I took my 
 time playing Lost Planet, and was able to spread out beating it over the course of a little over 
 a week. A much richer gaming experience in my opinion.
  
  I also felt that not only was it more challenging than Gears was, but it is overall just a much 
 funner game that has a more unique set of challenges for the player. By unique set of challenges 
 I mean that while you are engaged in what sometimes are VERY heated battles, you also have to worry 
 about your thermal energy count running out, while you are at the same time trying to dispatch 
 of enemies/enemy. Not to mention your weapon selection and ammo supply which also plays a very 
 critical role.
  
  Lost Planet is truly a multi-tasker's game, which is another notch for it in the postitive attribute 
 of next-gen titles column. Not to mention the beautifully done graphics, sound, story, weapon selection, 
 fun and useful grappling device, and great gameplay. One of the main standout features, however, 
 that you will absolutely LOVE within this game are the special effects. Especially the explosions, 
 which are by far and large the best I have seen thus far in a game yet this gen. Simply killer. 
 Lost planet is in my opinion one the very best games for the 360 right now, as it has it all. A 
 good sci-fi story, beautiful graphics, great gameplay, great weapons, superb special effects, and 
 a unique set of challenges that will provide you with a great next-gen gaming experience. What 
 more do you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  ok lost planet. lost planet is a shooter that in my opinion will have you hooked for a level or 
 two but after a while you pretty much say why did i get it and just finish it for the gamerscore. 
 overall the shooting is dead on, i like the fact that now you have to collect thermal energy, it 
 puts a new challenge into the game and that system works really well. the mechs are fun to use 
 and work beautifully, but you cant have a perfect game can you?? of course not i for one hate the 
 story, and find it unclear and if a game dosent have a good story i simply cant play it, next on 
 my rant list are the boss fights, some boss fights can take forever and some you'll either run 
 out of thermal energy or ammo, and in this case your screwed and have to restart the level. next 
 is the lack of online play what is a shooter without online play??? hmmm??? lost plannet has really 
 good things going for it but then even more really bad things. i think that $60 is a bit to much 
 for this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good want to know why???? I am now going to tell you why. The story of the game 
 is about a trooper who works for the army who fight the alien's on the lost planet. He then hit's 
 his head on something and forgets who he is and where he is from. A man then find's him and take's 
 him back to his little base. Then it starts the really game level. The graphics of this game are 
 amazing and the gameplay is so much fun. The online for this game is good and XBOX LIVE do lot's 
 of updates for it which is great. You can also ride on VS's {Robots} . Like robots of gundam wing 
 it's so cool. If you are a XBOX 360 owner then get this game now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I am giving 
 this a 9.5 out of 10. Rock231992 sign out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawCabZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game turns out to be Capcom's first game to come out on the Xbox 360 and I think that 
 this game is a perfect opening for games to come in the Xbox 360. The game has similar battle mechanics 
 to Gears of War but it's not really the same either. It's a third person shooter and you battle 
 mean aliens from another planet. Although, the story is kind of empty. The plot doesn't really 
 bother you and makes you wanna jump into the fight early and just ignore the small details. The 
 fights are intense because of the large aliens called Akrid and the snow pirates you have to battle. 
 There is some similarity to the Halo thing too. Your health is replenished by using up thermal 
 energy and kind of similar to the Halo thing by waiting but in this game, you'd have to collect 
 the gooey stuff from aliens. The thermal energy collecting is perfect for a snow environment because 
 the game is based on a snow covered planet and your mission is to get the big monster called the 
 Green Eye that has eaten your father. The main character is called Wayne, but I have a feeling 
 he won't be game icon like Dante or Megaman, because this game feels like it's too short to be 
 remembered by fans of Capcom, but hey it's a great game to play. Lost Planet has stages that makes 
 you think hard because each stage has a big area to explore and you need at least an hour to complete 
 each one. Although, the games feels too short to be memorable, Capcom fans will still find this 
 enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: 95%
  Lost Planet has a beautiful environment even though almost everything is white.
  
  Gameplay: 
 89%
  The game mechanics is similar to Gears Of War but it's still enjoyable
  
  Lifespan: 92%
  The game has a lot of stages and each one need over an hour and plus there's multiplayer
 
  
  Sound: 88%
  Nice sound because there's a lot of explosions
  
  Gore Factor: 77%
  Alien bodies shatter when they turn to ice but there's no blood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Capcom has been seeing a lot of success on the XBOX 360. The August release of Dead Rising and 
 the January release of Lost Planet: Extreme Condition benefited the publisher hugely. While I found 
 Dead Rising to be a fun blast to play I cannot say the same about Lost Planet. I enjoy a strong 
 single-player game, that tells an interesting (however far fetched) story. Lost Planet only partly 
 delivers on one of these and totally fails on the other.
  
  You play as Wayne, the space pirate with a spotty memory. At the outset you are shown your father's 
 death but don't worry, you won't remember it. From this point on the story gets so convoluted that 
 I didn't much care anymore, which left it up to the single-player experience. The mission is simple, 
 move from point A to point B, killing tons of giant insects and any human opposition that gets 
 in your way. You will be equipped with plenty of weaponry and on occasion giant mechs. Everything 
 is quite a blast to shoot and blow up but that is the extent of the game. Couple that with the 
 frequent cheap deaths, spotty Mech controls and overly simple boss battles you get a mediocre experience.
 
  
  Like most games released in this new era of gaming, Lost Planet includes a multiplayer portion 
 with a variety of game types. My experience with the game involved me running around, watching 
 other people running around and then me getting killed. For those that do enjoy online multiplayer 
 Lost Planet may have something for you.
  
  Graphically Lost Planet is a mixed bag. On the surface the concept of the game is very similar 
 to Gears of War and graphically it doesn't hold a candle to the beauty of Gears. But Lost Planet 
 does load the screen with a ton more enemies and you and them are moving at almost all times, as 
 opposed to Gears stop and pop warfare. Unfortunately since both are shooters, both are going to 
 be compared to each other and Lost Planet just doesn't look as nice. Character and enemy models, 
 especially the giant bugs, look very good though. And while the overall environments don't look 
 great they are able to portray the extreme cold or heat of the different levels.
  
  Another are that I found lacking in Lost Planet was the sound. Voice acting was downright terrible 
 but then again so was the story. Gunfire and explosions were weak sounding and I never felt like 
 I was on Hoth, Earth 2 or whatever the hell it was called, battling giant bug thingies. The mechs 
 were unimpressive sound wise as well.
  
  Lost Planet does some things well, the idea of thermal energy being needed to survive topside makes 
 a lot of sense and adds an urgency to the game but the same concept is irrational on the subterranean 
 levels where there is obviously lava flowing. We need thermal energy to stay warm down there? The 
 game can be completed in a very short period of time so if you are desperate for a quick weekend 
 play I would recommend this as a rental but a full purchase would be a waste of money at this point. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrider69er
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  With a game like Lost Planet, in which you do nothing but shoot giant insects in a snow-covered 
 wasteland, you'd almost expect publisher Capcom to come up with a tagline like, The world is covered 
 in ice, but the action is just heating up! But Lost Planet: Extreme Condition takes itself more 
 seriously than that, despite having a distinct Starship Troopers-on-ice feel to it. The exaggerated, 
 almost campy sci-fi theme works well for this game, though, because while it is a very simple, 
 straightforward shooter, the action moves at a brisk pace, there are always plenty of things to 
 shoot and blow up, and the larger-than-life enemies are incredibly fun to fight. As Lost Planet 
 skillfully proves, you don't need much else to make a great game. With a name like Wayne, this 
 guy might not have much of a shot at becoming the next iconic video game hero, but at least his 
 game is a lot of fun. The game takes place in the distant future, when humans have left Earth in 
 an attempt to colonize other planets. On the frozen planet known as E. D. N. III, the colonization 
 efforts seemed to meet with some success, but eventually the humans ran up against some strong 
 opposition in the form of massive insectlike aliens known as Akrid. In battling the hostile Akrid 
 the humans figured out that the creatures contained within their bodies a thermal energy source 
 that could be gathered and used as a source of heat and energy -- two vital components of a comfortable 
 life on a barren, snow-covered wasteland. Instead of fleeing the planet in search of, say, someplace 
 not frozen, the humans decided to stay on E. D. N. III and develop heavily armed mechs known as Vital 
 Suits with which to fight the Akrid and hoard as much of their precious thermal goo as possible. 
 But the humans aren't just fighting the Akrid -- they're also fighting each other. Groups of outlaws 
 known as snow pirates roam around in their Vital Suits collecting thermal energy and generally 
 causing trouble. You play the game as Wayne, a snow pirate who was discovered buried under the 
 snow and ice. He has little memory of his past, but he does remember that his father was killed 
 by a large Akrid known as Green Eye. So Wayne sets out to hunt the Green Eye and avenge his father's 
 death. The story gets more convoluted and weird from there, as oddball characters are introduced 
 and abruptly go away and nonsensical plot twists get the story all tangled up. There are some lengthy 
 cutscenes between each mission, but they aren't the least bit compelling; you can easily skip every 
 one without missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Lost planet in my opinion is a good idea turned bad by the rampent difficulty and low visibility 
 of enemys and other technical issues and not to mention the multiplayer is horrid.
  
  Lost planet begins with the intro into why this planet is inhabited by giant bugs and how their 
 urine is a remarkable heat sourse [its warm too] . you are Wayne Holden; a young man who after your 
 father is killed gets amnesia [plays wierd music in old soap operas] and you must recover your memory 
 while finding out the mysteries of the planet. Gameplay is plain old behind the back shooter but 
 with a twist! theres snow to keep you from walking fast and hinders your location of enemys [who 
 go from hard to stupid in seconds] along the way you get mechs but other than being giant shields 
 their useless. Graphics can be good if you can see through the damned snow! music is poor and voice 
 acting is kinda wierd in the way the actors don't know crap of what about their are saying.
  
  stay clear from this planet and if you need to refuel and are near here than just shoot yourself 
 in the head now before you crashland cause this is one to be evoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When I originally played the E3 demo of Lost planet I was overtaken with joy. Capcom was going 
 to produce an american-type action game were you basically run-and-gun. Could you imagine the camaraderie 
 between such different styles of development. I mean if you blend greats and artistic value with 
 good old fashion american action, the possibilities are endless. I was completey over hyping this 
 game to everyone. I even said and I'm quoting word for word here: I predict that Lost Planet for 
 the 360 will be better than any american based action game... yes even Halo!! This was going to 
 be the new Socom for the 360!! Oh boy was I wrong.
  
  Story: First, let me address all these different reviews that say the Lost planet storyline is 
 too convoluted. I personally, don't understand how people are getting confused. Like every japanese 
 character ever created the lead character Wayne has amnesia and can't remember anything other than 
 the creature that killed his father Green-Eye. After a couple of starter mission you begin the 
 semi-true journey to rid the world of green-eye and the akrid. As the game progresses...
  
  **** Spoiler **** Last time I did a in depth story portion I completely gave the ending away. I 
 know that was an **** thing of me to do so I'm making Up for it by letting people know ahead of 
 time that I'm about to spoil the crap out of the game so be warned like every japanese game the 
 true villain emerges about half-way throught the game and the real storyline is created. The real 
 enemy isn't the akrid at all, this evil corporation NEVEC is trying leading what is called the 
 Frontier Project. which most people think is to warm up the planet so people can live there. Nope, 
 the real reason is to destroy all the snow pirate clans that were left behind when NEVEC first 
 occupied the planet of E. D. N III; so the NEVEC corporation doesn't have to worry about those poor 
 snow pirates. (Hey an evil plan trying to get rid of poor people.. I'm down.. JUST KIDDING!! ITS 
 A JOKE PEOPLE DON T GO CRAZY AND START BANNING MY REVIEW... PS GROW A SENSE OF HUMOR PLEASE..) 
 Gameplay: Personally, the story is bad but its not good. The aspect that truly disappoints is gameplay. 
 First of all, Wayne walks way way to slow; users have more maneuvering abilities in a Vital Suit 
 than Wayne does on foot. Second, At first I though the grappling hook was going to be totally awesome 
 but guess what boys and girls, it isn't that awesome. The slights bump and you lose your grappeling 
 position; so forget about using it as a evasive maneuver. The only cool move is attaching to akrids 
 hot spots; which still puts you at a crappy position because Wayne always seems to get knocked 
 off. Which wouldn't be that bad if the knock down animation wasn't literally 10 seconds long. I 
 mean trying to get of sense of realism is cool but this game is a little be excessive. Add to all 
 that a lackluster AI component and you beginning to see why I'm kind of disappointed with Lost 
 planet. Lets get one thing straight; just like in capcoms other awesome but nothing going to appeal 
 to everyone, Dead Rising; the zombie Ai is awesome for zombies. The same case pertains to Lost 
 planets; the akrid have awesome AI but the Snow Pirates are dumbing than my poop; once again the 
 same problem is seen in Dead Rising civilians. Graphics and other Stuff:
  The graphics are a little bit better than Dead rising. Seeing how the same engine was used that 
 shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. The lighting is awesome so is the particles effects but there 
 are occasion when to many particles can be on the screen at once which does cause some frame rate 
 issues. All in all, the frame rate and graphics are above average but nothing compare to Gears 
 of War or even Rainbow Six. The sound track and sound effect though well done are pretty forgettable. 
 The only really cool aspect of this game is the vitual suits but personally I'm not a mech guy 
 so they wear thin on me pretty quickly.
  
  Online: The online component is hit or miss in my opinion. Either your going to love the same hardcore 
 action that you got from the single player; or you played enough blain action for one life time. 
 Its exactly the same as the single player so if you want more action with your friend online your 
 going to love it!!
  
  In the end, most people will find Lost planet to be a waste of time and money. As i stated earlier, 
 I though this game was going to be super awesome its ok; decent at best, but nothing to write home 
 about. I would only recommend this game to hardcore action fans that don't mind extremely simple 
 controls and gameplay for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mongolkhan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I am still playing the single player and find it challenging while teaching me the skill sets to 
 use in the Online portion. Story line hasn't been extremely captivating, but the action is more 
 than satisfying.
  
  I hear that many are disappointed with the end of the single-player, but I am not overly concerned. 
 I still find the action very engaging without being a burden to my dexterity. While I play some 
 other games, I always come back to it. With a busy schedule it is ideal for going in, having a 
 great time, and then get back to life.
  
  Thank you Capcom!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhondra
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  End Boss was tough (too tough, in my estimate) and not for any real reason other than insane number 
 of different attacks. I'm not sure how you beat this on hard or insane difficulty. There are a 
 LOT of cinematic cut scenes in this game. It tells a detailed story, uh, but not one that is even 
 remotely believeable or makes any sense. The end cut scene made me say huh? and not in a cool tingly 
 way. The girl model is pretty amazing on this and I'm very impressed with the ability of games 
 to render scenes anymore and see facial animations like they are. This game has some superb graphics 
 and good environments. Green Eye boss and the final boss sort of sucked (after 2,356,987 reloads 
 you sort of are just playing to finish it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all the story sucks! it makes no sense! And what kind of name is Wayne! But owell.... killing 
 aliens is alright. I dont know about you but i do not like the aiming system at all. it just feels 
 so awkward. Another thing i dont like is that the game is not a challenge. the campaign is just 
 so weird and especially the ending. I love shooters but this is just stupid. all you do is run 
 through the giant level killing people for their thermal energy But luckily the online is pretty 
 fun. there are plenty of modes on the most part is pretty fun. Also the mechs are fun to use as 
 well as many of the weapons.
  
  The graphics are nice on the most part. I thought the mechs looked awesome.
  
  The sound i 
 was not very impressed. the music is ok but the voice acting is barely sub par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the demo from xbox live and decided to rent Lost Planet from gamefly. com. Had hopes I 
 would like the full game.
  
  The first thing is the story, the story and cut scenes are horrible, its like watching bad acting 
 on soaps. After watching the first few I started skipping them, they are not worth watching and 
 don't add to the game in any way.
  
  Controls:
  The overall controls are good but I have a list of issues. One you can't change control or game 
 setting while playing the game, makes it hard to tweak the controls. Move than 30% of your time 
 in the game you will not control you character, because everything stuns him. Such as a near miss 
 of an attack or a big near by enemy. You character will stumble which you have no control over. 
 Every boss fight is the same, you shoot it to death between it stunning you.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty good, there is a nice level of detail in everthing 
 in the game.
  
  Sound: Besides the sound of the bad cut scenes the sounds it good but there are alot of background 
 noises in the game that get annoying.
  
  Gameplay: Besides the constent character stumbling the game is fun, weapon selection is pretty 
 good but some weapons seem to be worthless or only useful in very few instances/fights. Attaching 
 weaspons the the mechs/AV's is annoying. If you ware holding a mech weapon to attach to a mech 
 you have to stand in a specific spot by the mech to be able to do it, its hard to find the spot 
 sometime in the heat of battle. AI: The AI is horrible, I have yet to have a challenge from non 
 boss units, I have even had many experience where I could see shots landing around me but it took 
 me a minute to find who was shooting at me, yet with me standing around they still couldn't hit 
 me. I even had one instance where a enemy was directly behind me with a energy rifle and must have 
 shot at me 30 times and never hit me. Now I have only played on normal mode but I have only been 
 killed by bosses so far in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preston09
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I was happy about being able to finaly rent this dumb game untill i started playing it. I played 
 it for about 15 minutes till i stopped. first of all fighting bugs the whole game dose get old. 
 and im mostly going to be talking about online. You walk SLOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! omg and looking around 
 is slow. yeah you can ajust it but its way to boaring. you might be running to go pick up a weapon 
 when out of know wear you get killed. and when you roll you literly stop. i tired to get into this 
 game but just could not. when your trying to get into a online a onilne match you have to wait 
 for people to come inn like always.. but when its about to start 9 out of 10 times the host quits, 
 either hes waiting for someone or there's to much people. and know one ever talks on it. OMg\G 
 it so STUPID!!!!!!!!!!!!!! dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  I do think this game deserved more then a 8.1 I dont feel like writing so I'll put everything in 
 point form.
  
  
  pros
  -Grahpics wore good on a HD TV i like how the snow effect was though
  -has online play which 
 was good
  -sound was pretty good
  -the chrecthers in the game sucks
  -I do like the conversion with the mech suits very nice touch which puts the game in a differnt 
 leadge compared to the simple shoot badgus and throw granades stuff.
  
  Cons
  -I dont care about stories but I could of thought of a new 1
  -Short gameplay
  -ugly health 
 bars and stuff I hate it -Needs more visual effects -without the online play the game would be 
 in your closet after you play the single player
  -more machines to use would be better or differnt style mechs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  lost planet: extreme condition is a good to ok game. first off the graphics are very good and the 
 sound its also good but not the best ive seen. the gamplay for the first few levels is alot of 
 fun and isnt boring but after you get past those it gets a bit boring and all the same. Even the 
 boss battles i felt got very boring (shoot a number of big yellow spots in a mec suit till it dies) . 
 the levels were good but same as before i found it repetitve. over all the game is wroth playing 
 but some may not want to purchase because of the boring gameplay at times and the muliplayer is 
 very weak to me. i played it many time but felt that it just didnt stack up to the similar multipalyers 
 goign around on xbox live (halo 2, Gears of War) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  A month or so ago I was after a game, but couldn't decide between this and Crackdown, the wonders 
 of Ebay meant by selling on Enchanted Arms I could get both for the cost of a single new game.
 
  Both arrived on the same day and after 3 weeks of Crackdown (gotta find them orbs) I finally loaded 
 up Lost Planet.
  Things brings back memories of years ago when you could pick up and play a game without having 
 to trawl through a mass of instructions and a boring tutorial mode, both are in there but don't 
 get in the way of the game and the cutscenes shine and remind me of when I first played Resident 
 Evil 2 and the knowledge that when something big was about to happen the CGI would cut in and you'd 
 gasp in amazement.
  The story may be a little weird at times but the blasting is fun and the action never slows down 
 to the point of monotony, the thrill of killing the first boss is everything it needs to be.
  So what if its not the best looking game out there, the gameplay rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Lost planet was a game that I was never really sure if I wanted or not after it had been out for 
 a few months and I'd heard the right amount of good things about it I decided to bite the bullet 
 and just buy it. When I got home I planked the disk in my 360 and excitely waited to play. I stareted 
 byt playing the campaign and after playing the first few levels I have to say the game seamed quite 
 generic and uninspiring so far and I doubted the fact that I would acctually return to play the 
 campaign again at all. After this dissapointment I went over to the online battle mode once again 
 I played some matches and I once again have to say that once agian the experience was nothing short 
 of horrible with horribly unballenced weapons and a game that basically end up with best weapon 
 or vs wins and which leaves skill a redundant facter of the game. Overall I feel that lost planet 
 was a lackluster experiance that despite costing a fair amount of money I will probably not revisit 
 for a long time. Graphics these are acctually good the explosions are the best I've seen on the 
 console yet and capcom uoght to be congratulated on the job done with some of the graphics. Gameplay, 
 I just didn't find any asspect that I particularly enjoyed I felt the experience lacked anything 
 amazing however fans of old school shooters should maybe check this out as thats basically what 
 lost planet is but with some pritty graphics. The sound can be fraustrating and kind of annying 
 at times although it does the job just not particularly well. From my view Lost planet was a waste 
 of my good money just because of the fact that I have probably spent less than three hours on this 
 game and I do not intend on revisiting it anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueConsegui
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition hooked me. A third person shooter with a new, 
 but surprisingly good, interface greets you as you delve into the cold, mysterious, and sometimes 
 frantic world of Lost Planet. Although not the best multiplayer experience out there, the game's 
 power and stance stems from its amazing single player game. You may have heard complaints about 
 the blatantly obvious weak spots of each and every foe you face, but trust me when I say the game 
 more than makes up for it. The monsters are, to be brief, insane. They don't hesitate for a second. 
 In other words, if you don't attack before they have a chance to lock on to you, you're more or 
 less screwed. My personal favorite part of this game were the VSs, or Vital Suits. Basically mechs, 
 these mechanical beasts came loaded with just about any gun you could imagine, from Gatling Guns 
 to Rocket Launchers to Pulse Cannons. They're a great way to spark up what may become an otherwise 
 monotonous treck.
  
  As far as bosses go, this game's took the cake with any other boss I've faced from any other game. 
 Yeah, that includes OOT. And I think you can believe me when I say that that's saying something. 
 I would have loved to have been able to go back and face any boss I played by loading right before 
 the fight, but unfortunately that isn't an available option.
  
  To sum it up, if you've grown tired of the intense and fast-paced action of Xbox Live and want 
 a little haitus from multiplayer action, I would whole-heartedly recommend Lost Planet: Extreme 
 Condition.
  
  Oh.. I'm sorry, how rude of me. Let me introduce myself. My name is Rita... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggywade
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Hmm, story was average, gameply was decent, graphics are amazing! But once again no co-op! Another 
 in a long line of games that would be perfect for some co-op gameplay. (liek Gears of War what 
 a gem that game is) But all it has is online so I'll be waiting for the PC version, mouse and keyboard, 
 in my opinion, beat out any analog controller for a clean headshot! Solid game none the less and 
 for those who don't have a decent computer go for it! If you do have a decent computer should probably 
 just wait for the PC version, going to be a direct port but hopefully we can get some modders on 
 it or some patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonio358
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth renting, buying s another story, I was super hyped for this game, and I was excited 
 for it, and I really wanted to get into it, but the story is blah, the gameplay is blah, the online 
 is blah, the A. I. is mega BLAH and the sounds are blaah! I really didn't think I could ever give 
 this game an 8.0+ because I really had no different experience and I never really saw the potential 
 being used to any extent and I hate the stupid repetitive gameplay. I can't say that this game 
 is bad, but I can safely say that I won't buy it. I like this game as a whole but certain really 
 big things are missing. I say that Capcom could take advantage and make a re-make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbullitxx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics is great with some incredibly good looking explosions and smoke effects,
  but the terrains and the enemies are usually the same through the whole game.
  A little variety 
 would add to the enjoyment. :) Sound effects, voice acting is all right, but not that special. 
 The Boss fights are great though, this is what makes the game challenging and enjoyable! There 
 are some pretty damn hard bosses especially the Green Eye , The Giant Dongo, the Tank-to-Spider 
 transformable VS and the Level 10 and 11 fights. ;)
  Vehicle usage is great, and there are a lot of different mechs you can use, with different switchable 
 weapons and abilities. (sliding, jumping, etc.)
  
  What I did not like in the game is the following: the main character's running speed is to slow 
 for my taste, also when you got knocked down, it takes couple of seconds to get back into the action 
 which is a bit annoying, since most of the time it is the primary reason of your death. (Try to 
 stay on your foot at al costs.)
  The Rocket Launcher's firing speed is incredibly slow, especially while you are in a Vs (3-4sec) , 
 which is stupid considering that game plays in the future... colonization has already started to 
 the space. There is a Story but imho it is not detailed enough and not very connected to the 
 game itself.
  Ive not played with the multiplayer mode long enough to be able to judge it, but it was decent 
 based on that 30 minutes.
  Overall, this is a good game, and a must have if you own a 360 and like shooters, and a bit of 
 a challenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that Lost Planet is a very pretty looking game. There are all types 
 of effects that makes this game stand out. It has some of the best looking explosions that i have 
 seen in video games, the snow, mechs, creatures, lighting they all look great . The sound effects 
 are pretty good too but the voice acting could have been better though. The story is decent but 
 the game makes you not care about that too much since you will just want to go into levels and 
 blow stuff up. There are tons of weapons in this game. There are plenty of cool grenades and each 
 has a very cool effect. There are also 3 different classes of mechs and they are all fun to drive 
 and they all feel different depending on their size. This game has some pretty epic boss fights 
 and you will enjoy fighting each one. The only problem with the game that i can see is the lackluster 
 storyline and the controls can feel sluggish at times especially if you are in an intense fire 
 fight. Another problem is that if you get knocked down, it takes forever for you stand up and often 
 you will continue to fall down because you took so long to stand up that the enemy reloaded and 
 fired at you again. This will even cause you die sometimes and is really frustrating. The multiplayer 
 in this is games is pretty solid. It doesn't do anything very unique but the variety of weapons 
 and environments makes the multiplayer very fun experience. Overall this game is at least worth 
 rental and you might like the multiplayer so much that you might want to purchase the game just 
 for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianman1203
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical to first get this game, but I really needed a good 360 shooter, and Gears didn't 
 really do it for me. I decided to pick it up and give it a shot and it turned out to be worth it. 
 What really stands out about this game is the fast paced action, the great graphics, and overall 
 gameplay. Unfortunately, what this game really lacks is a story. I felt like i needed more of a 
 reason to play this game. But, fortunately, there is enough impressive gameplay and beautiful graphics. 
 Another thing that really stood out was the ambiance of the place. A snow covered planet was the 
 perfect idea and it kept the mood very chilling. 
  To sum up, this game was great, and has a bright future if Capcom really wants to make a gaming 
 franchise out of it, but a poor story and a few other minor gameplay inconveniences keep it from 
 really flourishing the first time out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet Extreme Conditions for the Xbox360 was made by Capcom. It was surprisingly good. The 
 graphics on the videos were absolutely wonderful, but the gameplay graphics were rather good but 
 dull. There are mechs called VS's or Vital Suit. Some of those babies have very heavy weapons.
 
  
  You are a character named Wayne who is fighting off the Akrid. The Akrid are small, huge and medium 
 size alien lifeforms that are hostile on this snow covered planet. Wayne is fighting for the death 
 of his father, Gale. There is a lot of betrayal in the game between a father and son and things 
 like that.
  
  A lot of the bosses were actually very easy to defeat. The one on level ten was kind of difficult 
 to defeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is Capcom's latest release on the Xbox 360. It is a game based on an Ice World, where 
 humans must kill aliens to harvest their thermal energy, all while defending themselves against 
 space pirates.
  
  The gameplay is good. It features a wide variety of weapons, along with an assortment of mechs. 
 I have never been a fan of mech games, but this is NOT a mech game. This is a 3rd person shooter 
 with mechs as the vehicles. The aiming takes some getting used to as you can move it without moving 
 your camera. However, if you are a fan of classic first person and third person shooters, you can 
 change the settings for aiming.
  
  The graphics actually suprised me, in that they are very good. The environments are huge, and the 
 character models are great, but only in the cutscenes. The actual player models in game arent as 
 good.
  
  What really sets this game apart is its amazing multiplayer. You can have up to 16 players in one 
 game, and the games are fully customizable. The basic gameplan is that each team starts out with 
 a certain amount of points. When you kill a person, you get points, and they lose points. There 
 is a time limit, and very few games actually get finished before the time expires, so it gives 
 the leading team the win. Another really cool feature is the amount of points that your team gets 
 when you kill people. If a level 1 person kills a level 99 person, then your team gets a BUNCH 
 of points. However if its the opposite, your team wont get a lot.
  
  Overall, this game is a great online game, but i would not reccomend it to anyone without XBL. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novo_24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has make another great game that hit the xbox 360. The story line is great, this mysterious 
 Akrid that pops into the world, and the humans must have to act. With the Thermal energy that all 
 akrid have, the humans use it wisely for energy and power. I like the fact that you have thermal 
 energy built up and when you run out your hp runs out. Very good idea. You have many guns for whatever 
 you want to shoot, when you want to shoot. One of the best parts of the game is all the VS machines. 
 The major one you start out with is the best and you will know why if you people read this and 
 play till the end of the game. TRUST ME!!! The bad thing about the game is that its a very short 
 game. I beat it in about 7 hours. They do give you difficulties of easy, normal, hard, and extreme, 
 so have fun with that. So overall this game is worth it and all of you should try it. Its the **** 
 hopefully this helps and rock on gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrising360
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  In this game the campaign is not that hard depending on the difficult , when you get hit you get 
 a chance to back off a little to get your life back up it regenerates once you get a way but about 
 the respawns the multiplayer is good there is no blood and that it will take 15 to 10 seconds just 
 to revive back there are a lot of levels to pick from and new maps to download for a price of the 
 meaning. the weapons are great , but the best part and could be yours is the VS, a VS is just like 
 chromehounds only different some are two legged , some are fast and slow, some even change to different 
 thing so if you think this sounds good and you want to try somthing out different like a creatureas 
 game and a good multiplayer game then go check it out and try it remember its in the LOST PLANET 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterhc
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say, snow is slow
  
  graphics 8/10
  the graphics kept up with all the advanced games coming out, really pleasing to look at all those 
 mechs and insects.
  really not frame rate problems till the end boss
  
  controls 5/10
  slow connection or something, but you can press the button 4 times and get a initial reaction once. 
 many deaths before of this, button layout as usual was generic and glad it was.
  
  storyline 6/10
  was there really a story, it seemed like there was just soo many things going 
 on and you were only getting tid bits here and there. seemed like you were trying to answer the 
 questions to all of your students at the same time.
  
  best feature
  well there wasnt really a highlight too the came for myself, so id have to say getting to hold 
 the mech guns as you werent in them
  
  worst feature
  the snow althought a good idea really slowed down the game. i felt like a walk to a checkpoint 
 was eons from being completed, and you really couldnt react to attacks the way you wanted. least 
 it was a short pain.
  no co-op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericroxs
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  same thing over and over, the explosions are great don't get me wrong but it's only good for so 
 long. I'd recommend this game as a rental since that's all you will need to complete the single 
 player and enjoy some multiplayer before you get bored with it. The single player is amazing the 
 first time through but you probably won't go back a second time, unless you missed something that 
 you wanna get. You can probably beat it on the hardest difficulty with not to much trouble and 
 a couple deaths once you get the hang of the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorandock
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet starts out as an excellent game with an awesome and refreshing storyline that promises 
 to be an excellent game. The combat tactics and battles are fast and furious, with a wide array 
 of weaponry, and mechanized armor suits called VS. The frame-rate is right on throughout the game, 
 and the system remains stable. If you're in the mood for killing alot of insects and using some 
 really cool weapons, play on.
  
  The storyline, however, starts off pretty good, and then falls apart early on. the main character 
 suffers from amnesia, and you play through the storyline half in present, and half chasing the 
 past. It still could have been an excellent stroy, however it is so haphazard with huge holes throughout 
 it, that following the storyline is next to useless.
  
  The game as a whole is still excellent, but short. Development could have spent more time fleshing 
 out the game and creating a more congruent story..... fill in the holes. Who knows, with a completed 
 story, it may have even come close to some of the gaming icons like Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goGators154
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay on this game is not very good........ at all. It's very bland in the way 
 that it's hard to turn and look, the controls arn't very well done, there's no run button, and 
 it has very few features. The few cool features of this game are the grappling hook thing where 
 you can attach yourself to a building and jump up on it, and there are a few weapons that deliver 
 serious damage. The mutiplayer isn't that good but it's ok. A quick description is you can play 
 up to 16 players, it requries some teamwork, and it's got a good amount of maps you can choose 
 from. The campaign isn't very good either, it's easy to beat, not challenging (except for a few 
 parts) , and is boring.
  
  Graphics- Good but not great. It almost seems like they rushed it out and didn't realy concentrate 
 on the graphics. The snow and footprints you make in the snow are pretty cool but that's about 
 it.
  
  Sound- Not much sound in the game and it's not very unique, as in yea you hear gunshots, yea you 
 hear some explosions, yea you hear aliens dieing, but it just feels like they could've done better.
 
  
  Value- I would only pay $20.00 - $25.00 on it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- Lost Planet has gotten pretty good reviews but don't believe the hype.
  
  Overall- 
 Overall it's not very good it's boring and bland, there's nothing special about it, and i would 
 rent it if your thinking of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Playing Los Planet it's cool and refreshing, no stress, no tension of any kind, just grab your 
 gun and shoot your way through... graphics are ok, sound's cool, and the VS are a real deal. It's 
 short, yet it has some replay value. If you like GoW, GRAW, FEAR, and so on, this game shouldn't 
 be a problem to finish it, but it'll be a relieve compare to the hell you've gotta go throgh in 
 those games.
  As for the story, please don't expect too much: it's something like this, earth is no longer livable 
 so men have to find another planet. They found one, a freezing one, but discovered an alien race 
 that wants them out of there (something like super siezed insects) . Through your missions you have 
 to collect red things they drop in order to keep yourself warm and alive. It's VERY simple, but 
 works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a revolution , a whole new idea which has not been made before , you play as Wayne 
 , a teen who's father was crushed by a massive Akrid ( bad guys) called the Green Eye . Lost Planet 
 is a whole new concept where you are in a world of snow and ice . Your main weapons are guns and 
 you also have a hookshot -esque item which can hoist you to levels or items above you. Also a nice 
 touch is the fact there are many machines which you can control and also the monsters in it are 
 refreshing as they range from flying creatures to a massive worm which pops out of the ice and 
 tries to eat you .
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet are quite good as it is a 3rd person shooter and the gameplay is also 
 pretty nice . However i think that it is overrated as it has been dubbed as some as better than 
 Gears Of War but i dont think it can be because of the health system , if you dont get heat energy 
 ( T-Energy) or you'll die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I went to Blockbuster to rent this game and what did I actually pick up you ask? A game that didn't 
 meet my expectations. The mechs were interesting and the graphics weren't that bad, but I felt 
 like the gameplay and the story were a little weak. Online wasn't very fun because people were 
 asses and thought they were better than everyone else. I also didn't like picking that thermal 
 crap either. Maybe the game could have been better, but not today. It turns out that the day I 
 got the game was the day I returned it. I feel like this game couldn't match up with the Halo series 
 or Gears of War. Nice try, but maybe next time Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwileyjr
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game should be purchased just for the simple fact of how much fun the multiplayer portion 
 is. Single player is alright, starts out pretty slow but eventually picks up. Cinematics look nice, 
 the in-game visuals are nice to look at as well (the explosions and smoke effects are like nothing 
 I've ever seen) , but where this game really excels is on XBOX Live. The levels are many and huge 
 and with matches of up to 16 players you can't go wrong and I love how you can level up and be 
 awarded with new uniforms and camouflage patterns for doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmartshopper97
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  A mediocre game that wears out the game play pretty quickly as you progress through the game. A 
 fun time playing in robot suits and killing giant bugs though. The graphics help this game along 
 to make it more enjoyable. though the fighting does sometimes and alot of times feels slow and 
 akwars in the thrid person perspective, It does bring in a new aspect of thermal energy as you 
 life, and if it runs out you die, refills as you kills at take from dead enemies. I would definetly 
 say rent this game and see if you love it, multi player is pretty enjoyable.... GOOOOOO GET EM 
 X B O X 3 6 0 rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlineGama
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This Game is a great game... it has good single player and it has great Enemy AI but the online 
 isn't my cup of tea and i can tell its not many others because its so HARD to find someone on-line 
 in this game. This Game has great host options in the live play but it lacks that replay value 
 that Halo and Gears of War just seems to have. ounce you have played this game you feel like you 
 dont have to play it again to get the full experience out of it. OUNCE YOU'VE PLAYED IT ITS LIKE 
 BEEN THEIR DONE THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wass
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome. It is well easy to pick up and play if you have playin a first 
 person shooter. The graphics are amazing and there are some slight framerate issues but it doesnt 
 interfeer with the game. The monsters look absolutely jawdropping and the bosses are 10x better. 
 The mechs are also amazing to look at and use. The controls for the mech is similar to mech assault 
 and the effects like explosions are fun to do and to look at in high def. Overall I think that 
 this game is a must buy if you don't have it already. And it is a game to consider if you are planning 
 on gettin a 360. Also rememba that this game is exclusive to the 360 and will not be on the ps3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  In this game the main character took to long to move in the giant armor suit. It made fighting 
 the bosses slow and lame. Sorry but I just don't get what the hype is. The whole game feels like 
 you are walking on the moon, it's too slow. It also feels impersonal to be on the stupid lost planet. 
 There are some cool guns and explosions but I honestly would not say that the game is worth playing.
 
  
  l l l l l l l l I don't have much to say other than play prey if you want to shoot aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gambitarchangel
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I had fun with this game, but it was not as good as the demo made seem. It has beautiful visuals, 
 and the fluid movements of the creatures were amazing. Technically it was very impressive. But 
 then the game play comes in... While it was fun, it also very simple and also too short... you can 
 beat it in a day or so. The shooting was just simple run and gun. But it was fun running around 
 in the vital suits. The main thing that took me out of the game was the stupid mission briefing 
 screens before and after each mission. It made it seem like an arcade game from 1995 or something. 
 I feel that those mission briefings took away from the potential epic feel this game could have 
 had, games like Gears of War had, where the missions flowed more fluidly with the story without 
 taking you out of the game. All in all, it was fun but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Yet another shooter, but a different kind of game from Capcom. I bought this game with high hopes.
 
  
  I'll start out with the sound. It's.... it's not impressive. I gotta tell ya, the soundtrack sucks. 
 The gun sounds are not impressive either.
  
  The graphics are up to par, but don't show all of the 360's capabilities.
  
  The gameplay has 
 it's ups and downs. It's down is the storyline. Although for each level you beat another achievement 
 you earn, the story just isn't worth playing. At times the story is ridiculously hard too. The 
 X-Box Live is incredibly fun, but can get really stale really fast. The way the leaderboards are 
 put together is horrible.
  
  Overall, this game is alright. No better, no worse. I'd say this is a rental, but who knows you 
 may love it. Try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaming_Ape
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is another game that many people hyped for the 360, due to it's very high graphics 
 potential. Graphics is one of the main triggers for a large amount of hype, and that's mainly how 
 Lost Planet got it's attention. Not only that, but people believed that it would be a huge revival 
 for Capcom.
  
  But there comes it's release, and bad news; this game will end before you know it. And that's if 
 you put it on easy diffuculty, in which the single player campaign will only last for around 6 
 hours. But you always have the option to make Lost Planet a much more complicated game than you 
 ever imagined. Take for example Extreme mode (diffuculty) , you'll notice that your thermal energy 
 gets depleted at about 4-5 times the rate as it does on easy or normal. Not only that, but the 
 bosses can really make you cry if you set the game on extreme diffuculty.
  
  The whole levels in the single player campaign themselves aren't that hard to get past, but the 
 bosses can be a real pain in the ass if you don't know what you're doing. Bosses are one of the 
 main strengths of Lost Planet, in which they're filled with challenge and diffuculty. Here's a 
 tip to bring down most of the bosses: most of them will have yellow-orange parts on their bodies 
 and that's their weak point. If you're to constantly open fire to their weak spots, they'll die 
 much quicker. Most of the bosses tend to be Akrid, but when you reach toward the end of the game, 
 you'll notice that bosses start becoming humans (or NEVEC soldiers) .
  
  The 3 types of enemies of this game are the Akrid, Crimson Snow Pirates, and NEVEC soldiers. The 
 Akrid are bug and alien mixed creatures that you'll encounter throughout the game for most of the 
 time. Meanwhile, you'll encounter Crimson Snow Pirates in a couple levels of the game, in which 
 they're rival snow pirates that are against your side. Finally, NEVEC soldiers are soldiers that 
 work for NEVEC, a company that plans to super-heat the planet, destroying all life along with it.
 
  
  You're probably thinking that I'm talking about the single-player part of the game, aren't you? 
 Well, guess what? I'll discuss the multiplayer part of the game now. The online can be very addicting, 
 and it has a level system that goes up as you gain points from online matches over time. In online 
 matches, the system goes like this: As you get more kills, you gain points. But if you get killed, 
 you lost points. The points are setup from a battle gauge, in which the battle gauge is like your 
 life meter in other words. You obviously don't want it to run down to 0, because if that happens, 
 the whole match ends. Being somewhat of an advantage but yet a disadvantage at the same time, you 
 don't have the option to quit an online match one your in it, and the only way you can quit is 
 if you turn off your console or get disconnected. They're a variety of maps to play on (and they're 
 very fun and complex to play on) , and this includes Pirate Fortress, Lost Coast, Training Facility, 
 Dilapidation, Crimson River, etc. Each time you win a match (meaning that you get the most points 
 out of everyone in the match) , you earn a medal, which gets added to your collection. If you place 
 2nd or below in a match, you'll get a notification saying that You Lost in the match, which means 
 you don't receive a medal, but at least you still earn points that get added toward your online 
 level. And one last thing to say about the online: another cool feature that's included is that 
 one you reach a certain level, you'll earn a new design or character model for you to use in online 
 battle, and this is one example (I just earned this one recently) : reach level 45 to receive the 
 NEVEC soldier character model.
  
  If you were to make a smart choice, if you only want to play this game for the sake of the campaign, 
 rent it first, but if you're after the online part, buy it. After all, this game is atmospheric, 
 but the gameplay falls short of it's potential unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MM555
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a 3rd person shooter for the Xbox 360. Lets begin the review:
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game shines. The controls are easy to master, and there are plenty 
 of cool weapons to shoot giant bugs with. Not only is the game great on foot, its even better when 
 you step into a VS (vital suit) which is similar to the mechs found in Mech warriors) . From the 
 over -the-top boss enemies to the small bands of snow pirates, there is plenty of action to keep 
 you busy.
  
  Graphics- Although not the greatest visuals, the game looks great. (Excellent snow effects)
  
 
  Sound- A okay, subpar soundtrack. But the sound effects are great and range from the screams of 
 giant monsters, to snow that crunches as you walk over it.
  
  Overall, this game is really good, but unless you plan to play on online multiplayer, just rent 
 it like I did. (Campaign is short) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet presents itself very well in the controversial universe of XBOX 360 games..
  The graphics are awesome and the environment is well-made.
  The weapons are also very creative.
 
  For me, the catalyst is the VS suits. They are VERY well-made and very fun to control.
  This game, though it has a sort of blurry storyline, I think is a must for any 360 owner and its 
 the first big game of 2007 for the 360, but there are bound to be more.
  All in all, this game is a great experience and it deserves more credit than it recieves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmswps2002
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is decent but I am not to keen on the targeting system or power of the weapons in online 
 play. The machine gun I think is almost useless since it nearly takes an entire magazine to drop 
 someone. Targeting system is similar to GRAW2, stiff and hard as hell to aim. It takes time getting 
 use to it. As for single player. I thought it was good. Gotta love digi chicks. lol. Good storyline. 
 Diffuculty levels are tough and challenging on hard or extreme and if you dont have patience to 
 go through this game more than once than look for something else. That is if your after achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy-Kingdom
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition makes shooting giant bugs every bit as fun as it should be, and 
 even though it ends too quickly, you'll have a blast while it lasts.
  In Lost Planet, human snow pirates navigate VS (Vital Suits) through hostile ice-covered environments, 
 fighting against the indigenous Akrid creatures for the precious thermal energy they need to survive. 
 For one such pilot named Wayne, death almost seemed imminent until he was fortunately rescued. 
 However, he can only remember a few fragments of his past including the slaying of his father by 
 the monstrous beings. Yet under the veil of ice, a devious plan has been set into motion for the 
 termination of all Akrid and snow pirates alike. What really happened to Wayne? Who is plotting 
 the destructive scheme? Encounter valuable allies and dangerous enemies on Wayne's search for the 
 truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition Review
  The Good: Unique method of combat and great visuals is what makes Lost Planet particularly well 
 known. The storyline is alright and the sounds are decent. There are many weapons and machines 
 all worth testing out during combat. Among clearing each mission, a boss is to be fought at the 
 end and this makes things even more tough and fun.
  The Bad: While there are bosses at the end of each mission, the game can be easily beaten in 6-8 
 hours. The sound may also get slightly repetitive. Missions seem too much the same to consider 
 this game to be a joyride the whole way through. Lost Planet indeed has its great moments, but 
 this is not a constant situation. Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a game that came out in the 
 beginning of the new year of 2007. It is an interesting third person shooter that puts you up against 
 quite a variety of enemies. Clearing things is simple. You are put in a mission with specific objectives 
 and once you clear the mission a boss is always ready to be defeated. After beating the boss, you 
 watch a few cut scenes and then progress to the next method following the same basis of structure 
 for clearing. A huge problem is that the game is easier than most shooters. There are eleven missions 
 and each one normally takes a half hour to clear including defeating the boss. So the game takes 
 about 6 hours or maybe 8 at the most. After winning, there is a harder difficulty which makes things 
 more challenging, but not hard enough. In the game, you constantly need to search for sources of 
 heat. You are in the cold and need heat to survive. Your gauge starts at 1000 and can easily be 
 increased. This may sound stupid and tough, but it is usually ignored and not a major dilemma at 
 all. There are huge amounts of weapons throughout each mission and they are all unique and awesome 
 to try at leas once. While some are better than others, they all have some sort of use. You can 
 carry two weapons at once, but only wield one at a time. The controls are different than a lot 
 of the shooters but they are very easy to get used to. For example, you normally press the Left 
 Trigger or maybe click the right analog stick to zoom in your weapon, but in Lost Planet you press 
 up on the D-Pad to zoom. This may sound weird but it is alright. As far as a story goes it is pretty 
 suspenseful and engaging but there is nothing special. I mean there are many characters encountered 
 that lead to more and more question and the truth found out at the end is very interesting. The 
 enemies are varied for sure. I have beat down possibly 15 different types of enemies not including 
 the 10 unique bosses. There are many creatures that you fight who vary completely in fighting style, 
 health, amount fought at a time, and size. It is insane. One enemy may be encountered in a group 
 of 20 and is easy to defeat while another may only be fought in a 2-3 pack but has large sums of 
 health. Also some enemies only have certain weak points so you need to use some strategy to win 
 and you need to be on your toes. Some enemies have more than one strong attack you must watch out 
 for. Foes include: Space Pirates, bugs of all different types, and operated machines. Throughout 
 the game, you will encounter many types of machinery that you can choose to operate or are forced 
 to operate. Each machine has its own sets of controls and it is very tough to remember the moves 
 machines make even after the commands are displayed on the screen the moment you enter the robot. 
 You can equip a number of guns to the robot and two weapons can be fired at a time and two can 
 only be held by a single machine.
  With weapons, grenades, and robots, there is one more useful tool present in Lost Planet. It is 
 the grappling hook. To escape fights and get the higher ground, by pressing the X button, you can 
 fire a grappling hook which is very cool to use. Although it cant shoot far, it is needed to reach 
 higher places and sometimes secrets may be found such as great weapons. I felt like Batman, especially 
 because you can lower yourself down and then land. It is a very cool addition to the game and is 
 used in many ways. Not only do you use it to reach high ground, but you can also use it to escape 
 fights. As mentioned before, bosses are fought in each level of the game. The health bar of the 
 boss is shown at the bottom of the screen and some of the bosses can be tough on your first time 
 through. I enjoyed shooting down the many creatures and robots for a great victory in each mission. 
 Too bad the fun doesnt last very long. Unfortunately the game is short and the fun subsides. The 
 graphics in this game are amazing. Were talking giant monsters and machines storming in your way 
 ready to beat the living heck out of you. The snow is what the game is known for. I have never 
 witnessed such beauty, even in a non-shooting game. The weapons look cool, and the numerous machines 
 all have their unique touches. I really enjoyed the nice designs put forth in Lost Planet.
  The sound is alright. I liked the music and the enemies all utter unique battle cries but it all 
 gets old. Sound is not the best part of the game- lets just least it at that. It is slightly above 
 average.
  Overall, Lost Planet is a great game that you should pick up. I really liked it but know that it 
 is short and rent it. I hope this helped and the review is over.
  Peace,
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilromeo0606
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is one of those games that i felt dissappointed because i was thinking that it would 
 a lot more fun to shoot alien bugs. I games that your only armed with a machine gun and rockets 
 and have to face big, and sometimes giant, bugs. But this game is just a total letdown. When i 
 first saw the beginning i knew right away that it would like a Japanese melodrama with a bit of 
 mech fights on the side. Sure the gameplay is fun, but its get annoying hat your almost killed 
 a boss at less that 2% of its life, but knowing that you don't have enough thermal energy and die. 
 Its these type of games that i don't like, which is like a time trial, and collecting the orange 
 goop gives you more time to play. Sure it was a good idea, but execution wise not so good. The 
 story of the game truly goes by the title LOST Planet. For some reason your running away from a 
 big giant green bug, and then you know you been frozen for 30 years and have to stop people from 
 making this cold, desolate place into a paradise... who are the real heroes in the game now. Sure 
 they want to wipe out life from the planet, but come on. The best part of the game was that it 
 ended qiuickly. Even though there were some decent parts to the game , like the end fight with 
 the flying mech, which is something that was taken out of a page from Gundam Wing. Even then the 
 fight was stupid because you didn't have much to go with. Not to mention that the sensitivity of 
 the game sucks. You have to hold down the right trigger button for a couple seconds before you 
 fire a rocket launches, or like the last fight when you had to hold down to use those EMP Blades, 
 which by the way were really cool. The only reason i consider renting this game was because of 
 the online play, but after a couple matches, it just got boring. There is no substance and you 
 only do a handful of different types of mathces, even though it lag free. But for one thing, there 
 aren't many combinations of weapons you can put on a mech until you use the same one that works 
 all the time. The weapons seemed reallly week, especially the shotgun. This game is basically MechAssault, 
 Gundam Wing, mixed with some starship troopers and add a little bit of japanese drama, and the 
 setting would be antarctica. This game wasn't great. It was fun for while, but until you got the 
 the second or third level it was the same thing. Sure the boss fights were fun and challenging, 
 but they didn't have to put a boss at every level. This game is worth playing kinda, if nothing 
 else is available to rent and they only had this game available. I know im being kinda hard on 
 this game, but when i saw this trailer, i thougt it was going to be like Starship Troopers, even 
 though it was an okay movie, just the fact that you have a machine gun and killing giant bugs is 
 a satisfaction it its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcris
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview for this game, I was ready to go get it and play. Well my friends, 
 I was screwed over and rapped hard in the backside by this game. Dont be fooled like I was. The 
 first 10 minutes was really fun and I had high hopes. When it hit that 11 minute mark I was in 
 the !@#$%^&amp;* stage. Im going to make this as simple as possible. Game gets very repetitive. 
 Same thing throughout the entire game. Fight big bug, kill big bug boss, and some snow pirates/NEVECS 
 on the side. Then after that, do it all again for another 11 missions. The camera sometimes got 
 really frustrating at times, especially when I was getting bounded by missiles or got stuck in 
 a corner somewhere. When it comes to the graphics and the sound of the game they where pretty decent.
 
  
  The story line is what got me. Am sure it got 98% of us out there. Im still somewhat lost and 
 trying to figureout what exactly was the point of everything I did in the game was for and WHY. 
 They really did a great job putting the LOST in Lost Planet. As far as the online play goes its 
 Meh. I unfortunately wouldnt even recommend this game for a rental, unless you want to see for 
 your self how bad it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  A great game and real with great storyline to it aswell. And is amazing online too. The game is 
 quite addicting online. When of line the missions aren't to easy or to hard they're just right 
 depending on the difficulty you pick. There is agreat storyline to it and very nice graphics for 
 a game like this. Online is great aswell, you can play as a team and plan a strategy or even play 
 alone and still be able to plan a stratgey. There are so much mode to choose online aswell, like 
 post grab, team post grab, survival, team survival, and the hunting game. There is also this thing 
 called the voice mask that makes your voice change when people here you, you can't ear it but they 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carddude
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Lost planet is a great game for tps fans. It is very short and players will find it lacking in 
 story, but what it loses there, it makes up in online multiplayer. Do not get this game if you 
 can not play online! If you are looking for a short shooter, I definitely recommend this as a rental. 
 Marvelous graphics fill the way along with hardy boss battles to make a solid game! Achievements 
 in this game come very easily; About one per level+. A sequel of this game would be highly anticipated 
 with a longer story line, more online maps, and bigger bosses. Get it if you want something to 
 quench your thirst until Halo 3 comes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beasty01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game... the graphics are awesome and killing off giant bugs can be real fun, 
 especially the boss battles at each misson which are challenging and worthwile.. but there is nothing 
 new here its all been done before.. you will enjoy it from start to finish but it does ends pretty 
 quickly.. and once its over there really isnt much else to do besides multiplayer.. the viral suits 
 make the game really enjoyable but there isnt much choice of weapons here, and you will mostly be 
 using a machine gun which becomes repetitive and boring. but overall this is one of xboxs must 
 have games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is not necessarily revolutionary, by any means, but is a simple, solid 3rd person shooter 
 based in the future. Still, that doesn't mean it's not unique. Unique is exactly what it is.
  
  The single player mode is pretty immersive, and it takes about 8 hours. Still, the characters 
 they introduce somehow makes it feel a little different than just a normal shooter, almost introducing 
 a few RPG elements. Either way, the missions are extremely interesting, and they vary a whole lot, 
 with incredible bosses at the end of every mission. I would say that this is the best part of the 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer is decent. It could be better. There's a good array of weapons, but sometimes there 
 doesn't feel like a good enough variety. The rank system is pretty good, but some battles can feel 
 somewhat monotonous after a while. Overall, though, there are many good, chaotic maps with enough 
 modes to appeal to any style of player.
  
  Still, one of the most unique components of this game is the introduction of Vital Suits, which 
 are basically giant mechs with cockpits that can move faster and carry much more powerful weapons. 
 In single player, their placement is perfect, and in multiplayer, they are actually not too overpowered, 
 as a couple weapons can reduce them to useless.
  
  Lost Planet has very simple controls, very crisp graphics (and explosions) , a nice soundtrack and 
 voiceovers, and enough gameplay to keep you addicted for several hours. If you spend 60 bucks on 
 it, you might be disappointed that its not as well-made as a game like Gears of War, but that's 
 to be expected.
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  In the Game Lost Planet for the Xbox 360, you play a man known as Wayne. Yes, just Wayne. Human's 
 have left the planet Earth in an attempt to colonize other planets, so your journey takes place 
 in the distant planet of E. D. N III. The humans are settling in, when they discover an alien race 
 known as Akrid. The humans realized that the Akrid contain a substance inside of their body, thermal 
 energy, which provides heat and energy for humans. Humans seem to be helpless in their struggle 
 for survival, until they come up with heavily armored suits known as Vital Suits, which are basically 
 like mechs.
  
  Like I said earlier, you play as Wayne, he has almost no memory from his past, but he remembers 
 that his father was killed by a very large Akrid known as the Green Eye. He is out for revenge 
 on the Green eye's, and swears to avenge his father's death.
  
  You wont be fighting just akrid in Lost Planet, you will also be fighting rival snow pirates who 
 have their own type of Vital Suits, and they are fighting you for the Thermal Energy inside of 
 the Akrid's bodies. There is a boss fight after every level, although most of them don't offer 
 a very big amount of challenge, and if you use the right strategy's, they can each be beaten in 
 under five minutes.
  
  Lost planet certainly isn't the longest game you will play. It can be beaten in under eight hours 
 if you are doing things right. Although if you're like me, you will loose interest before you even 
 finish the game. It is just too repetitive at times and very very frustrating. It just makes you 
 think Gah, screw this .
  
  The online play in Lost Planet is okay, it's nothing special and feels just plain, and there isn't 
 much variety to the online play at all. Basically, you are just shooting other people. The Mechs 
 aren't nearly a tough or strong online as they are in the campaign it self. They can easily be 
 taken out with a grenade or two in the online play, which is disappointing in my opinion. The online 
 play I guess can be enjoyable at times, but it is no where near the caliber of games like Gears 
 of War or Ghost Recon.
  
  I'm not going to lie, the game does look really good. The graphics are by far Lost Planet's strong 
 point. The detail and the shine on pretty much everything is just really good. The face detail 
 isn't bad either. The only downside about the graphics is that all of the snow gets really old 
 to look at after a while. Sometimes you really wish you could play in a different environment than 
 just snow, snow, snow. Also the enemy design is not the most original you will see.
  
  The sound in Lost Planet is pretty good as well. You can really hear the enemies you fight and 
 if you have surround sound it will literally send chills down your spine. That is what I felt when 
 I first got the game. The weapons in the game don't sound bad, they just sound like the average 
 action/shooter game would sound like. Nothing new or special.
  
  Like I mentioned in the title, the same exact type of game, or third person shooter for that matter, 
 and has been done much better. Lost Planet is really just your average third person shooter. It 
 has pretty much the same story line as a lot of action games, or movies, just people stuck on an 
 unknown planet with a bunch of unknown life forms roaming around. Nothing more, nothing less.
 
  
  Overall Lost Planet had a lot of hype to it's name, and didn't live up to all of it. Don't get 
 me wrong, Lost Planet is an enjoyable game, and is worth a rental at least, but it offers nothing 
 new or innovative to the Third person shooter genre. It looks great, no doubt about that. It doesn't 
 sound bad either. Lost Planet is a fun game, but the plot and gameplay has been seen in too many 
 other third person shooters to make it a truly great game. There are better 360 titles out there 
 to occupy your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex543
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my top ten favorites! I reccomend it to all gamers. I spent a whole week of strieght 
 play while my brother was gone and I aim for more. The graphics of the game are incredable and 
 the storyline is quite interesting. There are many features and a great deal of Vial Suits (VSs) 
 and a varity of wepons. The only downside is the cliff-hanger at the end. It shows you a bit after 
 of what happens after you defeat the last boss, but not engough to make you have a clear understanding 
 of if you achieved what you where aiming for after you stop the Frontier Project Oh what am I going 
 on about... JUST BUY THIS GAME
  
  (If you don't believe me go on Xbox Live Marketplace and download a demo)
  
  Happy gaming!,
 
  Alex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  You play as Wayne - an amnesiactic snow pirate whose father was killed by the native creatures 
 of an ice planet called E. D. N. III that the humans attempted to colonize. You meet up with some 
 girl named Luka, a guy named Rick, and a character named Yuri who will take you on a huge adventure 
 to stop a destructive force known as NEVEC and help terraform the ice planet into something inhabitable... 
 atleast, I think thats what the story is. Lost Planet's story is so confusing that I really stopped 
 paying attention to it in the middle so I'm sorry.
  
  If you have played Dead Rising, then you should feel comfortable with this game. You run around 
 in third person, shooting weapons like shotguns and rocket launchers (you can carry up to two weapons 
 at a time) , throw grenades, jump, crouch, roll, and hook shot onto ledges to climb up. The right 
 button &amp; left button on the X360 controller allows you to do quick 90 degree turns. Additionally, 
 you can ride in VS - Vital Suits - which are big robots equipped with weapons to help battle any 
 threat you may stumble upon.
  
  There are two health bars in this title. One is your actual health, the next is your heat level 
 - thats right, if you don't stay warm then you will freeze to death on EDN III. Everything that 
 can be destroyed or killed releases this orange goop which is called thermal energy which, if picked 
 up, raises your heat level. Ontop of that, there are these random heat tower things that if activated 
 will give you a bunch of T. E.
  
  You can play on X-Box Live, which is cool. There are numerous maps and game modes like team deathmatch 
 and the sort. You can also create a character limitly, by this I mean you can only choose the character 
 and the shade of his/her clothes.... thats it.
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet are amazing, and probably look even better on HD. Everything has a 
 huge amount of detail to it -everything from explosions, the mechs, guns all the way to the snow 
 making boot prints from you running through it. I was blown away by the uniqueness of the monsters 
 and bosses throughout this title. Easily a 10.
  
  The music was a bit lackluster, and the voice acting was alright at best but the sound effects 
 were great. The guns sounded real, things blowing up gave me a satisfied feeling, and so on. If 
 the music was only a little bit better it could have helped with the atmosphere and hlped pump 
 players up.
  
  The ending was strange. You fight off a Dr. Isenburg - the creator of this thing called the Frontier 
 Project which is suppose to kill everyone and then terraform the world... yeah.. Eventually, due 
 to this enhancer on your arm, you begin to lose your memory and completley forget about your entire 
 journey. Luka, the girl on your team, has officially began to terraform the world without killing 
 everyone and you embrace it... thats it... very strange and boring.
  
  There really isn't much replay value besides online play. I mean, you can run around and find these 
 gold markers which spell things out and can give you achievements but other then that theres nothing.
 
  
  Overall, Lost Planet was definitley a fun and challenging game though it was plauged with a jarbled 
 storyline and lengthy cutscenes of talking. I do say you atleast play this game through once, if 
 not for the action then to just simply see the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Theres no denying that Lost Planet does what it sets out to do extremely well  that is pit players 
 against hordes of enemies and screen-filling bosses so that you are constantly up to your knees 
 in action. Theres rarely a dull moment throughout the entire duration
  
  wherein lies the problem. The game does not take long to complete at all. One good blast and youve 
 pretty much played all the game is worth.
  
  But lets focus on what you will be doing during those 6-7 hours- killing stacks and stacks of 
 bugs, and oh what fun that is. Youll get those small flying ones that swarm towards you in clumps, 
 and then you also get those tall praying mantis type things that try and stab you with their arms 
 as well as those gigantic pill-bug things that roll up walls and around the ceiling and then there 
 is that huge-ass worm that tries to eat you. Its all pretty insane and its every bit as exciting 
 eviscerating every last one of them, and doing so with what the game calls a VS (large, mechanic 
 mechwarrior-type contraption) of which there are about 5 different varieties, just adds to that 
 excitement.
  
  What helps keep this action appealing is the technical flair the game seems to deliver in the graphics 
 department. Everything looks bloody fantastic.
  
  Having said all that, this is an action game and that is essentially what youre paying $69 for. 
 Dont expect any deviation from shooting things and most certainly do NOT expect a brilliant plot 
 for none of which you shall receive.
  
  Its a good game. Not badnot bad at all. But you may not want to waste your money on something 
 that will end in a matter of few hours. But I heartily recommend that you play this game, so rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puppiemaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Well I've just managed to finish Lost Planet, on the Easy Level.
  
  In all its taken me just over 22 hours to complete the game. The game takes place on an Ice Planet 
 and not only do you have to keep your health up but your body heat as well. There is a plot to 
 follow in the game but its confusing at times and forgettable for the rest of it. Needless to say 
 you have to save the planet by killing everything in sight. There are 11 Missions to finish, getting 
 progressively harder, early level bosses pop up again as normal monsters on later levels and the 
 amount of enemies attacking you at once can be very confusing. The graphics are very good and the 
 controls easy to use, you have a range of weapons to collect for sniper rifles to rocket launchers 
 and can use machines called VS as well, (you will use these a lot) . Now to the reason I'm writing 
 this, this game is TOO HARD, I've managed to complete on EASY, but it was not as fun as it could 
 have been, it was more frustrating, a few times the game just got turned off because the controller 
 would have gone through the TV if I'd died one more time. I'm not a great gamer, I did managed 
 to complete Halo on Legendary, so I can't be completely crap. The difficulty took something off 
 of the game, I don't mind dying a few times, but I'd like to get further along the level before 
 dying again.
  
  This game would have been in the +90% bracket if they had only got the difficulty right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The graphics are incredible. The monsters are huge. The stages are not monotonous 
 and are great looking. The sound in the game is good I have no complaints. The only thing that 
 is odd is the gameplay. The controls take a little getting used to but they are fine when you get 
 the hang of it. There is good replay value since there are little collectibles hidden throughout 
 the game. I have played the online multiplayer once so far but it was a lot of fun. I would reccomend 
 this game to anyone. It is a little arcade like, which I usually dont go for but I really enjoyed 
 this game. The story line is a bit lame but I really don't care, thats why I watch movies and PLAY 
 games. The cut scenes are great looking though I found myself waiting for the action. NOTE the 
 difficulty rating is for the game played on the hardest level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwibird65
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Ok, so Lost Planet is fun and interesting and i think they had some good ideas that are fun and 
 original. They made some pretty cool weapons like the plasma sniper thing which I thought was pretty 
 nifty. Even then the whole VS thing is cool too and playing is one is better than some other games 
 which have some pretty bad vehicles. I also like how you can attach different weapons to you're 
 VS. However one of the best parts of the game were the cut scenes in which I thought Capcom made 
 a great story for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  As much fun as it is to take on a huge snow worm, to strom into the snow pirates' base, and to 
 tackle giant alien battles, Lost Planet was disapointing. The setup to Lost Planet is that you 
 are on a really cold planet. There are aliens there. Did I mention it was cold? So besides the 
 storyline/setup (there really is none....) the gameplay in Lost Planet can range from fun to a 
 bloody mess. All the levels are simple and repetivie, and the enimies all die in a matter of seconds. 
 The baisic grunt killing REALLY starts to get on your nerves after half and hour of playing. It 
 just isn't that fun. And it gets worse. The whole Thermal Energy, thing that is special to Wayne 
 KILLS the gameplay. It's like you always have a timer ticking until you get your next T-energy 
 boost. A another terrible feature is the fact that you can't save in the middle of a mission!!! 
 For some unknown reason, the developers just didn't put in a very simple feature. And now, the 
 final blow that makes this game suck: The Bosses. Confused? Well yeah, a lone guy taking on a moth 
 the size of a 50 story building is amazing, but not when the damn thing can rape poor Wayne this 
 way and that. And I mean RAPE. Most boss attacks are undogeable, so all the boss fights are just 
 shooting them before they can get you (and it's a lot harder than you think) . So combine unstoppable 
 bosses, T-energy, no saving, and the boring gameplay, and you get Lost Planet; a very overated 
 game. If you really want to check it out, I highly suggest renting it before you waste $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicBlade_X
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun, mixing infantry and large mehc battles. The downside however is how incredibly 
 annoying it is that the shotgun knocks down your enemy and makes them invinsible on the ground! 
 Also a fair amount of spawn camping happens with the mechs, which are sometimes hard to kill without 
 another mech. I havent really messed with the single player too m8uch, but so far it has been fun, challenging, 
 and has a good story. The last problem is not the fault of tyhe creators, but the first should 
 definately be fixed. My shotgun should work perfectly well whether they are standing or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Big giant bugs. A bunch of different types of Mechs. Blizzard planet, and just you. Cool idea for 
 a game. I like the big boss battles with the huge bugs. Reminds me of the old style NES games I 
 grew up playing (Contra, R-Type . . .) . This game has your generic weapons: Machine gun, grenades, 
 and bazooka (there are others too) . I think its the Mechs that make this game unique. You have 
 different types of Mechs, you have heavy armor and firepower, light or no armor and light firepower, 
 then you have what I call the jumpers (you'll see why) , and last but not least the transformers. 
 The transformers change from what looks like an AT-ST from Star Wars (the two-legged walkers) to 
 a speed bike in seconds. Nicely done I might add as well. The next big thing about this game, and 
 I do mean BiG!!! The huge bugs. The boss battles are sweet, they differ from worms, moths, wasps, 
 and giant-ass beatles. The frame rate dosen't budge a bit when battling these gargantuian beasts, 
 which is a good thing. The multiplayer not that bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay of Lost Planet is near perfect. Honestly, I can't think of any bad things that I have 
 come across in the gameplay, but I just can't give it a ten. Either way it is phenomenal and well 
 thought out. I've never experienced gameplay like this before. The gameplay, as a whole, competes 
 with some of the best games I've played.
  
  Graphics. They are done in a completely different way then any game that has come out for the next-gen 
 systems. All the character models, enemies, and environments are just smooth. The colors are vibrant 
 and the interactive parts of the environment look amazing. Especially the white snow which you`ll 
 be seeing alot of.
  
  The sound isn't anything memorable, but the music is good and suits the environments, bosses, etc. 
 very well.
  
  The best is yet to come still though with one of the best online multiplayer games ever to come 
 out. Its addicting, its fun, and if you love rifles and rocket launchers, this is the game to play. 
 16 player online is just mayhem, and its either you are terrible and get destroyed or you get to 
 be good and be the destroyer. You`ll find yourself in no time gaining levels trying to get your 
 character models and the great lvl. 99. You`ll be playing this hours on end.
  
  Overall Lost Planet is a great game with the best parts coming out in the Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and is really fun. First and foremost you get cool weapons but it woould have 
 been cooler if the weapons had names instead of just machine gun or shotgun. You have a totally 
 awesome array of weapons and vehicles to wipe out your enemy. Finding the target marks is a little 
 difficult until you figure it out. The way Wayne runs though drives me crazy. He looks like he 
 is constipated for crying out loud. Aside from that everything else is pretty decent. The problem 
 though is the reload and scope buttons. They are hard to get to in a hurry. It would be better 
 if they were more like Halo's button scheme. That is one of the only downsides to this game. It 
 is also hard to hit big targets right where you want to unless you use a machine gun or scoped 
 weapon such as the plasma rifle, or rifle. The enemies are fun to kill and then smash into bits 
 by punching them after they freeze. The graphics are really good and sound for the creatures are 
 really good too. To finish this up This is a great game and is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denomaniac
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start.........
  Lost Planet is another action/advernture game for XBOX 360 and in most terms it succeeded. Some 
 repetivity in gameplay and short storyline (that gets fixed with online gaming) kept Lost Planet 
 to 9.2 BUT AMAZING GRAPHICS GaMePlAy
  Gameplay is old school! Like the old retro shooting game we were playing on Dreamcast. Those kinda 
 games. But in all attributes, there is a flaw.
  Here it's that it gets a bit repetitive after a while. Running , kill Akrid, blah blah but it still 
 is worth the fun
  
  GrApHiCs
  Here i won't write much becoz the graphics are simply.... superb!
  Marvelous perfect great amazing!
 
  The detail in every corner even the snow makes u think its snowing in real!
  
  SoUnD
  Great sound effects that make the explosions! real 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is one of those games that tries to scream Next Gen but manages to be your standard 
 run and gun shooter. The game is influenced by sci-fi movies that is quite clich&eacute;. Its 
 more like human colonization and over run by hostile bugs theme. This being said, the game moves 
 in a typical point A- point B fashion. It can be a bit lenient but the action is almost always 
 intense that youll actually never put the control pad down. If you look at it this way, the game 
 is pretty short, clocking at seven to ten hours of play. Despite this, the game manages to entertain 
 you long enough to finish its campaign.
  
  Aside from this, the graphics, though not revolutionary, still holds up with little frame rate 
 issues. The character models are what they should be, crisp and high textured. Its no Gears of 
 Wars but it can hold its own. The graphics has its own charms like for example the explosions. 
 Explosions in Lost Planet seem to be the highlight besides Mechs. It adds a bit of strategic value 
 to multiplayer matches and its actually fun to watch enemy mechs being blown up. Saying all this, 
 the game is better viewed on a HDTV. Actually, the only complaint I have is that the text in SDTV 
 is hard to make out. But this does not prevent the game from being playable. Lost Planet does a 
 good job of placing the player to a living and breathing world fighting bugs and humans at the 
 same time end up being the hero. The story revolves around Wayne, who, develops amnesia and must 
 find out what happened to him and his family (snow pirate buddies) . Not surprisingly, youll meet 
 up other wacky characters that will aid you in your efforts to save the planet by eradicating 
 the bugs, known as the Akrid, while also trying to uncover the mysteries of your past. It starts 
 simple enough but later in the game, it gets bog down by cut scenes that dont make sense of things. 
 Too many questions unanswered and dialogue that sometimes is too cheesy. What really counts is 
 how it plays. Lost Planet does not disappoint when it comes to shooting things as there are quite 
 a lot of things to shoot at. Youll be battling a lot of bugs and human opponents throughout every 
 level as the game progresses. The difficulty of the game is variable depending on how you play 
 it. It can also be attributed to the enemies as it comes from all range of sizes. There are small 
 bugs to contend with flagella like appendages that require a machine gun to extremely large bugs 
 in the game that requires the use of extremely large weapons like the VS (Mechs) . Saying all this, 
 it seems that it can be overwhelming at times but with the arsenal of weapons at your disposal, 
 it can easily be over come. Note that the games weapons are all standard in third person shooter; 
 you have your sniper rifle, machine gun, shot gun, rocket launcher and energy weapons. Not to mention 
 the really stars of the show, the VS. The VS is customizable when it comes to its weapons. You 
 can attach and detach virtually any weapon that can be removed.
  
  Overall the game manages to be entertaining enough even for casual gamers to get into. And although 
 Lost Planet lacks depth in its story it is far one of the best third person shooters with a mech 
 out there for the 360. So if you like mechs and blowing things up, and without any regard for the 
 story, Lost Planet lives up to its name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I never got into the hype that was Lost Planet. The game featured some pretty stunning visuals 
 but aside from that it appeared to be an average shooter. A pretty much it is an average shooter.
 
  
  The game takes place on a unique and beautiful ice planet. The visuals are great outside. The game 
 features a bunch of bugs, snow-pirates and VS (mechs) to keep the action churning. The gameplay 
 is pretty repetitive. You shoot the bugs weak point and they die. Same goes for the bosses. The 
 snow pirates are some of the worst AI ever concieved. They literally stand in one place, not only 
 do they stand still when their buddy gets shot next to them, but if they get shoot at, they still 
 stand in one place. You would think with the power of the 360 you could get better AI. The game 
 alters from on-foot missions and mech fights with your VS. This could seem like a refreshing take 
 on action games but the Wayne, the main character, seems like he is always walking, even when he 
 is indoors. The mechs are pretty slow and feel sluggish. The action never really strays far from 
 shooting this and that. The strategy never changes from enemy to enemy, including bosses.
  
  The game can be difficult but nothing too bad. The visuals are top notch, the ice world is 
 truly good to look at while your moving at a snails pace. The indoor areas could use a little work, 
 they can be blocky. One thing that looks great are they explosions. They not only look good but 
 sound good.
  
  The story is just awful. I know that many Japanese developers try to bring a good story to the 
 public but more likely than not, they end up giving us a confusing and disconnected story. With 
 this game, Capcom should have drove to Kojima Productions and asked the mail boy for a story, at 
 least it would have been ten times better. The voice acting is bad as well. The single player game 
 has 11 missions, and it is pretty short. The game does feature a good multi-player mode from deathmatch 
 to capture the node type game modes. All in all, the game has a great premise, but it was not executed 
 well. The great visuals can't hide the shallow gameplay and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is the second of Capcom's big titles to hit Microsofts 360. Set on an Ice Planet in 
 the future E. D. N 3, players take the role of the uncharismatic Wayne helping a group of snow pirates 
 take back the planet from the real stars of the game. The giant Starship Trooper like bugs known 
 as the Akrid. The story is weak at best, however it does what it needs to so that Wayne can travel 
 through 11 missions of Akrid hordes, larger then large bosses and shady human military groups.
 
  
  But how does one human fight 10 story worms? giant armour plated crab creatures? with giant mechs 
 thats how. Throughout the game Wayne will come accross a variety of these robots know as Vital 
 suits all with different abilitys and most importantly, heavy fire power. If there isn't one around 
 when you need it though, all Akrid have a weak spot that glows orange. Which is their store of 
 Thermal energy that Wayne also needs to survive, and the Vital Suits need to have power. Giving 
 the game a bit of strategy depth, and a good feeling of urgancy when fighting as time slowly ticks 
 down on Waynes energy reserves.
  
  The levels Wayne fights his way through vary from giant snow fields to underground caves and lava 
 factorys. Many of which have harsh terrain to cross. But fortunateley Wayne has that covered with 
 his trusty grappling hook, used for quick climbing as well as descending. And quite often a good 
 means of escape from the Akrid hordes if things are getting too hot.
  
  While the single player is fun, if short. The 16 player online mode is where the action gets really 
 intense. The maps are very well designed with all kinds of tunnels, Vital Suits, ruined buildings 
 to explore. The weapons are also wonderfully balanced, if someone grabs a vital suit and no one 
 else has one it doesn't matter. Sticky grenades, rockets, giant lasers and even the grappling hook 
 can be used to take it down by those on foot.
  There are also several game modes, the usual deathmatch, team deathmatch. Capture the post takes 
 a good twist on capture the flag. On the map there are a ranging amount of electronic posts that 
 each team must hack and then hold, the team to hack all of them wins, once again meaning a good 
 deal of strategy and team work involved. As people play, they get level ups through experience 
 for how well they perform per match. Every 5 levels they get access to extra characters and skins 
 to use online keeping people coming back.
  
  Graphically Lost Planet is lovely to look at, detailed lava rivers crumbling buildings and some 
 truly amazing weapon effects, especially on explosions make the game quite breath taking. Hordes 
 of Akrid on screen at once yet the game doesn't slow down at any point. Character models are also 
 well done, though there seems to be a lack of variety in the humans.
  
  The orchestral score used in lost planet suits the game perfectly, from the intense boss fights 
 to the lighter tracks in the cutscenes, the music is a delight to listen too. The voice acting 
 however, is a mixed bag. Some of the acting is dubious at best. In summary Lost Planet is an intense 
 action packed game, rivaling the best games on the 360. The short single player is a blast while 
 it lasts, but the multi player will just keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberxwarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in every way.
  
  Game play: Fun! Blasting bugs (AKA: Akrid) has never been more fun! It reminds me of the movie 
 Starship Troopers.
  
  Video: Crystal Clear! This is one of the only games that will play in 1080p on the market today. 
 The explosions are some of the best I have seen in a video game.
  
  Sound: Very Nice! I opted for the collectors edition, so I received the soundtrack disk along 
 with the game. The music adds to the excitement.
  
  Multi player: Fun but flawed. The game has a very strong multiplayer mode that never gets old. 
 But, depending on unknown factors you may have connection problems to large rooms. Specifically: 
 If I join a room with more than 5/16 people within 10 seconds I get dropped. I must join a room 
 with around 3/16 and wait for the room to fill up to max capacity. Other than that, blasting your 
 friends to pieces is a great way to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  What most impressed me was the amazing gameplay. Way better than the first-person gameplay like 
 King Kong or Halo: CE. Also I was impressed by the fact that you stay alive no matter what as long 
 as you have Thermal Energy. SWEET. And the guns rock. On a scale of 10 it gets a 20. Best gameplay 
 I've ever seen. Graphics... more than realistic. Also a 20 out of 10. Value is yet again a 20 out 
 of 10. It's probaly the most valuable game in my collection besides Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 Overall I give it a 200 out of 100. It's just that good. Once again the Xbox 360 makes an overwelming 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Breathing the cold air is what you have been doing for your whole life. Running through five feet 
 of snow makes you feel like home, and fighting in your VS Suit will make you sense a comfort with 
 protection. You hate the mis happens of the last colony, and you are up with the challenge to fix 
 everything right or else die trying. The enemy that destroy your home is maybe your greatest threat, 
 and you are going to save your race from the evils that dwells in the hell spawn volcanic mountain 
 that haunts your every lies... NEVEC. Ever since E3, Lost Planet has been haunting the Xbox 360's 
 Marketplace for many months. With the montage showing the game's graphics just stuns everyone that 
 saw it. Having the reputation for being the first game of the year, it may be the only good game 
 for many weeks to come. Since the huge dearth of video game industry coming its way for the torturous 
 season will make Xbox 360 gamers forced to rent or buy this game. Anyways, Capcom has been slamming 
 the advertisements through countless pages of gaming magazines through boring phrases and colors. 
 The game is fairly average toward the gameplay part, but the game will feature top notch performance 
 in the 360 community. The big slice of the pie of video gaming graphics had been cut out, but this 
 is just half of it, sharing with Gears. Seeing this third person game will be a ride for the winter.
 
  
  The story is has to be the worst part of the game. The story will not win any rewards, counting 
 the fact of the bad voice over. The player will be tortured and bored when he or she will have 
 to sit through many cut scenes of Wayne trying to hit on Luka. Anyways, the story starts out in 
 a planet and the Snow Pirates are trying to fight off the Akrid in the humongous city. Wayne, the 
 story's protagonist, is some kind of a super human being, and he is going to stop the Green Eye 
 from taking over the city. Unfortunately, Wayne's dad is killed by the Green Eye, or is he, and 
 had to retreat and stay into his suit for 30 years. The rest goes on, but eventually you meet a 
 villain, NEVEC, and you must stop the melting of the world and stop the onslaught of the Snow Pirates 
 with Luka, Rick, Yuri, Jim (Really) , and some more avatars. Don't even pay attention in this plot 
 because it is already too poor to PAY attention.
  
  The gameplay is another major flaw into the game. You will be on your back, on the ground, being 
 shot at with millions, and this is not a hyperbole, of rockets! Another thing to that sentence, 
 YOU DON'T DIE! Half the time, Wayne will be shot a billion times and land on his back four million 
 times during the campaign. Sure, it cool that the avatar will get stun, almost trip, fall on his 
 back for the millionth time, or maybe get sexually touched wrongly, but it gets very annoying. 
 The game will be displayed in third person, and that is it. The one part of the game that really 
 gets annoying is the Thermal Energy. Let's just say that it too get very annoying with its constant 
 drain of health. VS Suits are very important part, but they play almost exactly like being on foot, 
 so it's just an upgrade. Sometimes, this game will remind the player of a Gundam game, seriously. 
 VS suits will just look like huge robots with horrible pilots. Lost's gameplay is nothing short 
 of just being an average third person game.
  
  The graphics is maybe the major part why Lost Planet is consider a great game. Shooting, killing, 
 and bursting alien eyes are just one of few many great moments of the game. Anyone that had play 
 this will mention that this is a very second nature game that will just blow the hell out of Gears 
 or other games. Vast environments just included with great character design is breaking the limit 
 of what games should really be today, setting a bar. With rarely no load up time or no graphical 
 errors occurring through gameplay, Lost is a very good game to have that phenomena of load times.
 
  
  The sound is just perfectly fitting into the Tundra land. Great music composed throughout the whole 
 campaign, and very good boss battle music when occurring a good moment. These good sides help this 
 game out, and these elements should never be reconsidered as a worthless element. Honestly, these 
 boss battles have really good tastes of flavor, and these moments are seriously hard and breathtaking. 
 Every boss will need to have a try of two times. This game is hard, and the sound is quite impressive 
 when it comes to some moments.
  
  In conclusion, Lost Planet should be rented and maybe bought for the achievements. It's not superb, 
 but it is obliviously a great game to hoard during the long suffering drought by the dearth of 
 video gaming industry. At the end, Lost will make your day (for an hour) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xscrapzx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet I found to be a cool game at times. But sometimes I found myself saying this game really 
 doesn't excite me . Don't get me wrong some of the gameplay is pretty cool, and definately can 
 grab you in. I think what lacked in this game was a story line, and the lack of the movement of 
 the character. I found it pretty tough to move with wayne when there are these huge aliens rolling 
 all around you and you are only limited to jumping, but also not count out the fact that you can 
 roll which I still haven't really figured out how to do. Also with the fact of the thermal engery 
 didn't really add much to the game besides that you have to keep looking out for it. Sometimes 
 the difficulty kinda of got to me as well when you are at certain points in the game and you are 
 facing about 20 guys and VS's along with the occasional bugs that would show up as well. They should 
 have made a could covering system for game but they didn't. So basically you gotta stay behind 
 boxes to try to stay alive. I thought the more enjoyable aspect of the game is the multiplayer 
 side of it. But at times it gets very frustrating when you die and respawn, and it takes you about 
 2 mins to get back in the battle. I like how the maps are very big and realistic but damn its takes 
 way to long to run across the map to kill someone. All in all I didn't think it was bad game it 
 just didn't grab me in like Gears of War did or Rainbow Six, I guess the excitement level wasn't 
 there for me. But I do still play it, in the process of trying to defeat it for Achievement purposes. 
 But hey if you like distruction and consistant of blowing stuff up hey its for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gecko6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  You know what i think a good game is. LostPlantet: Extreme Condition is a perfect example. A snowy 
 landscape, a guy with a gun (Bruce Wayne) , bad guys to fight and take all that and put it on th Xbox 
 360, a console with a great controller, sick HD graphics and an awsome multiplayer battle on the 
 same console or on Xbox Live. Well I think this rocks, but others like other shooters. Heres a peice 
 of advice: Dont listen to your friend who says gears of war is so much better than Lost Planet. 
 Gears is a good game but its a perfect example of a game everybody uses but gets annoying after 
 playing it for 2million hours so you dont use it any more. In fact, the only 360 game you can compare 
 (evenly) to Lost Planet is Rainbow6Vegas.
  
  Lost Planet ROCKS and if you have a 360 you HAVE TO GET IT. thanks for reading my review.
  
 
  PS: PLZ NO HATE MAIL ABOUT THE BAD GEARS PUNS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  First impression of LP is amazing. The premise is intriguing, and everything feels just right. 
 Fights are incredible, combat system is easy to pick up and incredibly fun and the scal of enemies 
 creates really exciting fights. The armored suits are an amazing addition, they gives every battle 
 a unique feel, and the ability to switch weapons together with the limited amount of ammo add a 
 strategic touch to the ensemble. Problem is that... things start becoming a bit repetitive after 
 a while. The game runs out of tricks half way through and start recycling stuff in different shapes 
 and forms after that. It's still fun, deja vu becomes a constant. Boss fights deserve special mention 
 because they are amazing. Yes, in the end it's pattern recognition, but they are so spectacular 
 and explosive you really feel like a hero at the end of each one, where you beat a huge beast the 
 second before it takes the last bit of energy you have. It's unfortunate that the last boss battles 
 is the lamest of the whole game.
  Storyline is very confused, characters and connections are tossed in without any apparent logic 
 and after the first 4-5 missions you get so confused that you don't care about it anymore and just 
 skip sequences. Could have been so much better with a bit more care.
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are spectacular in the beginning. Explosions, amazing. Monster, superb (both design and 
 animations) . Suits are amazing, design and animations are really cool, everything a mech fan would 
 hope for. Outside levels are fine, never been a huge fan, they feel a bit flat (structures seem 
 a bit blocky ) . Caves and natural levels are actually ver well designed, as well as technological 
 ones. Problem is that the game tends to recycle its graphical assets increasingly as the game gets 
 towards the end.
  
  Sound
  Nothing to say. Orchestral score sounds right and effects are powerful and complement graphics 
 and gameplay perfectly
  
  Value
  The game is fairly short (haven't play the on-line portion, so everything I write doesn't take 
 that into consideration) , 11 levels and you are done. Game is not particuarly difficult and you'll 
 be able to finish it in less than 10 hours. Out of these 10 hours, the last 3 or 4 are def not 
 as exciting as the initial ones, since as I said, things you see and do start to repeat. 60 bucks 
 is prob too much, it's a good rental or a good purchase if you can pay around 35 Tilt
  The game runs out of ideas half way. It's still very decent but towards the end you are still looking 
 forward to finishing it, due to an uninteresting storyline and recycled gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebaybee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I don't have time to review the plot of the story, which is really unnecessary with GameSpot's 
 summary already on here, so I'll just get right down to the basic reasoning behind my 9.3 rating 
 for this game:
  
  Gameplay - Not only does Lost Planet provide the player with a variety of weapons, it also provides 
 lots of vehicle dynamics. The VSs (Vital Suits) vary in size, speed, power, and durability. This 
 gives anyone playing the game different options to choose according to their preferences. The different 
 weapons speak for themselves, each having its own advantages and disadvantages. I've also heard 
 many complaints from other critics of Lost Planet's ridiculous controls . I have a simple solution 
 for that: DON'T compare them to the Halo 2 or Gears of War controls. In my opinion, the fact that 
 Lost Planet has its own set of controls gives it a distinction amongst other games, preventing 
 from being another generic shooter . The online multiplayer is probably the best I've seen since 
 Halo 2. The matchmaking system is quick, 16 people can play in one game (unlike Gears of War's 
 8) , and the ranking system is the way it should be: simple and fun. Though I'd like to be able 
 to carry more than one type of grenade at a time, this game's Gameplay pulled in a strong 9 for 
 me.
  
  Graphics - I really don't understand why GameSpot only gave this game an 8 for the graphics genre. 
 The visuals are beautiful at worst, and absolutely perfect at best. The fluidity of all of the 
 people and creatures lets everyone know that Capcom really took their time in developing the physics 
 of the game. One thing that makes this game's graphics ascend beyond those of most other games 
 is the explosion effect. Each grenade, each rocket, and every slash from a giant Akrid looks beyond 
 amazing. Sometimes I'll just throw grenades and shoot rocket launchers until my Thermal Energy 
 runs out, just so I can watch the explosions again and again. The multiplayer maps really set this 
 game on a pedestal. They're gorgeous, completely superior to those of Gears of War, Call of Duty 
 3, or any other game for the Xbox360. They're also very interactive, which is an aspect not many 
 developers are taking advantage of yet. This game lacks monotony, which made me immediately question 
 the worhtiness of Gears of War's constant praise. Sure, GOW has great graphics, but I think Lost 
 Planet's are just as great, if not better. I've played both campaign mode and the online version 
 of Lost Planet, and the aesthetics of both completely blew me away. The graphics are flawless, 
 giving them an easy 10.
  
  Sound - The sound is another thing that kept me interested throughout the course of the game. When 
 I play Gears of War, I'm immediately turned off now by the monotonous sounds of the machine guns. 
 They all sound the same. In Lost Planet, however, the sound of each gun is powerful, distinct, 
 and realistic. When I blast my surround sound at home, it makes me feel like I'm out there fighting 
 the Akrid myself. This caused me to give the sound for Lost Planet a perfect 10 out of 10.
  
  Value - The game's campaign is a little short, though it's very cinematic. Some critics claimed 
 they couldn't understand the plot, but I caught all of it and thought it was pretty cool. The short 
 single-player mode is quickly repented, however, by the online play. The multiplayer is astounding, 
 leaving me satisfied with dozens of hours of play, and I'm still not sick of it! This brought in 
 a solid 9 as far as Value goes.
  
  Tilt - The game had a variety of environments and weapons, and the plot was a bit traumatizing 
 at the end with Wayne forgetting his memory. This prevented the game from being a generic story. 
 However, I took a point off for the short length of the campaign. This still gave the game a solid 
 9 for Tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is set in the distant future when humans are planning to set out and settle onto new 
 planets, the planet the humans discover is E. D. N III and their goal is to colonize the planet and 
 rid it of the Akrid, the Akrid are a insect species inhabiting the planet and are making it a problem 
 for humans to colonize it, you play as a snow pirate called Wayne Holden who lost his memory apart 
 from his name and how his father died, there is a wide range of weapons on this game and some mechs 
 called Vital Suits or VS for short, when you're fighting the Akrid you must shoot the glowing part 
 on their body because that is the weak point of where the thermal energy comes out and you must 
 keep stocking up on this energy otherwise you will slowly die and freeze to death, in fights you 
 dont just fight Akrid you fight against people aswell like other snow pirates and a company called 
 Nevec, there are some one on one mech fights and Akrid boss fights usually at the end of each level 
 to give the game that extra challenge.
  
  Overall this game has really good graphics and the gameplay is just brilliant and easy to get used 
 to plus the sound effects and music change the games atmosphere at certain points, if you like 
 third person shooters, enjoy a good story and just like to blow stuff up then this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerofudge
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I kinda hated this game from the beginning, as I had to repeat the very first
  scene about a dozen times or so, even on level 'easy', i felt like a chipmunk...
  then i got 
 kinda hooked, a few Ahhh s and Ohhh s because of the eyecandy that got flunged at me massively 
 raised... The story doesnt hook me (I cannot tell by now if it will, I'm at the 3rd mission now) 
 but what the heck, this game
  looks so impressive, the gameplay is non-repetitive which is a big point for a plain old shooter; 
 its innovation-factor is certainly fairly low, but if youre
  into shooters, give it a try, possibly rent it before you decide to buy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game is very good, I found many of people comparing this game to Gears of War but to be honest 
 with you there is no cmparison at all. The game has it's own and unique way and there is allot 
 of snow. The graphicas are outstanding you will encounter monsters or big bugs bigger than your 
 screen. So basically in Lost Planet you control both your human player and a mech unit, in a fight 
 against alien bugs on a cold desolate planet. In Lost Planet, human snow pirates navigate VS (Vital 
 Suits) through hostile ice-covered environments, fighting against the indigenous Akrid creatures 
 for the precious thermal energy they need to survive. For one such pilot named Wayne, death almost 
 seemed imminent until he was fortunately rescued. Lost Planet is a fast-paced third-person shooter 
 with all the depth, intrigue, and intensity of a science ficiton classic.
  An array of online gameplay possibilities await: Downloadable content such as additional maps, 
 missions, and weapons. Online multiplayer cooperative and versus battles. Foot and vehicle based 
 gameplay - Command highly powered armed vehicles and weapons, including transformable snow vessels, 
 not only to help players traverse the treacherous terrain, but to eliminate enemies that lie ahead. 
 Or, strategically switch from vehicles to on-foot gameplay as dictated by the situation. Vast environments 
 - Snowstroms, arctic winds, towering buildings and mountains of ice are all stunningly realized 
 as battles occur above and below ground, creating a truly immersive and cinematic event of epic 
 proportions. 11 pulse-pounding single player missions and 8 intense multiplayer maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  When one considers how difficult the level design must have been in order to accommodate two styles 
 of gameplay, perhaps it might become clear how much effort and attention to detail went into Lost 
 Planet.
  
  One part mech battler, one part run and gunner, this game has its fare share of variety. Though 
 not overly impressive as either, Lost Planet does just well enough to keep its audience interested. 
 As a snow pirate named Wayne, you'll traverse an ice-covered world to unravel the truth regarding 
 a large corporation and its plans for the frigid planet. The story is typical anime fare and certainly 
 aims to please a Japanese audience, but it's not without a few instances of real flare. Expect 
 villains to, for no apparent reason, go into great detail about the plot just before they decide 
 that it's time to fight. These trite moments aside, the game's story isn't hard to endure.
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet range from great to good. The game has a somewhat fuzzy look about 
 it in places that might remind some players of cut scenes they witnessed last generation -- that 
 is to say that the textures, overall, could have been rendered at a higher resolution. The snow, 
 while relatively convincing, could also use more detail. For a game which is trying to emphasize 
 an extreme condition it should have handled it's main prop with more care ---perhaps it's more static 
 than it ought to be -- regardless, for a current generation game, one might expect more in the way 
 of physics and believability.
  
  The sound is actually pretty great. There are some really touching cinematic moments which are 
 made even more crisp due to the weighty symphonic score. Other times, however, it's just sort of 
 there. The game also tends to use some of the same tracks a bit too much. Perhaps a few more scores 
 to break things up would have been nice.
  
  Complimenting the overall experience are some fairly sound controls as well. Some things, like 
 reloading, aren't exactly intuitive, but a player should be able to learn the ropes in a reasonable 
 amount of time. The mechs, as varied as they are, sometimes prove confusing as each one seems to 
 have its own set of unique functions. Also, the game auto-aims for the player -- something some shooter 
 savvy players may find a bit annoying, especially when aiming for an exploding barrel and hitting 
 an enemy completely outside the crosshairs. Overall, the controls aren't bad, they just aren't 
 particularly great, either.
  
  One of the most annoying things about the game is when Wayne is forced out of his mech during moments 
 of heavy crossfire. The game is pretty unforgiving at times and certain enemies will juggle the 
 player, leading to a very frustrating dash for the next available mech. This is one of the rare 
 times when the game struggles between mech-based and on-foot combat.
  
  In spite of its minor flaws, Lost Planet is an enjoyable escape from reality and should prove to 
 be an excellent rental and a decent purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykel77
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, the graphics are outstanding, the gameplay is amazing. I actually had it for 
 a month before playing it. This is next gen gaming. The bosses are intense and amazing i highly 
 recommend if you are a capcom fan. It has that capcom charm like the resident evil games but turned 
 way up. some of you will notice that the voice of the teenager kid with dreads is the infamous 
 Steve from Code Veronica. Soooory claire. its hilariously bad. I think this is better than gears 
 of war. gears was beautiful but lacked character development. i didnt really care about the people 
 in the game. the people in lost planet, while cheesy, were more human like and had emotion. check 
 it out. it just plain fun and a good time, and freakin sexy as hell too. The snow and effects just 
 jump off the screen, and anything capcom makes is a pretty much guaranteed to have quality, well 
 90 percent of ther stuff does :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluntObject
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet isnt the worst FPS Ive played but it isnt the best (is anything better than Gears 
 of War?) . The real problem, and something I think takes away from an otherwise visually enjoyable 
 game, is the thermal energy countdown. Instead of admiring a great gaming environment, gamers are 
 constantly on the hunt for thermal energy power ups. I know. There is a constant flow of thermal 
 energy from kills but it tends to promote itself as the primary focus with the substance of the 
 game being secondary. I dont like the concept and the increased linear feeling it gives to the 
 game. Other than this I think the games graphics are very good and the button control is easy 
 to get used to. But in the end I think LP would have better playability if there was no counter 
 and the gamer could enjoy the wonderful environments LP offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_bow_100
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet offers some positive things but unfortunately offers alot more negative things.
  It does have rather good gameplay and the graphics are impressive but it doesn't offer much more 
 than that. The gameplay, whilst good, can become a bit samey and make playing Lost Planet seem 
 like a bit of a chore as the 'blast huge bugs in equally huge mechs' novelty soon wears extremely 
 thin. The storyline doesn't go much deeper than that either and with a lack of truly decent online 
 play you'll find nothing more than a shell of a game that always feels half complete.
  Final Verdict: A strictly rentle title for those week-ends when you just can't be a****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall....
  
  8.0
  
  for Great.. great game great fantastic beautfiull GRAPHICS almost better then Gears of War about 
 the same.. and nice controlls... meh but... killing bugs is about as fun as it can sound in any 
 way.
  
  You can get a blast out of this game for a while and have lost of fun and enjoy the graphics for 
 a long time but overall think about it... do you want to kill bugs over and over.... and pretty 
 much the same always...
  
  I have only rented this game so you don't have to take my advice but from renting it this is my 
 review and I stand by it int he court of law. lol
  
  I'de say don't buy it... rent it and don't fall for it because its graphics are outstanding... 
 but its your choice.. GREAT game... just not enough...
  
  the graphics really are outstanding and will shock you and the multiplayer is fun for a while but 
 i never really fell in love with the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a another great add on to the xbox 360 line up of games. With the crazy aliens and 
 the annoying snow pirates. The game stacks up a fast paste action shooter. When you play this game 
 it feels like a hybrid mech assault game and a intense 3rd person shooter. The mech u use for the 
 last boss reminds me of a zone of the enders battle from back in the day. Also if you are a pro 
 gamer make sure you play the game on normal or hard because easy is just a joke. But over all the 
 single player is sold and the story is so confusing it will make your head spin because it makes 
 no sense. If you do beat it once. Try beating it and finding all the coins. Multiplayer is awesome. 
 Its HIGHLY ADDICTIVE and is full of explosions and chaos. So anytime you bored just jump into one 
 of these online matches and go crazy with mechs and lots grenades. Overall the game is good. Sounds 
 Good. Gfx are pretty good, and theres enough replay value to keep it in your house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a third-person shooter made by Capcom which is set in a planet 
 called E. D. N III (3) . But it isn't safe since these strange creatures also known as the akrid invaded 
 your new home planet so every human is forced to flee away from these hostile intruders but humans 
 soon find out their weakness. Shooting their belly full of thermal energy which is a powerful life 
 force. Along the way you encounter dangerous enemies that attack as soon as one of them see you. 
 You play a character called Wayne who is out on a mission with your father until you get attacked 
 by a huge, and I mean huge, green eye and you have to escape with your dad but later on he gets 
 killed by the green eye because he tries to save you but he gets squashed. You end up in the middle 
 of nowhere and suddenly you faint and get taken to these strangers hideout and thats where you 
 start off from.
  
  The story mode is really hard even on the easiest difficulty which let the game down for me because 
 I usually like games which aren't too overated and so challenging that you feel like throwing you 
 Xbox 360 out the window.
  I know I have. The story in Lost Planet isn't very convinsing as it is similiar to GTA'S III story 
 which was when you did all these random missions and it didn't make any sense what so ever. As 
 I was saying the missions you were sent to do are pratically go in the akrids nest (whatever you 
 call it) and destroy the akrid eggs or get a device etc.
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet are amazing! The explosions look so realistic, the smoke, fire and 
 the force of the explosions really are impressive and look real. The snow affects are neat as whenever 
 you tred, or jump in snow it shows little footprints and tracks of snow from when you were walking. 
 Another posotive fact is that this game is really action packed as their are mahusive monsters 
 trying to eat you while you are trying to do everything in order to survive. The bosses are hard 
 to beat and whenever you are against a massive creature in the snow you see the snow just fly towards 
 you and just creates massive piles, but eventually they dissapear.
  
  The sound is ok but isn't really really good, it could use some adjustments but the sounds of explosions 
 are so good as Capcom really did try to make it sound realisitic and suprisingly enough, it does! 
 However the gun sound affects aren't all that superb as it sounds a tiny bit dull like Gears of 
 War. If your character is against a giant Akrid when it slams the floor and the snow is coming 
 st you full speed to me I couldn't really hear that much.
  
  The selection of weapons is actually well thought of as Capcom just put in the guns you need to 
 use to survive and shoot at enemies with. It is also kind of similiar to Dead Rising because in 
 that game you could only keep weapons which were small and the same goes with Lost Planet.
  
  What really let the game down the most was that it had NO multiplayer at all! So that means 
 no story co-op play nothing that involves split screen, which put a big disadvantage towards the 
 game. Nut yet again most of Capcoms games are like that.
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a very good game and is worth getting.
  However there are some 
 things which are not included which make it feel a bit empty and rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  What I mean is : Gameplay : WOW. When I first heard of this game in 2005, I was amazed. Lost Planet 
 was going to be an intense shooter where you fight alien insects on an ice-aged planet with cool 
 explosions and a large gun- toting robot. Little was I to know that this game would be nothing 
 compared to all of the hype it got. The gameplay is tedious, hard, and a bit too unexpected. The 
 weird thing is, when you shoot bug infantry, it is easy as hell. All you really have to do is wait 
 for the little slimy opening on the wall to keep spawning monsters. Then all you really have to 
 do is shoot shoot shoot shoot shoot or avoid. But the reason for all of this are the little red 
 orbs that they drop. It's a cold cold world (literally lol) , and your little soldier costume won't 
 last forever. You have an amount of these orbs that protect you. They decrease every 2 seconds 
 or so to protect you, so if you run out of them, you start losing HP......... fast. So throughout 
 the game, you have to keep collecting them like crazy. Oh crap, that means you have NO TIME to 
 waste. No more replay value and playing differently each time. This gets intense especially during 
 boss battles. Did I mention that all they are.... are big bugs. They attack by thrashing about and 
 knocking you off your feet. Each hit you take from one decreases the red orbs like crazy. A lot 
 of times, you get to pick up a rocket launcher to fight them, which doesn't do jack. Since the 
 game producers know you need the orbs, they put light bug infantry around you. But you'll find 
 that the infantry around the boss will only annoy you. You can't multi-task by picking up orbs, 
 killing infantry, and fighting bosses at the same time. Gosh, you'll never even want to play the 
 game over and over again. Also, the little mech machine you get only fires little machine gun bullets. 
 It sucks. Graphics - Very nice visuals, I must say. Well, I'm not a graphics junky, so that is 
 all I have to say. The explosions are really cool too. They're massive and realistic at the same 
 time. But.. BUT... the dead bodies block you when you step over them. The slide around unrealistically. 
 Sound - Average. Not bad.
  
  Value - You heard me. After spending a few hours on the game, I am now officially afraid of even 
 going near the game.
  
  Overall - Overall, the difficulty frustrates me, which brings down the game. You can play the demo 
 and just freak out, because it really, really, stinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I heard nothing but great things about this game, so I rented it right away. don't get me wrong, 
 this game is fun, well for the first 6 levels or so. The gameplay is well constructed but the story 
 sucks bawls. I never really understood why I was killing this bug things, all though they did look 
 awesome and exterminating every single one of them gave me a smile, I still needed a reason behind 
 my madness, but this game doesn't give you it. The graphics are sick, I'll give the game that. 
 The online is fun too. Perhaps this review is based on personal sour feelings - and I appoligize 
 for that. But here are my gripes.
  
  - The game is too short
  - The story is horrible
  - It gets boring after a while
  - You dont ever feel like your character is growing
  - The 
 story is horrible, have i mentioned that?
  
  Look, if you like dumb, pointless games, then give this title some attnetion. But if your like 
 me, and are craving for the release date of God of war 2, you must know what good adventure/action 
 games are like, and this game isn't one. If you buy it, you've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Lost planet is set in the future on a recently discovered planet that has been colonized and terraformed. 
 Well they run into unexpected trouble and out come the Akrid. An alien insect race that natively 
 inhabits the planet, and wants the humans gone. Well to make a long story short the Akrid harbor 
 an energy source inside there bodies and humans decide its worth fighting for.
  
  You play a young man who's father gets killed by Green Eye... A ENORMOUS Akrid beast, and then ends 
 up getting froze in a mech only to be discovered a while after, and wants revenge. So lets get 
 to the game already.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Visuals are nice and crisp. Great textures, great lighting, nothing to spectacular but good all 
 the same. Character models are nice. Akrid Beast look Fantastic, especially the big Japanese monster-movieesques 
 AKA: 4th or 5th boss looks like Mothra from Toho studios, which I like. It is just a good looking 
 game. Snow effects are awesome, Mechs look good.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game plays good, the aiming seems awkward at times but doesn't make it unplayable. You will 
 be aiming at on enemy and the bullets will be going some where else. The auto aim just doesn't 
 feel right at times. The story seems ok, but the voice acting is horrible at timers and the A. I. 
 is split.
  
  Akrid enemies are some times hard and the bosses frustrating at times.... the snow pirates are Idiots, 
 and the easter bunny could bust a cap in there ass. It makes the game a touch unbalanced for me. 
 To face a challenge and then face enemies that would be to stupid to read the sign saying they 
 are stupid.
  
  Controls are average. They don't hang me up at all anyway. Frame rates are very stable even with 
 tons of things happening at once. Weapons are.... kind of generic. Your basic assortment of rockets, 
 machine guns, and shot guns.
  Mechs are really fun to control though, even though there weapons feel sort of generic and under 
 powered to. Gameplay is mostly run and gun this both helps and hurts the game. If your looking 
 for semi addictive fun, look no further. Looking for depth... go play oblivion.
  
  Gameplay over all is good. While it may be short with only 9 missions, and the simple run and gun 
 mechanics may get boring the levels are varied and the beasts are plenty, so shoot away.
  
  SOUND: Guns and explosions sound good. Snow pirates sound like generic black beard ripoffs, Akrid 
 sound like...... monsters. Over all sound is good.
  
  VALUE: With most games value lies in multi player these days, which this game has plenty of and 
 its not bad at that. Only played it a bit but its good. For me I cant see completing single player 
 more than once and spending a bit of time online so the value really is only a bit above average. 
 While I like it better than Gears of War there is no doubt the over all score will be lower. Gears 
 has better visuals hands down (thats not why though) but I feel like even though I like lost planet 
 better, it feels shorter than Crackdown almost. (main mission wise) I'm only a few hours in and 
 already level 5 so Extremely low Single player replay value hurts this title.
  
  Its a great game but I recommend renting it first. Extremely short single player and shallow run 
 and gun gameplay really hurts it and unless your an online nut you will soon be bored, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Congratulations to Capcom on another great game. Unfortunately, Lost Planet will be soon, if not 
 already, forgotten by many due to its lack of replay value. I personally found this game to be 
 very difficult, especially during the boss battles. The story, however, kept me very interested 
 and wanting to play more. Though many say that Lost Planet's story is confusing, I though it was 
 entertaining. The only thing you have to do is pay attention and you should have no problem following 
 along. The controls can get a little frustrating at times, especially when rockets and giant worms 
 from underneath the ground keep making Wayne stumble. The VS suits in the game are a great addition 
 as well. As I've said before, however, once the game is done, there is not much reason to replay 
 it, which is unfortunate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  We first saw this game way back at E3 and it looked pretty cool. The graphics looked great and 
 the gameplay looked pretty fun. After all the wait, what looked like a cool game at E3 turned out 
 to be exactly that. A cool game that kicked off the year 2007 for Xbox 360 gamers.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are outstanding. The snow (and there it a lot of it) looks 
 amazing. It's one of the best uses of snow in a game that I can think of. The explosions are breathtaking. 
 I really liked all the different kinds of creatures in the game. They all looked like they were 
 out to get me.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very good. It really gives you a sense of being in the middle of a snowstorm. The 
 gunfire and explosions sound as real as ever. Good job on the snow.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Lost Planet is pretty straight forward. Run, aim, shoot, jump, shoot again. Yet 
 it is very interesting. The grappling hook allows you to get to places faster. It is also used 
 in certain parts of the game to get you to places you couldn't get to without it. The use of mechs 
 in the game is quite good. Some mechs transform so that gives a sense of depth to them. The game 
 has a pretty good variety of mechs to keep you interested and not feel too repetitive. The game 
 can get a little repetitive at times, but for the most part it held my attention. Value:
  The single player campaign can be completed in around 8 hours for the average player. So it's not 
 very long at all. There is a multilayer component, but it's no Gears of War. There is no Co-Op. 
 I enjoyed the multilayer for a little while. It was a nice break from my constant Gears marathon. 
 Eventually I put this game down and started to play Gears again. So I ended up only playing the 
 game for about 3 weeks. There is some downloadable content on the Xbox Live Marketplace in the 
 form of multilayer maps. So I might pop this game in again and give it some more time. Overall 
 I found the game to be pretty fun. I was basically the only game I played in January. The game 
 is a ton of fun while it lasts.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Lost Planet? It is different. Before I even started playing it, I knew it 
 was going to be a breath of fresh air for the third-person shooter genre. While Lost Planet is 
 a fairly conventional shooter, it has many small elements added in that, when all mixed together, 
 make it much better than the average shooter.
  
  To begin with, the first thing you notice about almost any game is the graphics. Lost Planet definitely 
 succeeds in this area. Its graphics are beautiful and full of lush environments. The game supports 
 HD up to 1080p if your TV supports that. The cut scenes are particularly nice, with highly detailed 
 characters and great voice acting. Particularly impressive are the explosion effects in the game. 
 I find myself shooting every barrel in the game just to see them explode. It is incredibly satisfying 
 to blow up a barrel right beside an enemy and see them be engulfed in a beautiful ball of flame. 
 The graphics sometimes take a small hit when they are many enemies on the screen all attacking 
 at once, but overall the frame-rate stays pretty solid throughout.
  
  The story in lost planet is incredibly confusing. I found myself skipping most of the cut scenes 
 because I couldnt follow anything, but basically, I think its about a really cold planet infested 
 with aliens known as Akrid. You play as Wayne, a guy enhanced with a robotic device that caused 
 him to lose his memory, out for revenge against the people who killed his father. Its basically 
 just an excuse to shoot a bunch of aliens and snow pirates. The characters in the game all have 
 distinct personalities and develop well throughout the game. Unfortunately, the games story mode 
 is pretty short. At only 11 missions, youll breeze through it in about 10-20 hours. Thankfully, 
 the game has enjoyable multiplayer that I will discuss more later.
  
  The combat in the game is non-stop and intense. You have the usual assortment of machine guns, 
 shotguns, sniper rifles, and rocket launchers, but you also get a couple of energy weapons and 
 plenty of grenades. This game takes a hint from Halo by having incredibly powerful grenades. You 
 can easily turn the tide of a fight with a couple of well-placed grenades. Or course, if you run 
 out of ammo (which is very unlikely) , you can smack a guy with your gun, with does a considerable 
 amount of damage.
  
  What really sets this game apart is VSs. A VS is a vital suit, which is a mech. I know what youre 
 thinking. Woohoo another Gundam rip-off (dripping with sarcasm) . But youre wrong mechs are great 
 in this game. Plus, it isnt one of those things where you are forced into a stupid mech sequence. 
 You almost always have the choice of getting in a mech or not. Sometimes it is a better choice 
 not to get into a VS. But usually it just comes down to personal preference. In the two or three 
 sequences when you have to be in a VS, youll be glad you have to. There are also many assortments 
 of VS. In the end sequence of Lost Planet you get an awesome VS for the final battle, but I want 
 spoil the surprise for you. You also have stationary turret-ish things that are pretty fun to use. 
 Thankfully, VSs dont overpower the game. If you hit a VS with a couple of rockets or a few headshots 
 from a plasma gun it will go down in a beautiful explosion. This makes staying on foot just as 
 viable a choice as getting into a VS. Unfortunately, your VSs sometimes feel a bit underpowered 
 against some enemies.
  
  The multiplayer in Lost Planet is fun and offers many different games modes, but just isnt as 
 fun as many games out there. It also only supports online play, but no split-screen, which is a 
 huge hit. But if you have Live it is still pretty fun.
  
  Overall, Lost Planet is a great shooter with many unique elements. While no perfect, it is definitely 
 a top-notch shooter, and easily the best shooter to come out this year. Lets just hope they dont 
 rush into a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkmaster12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  it is a good game. the graphics are wicked insane and the gameplay is around a 9. the sound is okay 
 considering what gears of war sounds like.
  i beat it about 4 days ago. i highly recommend buying this game.
  
  campaign gamertag: xJABx
 
  5025 gamerscore games played
  games:
  saints row
  gears of war
  lost planet
  call of duty 2
  call of duty 3
  graw
  joust
  paperboy
  hexic
  pool sharks
  pgr
 
  nhl hockey 2k7
  nhl hockey 07
  nba 07
  nba 2k7
  madden 07
  madden 06
  rainbow six vegas
  bankshot billiards
  frogger
  galaga
  just cause
  chrome hounds
  
 prey
  marvel ultimate alliance
  and many more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is one of those shootings that I tend to try to stay away from. Lots of running around 
 and a lot of indiscriminate shooting, but I had a chance to play it. For the most part this is 
 a fun and excited game. The story is somewhat shallow and dont really make any sense but it does 
 enough to move the game along. The graphics are amazing, as well as the animation. The sound is 
 ok, but nothing special, but it does have a really nice score, for to listen to as you blow bugs 
 away. Talk about Bugs, there is millions, and millions of them. You spend most of this game fighting 
 them, and you also fight bug bosses, and they are very tough to beat, mostly because there are 
 other bugs flying around while you take on the boss.
  Like I said before, I really hate games where you running around all day, and for the most part 
 you do that plenty in this game, one thing I really do like a though are the very cool mech units 
 that you get to use in the game, they are very cool, though they seem a little clunky. You can 
 change weapons on them to suite your enemy and you even fly for a short time with them. Very cool! 
 The one other thing about this game is that its very short, only 11 missions in this game, you 
 can easily get through this game over a weekend.
  Great graphics, great weapons, confusing plot and a ton of bugs, make this a pretty good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_X_Factor_69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a solid action game that delivers on its promises. I know that many of you are still 
 playing Gears but for those of you that are a bit Geared Out (like me) Lost Planet is an excellant 
 seletion to fill your gaming time. The campaign is divided up into eleven missions, and although 
 they do tend to go by a bit fast, each level has hidden easter eggs for you to find. Also the campaign 
 has numerous moments where you are in shock of what you are seeing on your TV. Lost Planet showcases 
 some of the most epic battles I have ever experienced. Add on 8-8 team mulitplayer that showcases 
 some of the best gametypes ever played on Live (read Post Grab) or shoot it out in an Elimination 
 match solo. Lost Planet has some of the best explosion effects I've ever seen, and the action is 
 constant and non-stop. The mechs you control in the game (Vital Suits or VS) handle perfectly and 
 come in a wide variety. Plus the option to add and detach weapons to your VS only makes the gameplay 
 that much more enjoyable. Every single level ends off in an epic boss battle that will leave you 
 stunned. Now no matter how good Lost Planet is, it is not perfect. I feel that the story line is 
 a tad weak and voice acting isn't Gears quality by any means. The campaign is fairly short and 
 the gameplay does take a while to get used to, especially if you have been playing Gears a lot. 
 Lost Planet is perfect for those who want a break from Gears and are looking for a solid action-adventure 
 shooter. Great for people who enjoy big multiplayer matches, but not so great for those who seek 
 out a nice long campaign. Lost Planet is a definate buy for any 360 owner, and this has been Capcom's 
 second success for the 360, I cannot wait to see what they give us next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhombi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I am deadly derious when I say that it is not good. The graphics (like any 360 game) are spectacular 
 and the gameplay fun... for about 2-3 hours. The story makes no sense whatsoever and the multiplayer 
 ultimately fails in it's current state. First off, all 4 multiplayer gametypes are just spinoffs 
 of other already used gametypes. Deathmatch, Team deathmatch, Capture and Hold, and a supposedly 
 revolutionary new gametype fugitive which is just 1 vs 15. The game is frustrating on several different 
 levels specifically because each shot does not always do the same amount of damage. If a sniper 
 shot does not hit the dome of the guys head, then no instant kill. It is so frustrating and I can't 
 believe I wasted 50 dollars on this. If you are serious about buying this game and my article does 
 not persuade you, then wait for it to go into the bargain bin because it aint worth more than $25. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InDridTheCold
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is boring beyond belief , and has nothing to reward you with for suffering through the 
 boring and poorly designed game, the only good thing about this game is the following.
  
  A) - Giant robots are always kick a$$
  B) - It looks absolutely beautiful i will give it that
 
  
  other than these things its all boring and downhill from there, but hey after playing far superior 
 games like GRAW, and GoW my opinon is probably biased :D but i have also noticed that the people 
 that are horrible at GRAW and GOW, play Lost Planet lol
  
  In closing this game had potential if they would have put more into the game then it would have 
 been much better.
  
  (note just incase you look at my gamertag and see that its not on my played games list i played 
 it on my friends xbox at his house and i am proud to say i didn't let that DVD of feces touch my 
 dvd rom drive...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ck_h4nd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  ok here is some blah
  
  POSOTIVE
  -graphics
  _the graphics are extremly well put together wether your running or your grenade is exploding
 
  -gameplay
  _this game is exelently run with no matters with framerate
  -Guns
  _the guns are exelent running on ammo and life energy from rockets to snipers
  -Mechs
  _so 
 many mechs from speeders to super sexy ones they all are good
  -Online
  _online works extremly well and easy to find a game
  
  Negative
  -gameplay
  _you cant sprint 
 i know its not much but when your online you really need to get away from mechs
  _sometimes you will get a bad host who has crap games
  -Maps
  _they are big and hard to get 
 used to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeesh1981
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Few games have been as enjoyable , fullfilling and fun as this one.
  
  To start off the graphics rock, the game never seems repetitive even though ur in mostly icy enviroments, 
 there are tons of things to do, new kinds of mechs (or VS) to ride, new monsters and bosses, each 
 with their own unique detail.
  
  I own all the best Xbox 360 games - Gears of War, GRAW, Prey, Oblivion etc etc, close to 30 titles 
 in all, and this game is the one im closest too. It is so good, the graphics ARE next gen (take 
 one of the bosses, green-eye, for example) . The whole concept about thermal energy works so well, 
 even the non-boss baddies look so good, the weapons, the possibilities (once i sniped a guy out 
 of his VS and took control of it) .
  
  All in all, its just plain fun, its what you picture in your mind when you think of a next gen 
 console game.
  
  Why has it not been given any serious awards?? I know Capcom refused to be part of some academy 
 or something, maybe thats the reason, but if thats not the reason, then its just totally unfair 
 not to call this game of the year.
  
  It has as good and sometimes better graphics than Gears of War, more enjoyable and lengthy gameplay, 
 online is amazing, and overall a wonderful game.
  
  Hope this aint got something to do with any sick racist issues, i. e. it being made by Japanese 
 developers, this game is much better than most western games that I've played to date. GAME OF 
 THE YEAR!!!!
  
  And I have been playing video games since I was 7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Story: the story its a little original the world is overpoblated so there is a planet in extreme 
 conditions to habitate because is an ice planet but the planet can be poblated so the humas begun 
 to live here until found an altenr habitant the akrid there are animals style insects thats have 
 a termical core that is like their heart so its a source of termal energy that the human its decided 
 to fight for. for other way A enterprise call NEVEC want to terraform the planet with a project 
 call frotier that is a massive explode that quit all the ice convert the planet in a paradise. 
 You are wayne a human boy that is japanese hero style that his father is death and betrayued for 
 someone and you are buried under ice 30 years until some snowpirates find you and you suffer ammnesia 
 when you woke up so you must find the story behind the death of your father and and akris call 
 green eyes and a nevec enterprise that hide something that you will discover soon...
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is like gears of war a pure shooter game but you feel so real because the 
 movements of the player that are so human an nomne robotic, so you feel the control so human when 
 you jump or run or dodge bullets, in other hand is the vital suit thta is a robot that you handle 
 and its also very handy and easy to manipulate and you cant feel that is a robot because its so 
 humanoid meccha the control is so smooth. the enmies has AI very challenge for insects and bugs 
 so there are very strong and smart enemies difficult to kill specially the bosses. Usual in capcom 
 is the mission with ending boss that its clasic and in this game is very good as always all the 
 bosses are difficult if you play an a challenge dificult mode.
  
  difficult. there are 4 levels so you can deal in the level that you fell better but the extreme 
 difficult istn very very dificult like a master ninja or legendary of halo 2. Frame rate: the frame 
 rate its so good, oinly for a few moments when the stage its fill of vital suits and enemies and 
 explosions the frame rate get a little slow but its very rare find a slow frame rate.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are so impressive but not the best compare gears of war that is top, but 
 are so real and the ice its so real that comunicate you the cold of the enviroment, the buildings 
 and the textures are so impresive and the klight and shading are amazing, the variety of enemies 
 design and vital suit is the best you dont know when will stop the different design of enemies 
 or vital suits.
  
  Sound: the sound its like a wars games that have the best sound of all games so the variety of 
 sound that you percibe are truly pretty and when you are in a middle of ice war you willfell more 
 involve by the sound.
  
  Music: the music is good its a synphonic music when all think that the music would be electronic 
 or rock no, its like a soundtrack of some clasical movie so the music its good.
  
  conclusion. great graphic with a handy story and very good sound and very smoth and easy gameplay, 
 nice music build a very good and recommended game. the negative part is that the game you feel a 
 litlle short and this is because the game inolve you much and you wANT MORE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaizeNBlue
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  The weapons the , the VS suits all of it make a great game and I really liked the story as well. 
 Fun and challenging to play and I rented it and played on easy. The way things blow up was neat 
 and original. When things blow the smoke rolls out along the ground and up, alot like you would 
 see in a movie, or real life. I played this game and beat it on easy in about 14 hours. I am probably 
 not the greatest gamer in the world like the people at Gamespot who did it in 8 hours. I just dont 
 see it.
  
  Being able to interchange weapons on the VS suits was fun. There are some awesome weapons in this 
 game. You can also pull them off the VS suits and use them. They are quite cumbersome but devastating.
 
  
  I would Highly recommend this game to anyone that likes great graphics and visuals. I bought my 
 360 about 3 weeks ago with Gears of War. It was a fun game but I beat it disapointingly quick. 
 Lost planet took alot longer to beat and was more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkhornet
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  it is one of the beat looking titles available around. Its story may be a little bit boring but 
 good gameplay and innovative graphic can't be overlooked. some people may not like it but i think 
 is worth considering title when buying games for 360. its mission are linear. it make you feel alone 
 and give courage to continue exploring the unknown planet. tis graphic are amazing its battle system 
 is one of the best. i have never seen such a challenging gameplay .you have to continue exploration 
 in order to keep your soul and body together. character animations are great .the machine make you 
 feel humans have more intelligent than creatures found on the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conroy316
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a fun game that takes place on an incy tundra for most of the game. The camera is 
 in a third person perspetive, but not over the shoulder like on gears of war. The mechsuits in 
 the game provide a fun way to kill the Akrid (insect-like creatures) and other things. When the 
 game starts, all you have is your gun, you feel tiny as you enter this massive world, but as the 
 game progresses, this feeling disapears. You constantly rely on the mech to get you through the 
 level, without it there is no way you can get through. The massive feeling dies away because the 
 mechs make you feel large. Although the boss battles are different. The bosses are usually massive 
 beast or machines that are at least 10x your size. When the game is over, you can play the mutliplayer 
 which is very fun and two things seperate it from the rest of the 360's games. The grappling hook 
 on your arm totally changes the battles, you can reach new heights and escape battles with it. 
 And then there is the snow. In most multiplayer maps the big theme is the snow. Every couples minutes 
 a blizzard rolls in for about 30 seconds and allows people time for a chance to be unseen. It is 
 worth checking out and if your unsure just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unclet08
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game very much. The single player campaign has a good story-line integrated into 
 the gameplay. The Xbox live play is also very good. The graphics and sound effects are up to Xbox 
 360 standards, but it really needs to be played on a HDTV. My favorite part of the game is the 
 ability to use mechs. There are an array of different mechs available, each with different strengths 
 and weaknesses. As a contemporary Xbox 360 game (as of now) , it's definitely worth buying and if 
 you haven't done so yet, get Xbox live since it's a great compliment to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  It only takes about 8 hours to beat but it is a fun 8 hours. I did not want to stop playing but 
 I got to tired, so I waited until the next day to finish it. my video review - http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=Wu1ZnLkUqA4
 
  
  Graphics - darn good graphics, the snow moves very realistically. The large insect alien things 
 look cool. Sound - the sound is good, the guns and everything sound nice. the voice acting is cool. 
 Story - The story is not inventive but it gets the job done. It was not the kind of story that 
 makes me really want to find out what happens next. But then again I usually only get those stories 
 in rpgs or adventure games. Physics - Good enough, nothing stands out in my memory. Value - Rent 
 it for sure. If you like the multiplayer then buy it. But the single player is a must in my oppenion.
 
  
  Gameplay - The game play is done very well, a nice mix between using the grapling hook, shooting, 
 and mech warriors. Actually some parts of the game felt like a mech warrior game, in a good way 
 of course. The boss battles are fun. Watch my video review for a more indepth review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massiveheadpain
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game - all the previews made lost planet seem like a really cool 
 third person sci fi shooter where you get to battle all these enormous bugs, which it is, to a 
 point. The reality is that the bugs are secondary to the lame story and just become cannon fodder. 
 It seems they gave the main character amnesia as a cop out excuse not have any sort of story. And 
 your characters movements - soooo slow. It seems like your a 400 pound obese person trudging through 
 the snow. And it seems like it takes about 5 seconds to get up from a fall. And speaking of getting 
 knocked down, it happens constantly - get shot fall over - get shot fall over - repeat x 10. This 
 is especially frustrating when your trying to get the T Eng right in front of you only for it to 
 evaporate inches away cuz your cant get to it in time because you keep getting knocked down! The 
 boss fights were fun and frustrating at the same time - I enjoy fighting huge bosses just like 
 anybody, but not when you are getting knocked down every 2 seconds while your health is constantly 
 draining. The last boss was a joke - hmmm lets see we get to play the whole game with the exact 
 same controls only for it to change for the last boss fight and totally throw off any skill that 
 was acquired during the game. For example imagine if when you fought general RAAM on Gears of War 
 you had to use entirely new weapons and was given different controls for cover and reloading..... 
 yeah exactly that would suck hard. Well Lost Planet did it! I would say the only redeeming quality 
 of this game were the impressive graphics on a 1080p HDTV. If your a shooter fan this is your standard 
 fare, and do yourself a favor and just rent it then patiently wait for Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorstenSorensen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is great, if you can get past the strange story and controls...
  Story/Game Mechanics:
  This is a really good game if you spend enough time getting used to it. 
 If you can understand the story, well... your lucky... The controls are defiantly not my favorite, 
 because the crosshair doesn't stick to the center of the screen, the it is pretty small which can 
 make aiming a challenge on an SD-TV. Thats really my only complaint about the controls, other than 
 that, you just have to get used to which button does which thing, like every game. The weapons 
 are pretty good, but they don't really feel powerful. The sound is kind of flat and they aren't 
 very interesting. They are put to better use in the multi-player than the single-player.
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is quite good. I wasn't expecting it to be as good as it was, and 
 the ranking system is almost perfect. The more data posts you activate, the more kills you get, 
 etc. make your score go up, and then it adds that score to your rank and you go up a few levels 
 every game. It's very easy to rank up, but that can motivate you to play more (Maybe the dev's 
 had that in mind) . The multi-player is almost never laggy, and it is balance very well.
  Graphics/Sound/Misc.
  The graphics are great for the most part. Sometimes the textures can get 
 a little blurry, but thats the only problem from what I can see. The game sounds pretty good, good 
 music and voice acting, but the weapons just sound unpowerful.
  Overall:
  This game is quite good, but if the developers spent a bit more time tweaking the gameplay and 
 polishing the sound and graphics, it would be a lot better.
  7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Ive had this game for only 2 days, and I just got the full experience out of it, I didnt know how 
 well put together the online was... this is one of my favorite games to play especially online 
 I have over 15 hours on this game, this is spectacular game, has eye popping graphics, mind blowing 
 enemies, and the most interesting story line I would highly recommend this game to any xbox360 
 owner this should be on the top xbox360 game list I think this is going to be in my favorite games 
 like next to Gears of war, its one of those games that you will have to go back and play the campaign 
 again to get all the tasks and achievements done,... The online is one of the best I have ever 
 played... the ranked it so satisfying you can only gain point not loose them, so win or lose you 
 really still win.. I only been in 4 matches and I leveled up 6 times that is pretty impressive 
 and it was my first day going online... and there is so much more to come. Pick this one up Please 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjinhubgyvftcdr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The Game Had great graphics, and sound and the gameplay was great, in all the game was a tonne 
 of fun , after you beat the game it gets boring because the online multiplayer was not as good 
 as it coulda been, I dont have much more to write because I pretty much summed it up, but TRY IT 
 BEFORE YOU BUY IT, I cant say much more but i have to write one hundred words so from when I said 
 I CANT SAY Stop reading, but remember to rent it first unless youve already played it and you think 
 its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terdoo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a Action/adventure game by Capcome known for its creativity. So let me get right 
 into it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is preaty basic, run around, shoot,150. turns, ect. But this game provides some 
 interesting things beyond the basics. For starters theres a cool grapling hook that can hook on 
 the MOST surfaces which makes batman look like a rip off. Another cool feature is the rush to gain 
 more of this substance called T energy which you need to survive. Geting this t energy is preaty 
 simple, kill ememies, destroy barrels, and destroy mechs or VS for vital suit which I will now get 
 into. VS is a mech that uses t energy like you do but faster. VS is highly customizable with a large 
 arrray of weapons like giant shotguns, energy guns, chainguns, ect. Some can even use a jetpack.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are amazing. Plain and simple. Textures are almost perfect and the lighting 
 is so good that I get snowblind somethimes in game!
  
  Sound: THe sound is basic and sometimes boring. Gun sounds are average. Explosions are an exception 
 at least. The explosions can be convincing at times but still doesent make it awhole lot better.
 
  
  Story: THe story has a convincing back story but leaves the main plot a litlle dry. I wont reveal 
 any story points.
  
  Xbox live : The online mode gives it life. WIth costomizable characters and great match making. The 
 gameplay of online is similar to the single player game like being able to use mechs which is cool. But 
 theres a down side to it. Trying to kill someone can actually be very furstrating. When a player 
 gets nocked on the ground you cant hurt them. And some of the weapons are little over powered. Still, 
 the online can be fun if you know how to play.
  
  Tip: use the machine gun aplenty when someone is off the ground.
  
  Overall: This is a solid 
 game with something to offer but definetly could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics, solid gameplay, cool level designs, epic multiplayer, mech combat 
 at it's finest.
  
  The Bad: On foot segments feel like the same old same old in many spots, online achievements are 
 hard to comeby.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Capcom first showed off Lost Planet for the Xbox 360, everyone thought it was going to be 
 an excellent game. The single-player demo from E3 2006 allowed gamers to taste some of what was 
 to come half a year later. Now, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is finally out and is is a very 
 well done game overall. In the single-player campaign, you play as Wayne, who lost his father to 
 the natorious Green Eye , a giant monster found on a planet that is soon to become the new homeworld 
 of the human race. The humans are able to addapt to the extreme temperatures using thermal energy, 
 but they can's seem to get rid of the planet's native inhbbitents, the Akrid. In Lost Planet, your 
 thermal energy level continues to drop, with the only way of replentishing it is to kill Akrid 
 and capture energy posts. You need thermal energy to regenerate your health, as well as to power 
 VS's aka mechs. This unique consept means that you need to race through a level to survive, or 
 just kill lots of things. The on foot gameplay features a cool grappling hook system as well as 
 the basic set of futuristic weapons including the energy gun and the rocket launcher. While on 
 foot, there really isn't that much that keeps Lost Planet from being another subpar third person 
 shooter, but the massive enemies (similar to the Locust of Gears of War) and environments keep 
 it entertaining throughout the campaign. The mech combat is excellent, rivaling Microsoft's own 
 Mech Assault games. You can add or remove weapons from your VS and each model has it's own special 
 use or ability. The single player portion is also excellent because of the very high production 
 values. The cold, wasteland is wonderfully depicted by the game's awesome visuals. The sound effects 
 and musical score are also excellent, making the game feel almost like a high-budget Hollywood 
 blockbuster. The voice acting in the single-player campaign is also well done.
  
  As if the single-player portion of Lost Planet isn't good enough, the game has epic multiplayer 
 modes online that can rival the Battlefield series in scale. The multiplayer features massive, 
 wide open maps, tons of mechs and weapons to capture and use, as well as a very solid arey of multiplayer 
 modes for the picking. It is sometimes hard to find other players, but it is still a blast to play 
 online in these epic, all out wars.
  
  Overall, Lost Planet is an excellent game online and off, that is definately the first great game 
 of 2007.
  
  Gameplay: Solid action, great multiplayer and well done mech combat make Lost Planet easy to get 
 into and tons of fun.
  
  Graphics: It is a really nice looking game, who's graphics can compete with the best the 360 has 
 to offer.
  
  Sound: The epic, flowing soundtrack and solid voice acting make it clear that the high production 
 values of Lost Planet are for a purpose.
  
  Value: It's $60, but I recomend scoping out the $70 Collector's Edition for a bunch of cool bonus 
 features, including the game's soundtrack.
  
  Final Thoughts: The weather outside is frightful... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidpogi21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  STORY (spoiler warning)
  The story in this game is pretty confusing. The Main Character you play as is Wayne. He was fighting 
 alongside his father against these monsters called Akrid in this frozen Planet called EDN III. 
 And this humongous Akrid called greeneye kills Wayne's Dad and then Wayne escapes and is found 
 frozen in his mech which are called vital suits (VS) by these gang of snowpirates and he gets amnesia 
 and all he remembers is that his father got killed by greeneye. Then he sets out to kill greeneye 
 and one of the gang members named Yuri Solotov betrays them. From there Wayne finds out about this 
 special project of this company called NEVEC to rid the planet of Akrid and Make it a warm place 
 for people to live in. And the story gets confusing here. Wayne finds out that NEVEC wants to rid 
 the planet too of all lifeforms including snowpirates. In the end Wayne kills the Leader of NEVEC 
 and gets amnesia again and forgets about everything. But his companions, the snowpirates find a 
 way to warm the planet without killing snowpirates. And the story ends when Wayne meets with his 
 companions. Gameplay The gameplay is the greatest thing about this game. You just Shoot Akrid and 
 take thier precious Thermal energy to survive in the cold. Thermal energy is basicall the life 
 in this game. It will replenish your health and if you lose it you will lose health but usually 
 you are full of it. Thsi is a straightforward shooting game with no puzzles to solve at all. You 
 just need to shoot Akrid. It might sound Boring But it isnt. There are different types of akrid. 
 The first ones you will encounter are these crab-like things that dont pose much of a threat and 
 they come out of spores in the walls. The next type of Akrid are these huge spider like things 
 and all you have to doo to kill them is to shoot thier orange spots. The next type are theserolling 
 akrid that are really fun to kill. You just anchor on to thier glowing tail and one you get stuck 
 on it just fire on it at point blank range and it will die. The next one are these flying things 
 that are really weak and dont pose much of a threat and they just get annoying. The next type is 
 the Huge Giant worm in mission three which you dont have to kill but your jaw will drop when you 
 see how huge it is. You even get an achievement for killing it. The rest are the bosses which you 
 just have to shoot thier orange spots and they can be easy or hard to beat. There are also these 
 things that explode but you can just shoot them.
  There are also space pirates who prove a heck of a challenge. They use Vital Suits and rocket launchers. They 
 use hit and run tactics and they are just brilliant. There are tons of weapons in the game but 
 the coolest ones are the Vital Suits which are powerful and you usually have one when you fight 
 a boss. The best thing is you can detach thier huge massive guns and fire it onfoot. The AI is 
 great and the enemies never get old and its just fun blasting them to bits. Graphics The games 
 graphics are really amazing. The environments are detailed. The player models look awesme and the 
 mechs look so cool. But the mostdetailed of all are the enemies. You can really see all the detail 
 that went into the Akrid because the just look pretty awesome. The best looking one is the worm 
 in my opinion but overall the graphics are awesome in the game. Conclusion
  
  This is a game That I would recommend to fans of first person shooters.
  This game is great if 
 all you want to do is blast up aliens. But People who like more of a tactical shooter where you 
 have to take cover might like Gears of
  War more. And if you want to see blood, gore, and violence buy gears of war.
  But if you like 
 larger than life enemies, huge mechs, and just plain shooting action, youll be right at home with 
 Lost Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonhartman84
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Its ok, and it looks good, but something is lost in this game. I think the thing that is lost besides 
 the planet, is the fun, it starts off really strong, and then its just another achievement game, 
 and it gets boring, and what is with the cut scenes with just people around a table. I must just 
 be strange because everyone is raving about this game, but I don't think I'd be playing it if it 
 wasn't for Gamefly. I think I would actually rather play Lego Star Wars II if that says anything 
 about this game. So that's my opinion of this game, so take it or leave it, but here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayaH8tr31
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is like nothing I have ever seen before.... thats not a bad thing though. The multiplayer 
 is addicting if anyone is on. The single player is fun yet repetitive. The story line is original. 
 There is a wide variety of guns and maps. The graphics are outstanding.... THE EXPLOSIONS!!! I Personally 
 wouldn't buy this game if you dont have live. Lost Planet is everything I hoped for and everything 
 I expected. Some of the fetures are fun and extremely useful: the grappling gun. This game overall 
 is a solid game that i would recomend to anyone who likes a lot of action, explosions, and intensity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaun_nufc
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet , one of the most eagerly anticipated games to date, all the adverts, previews ect..
 
  
  Get the game play on it for about 15 minutes and then turn your xbox off and play on gears or rainbow 
 six.
  
  Gameplay is repetitve and boring, Graphics are good but lack detail shown in other games,
  Sound 
 is above average and is alright,
  Value for &pound;40.00 or $60.00 i would rather watch sunderland fc &lt; no seriously,
  
  I 
 am very dissapointed in this game and im sure most of you are to. Why buy this when gears of war 
 is superior in every attribute to this ice cold mess!
  
  Thanks for reading :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkeon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When the demo first came out, i was very excited about this game, but after a while it didn't seem 
 to attracting anymore, but i bought it anyways. The game isn't bad, but sadly for me it wasn't 
 anything special. Heres why~
  
  Gameplay; The fact you can shoot grenades in the air is pretty cool, still today not many games 
 have that. The guns are so-so. You barely have a chance to use the Rifle in Single Player, if ever, 
 and everything else is a waste of time besides the Assault gun and Rocket Launcher (Not that you 
 cant use the rest of the weapons but, theres really a lack of a point) . All the Mech's are fun 
 to use (Ignoring the fact the difference in performance is huge) , but the real downside is no customazation, 
 now i'm not trying to get it to be like Armored Core, i just figured for online or maybe a few 
 levels you could customize a VS before leaving.
  
  Graphics; Very pretty i suppose, considering 80% of the game is covered in snow. If all the world 
 does is snow, id think the snow would be a little more than knee deep, and even if it wasn't, you 
 still wouldn't walk as fast as the main character. Theres really nothing special, theres like 4 
 different types of creatures then a bunch of bosses.
  
  Sound; To my standards, not epic at all. Especially if you've played Shadow of Colossus for PS2. 
 The size of the bosses and the music just don't do anything. Bland climax music, like you see in 
 80's movies. Not a single track made me wanna say Man, i want that song .
  
  Multi-player; The real good part of LP is the multi-player, its pretty addictive, but its not a 
 good Mech Game and its not a good Shooter game, so it kind of leaves you with something in between 
 both.
  
  Value; The story was pretty interesting, bland as hell and is like a clone of hundreds of TV shows 
 in Japan (Some guy, some girl, some planet, some bad guy, so other hot chick, then a really bad 
 man that is kinda crazy, then game over) . Story was short, like 5 hours short (if you dont search 
 for the tokens or kill the 2 big monsties) .
  
  Tilt; It was some real fun multiplayer away from GoW and RB6: Vegas, if Crackdown multiplayer goes 
 well though, then this game will probrably be left alone for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain boring. You want a third person shooter try Gears of War because Gears 
 of War does what Lost Planet fails to do, and that's motivate you to continue to play this game. 
 The story is weak, the bugs you kill whoopty-do, and the achievements are lacking in quantity. 
 The target markers in the game vary on difficulty so it only makes sense to play on easy mode and 
 there's no co-op which makes playing the extreme mode absolutely pointless, and only for 150 GS 
 which is nothing for having to go through a whole campaign on insane mode. At least Gears gives 
 your more points and better online play as well. Trudging around the snow makes you feel like you 
 character weighs about 300 pounds. There's no dash move so you are constantly getting knocked down 
 for no good reason other than to annoy you. The only reason I can play this is that I'm borrowing 
 this from a friend so I get to play for free, other than that I wouldn't recommend buying this 
 if Gears of War is still an option. Heck, you could more points from Viva Pinata and have more 
 fun doing it than playing this boring game. If you choose to ignore this just remember I told you 
 so when go, oh my god, yawn, yawn, yawn, snore, nap time. ANd Gamespot gets the award for weakest 
 guide for a video game because of their inability to include any (that means none) target marker 
 locations in their online guide which makes joining seem like a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammers333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I got lost planet the day it came out and I popped it into my 360 ready to play. I was hoping for 
 something good after playing GoW and Oblivion.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are the best part of the game with the snow looking amazing along with the 
 good explosions make it look very nice
  
  Gamplay- Not so good. It gets boring quickly with no variety in the enemies which are all easy 
 to kill. There are only a few guns that are really effective and the fact that if you die you go 
 all the way back to the last waypoint ( in some levels the beginning) is a frustrating feature 
 which means you cant enjoy the game. Target markers in the levels encourage you to go after them 
 for achievements, but that makes the game even more boring looking for them. It also very short 
 and takes no more than 10 hours to complete and the multiplayer isnt all its cracked up to be. 
 Sound- allright voice acting, the sound effects of falling bolders, gun firing and running through 
 the snow are all good
  
  Value- Its less than 10 hours with no replay value apart from getting all the target markers but 
 online makes it better
  
  However the awful story which doesnt make sense with no real character development is another thing 
 that makes this game bad. Its too complex with too many characters who are introduced but you are 
 given no information for and the main characters have no development through the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  okay thi is my first game for the xbox thet i know is overratad lost planet is good but nothing 
 else compared to others xbox 360 games here is my rewiew
  
  graphics-the game looks gourgeous but is nothing especial compared to gears of wars (interiors 
 enviroments can look ugly sometimes
  
  sound-great voice acting with and bland sound efect lame sountrack
  
  gameplay-standar point 
 and shoot man vs man combat is areally lame the camera have alot of little problems and online 
 hit detection is really bad (really bad) but killthe acrids is fun and mech vs mech is cool levels 
 are lame and unispires and the game dont push yours skills
  
  entertainig-good at the star but in mission 5 youl notice you are makind the same in every disaustros 
 levels online is just not preti entertainig
  
  value-the only thing that make this game a six is because with a great team it cand ad a little 
 value because i finished the campaing in six hourst 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Normally, whne i see a good game, Id get it the day of launch, for Lost Planet, though, I waited, 
 for over a month. Reasons are: Im broke. Luckily, I went to Japan, and got it there, which was 
 way cheaper then where I lived. They let you try out a demo in the shop, so I did. After I played 
 it through, I was hitting myself cuz I really wished I could have gotten it sooner. Price didnt 
 matter, what mattered was that I lost an awesome game to logic and reasoning. Lost planet provides 
 an environment where it may seem that its always white and filled with fluffy snow, but hey, even 
 though you cant get enough of the fluffiness, the ruined wreckage makes up for it. I think they 
 are strategically placed so that the player can rest their eyes for a while, cuz everytime my eyes 
 starts to get tired from all that white, a dark structure pops out. Its really convienient. Of 
 course, it serves a much greater purpose, it makes good hiding places, challenging but immensely 
 interesting, you have to plan out tactics to tackle the enemy while using the environment to your 
 advantage. And I like the fact that you can rush in and blast everything into oblivion, which isnt 
 quite the point of the game, but with the selection and temptation of the weapons, you cant really 
 help it.
  
  If you think it cant get better, it stil can, the Vital Suits in the game provide a whole new gaming 
 experience, feel the adrenaline rushing through your veins while you fire at anything from snowflakes 
 to floating jellyfish. You wont be able to stop firing because many of the things you meet are 
 simply too ugly to let live. Collecting thermal energy throughout the game may be quite concentrating, 
 but its just common sense, no one could survive in such climate for such long periods. Also, the 
 energy blobs looks kinda like gems, and being the cash lover that I am, I am simply attracted to 
 the heat blobs.
  
  Hopefully, you will get deeply lost into the game, just as I had, just as everyone had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-orc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  My favorite 360-game so far - especially because of online-multiplayer. Maps are great - not too 
 big, not too small. There are almost no lags and a few little bugs (annoying: sometimes you get 
 paralyzed for a few important seconds while picking up a weapon - that&acute; s maybe 1 time out 
 of 100 picks)
  
  Great choices to start a battle: The difference between choosing points or flags , areas and weapons 
 (rockets, sniper, shotgun etc.) is extremely feel-able in gameplay. The hook makes the difference: 
 It&acute; s totally natural to use it and it gives you a little Spider-Man-action. Lost Planet is 
 addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pangobahn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  While most of the comments about this game I would agree with, I would only disagree with the comment 
 that it is too short. Sure, if you have lots of time to kill then this game won't keep you engrossed 
 for hours and hours. But, if you're the average gamer with a full time job, and a life on the side... 
 this game will provide the perfect bite sized chunk of video gaming fun and allow you to feel you're 
 making progress each time you do.
  
  Compared to Gears of War, this game is epic in length, and actually a bit more fun, if not quite 
 as unique. If you manage to find (at most) an hour a week to play vids, then this one fits the 
 bill really well, and will be a fun distraction for a couple of months (even if you do look for 
 all the hidden little things, which are not all that rewarding to find but add that little sumthin' 
 in any case)
  
  The graphics are great, even if the design of the vehicles and weaponry is slightly predictable 
 - still, they generally elicit more than a few oooh, cool! several times throughout the game. The 
 Mech suits are really quite a lot of fun to use, and really bring a decent Mechassult aspect to 
 the game that was unexpected and well integrated into the game. There is a great variety of weaponry, 
 and the relative power of each one is well balanced.
  There are some nice control concepts too, that I would like to see in other FPS games - the quick 
 90 degree turn with the bumper buttons is a great idea. The Grappling hook is just plain fun also 
 and extends the vertical range of your character in a believable way. General game physics are 
 appropriately exaggerated... gravity just seems a little slow to suck things back to earth. Sometimes 
 getting chucked around by gigantic bugs can lead to futile button mashing though, making the game 
 feel slightly rough in some spots.
  
  On-line play seems to be taking a while to attract a better player than the average kid, so generally 
 i haven't found the online play to be much to write home about... the maps are generally too big 
 I think.
  
  So if you like GRAW, but wish things were a little less technical, and you like MechAssult or Chromehounds... 
 but like the freedom of hopping out of the vehicle, and you like Gears of War, but wish you could 
 do more than take cover and fire... this game is a well balanced fun game to tide you over until 
 Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hegs910
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what I thought it would be. Full of exciting non-stop action, you really feel 
 you will never stop shooting. The enemies come at you in all different way and every chance they 
 have. The games replay value is high because of the great online multiplayer. The maps are great 
 so far, and the new ones coming out should really make online play that much better. The only flaw 
 about this game is that you can actually run through every level without killing anything, except 
 for the bosses. All in all, this game lived up to expectation and I recommend it to all who like 
 thrilling 3rd person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sensui1986
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Very well done, explosions seem better then any other game I've seen.
  Cool VS lay-out, seems like I'm playing Gundam Wings ^^.
  The mini-bosses look very good.
  
 There is one flaw I notice: The digging for a weapon isn't very well done.
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Well... no flaws as far as I notice.
  The sound when firing guns and things explode 
 is well done.
  Also when there are bigger akrid that pop up from under the ground, you will know when they come 
 by their sound.
  And the voices are ok, nothing really stunning but they are good.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Virtual Suits improve the gameplay by a lot. Don't know what that is? It's 
 actually a robot that can shoot, jump/fly/drive, that you will drive. There are different versions 
 of them, and they all have their unique capabilities.
  There is a nice variation of weaker and tougher enemies.
  And after each level there is a mini-boss, 
 I really loved these bosses, they are fantastic. The enemies you'll come across are human, humans 
 in Virtual suits and Akrid (Giant Bugs) , you'll notice some that look a little like the ones you 
 saw in Starship Troopers.
  Also, you can collect energy by killing akrid, humans, Virtual Suits and explosions. This energy 
 is basically your life, it slowly counts down while just running, and massively counts down when 
 you get hit. So use all your recourses to make sure you collect as much energy as you can.
  And finally, like in GoW you had to collect COG tags, here you'll have to collect markers. They 
 look like coins hidden in some hard to see spots. Find them all to get Achievements.
  9/10
  
  Storyline:
  
  The planet you're one is a very cold an snowy one, and the Thermal energy 
 you need to survive constantly decreases drastically.
  You play as the amnesiac character Wayne, who searches for the Green Eye, a giant Akrid that killed 
 his father. After your struggle with Green Eye, when your father died, you became frozen in your 
 Virtual Suit.
  He is found and rescued by a little group of people with a man named Yuri as a leader.
  Yuri 
 and his fellow snow pirates, Rick and Luka say they are trying to drive the Akrids away from the 
 planet. But when there is a shady company called Nevec gets involved, not everything is what it 
 seems to be.
  They are trying to terraform the planet so it could people can live on it comfortably but there 
 are downsides to it aswell.
  Now Wayne's only concern isn't killing Green Eye as revenge for his father, but he also needs to 
 focus on finding out what's the Nevec organisation is planning, and that while there are Akrid 
 everywhere.
  A worst case scenario if you ask me huh? ^^
  10/10
  
  Use of Achievements:
  You will get points for:
  - completing each of the missions (12) on any 
 difficulty
  - finding all markers on every mission (5-8 each mission)
  - beating the giant moth - beating the giant worm
  - completing the game on the hardest difficulty
 
  And a bunch of online crap.
  8/10
  
  Overall:
  A very nice shooter that you will definatly have to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet overall is a great game. Action starts right away and the creativity of the enemies 
 is pretty good. At first you may think that all levels will look the same but they do not. It does 
 give variety of levels and enemies that make you keep interest on the game. The bosses are great 
 and you will find yourself wanting to get near the end of the levels just to see what gigantic 
 creature will come out at you. The story of the game is confusing, Im still not 100% sure of the 
 whole deal. You do get to ride on VS and its a change in the game that at least makes it interesting. 
 The only bad thing on the VS is that control and their movements. Some are better than others, 
 if you get your hands on a good one, have fun with it. The game controls could had been better 
 and weapons other than the ones on the VS could had been a lot better. Graphics are nice, not the 
 best but nice. Game play is fun, sounds are great, vehicles VS are so and so. Overall, I recommend 
 checking this game out and see what you think. May not be the greatest game out there but still 
 pretty good and I hope to see what other great games Xbox 360 will bring out to us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was a extreme disapointment. I hated it. This game wasnt challenging at all. I beat it in 
 1day and hours 1day 7 hours of absolute pitty and bordom. All my friends said that this game was 
 the best and that it is way better than Gears of War. I imediantly diclaimed this and i was shunned. I 
 went to buy the game at Best Buy and they didnt have it. I went to my local Walmart and they didnt 
 have it. It took nearly 20 days to finally get the game in my hands and i get nothing but crap. I 
 got so mad that i chucked my Xbox 360 controller at my TV and screwed it up. This must be the biggest 
 disapointment ever from Capcom. I expected better and got crap. I recomend that no one buy this game 
 unless you literally want to die of bordom. Instead i recomend that people go out and buy DeadRising. This 
 game is more entertaining and cool. All you do in Lost Planet is go running around in a winter wonderland 
 and kill aliens called the akrid. I give this game a 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  When playing the demo of Lost Planet I wasnt impressed. I actually even had a thought of not buying 
 it. However my mind changed once the multiplayer demo released which was a great experience. So 
 on day one of its release I bought the collector's edition (which is definately worth the extra 
 10$) played it, and loved it. The gameplay is addicting and fun as hell. It may be quite simple 
 and at times too easy, but it never stops being fun. With your body being able to keep running 
 while you shoot the opposite way as well as your nifty grappling hook, you never really have a 
 problem dishing out to your enemies. During the game you will fight giant insect creatures named 
 the Akrid who are the inhabitants of this ice planet. And when I say giant, I really do mean giant. 
 For instance, in one of the early levels you are riding a snowmobile/vs across a large icy landscape 
 when suddenly you feel the ground rumble and out comes a larger than life worm which you must evade 
 to get across. Scenarios like this will give you that rush feeling and make it one of the most 
 standout features of this game. You will also encounter snow pirates who are pretty mindless at 
 times but they still offer you some variety, plus you will be fighting the cold. Constantly you 
 are in need of T-Eng. This is your heat source and retrieve more from fallen enemies as well as 
 energy posts. If this ever depletes to zero, then your life gauge will fall until you get more. 
 It adds a new type of survival instinct that makes you feel like you must entinguish all encountered 
 enemies just to have their heat energy. On top of that the boss battles are epic, each one requiring 
 different approaches. And you never have to go at it with just your body. During the game you will 
 constantly run into big robot mechs that you may control which are called a VS. These hold much 
 bigger weapons and add alot of support by taking the damage rather than you. And if they're down, 
 no worries, cause you can remove one of their big weapons and use it while on foot. Not only does 
 this game come with all these great scenarios but it also gives you gorgeous graphics. The game 
 may indeed have a couple of flaws, such as the light story, but thats ok, because this game gives 
 you tons of explosive moments. Add on top of that you got a downright addiciting multiplayer which 
 feels like Battlefield 2 but in the snow, and that makes this the first great game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  First things first all Capcom Shooting games always sucked but with this game they turned everything 
 bad into good which was what they needed to do. The Intense explosions and intense shooting and 
 awesome guns this game will make you stay seated and wanting more for your money which it does. 
 The shooting is great the tons of akrid and GIANT boss battles are awesome. The feeling of shooting 
 slugs and spiders into the air with a rocket launcher just makes you feel good inside which is 
 what is shoud do and well it does do that. I thought the story sounded like a person slipping on 
 a bananna peel which wasn't very funny. But of well forget the story the SHOOTING is the games 
 strong point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition was a decent title from beginning to end.
  After this guy at Gamestop kept telling me how incredible it was, I purchased it.
  
  The weapons 
 are simple enough, we have the:
  
  Shotgun 
  Machine Gun 
  Rocket Launcher 
  
  and some different grenades.
  
  The story doesn't make sense, as gamespot editors said.
  
 
  The game is split up into 11 missions, all connected to the storyline.
  
  The first Missions are great, incredible amounts of fun, but then, the middle missions really grate 
 on your Why am I doing this? nerves.
  
  The game would be even better, but its just so linear that it begins to bore you after awhile, 
 you shoot monsters, you die, you restart, shoot monsters again.
  
  The game does have an interesting feature, the VS suits, which are kind of like robots you hop 
 in and control.
  
  (Reminescent of Mystical Ninja on N64)
  
  With those features aside, Lost Planet is really just a shooter covered in snow. (Ha-ha)
  
 
  One bug I found was that on some bosses (final boss included) if you depleted all their health, 
 they wouldn't die, which is unacceptable in Next-gen games. (Please, that's a ridiculous bug)
 
  
  Lost Planet's multiplayer is actually pretty good, its like Halo and Gears of War's Multiplayer, 
 just kill stuff.
  
  Lost Planet overall is a decent title, is it worth 59.99$? Sort of.
  
  Play it at your own risk.
  
  Blood... Runs... Cold 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plfalzar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Let me set the scene for you:
  
  You wander into a massive, snow covered plain surrounded by glistening mountaintops. In contrast 
 to all this sparkling white are two Akrid behemoths. Spread amongst these two giants are countless 
 other Akrids who dwarf you even while in your Vital Suit. Mixing it up are enemy troops also powering 
 VS's. Everyone is fighting and crushing everyone else. You wade in with a powerful-feeling gatling 
 gun and a clip of rockets and just start destroying everything in sight, one by one.
  
  Is this necessary? No you can cruise through to your building objective on the other side, dealing 
 with bad guys only when cornered. But that defeats the addictive gameplay of this game: everything 
 can be destroyed. Though you may lose time - and ultimately time costs you T-Eng - you'll pick 
 up enough energy from defeated foes to make up for each individual battle. Freakin' awesome!
  
  Hitting checkpoints and defeating the bosses aren't the real goals of this game; its everything 
 else in between. Practically everything can be destroyed, any area can be reached with some creative 
 thinking, and every enemy, no matter how big, can be confronted. If you arent pulling the trigger 
 95% of the game, youre doing it wrong. There are no puzzles to solve, or labyrinths to navigate. 
 Your brain is tested on how quickly you can evaluate and categorize threats, and the choosing of 
 the order they are to be defeated, not to mention how and with what weapon. When you can clear 
 a level with plenty of T-Eng to spare for the next area, you will have arrived.
  
  This game is for the players who like to have their battle skills tested, people who dont give 
 up just because they lose their Vital Suit when engaging huge beasts, and have the balls to pick 
 up whatever weapon they have to fight off certain death. Winning battles against insurmountable 
 odds is very appealing, and when it happens, youll know why I find this game to be very addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sierrita2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I will not say too much but it is fun from the moment you start it it has serious story problems 
 but the gameplay is excelent. I hate multiplayer mode because i dont have xbox live so some games 
 should have multiplayer without needing xbox live. the game is unique great vs experience great 
 weapons incredible enemies. it is hard in some parts of the game. oh well it is enjoyable killing 
 lots of akrid is fun, and fighting giant one are even better. it could be better fix some crappy 
 stuff and single player campaing could be longer and it would be cool if you had some friends and 
 more vehicles. at the end the game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  *****UPDATE*****
  Multiplayer is simply fantastic! I played my first batch of Elimination and Team Elimination today 
 (3/1/07) and I am very impressed! Capcom really put some work into this game! After the dissolution 
 of Clover, I was beginning to be worried, but now, I see strong efforts on this front! The pacing 
 may turn some people off, but I think it's quite appropriate, given the limited sensitivity of 
 the aiming. The only gripe is the length of being stunned, whether by grenades or shotgun or whatever. 
 It's pretty tough when you're getting pummeled only because the opponent happened to attack first, 
 and you are unable to give them even the slightest hint of a challenge. Also, the roll is ineffective 
 in dodging fire simply because you don't dodge far enough. Other than that, the maps are a blast 
 (with ample opponents and/or teammates, of course, like any other multiplayer shooter) and I look 
 forward to spending split time between Gears of War and Lost Planet: Extreme Condition (I forget 
 the last two words in the title of the game) . If you haven't tried this game yet, you can almost 
 forget the single player and focus on the multiplayer... well, maybe not... great game.
  *****END UPDATE*****
  
  
 
  I shelled out the dough for the Collector's Edition, and although I haven't really looked at the 
 game art or played the extra map (or multiplayer for that matter) yet, I really enjoy playing Lost 
 Planet. Starting with the character, the controls are sluggish, which requires a little more dexterity 
 with the controller than an average game to stay alive. Moving away from enemies while shooting 
 can halt the frequency at which you shoot, providing for some unexpected lack of accuracy. The 
 graphics on Wayne, the main character, and his cohorts Luca and co. look great, especially up close. 
 The grappling hook is a nice addition, but I wish Capcom had put more opportunities in the game 
 to use the hook. Occasionally having to rappel down or the get to hard to reach platforms just 
 didn't do justice to the cool addition. Perhaps they could have even had a grappling hook-like 
 device on a special VS as a melee move... anyhow, the hook is still pretty cool, although I haven't 
 been able to figure out how to successfully use it on enemies, as the manual claims that you can 
 use it in conjunction with the stick and attack button to latch on to and attack enemies simultaneously.
 
  
  The Vital Suits, or VS, are some of the best mechanized monsters I've controlled since Virtual 
 On for the Sega Saturn WAY BACK WHEN! I felt right at home with the original but weak VS in the 
 first level. It can jump, double jump, and use a short boost. It comes typically equipped with 
 a Gatling Gun and a Rocket Launcher or Grenade Launcher. Upon finding other weapons, including 
 the Laser Rifle, EMP Blast, Shotgun, Homing EMP and others that I cannot recall, you can mix and 
 match to set up your personal arsenal. A sort of VS 101, where as the VS that allows a superjump, 
 after a large pause to charge up for it, is pretty cool, in addition to discharging a smokescreen, 
 which I believe would be far more useful in multiplayer than in the single player mode. It can 
 also exchange its weapons, but it's also slower than most of the other VSes in the game as well. 
 The next VS up is the spider/tank combination. This one is actually a medium balance. It doesn't 
 seem to be able to add on any weapons, so you're stuck with what's in place, but that's not necessarily 
 a bad thing. It comes equipped with a Laser Vulcan cannon which seems equivalent to the Energy 
 Gun (discussed later) and also a Rail Cannon that fires an Rocket Propelled Grenade, or RPG, or 
 sorts, while in Spider mode. In Tank mode, only the Cannon is available, but a handy drill bit 
 mode is at your disposal to clear any caved in areas that are otherwise inaccessible. These areas 
 only appear late in the single player game and is not used that often. There's also a Drill Bit 
 Charge melee attack that can be useful but you can only control the initial charge and can barely 
 change direction during the charge. Again, a medium VS. Next up is the VS that Wayne acquires just 
 in time to defeat Green Eye. It's a more agile version of the first VS encountered, but that's 
 not all. The double jump is higher, you can float for a long period of time, and youc an also boost 
 for an extended period of time as well. The melee attack is a brutal energy-sword-slice that proves 
 useful in a  situation. Exchangeable weapons sweetens the deal 
 with a deadly combination being the EMP Blast and the Gatling/Rocket/Grenade setup. Another VS 
 is a mech/ski mobile setup. In the normal mode, it's the slowest in the game but allows exchanging 
 of weapons. The mobile mode lets you escape tight situations if you so choose very quickly. I may 
 have left out other VSes that didn't quite stand out, but the VS that you acquire at the end of 
 the game is by far amazing yet resticted level-wise. Using this VS in the earlier levels would 
 be quite interesting to see. You can ascend and descend in flight, use a deadly energy sword in 
 each hand that burst in flight and slowly dissipates, and shoots a weak standard double shot gun. 
 Still agility is quite high, the graphics on this VS are especially blinding and beautiful, and 
 the battle while using this VS is intense (and a little cheap) . The weapons in the game are actually 
 all pretty useful, with distinct weaknesses and strengths. The machine gun is useful due to ammo 
 being plentiful on any given level. Zooming in is slightly more helpful for dispatching foes at 
 a distance. Next up, the shotgun is also plentiful in ammo but is only good at close range and 
 with multiple enemies. The Rocket Launcher is surprisingly abundant in this game, requiring you 
 to choose your arsenal very wisely lest you find yourself with no rockets, about 100 rounds of 
 machine gun ammo, and a few grenades. Trust me, not a good situation. Still, the rockets pack a 
 powerful punch if aimed and timed correctly. This is especially true during boss battles, where 
 it can make or break your victory. The Energy Gun is great, with unlimited ammo, a charge up option 
 that remains one of the most powerful moves in the game and can eject pilots from their VSes, but 
 it has a slow firing rate. The Plasma Rifle is a powerful upgraded energy gun that can kill enemies 
 in one hit and can severely damage VSes. The fire rate is very slow, but it's quality over quantity. 
 I may have left out other weapons, but these are the most memorable ones. The dimwitted grunt soldiers 
 increase the low annoyance factor of this game. With nothing to contribute but large numbers, they 
 are more a nuisance than a challenge. If you end up being killed by a grunt, it's probably because 
 of the excellent AI of the computer-controlled VSes that provide flank for the grunts. They are 
 the stars of the show, save for the boss battles. They use their arsenal to a deadly perfection, 
 and all this on the normal difficulty. The levels are by and far large, but the frequency of dumb 
 grunts spattered throughout the levels is a little annoying and time consuming. The levels where 
 the crafty Akrid creatures lurk about are far more interesting and challenging. The boss battles 
 are exhilirating, but tend to lean towards either very hard or very easy. The Akrid's telltale 
 weaknesses are to be exploited thoroughly, or expect to die from depletion of thermal energy, not 
 from a fatal blow from the boss. Due to the nature of the VSes, they siphon energy at an alarming 
 rate and if you take too long to defeat a boss, this is most likely the way you will meet your 
 end. A shame, since this can lead to an endless cycle of How do I kill this boss? It's so hard! 
 kinds of scenarios even though that's not the case. Still, the sheer size, vibrant colors, and 
 excellent animation and graphic design in the game make it easier to swallow seeing Green Eye two 
 or three times before moving on to the next level. To sum up, this game delivers on it's promise 
 of action that it reveal early in 2006. Forget the story, remember the action! A great game worth 
 purchasing.
  All in all, a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Originally I had bought the Collector's Edition but I ended up returning it since I received it 
 via Gamefly the next day.
  
  Storyline is weak but then you don't play this kind of game for the story.
  
  The save points 
 aren't the greatest in the world (similar to Rainbow Six save points, where you have to restart 
 the entire mission over from scratch if you mess up) but what are you going to do? Multi-player 
 is fun but can get repetitive after a while. I highly suggest renting this game.
  
  Headache/Motion Sickness Rating: 3 out of 10
  Replay Value: 3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside5675
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions seemed a bit boring at first, and the idea of having to constantly 
 refill your T-Energy sounds a bit annoying - but it turned out to be a great game!
  
  The games shooting system is pretty simple to learn, although a bit different to most. There are 
 not a large variety of guns, but there several to choose from. Including a rocket launcher, machine 
 gun and a shotgun. There are also machines you can drive around which are usefull in boss fights. 
 The enemies get a bit repetitive after awhile, but it is mixed up occasionally for a bit of fun.
 
  
  The boss fights are easily the best part of the game. On normal mode, I got past the first few 
 on my second try - but the Green Eye was challenging and took several turns to beat. They are not 
 all to hard, but less experienced gamers may have trouble.
  
  The main problem I have with this game is that wondering around aimlessly in the snow can be a 
 bit annoying, although you will only have to put up with it on a few levels. For the most part 
 the game is easy.
  
  Overall I rate Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions 8.8/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonSheep
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  There are lots of things i could say about this game. First of all, I just got my 360 and it left 
 quite an impression on me. This game is straight pimpin, boo. I mean really. The graphics were 
 outstanding from the small things such as snow gathering on your body as you travel through the 
 huge levels, to the big things such as the huge-ass bugs called Akrid (AEY-crid) . The hero, Wayne, 
 is your typical Capcom style asian man that can really take a hit. Armed with a nifty machine gun 
 at the start of each mission, you must gun your way through armies of Akrid and Snow Pirates. But 
 don't worry about getting bored. There are plenty of other weapons for you to pick up as the game 
 progresses. However you can only carry 2 at once, which provides a challenging selection of which 
 weapons to use. The VS or Vital Suit will also allow you to unleash hell on enemy pestisides. and 
 there at least 4 types of VS's. One of the features that i enjoyed most of all in Campaign and 
 multilpayer online was making you little asian man take freaking huge guns off VS's and just own 
 fools with them. This is quite humorous considering the gun oversizes you in width and height. 
 All in all the story features the corny dialogue that you usually find in Capcom games like Resident 
 Evil, but i think most of us are used to it by now. to rap this up i must say that the online play 
 has lots to offer. I found myself addicted to playing ranked matches against nerds for hours on 
 end. There are many great looking enviroments to fight in as well. This game is great fun but is 
 over just to fast just as Gamespot said. That was really the only flaw i could see in this sexy 
 piece of work. Peace Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donjoelio23
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Lost Planet, Lots of Hype, Lots of Players. I should like this game but I just don't. When 
 I first loaded the game up the first few levels where great fun. Blowing up all the akrid, vastly 
 ranging in size and strength was highly satisfying. Especially blowing many up at once with the 
 grenades. The Thermal energy thing really annoyed me and heres why, I was at a boss late in the 
 game, I just scrapped though it and killed it. However my T-ENG was depleted so I was wishing the 
 game would hurry up and save as it does after a boss. However seconds before the level complete 
 screen was due, I died because of no energy. Now this really annoyed me as this was one of the 
 hardest bosses in the game and It took me a few tries to kill. The action gets very repetitive 
 and gets old very early on. The achievement points add no lasting value to the game unless u fancy 
 doing it on extreme mode? No thanks I made myself finish it first time I do not fancy doing it 
 again. In the end I find it hard to see why so many people love this game, Its short, repetitive 
 and annoying. The only good thing it has going for it are the graphics. Some of the areas look 
 great.
  
  Ill be putting my copy on ebay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feral_Slug
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Get this game for the single player, and stay for the multiplayer. The gameplay is solid; sporting 
 some amazing weapons and combat mechs (Vital Suits.) to use. The fresh ideas Capcom threw into 
 the action/shooter genre, such as the constant depletion of Thermal Energy in lieu of a normal 
 health meter and the wrist mounted grappling hook to explore the levels, are well implemented. 
 This game has arguably one of the most enjoyable stories in its genre yet for the 360, though it 
 might be cheesy to some, and might feel too much like an Anime to others. The online battles are 
 fun as well, including an interesting (and literal) level system that rewards gameplay with new 
 character models and skins, but constant lag with players might be discouraging to some users. 
 Still, the game looks and sounds beautiful, and is definitely worth a look if you are a fan of 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I unfortunately bought this game. The time it took to beat it was surprisingly fast, the first 
 4-5 missions you will get bored. It's the same thing over. I liked some of the boss fights though, 
 this game is really only for the Achievement points. If you can withstand the boredom and agony 
 of fighting the same bugs over and over. The multiplayer for me was alright, I like rifles so that's 
 basically all I played. There is really no skill you have to have to whoop someones butt in a map. 
 All you need to know is how to aim and press the right trigger... The melee hitting you do with 
 the weapon is awful, you basically do no damage and can easily get overpowered if you attempt to 
 hit someone. Hard mode shouldn't be named that, it should show You Have No Chance Mode . I thought 
 it was very difficult keeping up with collecting all this energy and what not...
  
  The thing I liked about the game is the graphics and cutscenes. The characters in the game had 
 a nice appearance and I think the cutscenes had more exiting action than a actual fight in the 
 game... So I recommend to borrow this from someone who ( like me ) unfortunately bought it or just 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exeeded_limit
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  For all the hype around the game, this game is really disappointing. My advice is that if you really 
 want to play the game go rent it, or even go make your friend rent it and play it over at his house 
 because it is not worth the $8 dollars I spent at block busters to rent it. The Style But if you 
 are not sure that you want it there are a few things to consider before renting / buying. The game 
 is trying to portray a classic style. This is because all of the levels have bosses at the end, 
 you can not carry more than 2 weapons at a time, and there is a time limit (aka thermal energy) 
 This is a real pain because you are constantly looking for thermal energy just to stay alive. Then 
 you find giant amounts of it in the strangest area's and find out that you just finished the level. 
 The Multiplayer But if you are planning on renting this game just for the online, then its a different 
 story. I personally think that the online matches are very fun because all of the worries found 
 in the single player are gone. You don't have anything extremely hard to kill, you still only get 
 2 guns but you can always find the one you want in any level, and no need for thermal energy (you 
 either die way before you run out or if you stay alive pretty long there are fast recharge areas.) 
 and on last thing is the dummy grenade, pretty neat grenade that blows up to inflate a balloon 
 that looks like a player and even shows up on radar. Game play and Story The controls for the game 
 are a little hard to get used to. But once you master them you can beat any level easily. The vitality 
 suit (aka VS. This is like a giant armored suit with big guns installed) is also hard to control 
 at first and there are different types so it takes a while to unlock ones full capabilities. But 
 some of them are really cool. One can even fly. The story line is also engaging. I find it the 
 only reason why I am trying to beat single player is to find out what happens to Wayne, the main 
 character. The Final thoughts I wouldn't waste my money on this game by buying it but renting it 
 is questionable. It all depends on your taste in video games. So I hope this review has helped 
 you in any way at all and those are my final thoughts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahkombatant
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  A strange new game advertised everywhere and anywhere near a xbox 360 store / store rack. It looks 
 as if it is a awsome game that you can spend hours on but it somewhat falls short. The controls 
 are strange and new to most people and the gameplay is a little confusing. Expect a middle grade 
 and a lot of time and effort. Only buy this game if you really know what your getting into. Remember 
 most places don't give refunds for a faulty choice. The gamerscore rewards aren't that flashy and 
 most are secrets anyway. You may want to watch some of the gameplay trailers featured on Gamespot. com 
 and decide for yourself.
  
  Kombatant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Lost planet has everything and i have to say ive never had this much fun with a FPS since gears 
 of war. Gameplay:
  Gameplay is simple getting the hang of the controls takes only a few minutes and there not much 
 different when you control the mechs so there isnt a long and annoying learning arc.
  t he story is interesting you start out as a young kid fighting a giant green bug next thing your 
 dads dead your trapped in the ice and.. Well youll find out.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are what you would expect from a next gen amazing.
  
  Sound:
  The music is good 
 and the sound effects really are impressive.
  
  value:
  this game will last a long time even if you finish the story mode the multiplayer is so well done 
 you be on it for hours and it will pull you all away from the gears of war multiplayer.
  
  this game has a lot of potential if you want hours of fun and dont mind the cold then this is 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a Third-Person shooter set in the future in which the Earth is overpopulated, so 
 humans look for other planets to inhabit. They find a planet that is habitable, but they find a 
 new enemy called the Akrid. The Akrid have precious thermal energy that is used to keep them warm 
 on the freezing planet. The humans want this energy thus, they start the battle for survival. You 
 play as a character name Wayne, who forgets his past in the beginning of the game and are trying 
 to figure out what's going on. The story has no depth and very bland. You pretty much go from one 
 objective to another, without really any explanation. The single is also pretty short, and should 
 last you about 7 to 8 hours. One of the good things in this game is the huge boss battles, which 
 are absolutely epic and magnificent. But, in the end the sp just doesn'r deliver a solid experience. 
 There's also a multiplayer part in this game. It features the usual deathmatch and objective game 
 variants. The controls overall are pretty good but sometimes feels clunky. I'd say that rent it 
 first and give it a try first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is one of Capcom's recently released action games for the Xbox 360. While it's potentially 
 interesting concept and great graphics may lure you in, nothing else will.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY: In Lost Planet, you play as Wayne, a snow pirate who's goal in life is to avenge the 
 death of his father and wipe a desolate, snow covered planet clean of an alien menace known as 
 the Akrid. To do so, you are given a clunky camera, boring weapons, slow paced game play, and repetition 
 beyond belief. The game controls like your standard third person shooter, except not as tight or 
 uniform. None of the ground weapons ever make you feel too powerful, and even mech weapons feel 
 weak when all opposing mechs can just as easily dispose of you as you can them. None of your objectives 
 are ever too interesting either, and for most levels, you simply run through snow, shoot some bugs, 
 activate energy beacons, and so on and so forth. The game offers everything its got by the second 
 level (and there are 11 levels...) , and you'll most likely become bored with the monotony and lack 
 of desire to shoot another bug or walk through another field of snow.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Lost Planet has some pretty impressive graphics. The cutscenes are crafted masterfully well, and 
 the character design diversity is reminiscent of any other high budget Capcom game. The effects 
 are great whether it be the giant explosion of a downed enemy mech or the collosal scale of most 
 of the games bosses. The problem lies in the fact that most of the graphics seem recycled way too 
 often. The game has a layout of about 3 different environments ( A snowy field, a metal building, 
 and a brown cave ) . Much like Gears of War, Lost Planet is a prime example that fantastic graphics 
 aren't the foundation of an enjoyable game because this game is far from enjoyable.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND:
  
  The sound is Lost Planet isn't anything too special. The sounds of shooting bugs in the snow are 
 about as unexciting as you could imagine it would be. The dialgoue is well spoken, and given the 
 cutscenes are great, this dialogue serves to make watching the cutscenes one of the best parts 
 of putting Lost Planet into your Xbox 360. Aside from that, everything else is pretty typical and 
 not worth mentioning.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE:
  
  The fact that Lost Planet can be beaten in about 5 hours makes paying for it seem like a cruel 
 April fools joke or some sort of crime ( And it's not an enjoyable 5 hours to begin with) . There 
 is absolutely no replay value simply because there isnt much play value. The multiplayer is broken 
 and slow... enough said. If you absolutely must play this game, borrow it from someone who happens 
 to unfortunately own it, because even a rental might not be a good investment.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT:
  
  Please, save your money and buy a good Capcom title like Dead Rising or any masterpiece from the 
 Mega Man X series.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  FINAL OVERVIEW:
  
  PROS:
  -Great graphics, cutscenes, voice acting, and dialogue
  -It ends quickly
  
  CONS:
  - Sluggish controls and wacky aiming reticule.
  - Boring missions 
 and lack of diversity in objectives
  - All environments look relatively the same
  - Not fun to play
  - Camera during boss battles is a nightmare
  - Multiplayer is a joke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymap
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I first saw the game played at a Best Buy. It looked really nice there and the game play seemed 
 enjoyable. The next day I reserved it. Usually I wait until a review comes out on it from gamespot, 
 but I figured what the hell. Man, I figured wrong. The game got old after two days. I was only 
 5 to 6 hours in to it. There is only so many bugs you can kill. The snow pirates are way to easy 
 to kill and the bosses are extremely hard. The graphics can be very nice at first, until you realize 
 the scenes or areas can be very similar. Now the storyline is completely dumb. I wonder why Capcom 
 even put a storyline in the game. Just make the game all action, no plot. Hell that would have 
 been better than that crap. So, with that said the game was sold back on the third day I had it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGhostrider12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This is a MUST HAVE for all 360 owners! You will be blown away by the outstanding animations, vehicles, 
 weapons, level design, bosses, and the kewlest thing on this game is the addicting multiplayer. 
 You can choose from different character models and as your rank increases you get more camo patterns 
 for each model. You can also unlock more characters to use for online play. There are some maps 
 that have real-time weather changing. For example on Frozen Wasteland and Lost Coast, every once 
 in a while there will be a white out and the snow makes your visibility like 5 feet. The game really 
 immerses you into thinking you are in an incredibly cold snowy world. In multiplayer people race 
 to dig out a Vital Suit from under the snow which are basically giant mechs. One really kewl feature 
 is that some of the Vital Suits can transform into something like a walker on two legs into a snow 
 mobile. Another is a tank that transforms into a spider-bot. I think this game is underrated it 
 will definately make you enjoy your time with it. If you buy it get the Limited Edition so you 
 can get the Battlegrounds map for multiplayer because it is one of my favorites! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyThug
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  ok the main guy in the game wayne is the person you play hes a pretty nice hero i guess he kindi 
 has the whole serect past and things of that nature. The enemys are nice i like them alot although 
 there only a few their still pretty cool. The alien type things called akrid or something like 
 that theres some that roll and that are huge and serect bosses. one the topic of bosses the bosses 
 are amazing in this game there big and bad and each take some stragety to kill. There is also people 
 called snow pirates and other humans that are trying to kill the snow pirates and the akrid. The 
 story is pretty linar and some what confusing but in all its an decent story. You and your dad 
 and other men were fighting this thing called the green eye then your dad gets killed by it or 
 so you think and then you run from the green and you run out of thermal engery which ill explain 
 below but then you are found by people trying to stop the supposely good people who are trying 
 to kill everything and make the world habitable and ill leave the plot at that.
  
  Now for the gameplay overall its decent the aiming system controls like your normal third person 
 shooter. Theres a unique thing though you have thermal engery and if it goes down you health starts 
 to decrease and to keep it up you kill things like humans and akrid, at first it sounds dumb but 
 it works out perfectly like i said before you have things called VS. which are machines that you 
 control and trust me you will have to, to kill some of the enemys you can attach other weapons 
 to you VS. you can have 2 on at a time. You have the choice of the Rocket Laucher, Shotgun, Machinegun, 
 Grenade Laucher. so you have a good amount of weapons. You can have about the same weapons when 
 your not in a VS. there smaller though and you can also use the VS. weapons for some extra power 
 but you slower. The game time is about 10 to 20 hrs and thats decent but i would like to see more 
 but in all this is a pretty decent game and i think anyone that likes any type of 3rd person shooter 
 should try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optlplex
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  but if you dont have xbox live then it is no fun at all after the first 5 to 6 missions it does 
 pick up but not as much as i thought it would. A lot of people love this game but almost all the 
 people that love it have xbox live. If I were anybody who does not have xbox live then rent it 
 first. Another thing that let me down was there was not that very many different VSs or cars, tanks, 
 or flying things. That was what I think Lost Planet was like to me. Thank you for reading my thoughts 
 and ether disagree or agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  For those looking for a major release for the XBOX360 look no farther than Capcom's LOST PLANET: 
 EXTREME CONDITION.
  A 3rd person Sci-Fi shooter set on a freezing tundra, you start the game as an Asian-looking character 
 named Wayne. And your job is stop something called the Frontier Project which is meant to warm 
 the planet but will actually kill everything instead. That's about all I could pick up. The
  story was incoherent towards the end, and the cut scenes were so long that I just skipped through 
 them (I bought the game to play, not watch graphic animations) . It's clear that this game takes 
 motivation, no, BLATANTLY copies two
  movies: Dune and Aliens. Imagine a combination of those
  two movies (except Dune is cold, not 
 hot) and that's basically the story/scenery/meat of the game. In fact it's such a copy, Frank Herbert 
 (Dune's author) should sue.
  
  Ok so the story's weak and contrived. What about the game? It's good! It's real good! The graphics 
 are the best I've seen on a console. The enemies are fantastic and the scenery at times is breath-taking. 
 Sometimes I found myself stopping just to look at the scenery (the frozen ocean was awesome!) The 
 sound was excellent too. Screaming aliens (sound just like the movie Aliens!) and
  big booming gun shots had my apartment shaking. the sheer size and detail of the end bosses was 
 fantastic. The huge worm that came out of the snow (ala Dune) was...
  wow! Playing this game, at moments, was a blast!
  
  Gameplay/controls are a bit difficult. 
 My girlfriend couldn't even get past the first level (and you don't have to kill anyone, just walk 
 around correctly) . so don't give your grandmother this game. It took me a while to get comfortable 
 with the controls, but once I did, the game feels pretty natural. Remember you're moving a reticule 
 with a controller, so of course it's not gonna be the best feel. But it doesn't really take away 
 from the enjoyment of the game.
  
  There are a few issues about this game which could be raised:
  
  1. Lighting. Sometimes the 
 levels are really dark. Of course (like Halo) you have a flash light, but (unlike Halo) it doesn't 
 really illuminate much, making the game frustrating. I mean, hundreds of years in the future and
 
  we can't make a decent flash light? I hate having to squint when I play games.
  
  2. Smoke is overdone. Some enemies use it all the time, and you can't see a thing. This sucks for 
 you because you can't see them but they can see you and shoot you mercilessly. This is a major 
 problem with the final boss of the 3rd level who I needed about 15 tries to beat even on rookie 
 mode (even though I beat everyone else in one try) .
  
  3. Navigation is difficult, and it's easy to become disoriented. An objective compass would easily 
 rectify this. There is a compass but it's completely useless. Might as well have a picture of the 
 Golden Girls on there.
  
  4. The levels look big, but they're not big at all. Lots of invisible walls. While there are many 
 ways to kill enemies, there are is only one direction (or two at best) you can go to reach your 
 objective.
  
  5. Some bosses have cheese moves. You know, moves where it's virtually guaranteed you're gonna 
 get hit and there's nothing you can do. Reminds me of video game arcades.
  
  6. Strategy/skill becomes meaningless towards the end of the game because of all the chaos. Matter 
 of fact, the entire game can be beat with two strategies: either run and ignore the enemies, or 
 use the Al-Qaeda attack (just walk up and blast from close range while taking collateral damage) .
 
  
  7. Save system is difficult to understand. And you will often start way back from where you died, 
 making you throw your controller at the TV.
  
  Despite these problems (and probably a few more I can't remember) the game remains fun. It's an 
 entertaining shooter with beautiful scenery, state of the art graphics
  and sound with some very satisfying action. Despite the
  myriad of design issues/flaws, you should 
 still enjoy this game immensely. It's no Gears of War, but it'll be remembered as one of the better 
 games on the system. If they make a sequel and fix all the problems, it'll be one of the best. 
 Worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanwall12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a fun game, but its downfalls mostly outweigh the good things about it. The single 
 player missions are too short, and seem repetitive. Capcom tried to slap some kind of plot on to 
 the game, but it's too confusing and convoluted and seems to have been thought up in a few minutes 
 as an afterthought. The idea of the game is fun, with having to collect thermal energy to stay 
 alive, etc., but it was not executed too well. Although shooting the giant aliens is fun, shooting 
 the other people you'll see in the game is not satisfying whatsoever. They aren't that hard to 
 kill, and after they die, they just disappear, not even leaving a gun behind half the time. It's 
 also extremely frustrating that the main character, fights every mission by himself, without the 
 help of his friends, who are just chilling in their trailer out of the way of any danger. Overall, 
 the single player in this game leaves a lot to be desired. The multiplayer is a little bit more 
 fun, but not much. I would say that it would be better than Gears of War in terms of multiplayer, 
 since it supports up to 16 players, has more game modes, and you can use mechs, but between waiting 
 for people to join the multiplayer groups, having to go back to the lobby after waiting for ten 
 minutes because the host quit the mission for no reason, and having to suffer through the unbearable 
 lag while playing with people from across the world because there is no indication of the location 
 of the host, the multiplayer in this game really turns me off. Capcom is releasing an update on 
 Xbox Live to fix a few of these issues, but I doubt that it will fix everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poltergeist13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  It's good to see a Japanese company bring out a title that appeals to a lot of people worldwide. 
 Especially being a new IP and all. I commend Capcom for taking a chance with this game.
  
  Story - I'm sure there are plenty of reviews out there that sorta blast the story for being a bit 
 vague. I disagree, I understand the story fully. Yet I will agree with some of those reviews that 
 there should've been more. You're left at times wondering what happened between point A and B. 
 It was like the developers just threw some scenes on the cutting room floor. Overall I dug the 
 story, just wish there would've been more of it. I didn't feel attached to the characters enough.
 
  
  Gameplay - Running and shooting the aliens on the ice planet is a blast. The guns are really nice 
 too. Hopping in and out of the VS suits are fun as well. Occasionally at times when you're in these 
 suits you feel a bit constrained because of how some of the suits perform. Some are slow and others 
 are sorta fast while you're moving. Once you get a ways in the game you run mostly into the latter, 
 so its not much of a hindrance. Controls are bit slow on default, but you can easily customize 
 them. The game follows the tried and true formally of missions (Mission 1, Mission 2, etc.) which 
 was fine with me for the most part. Occasionally mission to mission doesn't make alot of sense. 
 Mainly with the way the story progresses.
  
  Graphics - When you're way up on top of a snowy mountain and you're looking out on the horizon, 
 that scene is simply beautiful. The scenery is what made this game impressive to me. Awesome smoke 
 and explosion effects. There is better out there in terms of graphics, but I can't really complain 
 at what Capcom has done is this dept. with Lost Planet. Multiplayer - Great multiplayer, I've had 
 a lot of fun with it. Typical match modes for up to 16 players. The way the games play out is what 
 make LP different from a lot of other shooters. Having the grappling hooks and VS suits add a lot 
 of variety to the gameplay. Going head to head with someone in a VS suit battle hovering in the 
 air is all worth trying out this game on Live.
  
  You can finish the campain mode in 8 to 10 hrs., but multiplayer adds much more to that. If you 
 like a great game and feel the need to make a purchase anytime soon.... go pick up Lost Planet. 
 Highly Recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAN845
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying the story is bad it's just short you can beat it in 8 hour or so depends how good 
 you are because it can get hard sometimes. the amount of things you have to fight is massive and 
 you be running away most of the time.
  the bosses are well hard i spent like an hour trying to beat that worm thing. i can't beat the 
 first boss on extreme mode it's so hard. now lets talk about the thermal energy this is the thing 
 you have to survive on if you run out of it you are going to die and it runs out fast. it's run 
 faster when you go in the vs. now the vs is the most powers thing in the game but it can take a 
 lot of your thermal energy sometimes it's good to be in the vs and sometimes it's not. the story 
 is good but they could of done better.
  
  now lets talk about the multiplayer the best part in the game 8 vs 8 madness it's fun to play and 
 you can send hours playing it you get to ride in the vs. it sometimes gets annoying because you 
 only get 2000 thermal energy at the the start and if you have a energy you will only have a few 
 shots you can have. the last thing is that the game is good but it be a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi213
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is some what amusing, The multiplayer is either really fun or really boring and the 
 story is either fast paced or plain out stupid short slow or not fun. While the story itself is 
 a very good story the gameplay doesnt live up its all the same Hop in a mech blow stuff up hop 
 out and shoot the living day lights outtah giant bugs . It just gets old You either love it... or 
 you DONT!. Compared to games such a Gears Of War or Call Of Duty 2 its not that great of a shooter. 
 The mechs are alot like Chrome Hounds pretty slow and not much ammo to keep you alive. The achievements 
 are farley easy but can become a REAL BIG PAINE. With the story the easy is a piece of cake and 
 the hard is just not right. You find yourself unevenly outnubered by ten and you have 300 bullets 
 your thermal energy is leaking at an incredible rate and they're just so much bigger then you. 
 To finish up the Thermal Energy concept is cool but I think you should be aloud to continue without 
 it but just not beable to get in mechs or use T-Eng Weapons. Overall Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions 
 is definetly a game to rent before you consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buster007
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  ok, i cant beleive this game got the good reveiws that it got. after getting to level 7 i realized 
 that every level is the same repetitve thing i did in the last level! theres 3 stages to each level. 
 shoot aliens, shot more aliens, maybe with a mech this time, then a lame boss. over and over and 
 over again. i forced myself to beat the game. i cant beleive i spent 60 bucks on this thing. the 
 gameplay is pretty simple and gets kinda old fast. even a caveman could aim and shoot it was so 
 brainless. the graphics were pretty decent for a 360 game but you have to consider that most of 
 the time the screen is all white from the snowy levels. and man, the snow was so realistic... i 
 couldnt beleive how.. how well that made it all white and snowy! such skill behind those snowy graphics. 
 (sarcasm) even the missions that took place inside buildings wasnt anything impressive. sound was 
 average boom, bang, rumble, screech . typical stuff. as for the value, you have to be the kind 
 of gamer that hasnt played any good games to think this is a 8.6. anyways i couldnt stand this 
 stupid game to be honest. i was so ready to throw it out my frickin window but instead i forced 
 myself to beat it just so i could say i did and now im gonna trade it in for another game worth 
 playing. bottom line this game is all flash no substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  1 word this game is AMAZING this has got to be the best idea for a game yet all i can really say 
 is that no other game design company has thought of stuff like this like all that snow LETS HAVE 
 A SNOW BALL FIGHT any one up for it .... ok other than the snow the exposions are sweet also the 
 mechs are sweet as well like you know how you can take off the huge guns on the mech suits well 
 they friggen pwn if i had the strength i would sit up on a hill and blast you away with a huge 
 laser type gun so lets cut to the chase if you have a 360 you have to you have to get this game 
 you have to, well most of you that go on this site will have a 360 so if you get it go online add 
 me GAMER TAG: WuTaNg14 Y'all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  From the start I could get a hang of the controls and I had a good amount of fun shooting up things 
 and trying to survive by keeping my energy up. I thought the VS suits were kinda cool they reminded 
 me of Mech Warrior days and I also thought the ability to exchange guns on the VS was a nice little 
 addition as well as the different versions, each with their own specific abilities. I thought that 
 a few of the boss battles were a challenge and I liked how they were beatable once you got the 
 hang of their strategy and the tactic of how to beat them. The graphics weren't too bad nor was 
 the sound nothing seemed to jump out and scream horridness. The only things I was disappointed 
 with was the length of the game, 11 levels is far too short for my taste, but I guess the iffy 
 story line could be to blame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamsilverwood
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the worst 360 game i've played so far.
  I admit i have'nt played the online mode yet and yes it looks sweet, But think to yourself is it 
 worth &pound;40. The answer is NO. It takes around 2-3 hours at the most to complete. the achievements, are 
 rubbish. There is only around 15 weapons on the whole game for you and the VS's. Capcom has really 
 let us down this time. Resident evil YES!!!, Dead rising YES!!!, Devil may cry YES!!!, Lost planet 
 NO!!!. If you are that desperate to get this game i'll trade you mine!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platow2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I Have been looking forward to playing Lost planet ever since Xbox magazine put it on its top ten 
 list of most wanted games of the year. Il break it down into the basic categories
  
  STORY -- Wow where to begin lets just say your some dude on this planet inhabited by bugs (akrid) 
 your father is killed by one of the big bugs and he is seeking revenge. After that it turns into 
 a spiral of plot twists wierd story lines and just total confusion on whats going on I gave up 
 on it after the 3rd movie video. Capcom could of done a lot better.
  
  GRAPHICS -- The game looks great probably the best explosion and smoke i have ever seen. Bosses 
 and enemies look amazing not to mention the planet itself it fun to look at. Great enviromental 
 damage and snow effects and I will have to say Luka looks freakin hot as hell Capcom did a nice 
 job giving her a nice rack and doing a nice job with the graphics.
  
  GAMEPLAY -- some unique things in the game that are good others that are bad. The grappling hook 
 which is used every level and almost every ledge or roof is really cool though sometimes it can 
 be a pain in the azz. I wish wayne ran a little faster and didnt take 6 seconds to get up after 
 being knocked down. The health system which is based on a health bar and your remaining heat energy 
 can also be a pain. Your heat always ticks down but goes down a lot when taking damage shooting 
 or basically doing anything moving. It gets real annoying when you take a barrage of rockets and 
 bullets and your health just regenerates like nothing but your heat wil just keep dropping until 
 your dead they really should of kept one or the other not both. The weapons and mechs are really 
 cool yet i wished for a little more variety then just a machine gun shotgun rocket and couple of 
 diffrent energy guns. If atleast you could upgrade your weapons it would be a lot better. Boss 
 battles are what the game is all about you'll just fight huge gigantic creatures that look and 
 feel amazing
  
  SOUND -- Great sound effects music is a little lame wish it would of been more upbeat but it still 
 fits. but everything to the mechs and gunshots explosions and wierd noises the akrid make were 
 done well.
  
  FINAL THOUGHT -- A lot of things were done well while some things were done mediocre game is pretty 
 short maybe taking 6-10 hours but its fun enough to replay a few times I didnt try the multiplayer 
 but the single player was fun while it lasted though I did feel there werent long enough levels 
 compared to all the boss fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm on mission 5 or 6. This is really a mech game, something I did not pick up in the reviews I've 
 read. There is some FPS sections in each mission, but not that much. So far the levels have seemed 
 to be 50-60% FPS, exploration, hunting/killing, and the rest a big long battle against a tough 
 boss who has better amo, better maneuverability, better amour, etc. Each boss has been difficult 
 to pull off the first couple of tries, but once I figure out where all the mechs are (they don't 
 last long) I can take out the boss (well, so far) .
  
  My only complaint is that the missions are very short and there's not enough FPS to the game. Boss 
 battles tend to be won not with a feeling of accomplishment but with a feeling of having lucked 
 out. Graphics are awesome, but the debris, dust, snow clouds kicked up by explosives really cut 
 down on visibility. I've spent many fights completely unable to see my opponent as they hammer 
 rockets at my mech. It's a fine line between challenging fun and frustration and the frustration 
 level in this game is a bit more than I usually like. The FPS sections are really good though.
 
  
  This would have been a total blast to do coop with a friend, but AFAIK, there's no such option. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the ANNOYING. Getting out of your VS Suits, and always facing the WRONG direction.
 
  Getting BLOWN UP Repeatedly.... so that you can never get a shot off. Short.... Short.... Short. 
 NOW, for the GOOD.
  Insane battles with monsters. Huge Environments. Fantastic Explosions that wrap around your character 
 so much that you can't see through the smoke. Non-Stop action. (There's very little, Hey, let's 
 look around the area type gameplay) And there's even a sub characters with low cut tops. LPEC is 
 an enjoyable, and Tough ride. It's one of those games where you'll face a boss and lose repeatedly. 
 You'll put it down, only to come back more determined. If you're only in it for the Single player 
 mode. RENT IT. You'll beat the game in under 8-9 hours. Multi Player gives it a bit more legs, 
 but the battlefields are limited at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxsteven
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Great winter setting, great variety of weapons, characters are life-like (realistic) in the cut-scenes, 
 the creatures and snow-pirates are intelligent and offer good challenges, good- voice overs, four 
 different match types in the online play, great boss battles, ex. on the ground, flying.
  
  The Bad
  It is not a long game-only has 7 or 8 hours of game-play, the achievements are difficult 
 to earn, ex. the worm, the spider, it takes a long time to get to level 50 on-line.
  
  The Summary This is Capcon's second X-Box 360 game. Their first was Dead Rising. I would highly 
 recommend both be added to your X-Box 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killertediz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Snow, snow and hey look a little bit more snow. If you like snow thn you will love this game. You 
 play as Wayne fighting your way through the snowey plains of E. D. N III whinch is infested with 
 enough alien bugs to last you... well a very long time. It's not like you actually have to kill 
 all of them though, you can just look at them as as you run past in you giant VS (big mech) . The 
 game takes place on a planet called E. D. N III. Humans have attempted to colonise the planet but 
 little did they know the planet is already inhabited by the Akrid which arent exactly small in 
 number. After discovering that the Akrid were full of Thermal Energy (T-ENG) they humans now hunt 
 the Akrid for the T-ENG contained inside them. But you will find all this out in the intro to the 
 game. From the start Lost Planet shows its excellent graphics and you will not be dissappointed 
 I know I wasn't. The games framerate is perfect, when I was playing through the game there was 
 absolutly no little pauses or glitches. All of the characters are highly detailed, even the little 
 fur collar around Wayne's next blows in the wind. The Vital Suits (VS's) look like you would expect 
 giant metal mech with massive Chain Guns and Rocket Launchers. Cut scenes are made with in game 
 graohics with helps to show off the amazing amount of detail out into the characters ad their surroundings. 
 The game doesn't just take place in the snowey plains of E. D. N III in fact it mostly takes place 
 in other places which have not snow like Volcano's and NEVEC bases. But whether you are in the 
 snow or inside and millitary base the amount of detail that has been put into Lost Planet is shown 
 were ever you look. Now lets move on to the original inhabitants of E. D. N III the Akrid. First 
 of I will start off bysyaing that all of the Akrid are like the rest of the game full of detail 
 the look brilliant. They dont look exstremly alien and some of them have a slight Starship Troopers 
 bug fell to them. The Akrid vary from little bugs about the size of you, to screen filling Giant 
 Worms and Prying Mantis. The Akrid are a never ending supply of evil bug like creature which will 
 literally come at you from the middle of no where. They will come from little holes in the wall 
 which give you an endless supply of different form of Akrid or you could be running across a snow 
 plain and a Giant Wirms will emerge out of the ground as if from now where right under you feet. 
 As well as the ones which come out at you from now where some will lie in wait and just as you 
 think you have a perfect shot they will be on top of you in seconds and you will find your self 
 fighting for your very life. And if you didn't think that the normal Akrid where big or hard enough 
 wait until you get to one of the boss fights. The are even bigger and harder to beat and you will 
 find that you will be running away desperatly looking for a VS. The VS's are just brilliant there 
 are loads of different types of VS's to find during the game such as ones that and jumo to amazing 
 hights or even fly to one that is like a giant walking spider which transforms into an indestructable 
 tank. As well as there being loads of different tyoes of VS you can oad them up with a massive 
 arsenal of weapons to destroy your enemys with. The gameplay is brilliant, it is constantly fast 
 pace and you will always find something to kill where ever you are in the game. Even if you dont 
 want to kill somthing you pretty much have to because your T-ENG is always dropping and with out 
 it you will die and the only way to get more is to either find Dataposts or kill something. Finally 
 a quick comment on the online play. Its really good... well I did say a quick comment. Well basically 
 it is just like the normal game with uoto 16 player to a match just your ememy is alot smarter. 
 So if you are looking for a face pace game thats not to hard but there if plenty to kill then this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenkins_2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Snow. Who doesnt like the snow?. Well quite a few people actually but im guessing that those people 
 have never played Lost Planet. This fast paced, snow and expolsion filled action title is excellent 
 when playing as Wayne on foot, but add big robots with big guns that have big boss battles and 
 you have something even better.
  
  LP takes place on a distant ice planet called E. D. N III, where humans have attempted to colonise 
 it for the untold amounts of minerals and such buried beneath the icy wasteland. Little did they 
 know that the planet was already inhabited though, and were soon attacked by the lifeforms known 
 as the Akrid.
  Thats basically what the intro tells you and although a rather forgetble and jumpy story line takes 
 place after this, its an interesting premise.
  
  Straight away you will see LP's excellent graphics and they dont dissapoint. The character models 
 look smooth and crisp and the Vital Suits which accompany them look just as they should, huge suits 
 of walking armour with chain guns. All of the games cut scenes use the in-game graphics and it 
 is a great way of showing off the detail of which these characters are made up. The action doest 
 only take place on snowy plains, and to be honest, there are only two levels that have you crossing 
 plains, the other comprise of derelict urban enviroments, mountain climbs, Akrid hives, Volcano 
 areas with lava flows and NEVEC robot store room, factory and research facility. All of the areas 
 in this game look amazing, with tons of detail everywhere you look.
  
  The Akrid are particularly impressive. Not looking completly alien, they take the form of giant 
 insects, and some literally are giant, screen filling insects. Some burst from the ground, appearing 
 though breaking ice and clouds of snow, such as the large beetle looking Akrid and the Praying 
 mantis. Others spew relentlessly from nests that hang from the sides of buildings or mountain walls. 
 Others, such as the giant wasps or scorpions lie in wait and then come at you fast. There are many 
 occasions when there are countless numbers of flying Akrid in a cave or large room and not once 
 does the frame rate slow down, or even give an indication it could slow down.
  
  VS's also look great. Each different model of VS has a different style that is easily recognisable 
 and all look superb. You'll see the large cables on legs sway with the movement and the different 
 entry animations as you pilot each VS is unique. Now the sound. The sound is this game is unreal. 
 From the crunch of snow as you make your way through the abandoned city to the final lurch of the 
 enemy VS as your last rocket hits its target, it all sounds beleivable. Gunfire cracks all around 
 you as the wind screams through the buildings, rockets roar past as you crouch behind cover and 
 you can hear the crimson pirates shouting. Beleive it or not, all this happens in the second level.
 
  The metallic sounds of the VS are great, with each step creating a tremendous boom. The whine 
 of the gatling guns is really satisfying, as is the boom and clink of the giant shotgun. Reloads 
 are accompianied by a deep clunk and the ping as bullets hit the armour make it seem as if you 
 are really being shot at.
  Akrid also sound great, with each species having its own unique sound effects. The roar of the 
 giant worm is really impressive and makes you feel as if you really are that small.
  
  Gameplay. This game has some amazing gameplay. The action in this game is fast and fun, the frenzyed 
 pace of the gameplay being helped along by the ever decreasing thermal enegery counter that can 
 be bumped back up by killing Akrid and collecting their thermal energy or activating the orange 
 posts that are set out across the enviroment (i forget their name as im writing this) . Although 
 each level in this game consists of the same run and gun action, it never gets boring. Having the 
 choice of suiting up in a VS or to just keep on going on foot is also good, because it adds variety 
 to the levels for replay value.
  
  Overall this game is an excellent, fast paced, great looking, action filled bug hunt though highly 
 detailed and varied enviroments. The only problem i have with this game is the length, with completing 
 it on my first time through in less than 8 hours. I recommend renting this game first, because 
 you will comeplete it then, but non-the-less this is a superb game that all action fans should 
 play at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drangel_jam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  If you want to have fun, buy this game. It's an awesome shooter for those who enjoy fast paced 
 action. It also bring back the old days, when shooter were more like in your face and with huge 
 monsters.
  
  Gameplay: Pros++ then again, it is very fun. It's fun to shoot monsters, pirates, and mechs. The 
 variety of the weapons, vehicles, mechs, and enemies is very impressive. Every thing feels cohesive. 
 What is done is very well done and polished.
  Cons -- it could have been better. I wish he could explore more without having to constantly rely 
 on his anchor; he should be able to climb platforms barehanded. He should be able to take cover 
 or perform special attacks, like climbing monsters and shoot them in the eye for extra damage a 
 la God of War/ Resident Evil 4. He should perform varied evading movements instead of simply jump 
 as if he was trying to stand on a higher platform, or the usual roll over. STOP WITH THE MULTI-PURPOSE-BUTTON! 
 ESPECIALLY WHEN THE ACTIONS ARE VERY SIMILAR AND CAN EASILY OVERTAKE EACH OTHER: pick up vs. remove/ 
 eject. Some of the AI is just plain dumb! A smart AI doesnt make a game too difficult to play, 
 the punishment system does. Therefore, Capcom don't be scared to push the AI. The snow pirates 
 should be smarter and more dynamic.
  
  Graphics: Pros++ BEAUTIFUL. The environments do their job, nothing is boring. The characters are 
 very good looking. Even the monsters, mechs, and weirdoes, they all have a charm of their own. 
 Cons -- Gears of War kinda stills the shine a little bit. I would've been a 10, if I haven't seen 
 GoW.
  
  Sound: Pros++ Great Dolby Digital Surround sound. Everything sounds better than expected.
  Consthe 
 dialogues may get cumbersome and too cheesy sometimes. Oh those cut scenes!
  
  Value: Pros++ Good value for what's trying to accomplish. 10-15 hours story. Nice 2-16 Xbox Live 
 multiplayer. 4 levels of difficulty (Easy, Normal, Hard, and Extreme [good luck on the latest] ) .
 
  Cons -- there are moments in the mission that last too long and there are moments that are too short.
 
  
  Tilt: Pros++ Interesting story, great animation, and nice achievement system.
  Cons -- I'd probably glorify Lost Planet more if it had come out before Gears of War, because I 
 found myself playing Lost Planet after I was done playing Gears of War's multiplayer, and not the 
 other way around. The game should have more physics, it freaking uses the Havok 3 engine. It'd 
 be like shooting ceilings, bridges, poles, glaciers, etc in order to damage enemies, that'd be 
 outstanding.
  
  Summary: Buy it!
  Selling points: easy pick up and play; fast paced explosive and artistic action; Lee Byung Hun 
 as protagonist; diverse online modes; well paced achievements; IT'S CAPCOM! The makers of Resident 
 Evil 4!
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to Lost Planet for a long time, but after I heard some iffy customer 
 reviews I decided to check it out from my GameStop (employees can do that) before spending any 
 money on it. Here's how it all breaks down:
  
  Plot: I stopped at the sixth mission and I really don't know what the game is about. Frozen planet, 
 father killed by some big huge thing, amnesia, searching for something, finding a way to heat the 
 planet... I only got bits and pieces of the story so I never knew what was going on.
  
  Characters: All forgettable. Wayne is, well, meh. The supporting cast is, well, meh. Nothing original 
 here, pretty bland.
  
  Graphics: Very solid, very breathtaking. The scenery is gorgeous and the enemies are detailed very 
 nicely.
  
  Gameplay: Okay, bad news first - 1. He turns too slowly. 2. He runs too slowly. 3. If an explosion 
 happens near you the smoke fills the screen and you can't see anything. 4. You can either be hit 
 lightly (by a gun) or majorly (by a missile or huge attack from a boss) and if you're hit strongly 
 you're thrown off your feet. It's not that he stays down for too long, it's that your enemy will 
 most likely be able to squeeze off another huge shot right as you get to your feet, knocking you 
 back down again. 5. I had the game setting on easy and I ran into numerous spots that were just 
 stupidly hard. There were either too many enemies with rocket launchers or too many mechs (by too 
 many I mean two... in this game that's more than enough) . 6. Boss battles are well staged, but ridiculous. 
 Every boss has three or four MAJOR attacks so every two seconds smoke fills the screen... or you're 
 knocked off your feet... or your mech is destroyed.
  I know what you're thinking... is there any GOOD news? In a way, yes. When you're not bombarded 
 with too many over-equipped enemies, the slow running/turning doesn't seem to matter. The game 
 is actually FUN. You take down all different types of Akrid and get a chance to soak up the scenery. 
 Sadly, most of the time you're too busy trying to figure out where the hell you are amidst all 
 the smoke and gunfire to notice.
  
  Sound: No complaints here. Lovely gunfire, lovely Akrid skittering and flying noises, and a GREAT 
 soundtrack. Also, it's not that the voice acting is flat out BAD, it's that you just won't care 
 very much about what they're saying.
  
  Overall: RENT IT BEFORE YOU BUY IT. I know my review sounds really bad, but if you like a tough 
 fight you just might like this. The game is definitely worth a rental at least. While I'm a bit 
 disappointed, there were a couple of moments early on that made it into my Most Awesome Moments 
 in Gaming book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of tearing up games, but,,,
  
  This game is pretty weak.
  
  It's clear that the developers spents some time putting this together but it is extremely rough,
 
  
  It's concept is pretty cool - Resident Evil type, third person shooter with a pretty good envirnoment,. 
 OK story. Fun guns. Mech gear to climb into.
  
  It sucks after that. It's annoying hard, You have to shoot the enemies in very specific target 
 areas to put them down. The AI is retarded. The enemies get very monotonous (spelling) .
  
  Here is an example that sums up the retard factor in this game: One of your main weapons is a rocket 
 laucher (or bazoka) . The friggin thing doesn't reload after you fire. You launch an all out assault 
 with a chain gun and your rocket launcher - you make a perfect hit with a shot and then you duck. 
 You turn the corner with the enemy in your sites but you forget to press the fire button when your 
 under cover. Try shooting and you realize your weapon is not reloaded because you forgot to press 
 the fire button while under cover. Dud. No shot, no hit. Just you, in plan, enemy site with an 
 empty chamber.
  
  It's frustraiting hard (boss on level six makes you want to return the game) . And there's no satisfaction 
 when you've completed a level.
  
  I'm selling the game any day now (after shelling out $59) .
  
  I was excited to try this game 
 after seeing trailers but it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maltinej
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  nothing new here... its been said before. good action shooter with good graphics. each level has 
 an annoying as hell section. you have a grappling hook, but can only use it in selected areas. 
 and when you are hit with a bomb or there is an earthquake the character stumbles for what seems 
 like 10 seconds, and during that time you cannot do anything other than get blown up, shot up and 
 die.
  
  some might say that the stumbling animation makes it more realistic. but for an action shooter 
 based on sci fi elements, mechs, giant flying bugs, and in which the main character can jump 10 
 feet in the air, it makes it annoying an a useless feature.
  
  for some weird reason, enemy mechs have awesome armor, while you are stuck with a p. o. s. mech.
 
  
  also, levels are extremely linear. if you dont know what to do next look down. cant see anything 
 a hole or something? look up... you will find out what you need to do next. either drop down a 
 hole or jump a cliff to your next destination. some levels dont even give you hints on what to 
 do, instead a character voice can be heard telling you useless information which usually leads 
 you to try out several options that either dont work or cant be done in the first place. in these 
 cases, go to the lost planet page on gamespot and look up its walkthrough. the solution is probably 
 gonna be something reeeealy dumb or basic.
  
  all in all... 60 dollars plus tax i could have better spent somewhere else....
  
  i bought 
 the game because of the 8.1 score on gamespot.... i guess i can only buy 9.0 and better scored 
 games.... this one is one annoying pice of crap game..... if you play it, wait till you get to 
 level 4, the mountain elevator thing in which you have to grapple the ledge to keep going... its 
 a very trivial action... but they only give you 5-8 seconds to do it... or else you plummet to 
 your death.... nice.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskinson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is every thing (and more) that capcom seid it would be. The game has asome graphics 
 and game play. The game is more like a movie with it keeping you gessing with, what are they going 
 to thorough at me next, kind of game play. Every firend I know who has this game says that it is 
 just plain fun and it is a instant classic. It is worth buying the collecters edition so you have 
 the better case. This is a gme that your going to want to keep in a good condition. Lost planet 
 also has a very user friendly control system and no bad language, so you can play it around little 
 ears with out fear of them picing up the bad words. In summery lost planet is a just good ol plain 
 fun, it is worth the money and it is user friendly. Husky Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jancotianno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game hasn't gotten great reviews, and it's not flying off the shelves, and I don't understand 
 why! other games may have overshadowed this one, but any fan of shooters should go out and buy 
 this one now! Sure the storyline is very obviously Japanese-made but at the core of this game is 
 amazing gameplay. The ability to run around taking out aliens 200 times larger than you is awesome 
 and really gives you a feeling of accomplishment. And then using the VS suits (mech) just add a 
 whole other dimension to the game both online and off! Weapons are well balanced for online play 
 and it runs smooth. No long load times or looking forever to find a match. And with the update 
 coming out in March, I cant wait to see what they improve!!! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batmanfan2233
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you want an interesting and fun game to play then Lost Planet is the game for you because it 
 is fun the graphics are off the hook and the story is good the best part is when you fight the 
 bosses and get in to those Machines. The graphics are excellent, when you shoot when you shoot 
 at a explosive barrel this huge cloud of smoke comes and that tells you how intense the graphics 
 are i went crazy about the game and bought the limited edition one so if you're thinking about 
 getting this game think no more and go for it because it is WORTH it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Having read about this game for quite a while i was really looking forward to it hitting the shops... 
 At first glimpse this is a great shooter with loads on offer, looks good, sounds good even plays 
 good. But after a hour or two play things start to ware thin. As i said this game does look good, 
 the levels have a good amount of detail and the enemies are all well designed. The sound is decent 
 enough, but nothing special. The controls take about half an hour or so to come to grips with but 
 its nothing that anyone wouldn't be able to use. The problem i have with this game is, and there's 
 several... The levels are tiny, and i mean tiny ! When you pay &pound;50 for a game you expect 
 it to last around 10-15 hours, this game you can rip through in around the 6 hr mark - NOT ON CAPCOM 
 ! Next is the story, its complete rubbish. Had no idea what any of its about and din't even care. 
 And lastly is the combat, while the controls work the combat dosn't, you will often find yourself 
 getting stuck in a repetitive action of being hit with rockets, and not being able to do anything 
 about it, alot of the time i found you couldn't even see your enemies or where you had been hit. 
 This lead to so much frustration; i can put with the simple idea of a shooter thats a back to basic's 
 but not the idea of being cheaply beaten in a level because you get stuck in a repetitive action. 
 If you can get past all of that there is a great game in there thats trying to get out, shame its 
 hidden under so much rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikeria
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is probably one of the best games i have ever played in my life. This game is amazing 
 but the price as with all games is way too high. To be honest I hate to buy games at 60 freaking 
 bucks. That is just insane. This game succeeds in every way. The music is great. The sounds are 
 great. The graphics are even greater. But this game is brought out the most when it comes to game 
 play. It is unique, nothing like i have ever played before. It just truly is unique. The story 
 and campaign mode is fun, while although i am not a strong fan of multilayer, lost planet succeeds 
 in that area as well. It just truly is a fun and fantastic game that deserves a rating way above 
 an 8.1.... Common Gamespot. Honestly, I actually have to say that this game is better than any 
 other adventure game i have ever played. To me, Lost Planet is a candidate for game of the year. 
 It is a game that will not be liked by all but will be charished by some. I give this game a high 
 rating because it just truly deserves it. You hear stories on how capcom spent more than 20 million 
 dollars making this game, and when i play this game i ask myself if this is truly a 20 million 
 dollar game and i respond by saying yes. Lost planet should get game of the year. It is beautiful, 
 sounds beautiful, and plays beautiful. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I mean don't get it twisted... this is not a bad game but there is something about it that is just 
 not fun to me. Not sure what it is.... maybe the story line is to weak for me..... I'm still not 
 sure why the main characters wanted to stop the Fronteir Project????? And what is with the thing 
 on Wanye's arm... does it give him super powers or something???? Or it only works with the VS Suits 
 and keeps his body warm.... Any how I thought the graphics were great and I liked how you can walk 
 through the snow. The footsprints are great too. But I really like when things blow up. I believe 
 that is the best feature on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is stellar. Ok it's real pretty. I admit the game is so beautiful i've considered having 
 relations with my tv. Fortunately the meds are working well enough for me to fight the urges. The 
 dynamic lighting, weather (snow) effects, character designs and levels really shine for Gate's 
 uberbox. This game is really gorgeous... and yes it even holds it's own against cliffy b's Gears 
 .
  
  That said let's get to the meaty akrid of the matter. the gameplay is on par and even outshines 
 in many ways any 3rd person action title out there. the variable direction control gives you an 
 almost pc level of control with wayne (our hero) . the use of grappling hook, quick turns, mech 
 suit integration, and weapon variety really put the package together like no other. The story is 
 one you'll recognize, but is new and original enough to keep you on your toes anyway. one of these 
 days we as a society need to retire the whole amnesia-themed storyline. seriously kids i remember 
 this storyline back to the first season of macgyver and knight rider before that. man i'm old.
 
  
  anyhoo, if u buy a 360 and you can only buy one game with it... well duh... get Gears of War. but 
 this is my very next next recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmaan_khaan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  to be a best game on XBOX 360. CAPCOM has done a good JOB but lacks in some sides of a game although 
 the game is designed well from weapons to VS and environmental effects but the major drawback in 
 getting less attention is the STORY of the game its crap i must say. i hope they know what people 
 are expecting and they gonna change the game in next release. multiplayer i haven't played but 
 heard its good even a single mode play is good too. but in my point of we should get of this ALIEN 
 thing! its enough, should create something else to FIGHT with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I must say this game is absolutely fun. The campaign is great, the weapons are great, the Vital 
 Suits are cool to drive and shoot enemys. This is a great TPS where you are this guy named Wayne 
 who has to destroy the evil Akrid. I haven't tried online yet but im planning on it, the bosses 
 are great and challenging, some were a little to easy but some were great to fight. I really didn't 
 really like the ending because the main guy lost all his memory. But some levels were a little 
 frustrating but some were quite fun, i like you can get a load of weapons around the levels. I 
 enjoyed the campaign and cant wait to try out Lost Planet online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moose2387
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game had probably got the most play on my XBOX 360 so far. Between 
 the fun single player mode and the online which can be very fun and challenging at times, I don't 
 see any real problem with adding this game to my collection.
  
  The story is probably just as present as it is in any other shooter. It adds enough to keep the 
 game going with a slight purpose, but at times it makes you wonder how Wayne goes back to the base 
 to chat with his pals then head right back to where he was?!
  
  Aside from the story I would have to say that the gameplay was terrific. The controls really seemed 
 to be responsive and slightly different in how the crosshairs will move in a buffer before the 
 screens view will shift. Aside from that the controls were simple and really did not take any time 
 to learn especially if one is used to this genre of game. I found the fighting akrid mixed with 
 snow pirates fun. Also the boss battles can be awsome. It just really makes you feel small in game 
 compared to them and really makes you feel like you accomplished something. I think my favorite 
 was killing the Giant worm. Just because you don't have to, but taking the time to do it really 
 gives a sense of accomplishment. One thing that I found really neat was the Mech or VS's as they 
 are called in game. I really like them, well some more then others. Not all of them are as fun 
 to use as other, but none the less it adds an extra little bit to the gameplay that really doesn't 
 hurt it any. The graphics for the game are nice. Characters look good and the cutscenes are easy 
 on the eyes. There isn't a lot to see at times as most of the time in game is spent travelling 
 in snow and blown up buildings. I think that this is for the best as the point of the game is to 
 be on a close to inhospitable planet. The sound I thought was really good. The music comes it when 
 the situations start to get tough and during some parts where you are on foot for a little, it 
 really slows down giving a sense that there isn't much action (as there isn't) .
  
  The multiplayer aspect is really fun. It can be annoying sometimes if you have someone spawn camping 
 with a VS and they know what they are doing with it, but just like any other game online with some 
 time put in you get better. The level up idea for playing online is neat, but not really necessary 
 in my opinion. The only thing that i wish they would do for the online play is make it so that 
 you don't have to leave the current game to start a new round. Also i wish that there was a way 
 so that you can disable VS's in online play and also restrict what weapons are available. This 
 way it would provide a few gameplay ideas that would be fun to play around with.
  
  Overall i think that if you are looking for a fun shooter that has some decent play even after 
 the single player is done, definately look this way. It isn't a revolutionary game, but does what 
 it does well enough to make it worthwhile to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is your typical 3rd person shooter, but with slightly enhanced gameplay and graphics. It is 
 blast to fight all enemys and to collect all the thermal energy you can, but it gets kind of easy 
 so if you are an expierenced gamer than start on hard. It is a very fun shoot em up . It reminds 
 me of Jak &amp; Daxter 3. It's nothing compared to a Halo or Call of Duty but it's still fun as 
 anything. You'll enjoy this game and it's worth buying. If you got time just rent it and beat it 
 in 6 days. I have not tried the online so I don't know anything about that but I'm waiting for 
 my bud to get multiplayer so I can see how it is. -Luke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Obijone
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I though this game was gonna be the one of those really good games, Im not saying thats it bad, 
 just that it didn't live up to my expectations. Gameplay i have to say is horrible, or maybe its 
 just the demo that makes it really sucky. Well maybe i'll play the demo again to see if i have 
 made a mistake. I prefer halo over this and Gears of War as well. God why do reviews have to be 
 so freaking 100 words, why Gamespot Why. So how bout crackdown is anyone gonna get for the game 
 or for the halo 3 beta because i was reading oxm, and they say its alright only that its repetitive, 
 i guess this people will make millions just because it had the Halo 3 beta test. Hope this is 100 
 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trust_No1_
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  It's a third person shoot em up which is alot of fun to play it just doesn't last long enough. 
 Unfortunatley the story is not very engaging and doesn't really go with the game very well. The 
 gameplay is good old fun though. Run around blasting everything in sight with a healthy supply 
 of weapons. You get shotguns, FAMAS, greanades, plasma grenades, sniper rifle etc and armoured 
 mechs with massive shotguns and rocket launchers. The gatling guns are very fun to take of a mech 
 and go around dishing out death to akrids. You cant hang around wondering though as you have a 
 count down timere wich if reaches to 0 you freeze. So kill more things and blow loads of stuff 
 up to get more energy. The enemy AI isn't amazing just cannon fodder really. The boss fights are 
 quite hard sometimes though and provide a nie challenge. Lost Plannet has really niice visuals 
 though and loads of on screen enemys at once. The levels are quite varied and have a nice atmospheric 
 feel to them. Sometimes I have got lost (Snowplains) but most of the time they are pretty standard 
 linear levels. The grappling hook is a welcome addition to this genre you can do all sorts of things 
 like attacth it to a mech and blast the pilot in the face. But the invisible boundaries make the 
 whole game feel a bit restrictive. THe multiplayer is quite fun online really and can get quiote 
 hectic so its a worthy addition to the Story Mode.
  
  If you like 3d blasters with sweet visuals and lots of hardware then this is up your street. If 
 you are'nt sure go and rent it. It's not for everyone but it is a good game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incubusoccer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games on the 360 so far. Great multiplayer with good variety. (take notes GOW) 
 Actual gameplay is also incredible. has a real larger than life feeling with plenty of awe inspiring 
 jaw dropping moments. The multiplayer is fun but can be frustrating. A few bugs, especially with 
 dropping connections on multiplayer, but nothing that can't be patched up. (soon please) This is 
 the only game that has managed to pull me off of Gears of War, so for that I must give it its props. 
 The energy system is a nice twist, especially when dealing with a VS in multi player. They can 
 be frustrating, but are oh so satisfying to take down. it is also really satisfying to beat some 
 one from japan because they are all gods at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mollybaker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  For a sci-fi shooter it was not bad. The hype was big surrounding the release. Heck, i was getting 
 sick and tired of the commercials. Does it meet the hype? For me it does by a hair. Hey it is no 
 Halo but it is very intertaining. That is some of the biggest fricken worms i have ever seen. Its 
 not the best but it was a good game. I bought it after i played it. The graphics are wonderful. 
 But, that is something you come to expect with 360 games. Could have been a little longer. Maybe 
 the story could have drawen out a little. But hey it is worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyfan975
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I am not a hard core gamer by any means, that being said I Did find the game to be entertaining, 
 but it isn't great.
  Problems
  -Unresponsive controlls, had to press trigger a few time to shoot Rocket Launcher (on occasion)
 
  -No in game save points ticked me off the most, Missions are desent length and so is the boss 
 battles, before I knew it I wanted to put the control down but couldn't to avoid replaying the 
 mission.
  -Long boss battles, this ain't bad, but if there were saves I wouldn't care as much. Had to check 
 Gamespot's walkthrough on 3 of the bosses, they are hard. took 27 times to beat mission 7's boss.
 
  
  Positives -interesting insects, huge enemys
  -best fire effect I ever seen
  -arcade feel -online is just ok
  
  I am about to beat it, but I won't keep it ,I'll probably 
 try to resell it. I'd rather play GOW or CoD3 or SD vs. Raw 07. LP is good but not great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely worth the wait. From the first level, you are thrown straight into combat 
 with the akrid, going straight into one of their hives. The controls are easy to master, and the 
 idea of an anchor is great, allowing you to pull off special moves against large akrid, and hang 
 perilously from ledges. The VS suits are great, adding a whole new level of morphing fun to the 
 game, and bringing in some very heavy guns. The thermal energy idea complements the game greatly, 
 the idea of being on a frozen planet, and not having some way of keeping warm just doesnt make 
 sense. The online is great, but if you are a new player it can get a bit more than confusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Panda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  FOREWORD
  
  One of the things that tilted me towards the purchase of an Xbox 360 console was playing the Lost 
 Planet: Extreme Condition single-player demo. For me, the game lived up to its hype and taps straight 
 into my early NES and SNES gaming experiences by offering old school arcade-like action.
  
  First things first, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a game developed by Capcom, a company who 
 needs no further introduction by now. Since the early days of console gaming, their titles have 
 set a standard for both platforming and action-adventure games. In fact, Lost Planet was produced 
 by Mr. Mega Man himself, Keiji Inafune (Mega Man series, Mega Man X series, Onimusha series and 
 most recently Dead Rising) , and Jun Takeuchi (Street Fighter 2, Resident Evil, Onimusha) under 
 the direction of Kenji Oguro.
  
  STORY &amp; SETTING
  
  The setting is simple: you're on E. D. N. III, a hostile planet full of snow, ice, mountains, canyons 
 and a nasty insect-like alien race dubbed the Akrid . The human race wants to colonize this planet 
 because Earth has become too polluted to support mankind. The first attempt at colonization failed, 
 but some humans stayed on E. D. N. III instead of leaving, thus becoming Snow Pirates . Insert an 
 evil megacorp called NEVEC and some mechs called Vital Suits (VS) and you're in for a whole bunch 
 of treats. You'll play the role of Wayne Holden (popular South Korean actor Lee Byung-Hun serves 
 as model for the character) , the son of Gale Holden, a legendary VS pilot. After witnessing your 
 father's death to a disgustingly huge Akrid called Green Eye , you get stuck in the ice for a long 
 time before being rescued by a band of jolly Snow Pirates. Hell-bent on avenging your father and 
 finding out more about NEVEC's plans, you decide to join forces with your new friends.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The control mechanics take a bit of getting used to at first, but once you get 
 the hang of it, it all comes together as a set of very tight and responsive commands that feel 
 quite natural. You run using the left analog stick and you move your aiming reticule with the right 
 one, which also moves the camera. The left and right shoulder buttons enable you to make a quick 
 90 degrees turn, so turning around only takes a second which is quite useful on the battlefield. 
 Pushing up and down on the D-Pad enables you to change the camera distance, and left/right is used 
 to turn on/off your flashlight. The right trigger fires your equipped weapon, the left trigger 
 throws a grenade and reloading is done by simply clicking the right stick. The A button is used 
 to jump but also to make an evasive roll manoeuvre while crouching, which is done by clicking the 
 left stick. The X button fires your grappling hook, a nice little addition that can help you reach 
 higher places, vantage points and swiftly evade sticky situations. Switching weapons is done with 
 the Y button while the B button performs a melee attack as well as other actions like entering 
 a VS.
  
  Speaking of Vital suits, they all rely on the same basic control scheme with some variations depending 
 on the model you're driving. You'll be briefed in-game every time you encounter a new kind and 
 they're all as responsive as the main character.
  
  MECHANICS
  
  On E. D. N. III, all you need is love... and Thermal Energy, or T-ENG for that matter. T-ENG is your 
 life support, your VS fuel, your energy weapon ammo, so if you run out of it, you're in trouble. 
 Luckily, it seems there's enough of this gelatinous orange goodness for everyone: tanks of T-ENG 
 are lying around here and there, the Akrid leave some behind when defeated, and mostly anything 
 that can explode is a source of T-ENG. Wayne is fitted with a device called a Harmonizer on his 
 right arm which kicks in everytime he is injured, using T-ENG to heal his wounds and refill the 
 Health Gauge. There is regular machine gun/ shotgun ammo to keep an eye on too, as well as grenades. 
 You can only wield two weapons at any given time, so which guns you'll choose to carry may have 
 some impact on the battles ahead. You can even customize the weapons on the VS you're riding or 
 use VS weapons on foot. Ever wanted to blast alien bugs on foot with a 7 feet long 150 pound shotgun 
 with slugs the size of your fist? Well now you can. Finally, you need not worry about ammo or T-ENG 
 scarcity though, there's enough weapons lying around to wage a war and, well, wage a war you will.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Explosions, everywhere, all the time. Smoke, snow, wind, fire, the visual effects are stunning. 
 Everything from the main character to the NEVEC troops, Snow Pirates or the Akrid is generously 
 detailed. I want to add a special mention to the VS animations and details that are particularly 
 well pictured. Piloting a big robot never looked so good. The Akrid are as you expect them too; 
 grotesque and menacing with insect-like behaviour.
  
  The environments are vast and the draw distance is so large that you won't ever see anything popping 
 in or out of the screen for no reason. The framerate stays smooth all game long, I noticed slowdown 
 only twice during the single-player campaign. Continuing what was done in Dead Rising, there can 
 be a huge number of foes at once on screen without any slowdown.
  
  SOUND &amp; MUSIC
  
  My favorite aspect of the game is the sound because it feels so real. I can't really describe 
 it with precise words without falling into an array of details like how the VS make clanking noises 
 or the outer worldy screams of the Akrid. Every sound is spot on, making the noise you'd expect, 
 from the heavy breathing of Wayne running in two feet of snow to the cheesy sound of firing a laser. 
 Voice acting is also well done, though nothing special, it works fine.
  
  The music was composed by Jamie Christopherson who gave us the soundtrack of Onimusha: Dawn of 
 Dreams in 2005. Those who played the game might remember its amazing Asian soundscapes. Lost Planet's 
 music leans more towards the symphonic / epic movie soundtrack category, with horns and strings 
 striking urgent notes to the battles. However it's varied enough to suit every moment of the game 
 very well with a more ambient and eerie tone in certain areas.
  
  ONLINE
  
  A nice addition is the Online Battle portion of the game over Xbox Live. You can duke it out on 
 several maps and it supports up to 16 players in 4 game modes like Team Battle and Data Post Grab 
 (capture the flag) . Respawning time is short and with plenty of VS, guns and grenades lying around, 
 the action never stops.
  
  PROS &amp; CONS AND FINAL WORD
  
  PROS:
  
  - Beautiful graphics &amp; sound + smooth framerate
  - Varied weapons, from shotguns to homing 
 lasers to frisbee grenades
  - You know you want to ride a VS. Admit it
  - Many pieces of destructible environment
  - Loading times from short to none.
  - MASSIVE boss 
 battles
  - Replayability (Four difficulty levels, hidden Target Marks to find in every level, two optional 
 boss battles)
  - Fun and simple Online Battle system
  - Cool Xbox Live Achievements to get
  
  CONS:
  
  - Story is okay... if you like reading 
 between the lines...
  - Redundant locations (if you hate snow, stay away from this game)
  - Some frustrating moments
  - Online lacks tactical depth
  - Some may find the campaign mode 
 a bit short
  - Characters run a bit too slow
  
  Thank you for taking the time to read this in-depth review of Lost Planet: Extreme Condition. I 
 enjoyed the game enough to make it my very first review and I'd like to dedicate it to all my Gamespot 
 buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenwork21
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  Well here we go again, it is not the first time I do wast money for a game but this time I am very 
 disappointed.
  Maybe you remember for how long they told us what a game this would have be and it has been described 
 as the masterpiece/killer application we were all waiting for...
  Please save your monewy for something else.
  I am not mentioning the storyline, quite boring 
 and obvious, but this game really leave you with this sense of emptiness, it is just a well done 
 packet without much of substance on it.
  
  You are wondering aroud with this guy, somethime you are using a mech.. so what.. It is so arcade 
 even compared to just cause that maybe represent the most arcade one X360. So repetitive for not 
 saying more it is my worst buying for 2006/2007.
  
  As a Xbox live mode is quite fun but just for a couple of days. After that it is not a materpiece 
 like Graw or GOW or at least interesting like Vegas. So you wont play it for a long time.
  
  Now I hope to get at least some money back as a used game.
  
  Regards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorrow012
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The single player was very good, it had some great characters ,a good story and some very cool 
 boss fights, the game left you wanting more at the end and I think that was why many have been 
 complaining about the games single player length, IMO the game was decent in length, only 8-10 
 hours, I know that is nowhere near enough for some, but you can't have every game last 30+ hours 
 and this one felt about right to me for the game play and everything.
  
  The multiplayer here is also very good, You have your basic elimination and team elimination as 
 well as Post grab which is basically land grab from the Halo's, my personal favorite so far is 
 Fugitive, where it's one man against the whole room, I've always enjoyed those type of games,.
 
  
  The combat is similar to the Star Wars Battlefront franchise (but that comparison may not do Lost 
 planet justice) , but I prefer this one a lot more, unlike SWB the mechs in this game are very easy 
 to use and the game play is more fluid then SWB where it basically felt as if you were a walking 
 stick, There really is no bad maps on this game all of the maps that I have played seem to be well 
 laid out and a lot of fun. The weapons in the game are outstanding, the game has a wide variety 
 of mechs plasma guns sniper rifles, basically you name the game has it.
  
  Overall I felt that the game was good enough to justify the $60 I spent, and that the game is also 
 a good old breath of fresh air after all of the RS: Vegas I've been playing, now also this game 
 may not be for everyone so I would recommend that you at least give it a rental if your not sure 
 if you will like it or not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is sweet. It is an old school game, A third person shooter with 11 levels, each one 
 with a great boos at the end of the level. The story is confusing, but it has more argument than 
 GoW of course. Beautiful cinematic, and the Art Direction is superb, delivering beautiful graphics. 
 I enjoyed just strolling around. Smooth frame rate. Items to discover. The single player is plain 
 fun. Advice: on Normal difficulty it is a hard game (CAPCOM&acute; s game, you know) . This game 
 has a Japanese taste, transformers (VS) , bosses with life gauge, confusing plot, some anime references. 
 The value is high. You want to return to find all the **** target marks.
  Multiplayer is good too. Fun factor is high. Good graphics online (i&acute; m looking at you RV6) , 
 and everyone want to reach level 50. Many maps, a lot of ppl.
  Minor problems: too linear, and shooting system feels too arcadey, specially online. But VS, weapons, 
 and bosses rock. IMO, LP delivers a sweet sp experience, better than CoD3 and RV6. (yes, but CoD3 
 online rules) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Im kind of torn on this one. While Lost Planet had so much to offer visually, style wise and with 
 the game play, I am perplexed by the fact of how awful other parts of it were.
  
  Lost Planet was a visually fun and responsive game to play. The level designs were beautiful as 
 were the animations in the game. Smoke screens that left you blinded, explosions that looked like 
 rolling flames from the movies and the wonderfully designed akrid enemies were all wonderful to 
 look at. Your character (Wayne) moved pretty slow through the snow as you might expect, but I didnt 
 notice him picking up the pace when he was not in the snow. There were some issues with button 
 assignments such as the multi-purpose B button that both entered/exited the VS suits, picked items 
 up and also removed mounted weapons from the VS'. The over all design was of a frozen planet, complete 
 with metropoliss that appear to have come straight from a scene in The Day After. This of course 
 is fine but its supposed to be a developing colony. I mean how did these people drive around (you'll 
 notice cars frozen and broken in the snow as you play) or ever build these buildings in the frozen 
 waste to begin with?
  
  The voice acting was ok but thats mostly due to the outlandish story plot that unfolds and the 
 characters. Oh the characters. How I loathe the thought of watching another unnecessary cut scene 
 even though graphically they were beautiful. I also couldnt stand the main culprit. Both times 
 I saw him in the game I would get this image of Hideyoshi (I think thats how its spelled) from 
 Samurai Warriors dancing around looking like a madman.
  
  My biggest disappointment in Lost Planet was the story. The story behind Lost Planet is so disjointed 
 and out there that I regretted watching the cutscenes that progressed it. Its most definitely 
 the weakest link to this great shooter. Part of the problem as well was that no one had a problem 
 with the idea of killing off this native species on a planet humans tried to colonize. And then 
 to treat it like they were some evil being and we had no idea why they were attacking us was just 
 a testament to human idiocracy. What ever you do, take the story as something that was fleshed 
 out at the last moment because that is exactly how it plays. This is a game built first with the 
 story added second.
  
  Another problem at times were the enemy AI. During one level where you are fighting other snow 
 pirates, a giant akrid appears and rather than attacking the snow pirates that are shooting it 
 to pieces, it came after me and I hadn't even taken a shot at it. Also, those shooting at it were 
 standing right out in the open. Other issues with the AI are sniping enemies and every one standing 
 around looking for me and not taking cover and sometimes just standing there as I ran up to them 
 and gave them face full of buckshot. If it wasn't for the fact that I enjoyed giving the akrid 
 and other enemies a face full of buckshot I might have had a bigger problem with this last one.
 
  
  After all this griping some of you might be wondering why scored this game so high. The reason 
 is because its a fun GAME. Lost Planet does everything right that a good shooter should with some 
 minor flaws to the mechanics. Yes the story bites and the AI is regrettably dazed but Lost Planet 
 as a shooter was excellent.
  
  My favorite/proudest achievement at the time of this review: Worm Hunter on Normal difficulty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I havent seen a game like this in years. I started off on hard (difficulty) to get my money's 
 worth........... and Im completely blown away. I thought the presentation of the game on the demo 
 was good.... but I was ill prepared for the truth. This game is better than expectations allow you 
 to imagine. Just the opening battle against the green eye was worth the purchase. Im two levels 
 deep right now so I cannot write a complete review until I have the complete picture Capcom had 
 drawn up for me. But Just off jump street this game rocks hands down.
  
  Next gen visuals, sound, game play &amp; feel. Killer app
  
  All hail the mighty Capcom lord 
 of the games......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinDelphi
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  At first Lost Planet is a barrel of fun, shooting non stop hoards of aliens over the beautiful 
 terrain. But the fun quickly subsides. This is a dish best served in small increments. Otherwise 
 you will just breeze through the entire game. The only challenges are saved for the boss battles, 
 which actually aren't challenging as they are just frustrating until you figure out the pattern. 
 (Anyone who has been playing a while {read pre-8bit days} should have no problem with the pattern 
 recognition) . I found the controls to be innovative but they felt short of what I think they were 
 shooting for. They did take some getting used to but they didn't seem to hinder game play all that 
 much, with the exception of the damnable B button and having to be in the just right place to replace 
 weapons on your VS units, you will jump out of your VS more than once because of the B button being 
 used for picking up weapons and getting out. I don't like the way the points are dispensed, Playing 
 through the entire game all three times yielded less than 400 points. The online games are fun 
 for a jaunt, but little else. The story is non existent. Overall the game is fun, but just doesn't 
 hold interest for very long.
  
  Pros: Game features some wonderful nostalgic arcade button mashing action
  Cons: Poorly implemented 
 storyline doesn't keep you involved, B button usage, unimaginative boss battle system, far too 
 easy, poor point dispersion, online not all that fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cg_soldier
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a great game. I mean great story but too short but still there is lots of bugs and 
 pirates to kill like every minute. I spent less than 7 hours and i finished the game where i was 
 disappointed but the boss fights were very challenging. The multiplayer was very good and impressed 
 me it almost makes up for the short story in the campaign but not that much. I hope they add another 
 game mode which is unique but thats what i expect from most shooters. Overall its a great game but 
 don't believe what all the hype was about. I mean first looks and demos made the game look amazing 
 but it wasn't what i was expecting (It could have done better) but this is my opinion and yours 
 is probably different so be happy with your copy of Lost Planet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozanecki
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  These days, original game series are becoming a rare commodity. Creativity is lost amongst the 
 endless Splinter Cell and Sonic sequels of the gaming industry. Then there is Lost Planet, a newly 
 created franchise by Capcom for the Xbox 360. New game mechanics such as the use of thermal energy 
 and Vital Suits (VS) are always welcome -- but Lost Planet is not without its flaws.
  
  The story line in Lost Planet is passable but certainly not inspiring. The game is set in the future 
 where humans have moved off Earth to colonise a planet E. D. N. III  and it is covered in ice. The 
 various settlements on E. D. N. III seem to be a success at first however the peace doesn't last. 
 The Akrid alien horde who colonise the planet attack the humans and force them into a bloody retreat. 
 You play as Wayne -- a highly unusual name fore a video game character. Wayne's father has been 
 killed by a giant Akrid called the Green Eye. So, just like any story of revenge, Wayne sets out 
 to kill the Green Eye that murdered his father. Along the way Wayne discovers all is not as it 
 seems on E. D. N III.
  
  Lost Planet's use of thermal energy adds an interesting twist to the game. Wayne's thermal energy 
 slowly depletes over time and if it runs out he'll die. The only way to replenish Wayne's health 
 is by walking over the thermal energy of your fallen enemies. This creates a sense of urgency to 
 the game as Wayne needs to fight to continue to live, yet if his health is low he may not have 
 enough power to win. Each breed of Akrid has different ways of being killed, adding variety to 
 the game-play.
  
  The game takes place in a third person perspective. The controls are fairly standard, with the 
 analog sticks control aiming and movement. Aiming, however, feels a little bit sluggish. It takes 
 far too long for Wayne's aiming reticle to move from the left hand side of the screen to the right. 
 You will be fighting both on foot and in mechs called Vital Suits (VS) . Fighting in the various 
 models of VS makes sending the Akrid to kingdom come very easy -- almost too easy at times. Each 
 model of VS suit has its advantages and disadvantages. Some are slow but pack awesome fire power, 
 whilst others are fast moving but pack little fire power. Just like Wayne's health the VS suits 
 require thermal energy to operate.
  
  Graphically Lost Planet is superb. As the game is set on an ice planet you would expect the snow 
 to look great, and it does. The light shimmering off the snow looks amazing. Explosions look natural, 
 however, it would have been nice if the heat melted away some of the ice. The character models 
 are highly detailed with bits and pieces dangling off their utility belts -- though human enemy 
 models are a bit disappointing, as there are only a few variety of skins. The character design 
 of the various Akrid is unique and creative. They range from flying suckers to heavily armoured 
 ramming Akrid. Even with dozens of Akrid on screen at once the game manages to maintain a smooth 
 frame rate.
  
  The audio in Lost Planet is decent enough. Explosions and gunshots all sound convincing. Unfortunately 
 the same cannot be said for the dialogue and voice acting.
  Some of the dialogue in Lost Planet feels like it was ripped straight out of a B grade action movie. 
 The voice acting is monotonous and un-inspiring. Luckily, the action is so enjoyable you don't 
 need to worry about what the other characters are saying.
  
  Multiplayer in Lost Planet is fast and furious. There are eight different maps for you and 15 other 
 combatants to duke it out with. With only eight maps to choose from you quickly become familiar 
 with their layout. Fortunately the levels are divided into several different sections with multiple 
 floors. Often when playing over Xbox Live you will find yourself playing with people from across 
 the globe. The great thing about having the servers internationally is that you will never have 
 trouble finding people to play with. The downside is that games can occasionally suffer from lag. 
 The game play in multiplayer is just as fun as it is in single player.
  
  Lost Planet has a variety of modes that include deathmatch and team deathmatch, all-against-one 
 and an assault type of mode called grab. In grab, you and your team must secure the various data 
 posts around the map from the opposing team. The team that holds the posts for the longest by the 
 end of the match wins. This makes for some hectic battles as the counter goes down to zero. VS 
 suits are also scattered around the map making killing the other players easier. Don't think that 
 because you have a VS suit that you become a one man killing machine. Other players also have VS 
 suits so you will need to be strategic about selecting your targets.
  
  Overall Lost Planet is an enjoyable shooter with easy to learn game-play. Complementing the fun 
 single player mode is its equally enjoyable multiplayer. If you can look past the corny dialogue 
 you will find a great action game that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet might as well be a tribute to the good days of running and shooting. The story is there, 
 and so are the pretty graphics, and lighting, and SFX, and all the other things gamers today are 
 so greedy for. But Lost Planet is mainly focused on intense combat, and awesome weapons. While 
 you'll most noticeably find yourself using the Machine Gun more than other guns, you are always 
 welcome to use any weapon available to you. Each weapon is distinctly different. There is the Machine 
 Gun, Shotgun, Rifle (with scope) , and Rocket Launcher, all which speak for themselves. Then there 
 are energy weapons. There are only 2 different types of energy guns, unfortunately. One shoots 
 out a all of energy, hold down the trigger to make the orb bigger and more powerful. The other 
 is an energy-sniper sort of weapon. It is highly powerful, able to take on a VS better than most 
 weapons. The ammo for these guns is unlimited. But it sucks up your T-ENG (Thermal Energy) like 
 a leech, leaving you weak if your in a tight spot. Along with guns, thee is an assortment of grenades 
 as well. There are standard explosive grenades. Dummy Grenades, which send out a decoy balloon 
 that explodes on contact. Plasma Grenades, which can disable a VS, and stun opponents, even killing 
 them if you thrown 2-3. Then there are Gum Grenades, these will stick to any surface. be it a body, 
 wall, floor, VS, ceiling, or anything else that can be seen. The graphics in Lost Plant are quiet 
 impressive, especially on an HDTV. Explosions are fantastic and the lighting effects are astonishing. 
 Animations are smooth, and the game has yet to barely even slow down on me yet. The sound is also 
 amazing. All those explosions, eruptions, guns, and shouts sound great together. However, the voice 
 acting is anything but great. From the moment you hear Rick's voice, a subconscious voice of your 
 own will tell you to reach into your screen and strangle him... But that's just me. The story itself 
 isn't too bad actually. Past the cheesy dialog, it serves it's purpose, but after seeing these 
 scenes once, you'll most likely skip them to get into the fight again. You may have heard me speak 
 of what's called a VS. These are pretty much like Mechs you've seen in many other robot games. 
 But Lost Planet pulls them off quiet nicely. Letting you pull off any VS weapon and swapping it 
 out for another. it's a nice feature, but you'll usually only do it when the coast is clear, which 
 isn't very often. But what really makes the VS (Vital Suit) great is the difference between the 
 vast array of them. Some can turn into a rocket-propelled sled, while others can ski on the ground 
 using built in jets. They are all fun to ride in, and offer a variety to the already varied gameplay. 
 Overall, Lost Planet is more of a Come for the explosions, stay for the gameplay type of game. 
 While it has it's problems, such as very little splash-damage, and and a few other small bugs, 
 they don't effect the gameplay enough to really make you despise the game. Some while like Lost 
 Planet, others won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the newest game that I bought for this year, and with many other choices that I had, I 
 decided to get Lost planet. I heard many great things about this game and I had to see it for my 
 self. The game is fairly easy to play and it has an interesting plot. It is not that long and the 
 plot isn't very indeph, but its pretty interesting if you think about. The purpose of the game 
 is to shoot alien bugs, similar to the movie starship troopers. The only difference is that you 
 are fighting in a snow covered planet. It is also vital to pick up energy that is stored by the 
 akrid. The only way to access this source is by killing them. The game itself is fairly short. 
 If you really have nothing to do, you could probably beat it in one day. The main reason to purchase 
 this game is the online play. Its pretty different from other 3rd person shooters like GOW mainly 
 because you can play 16 player matches and its pretty fun. I totally reccommend anyone to get this 
 game, I personally enjoy it and think its awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Heralded as the pacifier to subdue us until Halo 3, Lost Planet came bearing the hopes and dreams 
 of Xbox owners across the land. Whatever promises were bequeathed unto us in the demos, however, 
 were quickly squelched by the sting of reality, leaving us with a half assed attempt to bring hot 
 mech on bug action in a winter wonderland.
  Lost Planet takes place on a snow-covered world called, wait for it, E. D. N III, as humanity desperately 
 seeks to escape the problems of Earth. Once settled, the emigrants found that giant bugs had claimed 
 the planet in the name of France, and started to eat the faces of said emigrants. So a committee 
 of angry face eaten emigrants decided to shove off, and look for better real estate without angry 
 arthropods when ALL OF A SUDDEN, INTRIGUE! It turns out that the insectoids with a crazy taste 
 for human face possess a valuable thermal energy that power their star destroyers. So just like 
 the American government finding oil reserves in a hellhole, the colonists decide to stay and fightwith 
 robots. The plot is so rife with clich&eacute; s and stupidity that even the anime backdrop of 
 cleavage shots and mysterious angry men cant save it. Thankfully, this is not the draw of the 
 game.
  What is, however, is equally as disappointing, as the gameplay will leave you so frustrated that 
 youll likely spend weeks rationing your patience out on the 7 hour single player game than beating 
 it in one sitting. To start with, Lost Planet uses an extremely aggravating aiming system that 
 moves your reticule around the screen before it pans left and right. For the first minute, this 
 novelty will draw you in, right up until the next level when you actually need to shoot things. 
 Then it becomes the bully from high school gym class, making you chew on his jock strap in the 
 locker room. Capcom should be ashamed that the controls are so awful they needed to include a 90-degree 
 turn function as if this was some Wolfenstein 3-d throwback. For the most part you can offset this 
 by turning up the sensitivity, but it doesnt fix the problem, merely downsizing it to an irritation 
 than a crippling flaw. If the problems were bad on foot, theyre even worse in the mechs, as something 
 small and presumably mobile feels more like a lead weight with the ability to use rocket jets. 
 There are a handful of different mechs with an assortment of abilities including jumping, hovering, 
 sliding, drilling, and transforming into the first car your parents let you drive. Of the handful 
 of mechs, only a few are useful, but youll grab whatever you can find, because in single player 
 mech combat, robots with missile launchers are king.
  Your character has a number of artificial limitations on his actions, the first of which is the 
 need for thermal energy that you can receive from mayhem and activating energy posts. This gives 
 you a limit on how long you can spend on a level, though in practice it doesnt really take effect 
 unless youre using a mech and energy weapons for most of the level. In addition, your character 
 can only carry two weapons, which would work a lot better if the game didnt require you have specific 
 weapons to take care of certain enemies (only explosives hurt mechs, and plenty of them) .
  The missions are just a linear slugfest of running from the beginning to the end in a straight 
 line, and killing the boss. There arent any surprises during the missions, and theres virtually 
 no way to get lost despite the appropriately sized levels. This could be seen as a positive aspect 
 as it streamlines the experience, but the game gives your character access to a grappling hook 
 that allows him to traverse difficult terrain. This is only useful in a few circumstances that 
 are specifically designed for the function, as youre not allowed to climb on buildings due to 
 the dreaded invisible barriers. Multiplayer is where this game succeeds, thanks to a capture and 
 hold mode that allows you to take advantage of the grappling hook and team play, but also has a 
 number of mech units on the maps that dont unbalance gameplay. While it doesnt quite make up 
 for an inexcusably pathetic single player, it does ease the pain a bit with fast if familiar action.
 
  Compared to Gear of War, Lost Planet is a close rival, with beautiful environments, great character 
 models, terrific animations, and magnificent explosions. There is no denying the amazing aesthetic 
 qualities of the game, and arguably itll be one of the highlights of the single player that will 
 keep you going long after the action has turned you off. Acoustically the game is mediocre. The 
 voice acting will make you punch a baby, though realistically the actors didnt have much room 
 to work with the mind numbingly obtuse lines. The same can be said of the sound effects for the 
 weapons, which sound extremely pedestrian compared to other triple a titles. Disappointing doesnt 
 quite cover the intestinal distress this title conveys to the average gamer, and while there are 
 some enjoyable aspects, the cover price is a bit extreme considering the nuances youre going to 
 have to overlook. If you have a desperate need of a new action shooter on the Xbox, just rent this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopinloop32
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet,3rd Person Shooter from Capcom is a game hyped and bash and praised. This game takes 
 a lot of things from Res 4 (good thing) and adds them in this gloruis Snow Crossed Planet.
  
  Ah yes the setting, this game has the best Snow filled graphics I have ever seen and the charecter 
 moves just perfectly while in the Snow. Though this game goes into caves and cities a lot and goes 
 away from the graciuos awe of the Snow, this is one big thing Capcom did wrong. Capcom was smart 
 and made enemy Akrids into different enviroments... for those who havent played this game for long 
 will soon find out. Did I mention best explosions ever? I have never seen something so buetiful. 
 Though i am dissapointed that the explosions do not effect the snow (they could have at least made 
 the Snow melt or something.
  
  The Gameplay is similar to any other 3rd person Shooter on the 360 but it adds a huge auto-aim. 
 But sometimes this auto-aim doesnt hook on the correct target and you pay for it. The enemies split 
 out to the Akrids to the Nevic Humans. At first I thought that the reveiwers were crazy when they 
 said the story sucks but later in the game the story gets a little hectic with all the charecters
 
  
  But this game still places as a great game next to Gears and should be treated like it. I give it 
 an 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdMayday911
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is OK overall but, it's a simple shooter that does not bring ANYTHING new to the table. 
 Graphics, nice... Soundtrack, so, so... Gameplay, average... There are many glitches on the online 
 multiplayer. e. g. After killing an enemy it stays standing still and you don't know if the dude 
 is dead or not so you keep wasting ammo on him/her.
  
  e. g. In many occasions, you may take a clear headshot with the rifle and you will not get the kill 
 with a single shot.
  
  e. g. Why do some people start the gameplay online and your screen keeps reading loading... for 
 10-15 seconds after others are already playing?!?!?!
  
  e. g. If a person just respawned, how is it fair that they can kill you and you can not shoot their 
 noggins off while they have the invulnerability blue aura on?!?!?!
  
  e. g. In single elimination people keep respawning right next to each other.
  
  Many of these 
 problems can be fixed with a mere update to the game. This review would have been better if CAPCOM 
 takes some time to take care of these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructability
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting to buy this game on release and through lack of money didnt manage to (huge 
 sobs all round) .
  But finally when i got my act together, i found out about Crackdown and now im saving for the 23rd. 
 Had a day off so i thought what the hell i might as well rent Lost Planet and so i went down to 
 my local rental shop and found a copy.
  First impression was fantastic, brilliant graphics, difficulty not too easy not too hard and a 
 good story. Then i started to find those little things that annoy me, like enemies that dont die 
 after 12 rockets (literally) and these were just some random foot soldiers that usually die from 
 machine gun fire.
  The game seemed to then want to get its own back on me and deleted my save file (yay) and so i 
 did it all again, with massive annoyance to boot.
  
  The online demo was fantastic of this but the real thing now that is rather rubbish. The lag is 
 so terrible sometimes that only the host wins because he/she takes 5 rockets to the chest and you 
 cant even survive splash damage, very frustrating.
  
  So unlike many other people i did not enjoy this game full heartedly, but i did find the bosses 
 satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  i love this game its awsome man i new it was gonna bo a great game because capcom made it and the 
 graphics are amazing when u shoot barrel it looks amazing it explodes looks super real and the 
 boss battles are great huge bosses and kinda challenging online mode is fun probaly the 2nd best 
 360 game online 1st is gears of war but it makes it interesting yo have a lv and it mostly matters 
 if u get more kills then deaths if u have 4 kills and 3 deaths ull get at least 200 pts but u have 
 get 8 kills 3 deaths then u will get alot of points and level up and get a new costume or character 
 the only bad part about this game its short if it was longer it would probaly be the best 360 game 
 out but 8 hours u will be done with campaign but if it was 16 hours that would be amazing but still 
 this game is great if ur a fan of intense shooters with great storys then get this game its amazing 
 one of the best games out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldemon47
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has proven themselves time and time again to be capable of creating interesting, beautiful 
 and action packed titles for every system imaginable. Their newest game, Lost Planet, continues 
 this trend by offering beautiful visuals, frantic action, and a unique premise on a frozen world. 
 It doesnt add all that many new features to an overpopulated genre, but it does bring enough to 
 make it a solid shooter, albeit a flawed one.
  
  The game starts off with a lengthy cutscene explaining the situation. Human-kind has attempted 
 to colonize a distant planet known as EDN III. Everything seemed to be going well until a hostile 
 alien presence, known as the Akrid, started causing trouble. While fleeing, the humans noticed 
 that these alien beings carried a unique thermal goop that proved to be a power energy source. 
 So, instead of leaving the planet, the humans stayed to fight and find a way to use this energy 
 source. This battle has been raging for 22 years when we are introduced to our protagonist, Wayne.
 
  
  Wayne seems to be your average solider. After seeing his father get crushed by a large Akrid known 
 as Green Eye, he loses conscious and is rescued by a small band of snow pirates. After awaking 
 with little memory other than his name and the fate of his father, he volunteers to assist his 
 new friends in order to track down and eliminate the Green Eye.
  
  This seems like a simple premise, and it does start off that way. However, as the story unfolds, 
 large cooperate conspiracies are uncovered and Waynes past is revealed. While many criticisms 
 have been stated about the story, some many actually find it quite enjoyable. There are some plot 
 points that could be better explained and there are a few leaps of logic one will have to deal 
 with, but it is not all that bad.
  
  Lost Planet plays like many other third-person action games. You run around, aim, and shoot. This 
 pattern makes up the entire game. It works well and the controls are responsive, but a few problems 
 really get in the way. The controls will, at first, be awkward for most people. You run and aim 
 alittle slower than you might like, but this can be adjusted in the options menu. Crouching is 
 also awkward, forcing you to hold down the left analog stick. Since you have often have to spin 
 the camera around to see what is happening, this makes crouching all but useless unless you stand 
 still and aim straight. Even with these minor complaints, on foot action controls fine. Also thrown 
 in are small button mashing affairs that allow you to operate data posts scattered around the level. 
 These do not get in the way, but do feel like a last minute attempt to add some extra interactivity 
 to the game.
  
  Youll also get to control mech-suits, which are known as Vital Suits or VSs in Lost Planet. These 
 fierce battle machines all control great and each VS has its own feel. The difference between a 
 slow and cumbersome VS and a fast and nimble one is very noticeable. If there is one major complaint 
 that can be said of these power houses it is that the same button that is used for getting out 
 of them is also the button used for picking up weapon attachments. This can lead to Wayne jumping 
 out of the safety of his VS when all you were trying to do is pick up extra ammunition. This flaw 
 is especially problematic during boss fights, where your foes attack often and with great force. 
 A few seconds out of the VS can spell disaster for Wayne.
  
  Lost Planet has some of the most gorgeous visuals on the Xbox360. With all the developers trying 
 make water look as good as possible, seeing that is can be pulled of with snow is a nice change 
 of setting. The environments are an eye-catcher from start to finish and, even though each levels 
 start to blend into one another after awhile, it always looks great. The explosions and smoke effects 
 are definitely a highlight. They are amazing to look at and will probably cause one to blow up 
 barrels just to see them.
  
  The enemy designs are also incredible. While they arent the most original models, each one is 
 breath taking the first time you encounter them. On top of that, each one animates smoothly. You 
 really believe that the movements these creatures are making are the ones they would make if they 
 existed. Speaking of animation, Waynes movements are some on the best ever seen in a video game. 
 He stumbles as a real person would, falls with a violent thump, and runs fluently. However, the 
 realism of his animations can get in that way. He stumbles more often than he should, leaving you 
 completely helpless as you watch an Akrid charge at you. Plus, once hes knocked down, it takes 
 him awhile to stand up again. This results in some endless cycles of Wayne falling down and standing 
 up without an opportunity to fight back, which prove to be very frustrating.
  
  Sound design is also solid. The majority on the weapons feel like they pack a punch and explosions 
 are loud and forceful. All the vital suits also sound good as they fire their turrets and crunch 
 through the snow. The voice acting, while decent, could have used some improvements. None of it 
 is painful to listen to, but some lines feel like they are delivered at the wrong tone. The music, 
 on the other hand, fits perfectly throughout. It always kicks in at the perfect time and makes 
 the battles all that more epic.
  
  While the campaign will take the average player 6-8 hours to finish, there is a decent multiplayer 
 component to try as well. It has you and 15 others fighting it out in standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, and territories. One mode, called fugitive, is the most entertaining as it has the 
 host trying to hide from and pick off all the others in the room. The multiplayer has it fun moments 
 and will supply some hours of entertainment, but there are other, better multiplayer shooters out 
 there. The controls take even more getting used to online since youre fighting smarter opponents. 
 Expect to be killed a lot when you first start out.
  
  Lost Planet is a great action game because of its beautiful graphics and solid gameplay. It will 
 supply plenty of value for those willing to put the time into the multiplayer, but those just looking 
 for a great single-player experience wouldnt go wrong checking out Lost Planet. Its not a long 
 as we would have hoped, but for the time it lasts, its a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsrf7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Well... I don't know where to start. I can 1st say how fun it was playing the 1st LvL &amp; running 
 away from a Big %$# Akrid already. I really was confused &amp; mad, because i kept running back, 
 when i should be really folowing that dude. Anyways I found what to do &amp; got use to the game 
 &amp; gave wild side to those Akrid &amp; S. P (Snow Pirates) . Anyways, the game was a game not 
 to miss &amp; play definitly with others on line. I was studed by the graphics &amp; that huge 
 worm on Mission 3. It was so fun, I kept on dieing on purpose to see that $#@%!^ come out of the 
 ground. SO much to say but so many games &amp; little time. I wish i could give all the info on 
 it. But i need to get back on Lost Planet. One last thing, that thermal energy thing........ SUCKS 
 just to let Capcom know.. Peice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a very good game. In the beginning it teaches you the controls and gives you a basic 
 feel for the game. First Off
  
  Graphics The graphics in this game are amazing!! I don't have an HDTV and this game still looks 
 great and ive never really had a problem with the frame rate either. The animations are smooth 
 and everything looks Superb! The only problem I had with it is the fact that in multiplayer the 
 numbers for the battle gauges look like ants and are very hard to read.
  
  9/10
  
  Sound
  
  This game doesn't have much music (almost none at all to be certain) but at some big 
 moments of the game it has some cool music and whatnot that get you into the game. Other than music 
 the gunshots and sound effects are great! when you jump your character will make a noise and when 
 you land it will make a noise depending on your surface. As for gunshots almost every gun has a 
 different sound. Overall Id say the sound is just about as good as it gets so 9/10
  
  Replay Value
  
  To me this and Gameplay are the most important parts of a game. There is a 
 little bit of it in this game, like most games when you beat it you don't play it much anymore. 
 Well when you beat this game you get SPOILER ALERT A new difficulty called EXTREME and it is very 
 hard SPOILERS END making this game have some replay value. There is always multiplayer so you can 
 play with friends and whatnot giving its value a boost =)
  
  Overall
  
  8/10
  
  Overall Rating
  
  8.6- Great
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun and defiantly worth buying 
 or at the very least renting it. You could also play the demo (but the game is better than demo) 
 ti make your decision on buy the game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I just got my Xbox 360 the other day and this was one of the first games I picked up. I was told 
 at the store that this game was fanaminal so I decided to give it a shot. So I went home, turned 
 on my 360 for the first time, and..... I was blown away!!!
  
  This game really shows just what the 360 is capable of with it's fun gameplay, incredible graphics, 
 and great sound. I haven't beaten the game yet but the value seems pretty good so far. There is 
 plenty to do anyway. My only complaint is the lack of offline multiplayer, I think they should 
 have done at least two players but what can you do.
  
  The gameplay is really well done, it's just fun. The VS' (Vital Suits) are really fun to pilot 
 and there's plenty of different types. There are also plenty of weapons in the game such as an 
 assault rifle, shot gun, sniper rifle, etc. I also like the aiming in this game, I find it slightly 
 easier. It's sort of hard to describe but I find it easier.
  
  The graphics are pretty good too. The character design is really smooth and so is the environment. 
 I especially like the explosions, they are are probably the best I have seen out of any game.
 
  
  I found that this game was a great start for my 360 as it is just fanominal. If you don't have 
 this game yet, than you should at least rent it because it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjb037
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun in some parts, boring in some parts, and down right frusterating in others. The 
 overall gameplay feels very outdated, though I just did get done playing Rainbow Six and Gears 
 of War. The graphics are pretty spectactular and the concept is pretty cool, but that can only 
 take you so far. Some boss battles can feel very epic and exciting, but others are pretty awful 
 and the framerates can dip pretty low on some of the big battles. If you have played all the other 
 great games out there and are looking for a solid renter, this is a good title. I wouldn't waste 
 60 bucks though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmlevi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Everyone save your money and just wait until Ghost Recon 2 comes out... this game was a big dissapointment. 
 Ill admit its fun shooting all the big bugs but I cannot enjoy it with the terrible controls. The 
 mechs that you use can be fun at times but again the controls are to blame. Obviously every game 
 has its flaws but this was a big let down for myself. If your in need of a new game and cant wait 
 then sure its prob worth it but if your strapped for cash DONT BOTHER! I would expect much more 
 from an Xbox360 exclusive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodModeEnabled
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The biting winter winds howl madly, ripping the warmth from your body. In a snowstorm haze the 
 ground trembles and tears apart beneath you, like a fragile eggshell, only to reveal a monstrous 
 worm hundreds of feet tall clamoring for your frozen flesh.
  
  Welcome to Lost Planet, a new planet colonized by the human race for valuable resources, only in 
 this artic wasteland another race of beings call this place home- the Akrid. Essentially the main 
 enemy you will encounter for the game, a variety of insect like creatures that once defeated you 
 can reap the warmth from their corpses.
  
  You play as a Wayne, a VS pilot (mech pilot) with a special device attached to his arm known as 
 the harmonizer, this device transfers warmth to life energy. Energy is another bar you have in 
 the game besides your health. This energy bar constantly descreases as your warmth is drained by 
 exploring the winter wonderland around you. You gain energy by killing enemies, (which there is 
 always an ample supply of) or by blowing up tankers or other pieces of the environment. Everytime 
 an enemy succesfully hits you the harmonizer drains your warmth and converts it to health.
  
  You start the story with barely any memorys and join a ragtag group of surviors known as space 
 pirates, together you will explore a portion of the world and find out what happened to your missing 
 father and if there are other people on the world.
  
  What this game basically devolves to is eleven breif missions (I finished the game in just under 
 8 hrs) comprised mainly of shooting many, many bugs. Lost Planet plays as a basic third person 
 shooter, with several weapons at your disposal, ranging from machinguns, to shotguns and rocket 
 launchers. From time to time you get to pilot Vital Suits (mechs) for increased firepower. A good 
 half portion on the game is spent riding around in these suits, but you will neat them to combat 
 your numerous foes.
  
  Also at your side at all times is your trusty grappling hook, which you can use to traverse the 
 terrain in some of the basic platforming elements to the game. Unfortunatley the grappling hook 
 is a largley wasted potential as you can only grapple once and then either climb up or down, you 
 can't regrapple midswing ala Bionic Commando, which would have been a lot more fun.
  
  The game plays like an oldschool arcade shooter where you shoot everything and anything that isn't 
 you. Even more of a shout out to the gaming days of yore is the weakspot your enemies have.. each 
 Akrid is marked with a glowing red spot (or concentraion on thermal energy) for you to target, 
 which means you get to blow of some spider like legs, or shoot giant Akrid in the eyes and whatnot. 
 The game has a great fast pace to start off with, that beings to falter horribly come the fourth 
 or fifth mission.
  
  Many missions begin to feel unrewarding as you are constantly shooting things, just to progress. 
 The highlight of the entire game is the fantastic boss battles you are rewarded with at the end 
 of each mission. Oftentimes you will fight gigantic, prehistoric Akrid, or other powerfull Vital 
 Suits in some mech on mech combat.
  
  The graphics are fantasitic and the game conveys its artic atmosphere extremley well. The explosion 
 and smoke effects in particular are some of the best we have seen yet. So much so that in the heat 
 of some tense boss fights, with multiple rockets going off the smoke becomes thich and its hard 
 to see what is going on, which ultimatley results in you getting blasted unfairly by the boss in 
 question.
  
  Overall the game is very short, and the pacing issues and monotony certainly don't help. I reccomend 
 a buy at bargin prices later on, or a rental, but it is not worth the full price of admission. 
 The story is completly throw away (Didn't Starship Troopers cover this first?) , and the gameplay 
 is fun at times but not often enough.
  
  This is one Lost Planet best left unexplored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdee67
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i was expecting a lot. I had just got gears of war and that had already 
 blown me away. this was a reality check of some of the games out for xbox 360. I mean a mixture 
 of starship troopers in snow sounded awsome and the advert like sick but......
  
  Pros
  Good graphics - looks neat and tidy and clips are cool
  Good mulitplayer - can spend a long time 
 on Cool robots - brings me back to transformers Different angle - Collecting the energy pretty 
 cool Good sounds - robots and bullets.....
  
  Cons Awful dialog - can tell that they have had to change it from japanese to english Very short 
 - the single player can be done in a matter of days If they sorted out the cons this game could 
 be a very good game. it lets capcom down...... Rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you place the desert-barren wastelands plains in the anime Blue Gender or Starship 
 Troopers with the cold, frozen elements of the Thing? No, it's not yellow snow or snady snowballs, 
 you get Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions, the latest third peson shooter straight from Capcom.
 
  
  The story... well, how about the gist of it. You're Wayne, a young man who lost his memory after 
 being frozen in his Vital Suit or VS, he's discovered by a trio of snow pirates, the leader Luka, 
 the brains Yuri and the techie Rick, the only memory frozen into Wayne's mind is his father being 
 killed by a huge Akrid, the bugs you're matching up against, named Green Eye, from there you embark 
 on your journey across the frozen landscape of EDN III to locate and kill Green Eye... but, all 
 isn't well and there maybe other forces at work behind the scenes.
  
  Okay, the story ISN'T the greatest, but hey, if Gears of War survived where the story didn't, what 
 does it matter? It just progresses the game further to the climatic battle. The gameplay is a cross 
 between the running on foot using the traditional arsenal of assault rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles, 
 rocket launchers to huge, lumbering Vital Suits with a much powerful arsenal of weapons, the levels 
 have a similar design of go from point A to point B, ending with a boss battle. The action is intense 
 where you're literally fighting for your life as you fight small akrid to huge, towering akird 
 that make the bugs in Starship Troopers look like kittens but should you kill every Akird that 
 makes you piss your pants? Yes, the catch is that if you don't, you'll run out of Thermal Energy, 
 you replenish your T-Eng by collecting the yellow-red blobs that fall out of your opponents, the 
 bigger the blog, the more your energy gets, if you run out... Human Popcicle anyone?
  
  The graphics is one of the game's shinning points, the cinemas are perfectly and the in-game graphics 
 shine the brightest, snow detail is so well done, you can almost feel the cold substance at your 
 fingertips, characters also share the same level of detail, as Wayne in the game, snow gathers 
 on your clothing as a falls off after a period of time and in the cinemas, each character has their 
 own wide-range of facial expressions from happy to sad to anger, the Akrid and VSs also share the 
 love, you can almost fell the Akrid's thick exo-skeletons or the cold metal shells. Sound is another 
 strong point where it really brings the world to life, from the sounds of the Akrid getting geared 
 up to turn you into an ice cube to the rounds of the VS taking one thundering step after another, 
 the soundtrack itself is a wonder, like the interview with the composer said, it's a mix of futuristic 
 style music clashed with strings and cold, voice acting... well, the good guys had some pretty good 
 voice work while the villians... they needed a little work.
  
  The flaws about this title is that the multiplayer is limited to Xbox Live, so no four-player split 
 screen or LAN support, it's a bit short, despite 11 missions, you can finish this game under 10 
 hours or eight hours and the story needed a little more fleshing out and maybe a few original ideas 
 (aside from being based on a frozen planet) . Speaking of Online play, it's another front Lost Planet 
 excels at, the modes aren't original, but with the blend of on foot and mech action, playing Capture 
 the Flag is more fun than before.
  
  If you bury the complaints under the ice, you'll find that Lost Planet is a worthy title for your 
 library, let's hope that Capcom is already planning a sequel, Lost Planet is a worthy find 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDisciple90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is, as I said, a must have for fans of either mecha-anime or shadow of the colossus (if 
 you like both you're really in for a treat) . A common gripe about this game is its length, however 
 there is a simple solution for this, once you get the hang of the controls and how the game works, 
 turn it to hard, its (in my opinion) more fun and you definitely get much more playtime out of 
 the game. But to return to the point, Lost Planet is a fun pick up and play kind of game for the 
 hardcore and casual gamer alike. The gamplay is fun and the controls work great, though they can 
 be slightly confusing at times if you neglect to read the instructions before entering a new VS ( 
 or Vital Suit, the mechs of the game) . Both on foot and in a Vital Suit the action is fast paced 
 and enjoyable. It is clearly meant to be an arcade style shooter featuring over the top action, 
 and in this respect it is pulled off very nicely. The graphics are difficult to discribe at times, 
 although as a whole the game looks fantastic. It Easily has the best weather effects of any game. 
 The amount of dust and debris on screen makes Black (Xbox game by the people who did burnout) pale 
 in comparison. The animations are also particularly well done, and when added to the not to much/not 
 to little amount of motion blur in the game, is pulled off very nicely. Everything sounds as it 
 should however you miss out on some of the sounds if you don't turn up the FX volume from the unusually 
 quiet default setting. The voice acting is bad when you compare to other games, however none of 
 the voice actors are noticably annoying they do seem wooden at times. I would compare the games 
 characters to that of Metal Gear Solid 3 (though much crisper in appearance) . One previous reviewer 
 mentioned someone that looked like the result of a drunken escapade between Jay Leno and the Joker, 
 well, hes right. The most laughable moment in the game was when argueably one of the best voice 
 actors in the game reveals his face, resulting in an oh god dammit moment. Though the game is on 
 the short side when compared with other games, it offers more than its fair share of fun for your 
 buck. As a whole the game is great and up to par with the other exceptional 360 games out. As a 
 side note if you've ever seen the movie Spriggan you will also find another great reason to buy 
 this game, as it seems like the developers found inspiration from that film. (if they will admit 
 it or not, the similarities in the styles are noticeable for people who have seen the movie) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet was a big hyped up game for 360 that many expected it would live up to expectations 
 it set. When i first played this game i was very excited and i heard it was a great game. After 
 playing the first few missions the only thing i loved about the game was the bosses. Everything 
 else was a little choppy. Moving around seemed a little wierd at first but you get used to it after 
 some playing. The AI getting to the bosses is to easy to get through. The storyline is very unclear 
 and doesnt develop well as the game goes on. Multiplayer was very confusing as i would always spawn 
 and if i didnt get out of my spawn without being blown up by orange flashes i would be killed by 
 people camping in small areas with nades and rockets. What i loved about the game was the VS's 
 and boss fights but thats all i really liked. A game cant just rely on two things and thats why 
 i dont think its all its suppose to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeEater187
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is one of those fun shooter games that comes and go. The graphics 
 in this game are incredible and as well as the scenary. Shooting down little bugs and very big 
 bugs is pretty fun if you know what I mean, you probably don't but, getting a rocket lancher and 
 that big Machine gun and shooting them at the bugs is very fun. The thing I like most about this 
 game is that there are many of the bugs coming for you and all you do is shoot. BUT the thing that 
 kills this game is the thermal Energy thing that make your health go down. But in the end this 
 game is Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathblade_Joe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Ya I think that the Game is one of the best games out there, everything is superb. I think though 
 that the one thing that they could have made better is the storyline, because its got some parts 
 on the cutscenes that don't really make much sense. And the energy thing where if you lose all 
 of your energy then your life slowly decreases. But I think other then those two problems, It's 
 a really fun and never gets old sort of game. Hell, I think that im almost done with the game and 
 when i beat it, im probably going to play it again and go on the online play. And thats what i 
 have to say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkon
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Considering that even the graphics aren't that great, and all the game is good for is eye-candy 
 , this was flabbergasting! Do not waste any time, thought, money, or anything else on this game. 
 Even if you are surely convinced that you will like it, at least save money by renting it and being 
 ashamed of spending five dollars rather than fifty. Capcom really stepped up their graphics, but 
 yet again, they weren't that great. Oh, and let's not forget, the story line is atrocious! Hands 
 down, very ... VERY... bad game. Back to the realization that Gears of War is the only good title 
 for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Hail in the reign of the 360! With an ever increasing library of great games, awsome exclusives, 
 and superb online support, the new Xbox has all but destroyed its competition (safe for those diehard 
 Gates haters) . Now you guys probably think I am the biggest fanboy looser to ever grace God's green 
 Earth. Maybe I am (I'd like to think it's my strong nationalistic love for the U. S.) ; but I just 
 can't help but be pleased with how well the 360 is doing. With Gears of War, Chromehounds, Dead 
 Rising, GRAW, and major perks for having just about any game on the Xbox, I'm just glad that Microsoft 
 is doing well in the gaming industry. What could be a better way to usher in the new year than 
 to tack on another great exclusive to their already awsome list? Well Da dada DA! Here it is: Lost 
 Planet: Extreme Condition, probably one of the most enjoyable games I've played since Halo (not 
 that I haven't stopped playing it) . Sometimes a casual game can be a good change of pace. I think 
 I'd be right to say that some games are more fast-paced or hardcore than other and (how should 
 I put it) require more attention and alertiveness. Some of them can be of a different difficulty. 
 I'm not saying that I don't like hard games; a challenge can be fun. But sometimes it's fun to 
 just vege out and play a game that you know you'll have no problem beating. Lost Planet is kinda 
 like that (at least on the normal setting) . You can just hurl yourself into the thickest battle 
 the game can throw at you and you know you'll have action and fun, but you also know that you won't 
 die. Here's an example. In the first mission, you go down into the garage and the place is swarming 
 with akrid. In Gears of War, if I threw myself into a squad of locusts like that, my head would 
 be chopped off before I sqeezed off the first round. But in L. P. I wouldn't have any trouble at 
 all. It's its ability to fill the screen with enormous numbers of easy enemies and retain the action 
 that makes this game satisfying, if you know what I mean. Now I know, there are parts that are 
 hard, especially the bosses. Some of them are extremely tough. But those are usually the only truely 
 hard parts. The bulk of the levels, however, are just run, gun, don't look back (remember I did 
 this on normal; I have no clue how difficult it is on hard) . And actually that brings me to my 
 next point about the game quite nicely. You actually will want to look around. This game is so 
 beautiful! I have yet to hook this game up to my HD Tv and I'm already impressed with it. I like 
 the snow element. I live in Lafayette, Indiana where everywhere but my area has gotten metaphorically 
 shat on and is up to their **** in snow. I wanted a catastrophical blizzard of biblical proportions 
 this year. I got Lost World... fair trade... I guess. The other aspects of the gameplay work well 
 too. I'm not a huge 3rd person shooter but L. P. pulled it off well. I love the grappling hook and 
 all the other weapons are good. I love the plasma pistol type gun with unlimited ammo. The VS's 
 add a nice Chromehounds touch to it. There are some issues with the controlls. Or maybe I have 
 issues; I don't know which. I think it just comes inherently with most 3rd person games that put 
 you really far behind your character. Stuff like lineing up for a melee can be hard at times. And 
 throwing grenades can take some getting used to. As for sound, I'd give it a nine. Everything sounds 
 good. It has descent music. It doesn't have the epic soundtrack of some other games (*cough HALO! 
 *cough*) but I can't really penalize it for that. That's like slamming Jesus because he can't swim. 
 If anything I've said sounds remotely appealing, then I'd suggest that you give this game a try. 
 At least rent it. The story mode is short but fun. I m sure I'll be playing throug it at least 
 once more. I forgot to mention that it has an online mode witch is actually pretty fun. I'm not 
 sure you'll find it as immersive as some other games with Live support but it's entertaining to 
 say the least. I know I didn't give it a superb or a perfect, but a game doesn't have to be some 
 Earth-shattering killer App to be fun. Even with its quirks, this is just a solid game and I would 
 recommend that you give it a shot. Be it by going to a friend's who has it or renting the game 
 yourself, try Lost Planet. It's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabooserckr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is everything we wanted it to be. There are minor flaws, but this is a great game that 
 you would be a fool not to get. First off, the story didn't really make much sense to me, and the 
 cutscenes were almost something you would find off of Metal Gear Solid. Long, boring, and pointless, 
 really. The gameplay can be frustrating at times because Wayne falls down or stops shooting way 
 too much. I know it's supposed to make it more realistic, but it gets annoying when you're trying 
 to run and you keep falling down, or stop shooting while fighting. The game is also relatively 
 short, seeing as how I beat it in about 3-4 hours. The bosses are always new and different than 
 the last and they're quite fun to fight (Except some just suck because of their hardness.) . You 
 can also totally tell this was made by the Japanese by the last level, trust me. Multiplayer is 
 good, but I wouldn't say it's entirely fantastic as everyone calls it. If you picked this game 
 up recently or plan on picking it up, you will suck among the people who are everywhere. On my 
 first game, I encountered two level 85's and a few others that were over the level of 60. Nonetheless, 
 it is sometimes enjoyable but it becomes insanely frustrating when you can't take out one person 
 alone on foot when you're in a VS with a Gattling Gun and Shotgun attached. Also it's near impossible 
 to get some achievements such as Chain Killer (Or whatever) Where you kill 10 people in a row. 
 The most I got was 8 and that was only because the other team sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This is really quite a good game. It is an example of a game that is clearly better than its average 
 score on this site. The maps are rich and varied with excellent attention to detail. The landscape 
 reminds me of what it might be like in a Nuclear Winter. The wind howls and the snow blows. You 
 really get the sense of freezing your tail off (or is that the wind coming under the window frame 
 of my study) . The creatures are really frightful and well done. Sometimes you can see them lumbering 
 off in the distance and if you are really careful you just might not draw their attention. Good 
 luck! The battle action is fast and furious. The grappling hook is a great idea and can get one 
 out of many a tight spot. You can play this game in the first person or the third person... and 
 I might add it is nice to have the choice. Personally I kind of go back and forth between the two. 
 It is not an easy game to play.. one encounters a series of very challenging situations. It is often 
 best to think ahead and pick routes that might give you some protection. In this game energy is 
 an issue. One cannot survive long in this hostile alien climate without thermal energy. You must 
 continue to collect and husband the thermal energy as you progress through the game. This is a 
 brilliant touch. This is the kind of game where I like to look at the landscapes around me because 
 they are so well done. This tendency has resulted in more than a few crunching blows from Dongo's, 
 Acrid's and the other dangerous indiginous creatures on this forbidding planet. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payback123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll be brief with the storyline, You play a character named Wayne and your left for dead on a 
 deserted planet until your rescued by a small but mysterious team. Yeah, the storyline isn't stellar 
 but than again your not buying it for the story are you? The effects are some of the best the 360 
 has to offer, not to mention graphics. You aim with one analog stick while moving your character 
 with the other making the control scheme innovative and well executed. The game really shines when 
 you jump into Vital Suits (VS) which are giant mechs designed to destroy any opposition quickly 
 and efficienty, and believe me, they do so. The missions are at times, linear, and your character 
 takes way to long to get up leaving you vulnerable to be knocked down consecutively. Instead of 
 giant flashing health packs, you need to collect Thermal energy, your thermal energy meter runs 
 low throughout gameplay forcing you to collect more, which doesn't require much babysitting because 
 you'll constantly be within the action. I deffinitely recommend Lost Planet for all 360 owners 
 looking for a new, original and above all fun, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I decided to rent Lost Planet from my local Blockbuster store after about a week of it not being 
 available at all. I didn't know what to think really. The demo was OK at best and it wasn't until 
 I got into the full game that I really began to appreciate it. The Review:
  
  Pros: Great graphics, excellent explosions, innovative ideas, satisfying gameplay both single player 
 and multiplayer, makes you want to step on big bugs...
  
  Cons: Can be a very short campaign on easy, weapon balance not so good, weapon selections, scenery 
 is the same, gameplay gets a little linear after a while. Will the multiplayer stand the test of 
 time?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  This game offers about as much variation in gameplay as any gamer could want. It's part shooter, 
 part mech warrior, and requires some quick reflexes, all set in a snow ridden world (for the most 
 part) and infested with bugs... the big kind. You are Wayne, not much of a name for a hero, but 
 whatever. You are on a planet that is infested with the Akrid and frozen to the core. You battle 
 through a large handful of missions against bugs, snow pirates and NEVEC officials and guards. 
 As I mentioned this game is first and foremost a shooter. The button layout is a little different 
 than normal and will take some getting used to. Running and gunning is alot of fun especially when 
 you get to the VS (Vital Suits) that are basically mechs. There are quite a few different types 
 of VS in the game and they are equipped with many different weapons, but I played most of the game 
 through with a gattling gun and either shotgun or rocket launcher attached. Aiming is fairly simple 
 for the most part with a slight bit of auto-aim turned on. The batman-ish grappling hook is great 
 fun and adds another dimension to the gameplay. Suspending from a ceiling never gets old! I would 
 say that the shortcomings are a lack of weapon variety and that the scenery doesn't change much. 
 If you have the game on easy you can get through it in 6 hours or less for the most part. So it's 
 a short rumble, but a fun one. Multiplayer is fun. You can get inside of a VS or go it on foot. 
 There are several gameplay types and they can be alot of fun. But if you're any sort of a GoW fan, 
 you will probably find yourself back to that soon. The multiplayer is fun, but will it hold up? 
 Only time will tell. Graphics: 9
  
  The character models are the only thing that really drag this down from a perfect ten. Don't get 
 me wrong, they are still really good, but too often I feel like my character is a part of running 
 legs with a rotating torso, it just feels awkward. The environment, though repetative is gorgeous 
 and I can honestly say that I don't think I have ever seen better explosions in a game...
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound is very good. it won't win any voice acting awards, but it is solid 
 and the explosions and gunfire sound great. The mechs sound awesome too with all of the clanking 
 metal sounds in tact!!
  
  Value: 8
  
  I personally feel that a $60 price tag is a bit too spendy for Lost Planet, although few games 
 live up to the $60 tag. It is definately a great game, but I'd rent it and then make up your mind 
 on if the multiplayer is worth the extra money for the long term. I decided not to do it for $60.
 
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  A game I almost bought, but decided to rent first and I'm glad I did. Don't get me wrong, it's 
 not that this game isn't worth owning, it's just that after I beat the single player campaign I 
 was still too hooked on Gears of War multiplayer to get into this one. When it drops down to $30, 
 I'll pick it up for sure. I'd say DEFINATELY RENT IT!! You'd be missing out not to at least give 
 this game a chance... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  LOST PLANET REMIND ME OF METAL GEAR SOLID ALL THE ROBOTS AND GUNS AND IT ALSO FEELS LIKE A FINAL 
 FANTASY BECAUSE OF THE CHARATORS
  
  GAMEPLAY: SHOOT UP SOME BIG INSECTS AND GET THERE ENRGY JUST TO SURVIVE IT ON THE COLD PLANET AND 
 FIGHT HUGE NO HUGE BOSSES LIKE THAT BIG WORM OR MOTH EVEN SOME ENEMIES YOU CAN ALOS US VS VITAL 
 SUITS TO SURVIVE AND GET TRANSPORTATION.
  
  GRAPICS: GOOD LOOKS LIKE RESIDENT EVIL BECAUSE IT IS CAPCOM
  
  STORY: YOU PLAY AS WAYNE AND 
 HE LOST HIS MEMORY. HE IS OUT TO FIND WHAT AND WHOS KILLED HIS FATHER.
  
  ONLINE: JUST LIKE HALO. IT IS JUST LIKE POKEMON YOU SELECT YOUR CHARACTOR MODEL AND YOU LEVEL HIM 
 UP IN RANKED MATCHES IM LEVEL 14 AND IM TRYING TO GET TO LEVEL 50 TO GET THAT ACHEVEVMENT.
  
  OVERALL: GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walton31
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Having downloading the online demo off Xbox live i was instantly amazed as to how great the graphics 
 are and above all else how addicitive it was. The solo campaign is very nice and creates alot of 
 star moments however it is extremely short. I enjoyed playing the campaign with its crazy monsters 
 and all but with its lack of variation in creatres an the langth i was a bit dissapointing.
  
  However i didnt realy buy this game for the solo adventure but purely for the online side of 
 it. I love going online with this game, working as a team to take out the opposition, there have 
 been many hilarious moments throughout. It just never seems to tirer.
  
  I would reccomend this game for various reasons, the solo campaign, although short it is very enjoyable, 
 and can often be quite tricky on the boss battles which is good. The online bases is definetly 
 worth playng i promise you will be hucked for days.
  
  Buy it, its a good crack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, everything is going to be compared to Gears of War cause of the technical feats it 
 accomplished with the 360. I remember playing this when the demo came out - which to me was the 
 first time I went whoa! 
  
  The graphics are an excellent to say the least, explosion are over the top and the particle effect 
 from the kicked up snow makes everything all the more hectic.
  
  With all the advancements in graphics, I can't help but say this reminds me of the old NES games 
 in a good way. Large monsters crawling everywhere with obvious weakspots and you alone can deal 
 with these baddies. Add in mechs scattered across maps to even out the playing field and you've 
 got lots of fun moment turning the akrid into swiss cheese. The story is like most, unrewarding. 
 Nothing new here. Boy discovers snake. Snake bites father. Boy beats snake down with big stick.
 
  
  Controls are a little clunky with zoom being placed in an unlikely spot, but after a good 2-3 hours 
 you'll feel comfortable with the settings. I wish they could be better, but considering number 
 of actions a person can perform, I guess there really isn't. What brings me down the most is the 
 multiplayer games. Certain weaponry have quickly become notorious for being overpowered. Some with 
 constant barrages can keep players into a stumbling/stunned animation, while overs are just grossly 
 destructive. The single player game is for the most part satisfying, but way too short to stand 
 alone. Multiplayer is nice, but flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrtweed2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  When I played the multiplayer demo of Lost Planet a few months back, I was a bit put off by the 
 herky-jerky movements of the characters. Now that I've played the full game, I must say I have 
 no complaints in fact Lost Planet has quickly become one of my favorite shooters on the XBOX 360. 
 Excellent multiplayer maps are as varied and beautiful as they are challenging, active changing 
 weather environments (one map in particular changes from night to day throughout the entire battle... cool) 
 add to that some of the coolest mechs (literally) in just about any game, and you have a recipe 
 for destructive fun! The sound quality in the game is awesome, windswept frozen wastelands give 
 way to thunderous explosions as massive mechs hurl missiles at you in near white out conditions. 
 I really like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost Plnaet: Extreme Condition is an excellent way to start off the year for the 360. Although 
 once again we are faced with another shooter, this would be much more than you expect. In all aspects, 
 this game fills an average shooters requirements. To start off, the single player is very story 
 based like other Japanese Titles (these kinds story-focused games are lacking on the 360) , but 
 that is not to say the gameplay is bad. The truth is, the gameplay is very good. On-foot action 
 is very well done, and also different from certain games. Also, the mech action is done really 
 well, and for the most part i believe mech battles are one of the reason to get this game. If on 
 foot action and mech battles arent enough for you, the boss battles and the epic feel of the game 
 would just be enough. Not only will you feast your eyes on the games beautiful graphics (if its 
 on HD, its just 2 words.... jaw-dropping) but when you see your first boss, or the big worm you 
 meet in one of the levels, you would just want to witness the moments and just say... Wow. The 
 sound is very good as well, and the main character is played by a korean star named rain. Although 
 he does not voice the character, i must say that the voice acting is very well done. As for the 
 multiplayer portion, it will depend on your personal opinions if it is good or not. although the 
 multiplayer modes are just standard modes (deathmatch, team deatchmatch) there are a few dedicated 
 modes. With a leveling system like RPGS (lvl 1, 2, 3,...50, etc.) , it has really suited a newer 
 style of online mech, on-foot shooter. A recommendation would be downloading the Lost Planet Multiplayer 
 Demo so you would be able to find out if the game is right for you. In the end, I believe this 
 is a very good way for xbox 360 owners to start off the year, and even if you do not have the means 
 to purchase this game, it is a must-rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Note about my Final Verdicts. They are not meant to be reviews on how you play the game and what 
 its all about. My verdicts always assumes that you know what the game is all about. I always recommend 
 reading GameSpots reviews before reading my own verdicts. Im not here to tell you how to play a 
 game. Im just telling you whats good and whats bad about a game you already know. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  + Fantastic oldschool gameplay. Like the lovechild of Probotector and Doom mixed with some heavy 
 duty mech action and 3rd person shooting. You blast your way through tons and tons of enemies, 
 never letting go of the shoot button and dodging everything that comes at you. Then you finish 
 off with a boss that has 1 or several really obvious weak spots while the clock (your thermal energy) 
 is ticking down. Its really like an old Sidescrolling shooter but in a really beautiful package 
 and I love it !
  
  + Bosses! They are huge, they are cool, they are challenging and they are a great load of fun. 
 It will be hard for the year 2007 to beat these bosses when we are voting for the years best. They 
 are both huge Akrid and evil mechs and they all have specific tactics to take them down.
  
  + Mechs! Not nearly enough games have mechs these days. These cool sci.-fi constructions, when 
 made good, like in this game, are so much fun and so cool to look at
  
  + The game is stunningly beautiful. When Inafune was working with Dead Rising he said he wanted 
 to create something beautiful in contrast to Dead Risings gritty atmosphere and made this huge 
 Snow planet wirh shimmering snow, snowy mountainpeaks in the sunset and huge inside industrial 
 locales. He made beautiful looking maincharacters and created miracles with the same engine that 
 was used for DR. The graphics are really well designed and it all looks amazing. Motionfilters 
 and smoke in particular. The environments looks stunning when youre looking at them and the characters 
 feel very alive. It cannot compete with Gears of War on a pure technical standpoint but LP still 
 holds it own thanks to how its all put together and designed.
  
  + Great environments. A continuation of the previous point. Big snowy fields, mountaintops, volcanic 
 caverns, industrial complexes, Akrid caves, hives and more. They are all really stunning to look 
 at and fight in.
  
  + The great combination of very japanese Mech gameplay and 3rd person action shooting. Some levels 
 are you in a mech, in a dark industrial building versus security systems and dozens of other mechs 
 and in other levels you are alone on foot on a big snow plain versus a giant worm and snowpirates. 
 LP has a great sense of contrast and it mixes it all together really well.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  - The story 
 dosent deliver at all. Its a catastrophy. All of the cutscenes feels so very very unimportant. 
 It feels like they dont touch on the important things of the story and the conflict at hand at 
 all. The relations between the maincharacters feels extremely pale. There were great potention 
 for really great relations in the story but they go to waste. The cutscenes are poorly directed 
 and not nearly as cool as those in Dead Rising. The characters could have been waay more fleshed 
 out and they could have solved the story in much better ways than they did, now it just felt boring.
 
  
  - The game is shorter than a drunken dwarf. It is pretty much over before it starts. Now this is 
 a pure run and gun shooter so its not as bad as you might think and you can play it all over again 
 on another difficulty and have just as much as you had on your first time through but its still 
 a VERY short game. If you have problems with short games you might want to stay far away from this 
 one. This one lets you shoot like a madman for a couple of hours and then it stops.
  
  - The game can be very exhausting to play for longer periods of time. This game requires your full 
 attention since every second rockets, bullets and giant bugs will be flying at you from all directions. 
 The moment you let your guard down you are dead. This results in a very exhausting game to play. 
 I never played the game more than 45 min or so in one sitting because after 1 stage my head was 
 pretty much spinning.
  
  - Sometimes clunky and clumsy mechcontrols. I cant help but feel that the mechcontrols could have 
 been smoother on many of the mechtypes. Now some of them are nearly impossible to control. The 
 scooter is the worst example.
  
  - To much smoke. On some occastions there are so much explosions close to you character that you 
 cant see a thing. Nothing, zero, nada and its REALLY annoying.
  
  - The action is really great, but thats it. There is nothing more to get from this game. If you 
 get tired of the action (and the multiplayer of course) there is nothing. No puzzles, no slower 
 portions of the game, no good cutscenes, no change in the pacing at all. this game is pretty much 
 a bomb that explodes and then its over.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 
 8.2
  
  A very solid actiongame with extremely fun bosses set in very beautiful environments. Its extremely 
 oldschool. Something that suits some better than others but I think its just great that a developers 
 such as Capcom have the courage to go down that road. It has its flaws but its a superold concept 
 made with so much style that you hardly even notice those flaws. The potential of this game however 
 is not used to its fullest at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Even though the story line is something new, it has nothing really all that surprising to it. This 
 will feel just like an average shooter game, that gets a little repetitive in most parts. The use 
 of the grappling line is fun, but does get annoying after a bit as the levels are very linear.
 
  
  The plot is simplistic, and nothing very new. I found the voice acting horrible, and found myself 
 in the later levels just skipping past the cut scenes to get back in the action.
  
  The graphics are really well done, but once again, the levels aren't surprising. You kill bugs/ice 
 pirates, then you fight a boss. Big deal, done over and over again.
  
  Still the game is fun, but not worth buying, rent this one first as it's over VERY quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  Don't waste your time reading this review just go play the game you won't be sorry. I can't wait 
 for the sequel; however the game really shines in its online multiplayer form. I could stay on 
 it for days trying to reach level 99 and memorizing the highly detailed and huge maps. It was as 
 though they combined the multiplayer of tenchu, halo, and golden eye all into one. Thank You capcom 
 for finally coming out with something good. Next step is to fire the guys who right the single 
 player story scripts, other than that everything else was just about right. Hard to top gears of 
 war though, which in my opinion is the best 360 game as of 1-29-07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic! Love the snow environment, which is very realistic from my own experience 
 of growing up in Northern Michigan where we have several feet of snow for several months every 
 winter.
  
  Also, if you have a decent 5.1 surround system, the explosions and other sound effects are the 
 best I've ever heard. From the subwoofer, the sound quality of explosions is outstanding and it 
 delivers feeling that puts you in the action.
  
  Only thing I didn't like about the gameplay were the big gaps in opportunities to save - if you 
 die, a lot of times you need to go WAY back and do stuff over again, very annoying.
  
  Otherwise, everything else in this game is top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatcher146
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people either hate or love this game. Im in the upper middle. Its a great game i think! 
 the graphics are really impressive! the game play is pretty good... the single player campaign is 
 good... but the aliens dont really seem to fight back all that much except for the boses. But im 
 not an intense gamer so its to my advantage. If your debating on whether or not to get this game... go 
 ahead and get it.... you will like it. And if you have xbox live, that makes it even more fun! Lost 
 planets a great game! Get it! dont belive other people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSan00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: beautiful graphics, simple controller, mech battles are awesome, Luka is hot despite 
 being a video-game character
  
  The Bad: The first kind of mech sucks, characters walk slow, storyline is slow at the beginning. 
 Luka doesn't exist
  
  The Truth: I never had a crush on luka... REALLY!
  
  This was the first reason I ever had to buy an X-BOX 360. I saw it and was stunned.
  
  The 
 story is quite good in my opinion, a bit slow in the beginning, but it gets better and better later 
 on.
  
  The controls are simple, shoot with trigger, jump with A, move with one stick, aim with the other. 
 There are some non conventional things, like the bumper's function, but it's rather useful at times. 
 Also, realoading normally is in either x or y, this time it's in the right thumbstick. This makes 
 reloading easier in my opinion. The camera is quite good, you can zoom with every weapon and it 
 works amazing. You can switch into first person view if you like it. But sometimes I found myself 
 not able to see my character despite not being in first person view. Graphics are beautiful in 
 my opinion, people look realistic and don't creep me out (hey oblivion!) Snow effects are also 
 pretty awesome looking, and the monsters look terrific and intimidating. The music, I loved it, 
 it gives the game some feeling, it tell you: there's big bugs and snow in here. The weapons do 
 sound good too, the shotgun especially, it sound great.
  
  I really enjoyed the campaign in this game, and so far the multiplayer has been a blast. Despite 
 the camera problems, and the fact that I paid 850 pesos for it (like 80 dollars) It is a must buy.
 
  
  Also, you will love the final battle. If you came here for mechs, you will LOVE the final battle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire816
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet was expected to be one of the best games on the Xbox 360. But it isn't the best. The 
 game is fun, but the story is all confusing, and tells it in a weird way. The game does deserve 
 a 9 out of 10, but I was expecting a better game. The game is awesome, battling huge creatures 
 on foot or inside a mech (or called in the game a V. S.) . It has a short campaign, But an awesome 
 multi player mode that you'll be playing for a while. Overall, buy this game, it's not the best 
 game, but it's fun. If you like destroying things this game is for you, I hope this review helps 
 you to decide to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a flashy, beautiful, and sometimes engaging third person shooter that hurts the 
 360. As you may know, the 360 is suffering from genre restrictions. It seems that all its top showcase 
 games are shooters and that's all it has. Oh sure there's Oblivion and such, but the system still 
 lacks variety for its AAA line up unlike say the PlayStation 2. Even when the PS2 was a year old, 
 it already had the variety. I digress there and let's move on with this fair game.
  
  To be quite honest with you I virtually skipped all the stupid cut scenes since the dialogue is 
 so corny and the story is stupid. All I know is that this Lost Planet is so cold that any life 
 form that dies will immidietly turn into cold ice and you need thermal energy to continue to survive 
 the very harsh climate. You play this dude named Wayne (modeled by Korean actor Lee Byung Hun) 
 as he shoot and kill hordes of alien creatures on the deserted planet and almost inhabitable planet. 
 The inspired setting of the game truly helps the advancements of the Xbox 360 hardware. The graphics 
 look absolutely stunning. All kinds of wicked special effects abound and the scale of of these 
 locales has not been seen since Gears of War a few months back. While the graphics are the game's 
 shining point, the gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. The game gets rarely hard even when you 
 are bombarded with hordes of enemies. The boss fights are certainly spectacular, but they lack 
 the same excitement and intensity as Capcom's superior attempts such as Devil May Cry or Resident 
 Evil 4. Playing Wayne is a cinch, he has this cool ninja grappling hook that will take him to higher 
 ground. However, he can't use his hook while jumping which really takes the fun out of the game. 
 Mech gameplay is combined here with suprisingly good results. The mechs rather control smoothly 
 with ease so its not one of those things you dread in games like the annoying vehicle driving stage.
 
  
  Combine to that an extremely short campaign and derivative online modes, this can't be the sign 
 of games of the next gen. I know they cost more, but they have to have more meat than this. Lost 
 Planet is a failed attempt in some ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  You have all heard this game was a disappointment in every possible way most likely. To put it 
 simply, I disagree. When the demo came out I hated it and had zero interest in renting much less 
 buying this game. Once it came out the reviews were mediocre but people seemed to be fairly happy 
 with the results and it was definitely selling. I finally decided to buy it and give it a chance. 
 I am very pleased with how it turned out. The freedom to hop from VS to VS (the mechs) and battle 
 snow pirates and akrid on a fairly large scale made one hell of an action experience. The game 
 could be views as part platformer part third person shooter. The grappling hook provides subtle 
 platformer aspects and compliments the action packed and very colorful third person shooter. It 
 is fairly easy to get the controls down as they are typical of most third person games. I haven't 
 ventured much into the multi-player so I can't say if it is good or not. The game as a whole is 
 solid and definitely worth checking out. I bought it and I am far from disappointed but if you 
 are still unsure rent it and check it out. I found the replay value pretty high mainly because 
 I enjoyed the action and it never got old to me. Lost planet deserves a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklinksbro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay This is where Lost Planet shines the controls are top notch everything about the game 
 play is great capcom relly did great with this one. A few problems where cant jump and grapple 
 some VS tanks were frusterating. The gameplay was good and intense
  
  Graphics
  One Word: Amazing
  
  Sound All the guns and explosions sound good and the music is fine aswell. 
 Although some oif the dialouge i found a bit cheesey. Is it just me or does wayne sound like keanu 
 Reeves
  
  Online Online is amazing the first match i playd i'm not gonna lie i hated it but i gave it one 
 more chance and i had a shotgun match and they i got addicted. Summary Amazing but short single 
 player. A hughly addictive online game that will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1239
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  ~Lost Planet~ takes it to a whole other level, this game will make you want to play it over and 
 over again, IF! you like playing these games if not it will take a little while before you love 
 playing games like this one, that's how i got into the MLG stuff. if anyone has any tips for the 
 game or anything about it that i should know (MUST KNOW) then just go on my profile blog and reply 
 there. ~~~For Those About To Rock I Salute You!~~~
  
  Just a small quiz........ ~~~~Guess Who Said That Quote~~~~
  
  Again just reply Back with the 
 answer. ~_~
  
  Lol just gonna try some stuff down here just to use up characters.. so just ignore this part =)
 
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  After beating the game on easy I got a good taste of what the game is like. The graphics are sweet, 
 but the game play is lacking a little. You should be able to run or even take cover. This would 
 have made the game much better since there are a lot of enemies in each level. Even though it does 
 not have these traits the game is still fun to play. The mechs or VS are also lacking a little. 
 I was disappointed in the fact I was able to destroy the level ending bosses easier without using 
 the VS mechs. There are some advantages in using VS. The weapons like the laser riffle and the 
 other laser gun were very nice against other VS. But the hand held plasma riffle and the laser 
 gun are better in a fight against all enemies. I also tried playing on the Extreme level, but I'm 
 seriously disappointed in the fact they do not give you any way point data pads to help with your 
 T-Energy. You consume your energy way too fast with not much to replenish it with so by the time 
 you do reach the level ending boss you cant even come close to victory. Instead they should have 
 giving you a chance on this difficulty with either the data pads restoring your health or slowing 
 down how fast you use up your energy. Not a bad game but it's not worth the $60 price tag. Get 
 a used copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The hype surrounding Lost Plant: Extreme Conditions gave it the appearance of a stellar game; However, 
 once sinking into the shrink wrap and watching the opening prolouge you begin to question it's 
 value. The story takes place on E. D. N III a planet which appears to be nothing but ice, and inhabited 
 by the akrid whom have heat which is the reason the VS wage war against these new alien foes. Thus 
 we have ourselves another sci-fi 1st or 3rd person shooter. The camera angles used throughout the 
 game are relatively fixed, and uncannily hard to get over. The controls are easy to pick up within 
 the first 15 minutes of your experience of E. D. N III. The story maybe lackluster through and through, 
 but the gameplay is top notch with nothing I can truly complain about. Multiplayer seems to be 
 quite the hit as well with the fanbase who are loyal to this game. Capcom has made progress in 
 an area where they once were failing in. That would be the graphical, gameplay, and plot areas 
 in respect. They have made strides towards greatness, and possibly making better titles. I would 
 say that you can look for a sequel in this series. I just pray that they spend more time on the 
 plot, and do not rush production to get the game to the masses. Quality is the key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgoku2833
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I can start by telling you that this is one hell of a shooter. You will not be dissapointed by 
 the presentation of this game. The graphics are totally next gen and they should be duh. The music 
 and sound are awesome. The controls are rather good. You won't be fumbling around too long figuring 
 out how to play.
  
  The one gripe I have with this game is it's length. Capcom delivers an awesome game with awesome 
 visuals but only gives you 7-8 hours of blasting insects and snow pirates to kingdom com. But what 
 capcom does give you for 7-8 hours of insect genocide.
  
  Story..... Wayne is the main character who is found in a mech which are called VS's in the game. 
 And he has a case of amnesia. His father was killed in the begining of the game by this huge akrid 
 called the green eye. Nothing pretty grandios about the story. On his way to find this green eye 
 he stumbles upon another devious plot. Which him and his buddies set out to stop. Good excuse to 
 start up a ruckus with some bugs and snow pirates. An interesting element to the game is that you 
 have to constantly find thermal energy which is left by all enemies that you destroy, to stay alive. 
 Once your counter reaches zero your health will start to deplete, then it's game over. I never 
 ran out of it myself. My death came by getting stomped on by the bosses. And damn these guys are 
 huge. Their nose hairs tower over you. Plenty of bosses which is very cool.
  
  The stages are very well done. You can see the snow start to cover you from you running in snow 
 that's thigh high. You get plenty of weapons from your usual shotguns, machine guns and grenades, 
 to your sticky bombs and missle launchers. The VS's are capale of carrying to guns which are somewhat 
 different from your regular weapons. Homing lasers to your anti tank rifles and much more. You 
 can even take the weapons from these VS's and take them on foot. But you need to drop one of your 
 two main weapons.
  
  I loved the time I spent with this game. I wish it could have been longer but I garantee you will 
 have fun blasting away.
  
  Pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strikemhard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow I love this game! This has to be one of the best games for campaign mode yet. It is the only 
 game that gets me frustrated to an extent were i have to stop for a while. I would recommend this 
 game to ANY body out there that like to shoot things. This game has GREAT gameplay, graphics, and 
 multiplayer. The sounds are also great they are not over done or under done they are just right. 
 If you are not sure you will like the game download the demo or just rent th game. It still much 
 fun either way. So go out get the game and have a blast with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhnshft
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has been great fun so far. The story starts off a little bit slow, but it starts get 
 better. The action is great from the start, whether running and gunning in the snow, or piloting 
 one of the VS suits there is a very good sense of being in control of the action. The boss battles 
 have been tough but there is a good sense of accomplishment when done with each mission. I haven't 
 played multiplayer much, it usually isn't my cup of tea, but it has been fun. Large maps and lots 
 of players leads to some pretty good mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played the xbox game BLACK then you will like this type of game when it comes 
 to the explosions and visuals. THE GOODS: Great sounding and looking game..... that will give you 
 goose bumps if you have a nice sound system with a good sub. The controls are a bit different but 
 only takes a bit to get use to and work just fine. The A. I. is in tune and can at times be challenging. 
 If you have a nice HD TV you will be pleased with the look of this game. Wide open levels that 
 let you explore around ( I hate confined feeling games) . Nice switch between human weapons and 
 then jumping into a mech and blowing stuff up. THE WEAK POINTS: The storyline is a bit weak, but 
 if you are like me, I play games to blow stuff up and really dont care much about the story. The 
 length of the game is a bit on the short side, but I imagine that there will be a part 2 that will 
 be much longer. If you are a fan of 3rd person shooters then you will not be let down. I have yet 
 to play the MP but from what I have heard its pretty good. To me this game would be a toss up between 
 a rental and a buy, however a must play either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Capcom seems to be on a roll for the 360. First Dead Rising now Lost Planet: Extreme Condition. 
 The long awaited hit for the 360 has arrived and playing it makes Blood. Run. Cold. No seriously, 
 this is a very good action shooter that will tempt you to play it through again and again to collect 
 all of the goodies and try different difficulty levels. And yes you can skip the cut scenes after 
 you have been confused by them once.
  
  Let me start with the overarching story. You play as Snow Pirate Wayne. You live on E. D. N III, 
 a frozen planet targeted as the refuge for humans leaving earth to escape destruction. E. D. N. III 
 is not exactly a very inviting place however. In fact the whole planet is frozen and low temps 
 do a body harm over time. Not only that, but its filled with lots of very hungry insects known 
 as Akrid. The beginning of the game sees Wayne's father killed by a huge Akrid called Green Eye 
 which sets in motion Wayne's quest to avenge his father's death. As he does he comes across some 
 snow pirates, yes I know not very original but its Capcom. Luka, Rick and Yuri help Wayne in trying 
 to avenge his father's death, but as is the norm in video games, Wayne discovers there is more 
 than meets the eye here. The story gets a little convoluted and weak as the game progresses but 
 if you play Capcom games you will be used to this and learn to ignore it. You dont play this game 
 for the story.
  
  You play this game for the ass kickingly awesome boss battles. YES HUGE BOSS BATTLES. Lost Planet 
 features some colossal sized bosses that will challenge you even on normal difficulty and flat 
 out frustrate you on hard. I havent tried Extreme, but I doubt I want to. Battle massive Akrid 
 moths, worms, and all other kinds of unknown creatures as you journey across the planet in search 
 of answers. Some of the bosses take up more than the screen, which is sweet. Of course most of 
 these fights boil down to targeting weak spots on the Akrid bosses. While this is not original, 
 its fun and challenging.
  
  Most of the time you play on Wayne on foot and you are by yourself. Wayne can utilize machine guns, 
 shot guns, grenades, rocket launchers, laser and plasma rifles and sniper rifles to take out snow 
 pirates, akrid and VS enemies. You will utilize a bionic commando type zip line that shoots from 
 your arm to reach higher areas in the game. You can also use it as a weapon and even perform special 
 moves by hitting the RT or LT. The combat is fast and intense, but much of the time you can just 
 run by many opponents. Of course, that is no fun in that so I encourage you to kick as much ass 
 as possible. Of course while you are running around you must collect thermal energy dropped from 
 your dead enemies or from data posts to keep from freezing to death. Your T-Eng meter will gradually 
 decrease over time and less graduallly if you use a weapon that requires energy to operate. On 
 normal this gameplay feature isnt to much of a problem. On hard though it becomes very much a factor 
 and cruising efficiently through the levels is a must.
  
  Quite frequently you will come across mech like suits called Vital Suits. These armor plated bad 
 boys run on T-Eng so if you dont have any you cant enter the suit. There are several types of suits. 
 Each one has slightly different capabilities. The newer ones you get later in the game are slightly 
 more badass and move and react to your controls much better. The early ones are realy clunky and 
 move very slowly. However they take a fair amount of damage and dish out a nice bit as well. You 
 can outfit your VS with varying degrees of death dealers that you find lying about the landscape. 
 Just pick one up and attach it to the VS and start blasting away. Definitley fun and really add 
 a nice change up from running around as Wayne.
  
  The game isnt very long, which is actually not a bad thing because the story doesnt really measure 
 up. It also allows you to re-play the game to find all the target marks that each level contains. 
 You gain acheivement points for finding all of the marks. They are not easy to spot though and 
 each difficulty level changes the location of the marks, so just because you found all of em on 
 Normal doesnt mean you will have an easy time finding the ones on difficult.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is fun. You can fight in huge 16 players matches and as you play you 
 gain experience which helps to make the fights more even in terms of the experience of players 
 playing in them. Unfortunately there are only 8 maps and 4 modes, so not a ton of variety. All 
 in all its a nice addition when you want a change up from the single player campaign.
  
  At the end of the day this game is a fun, fast paced game that features some great grafx and audio. 
 The story falls short as the game moves on, but the CG's provide a nice break from the action and 
 arent too long. The game wont take you longer than 8 or 9 hours to complete, but harder levels 
 which really challenge your gameplaying skills. Definitely one of the better titles out for the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyjrad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Capcom made a great third-person shooter to start off the new year. Imagine a world where people 
 live on a world of snow and ice and the alien inhabitants are less than friendly. In all shapes 
 and sizes, the Akrid are a gigantic menace that could destroy an entire city. But for the game's 
 hero, toppling a gigantic beast is just another day's work. The game is not perfect, it has a lot 
 of potential for a sequel if there is one.
  
  The single-player campaign is pretty bad or it's not what most people will expect. The story will 
 be in many places at once with no real objective. The campaign is also, unfortunately, short. However, 
 the multiplayer is worth picking up the game. Fighting on foot or in a mech of destructive power, 
 the multiplayer will keep this game fresh for some time. The huge highlight of this game are the 
 insane bosses with power, size, or both. Each boss has a different strategy, but all of them will 
 show no mercy. Mechs however will help you beat the titans with different abilities whether its 
 transforming or double jump or dashing. Very few games has better bosses to fight with than these.
 
  
  Gameplay: The game gives very easy controls. Run-and-Gun fights are the key in this shooter. Fighting 
 bosses are the best part of the campaign.
  
  Graphics: These graphics could compete easily with Gears of War. While GOW has amazing detail in 
 a close encounter, Lost Planet shows gorgeous texture on the gigantic beast and bosses. The effects 
 are truly next-gen.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good, especially the explosions and the monsters. It's the spice that 
 makes it larger than life.
  
  Value: This could keep you playing for a long time. Later in life, you could play this and relieve 
 your old memories. This is a keeper.
  
  Tilt: The story is just plain terrible, but the gameplay will keep you from the story and into 
 the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistacoon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  It took me over an hour to understand the health system in this game. but its still awsome with 
 amazing snow visuals and character animations. I didnt really understand the story but the gameplay 
 made up for that. it seems the 360 has been doing everything right with 3rd person games so far. 
 Gears of War, Lost Planet, Dead Rising, Saints Row, Double Agent, Rainbow Six Vegas.... u name it. 
 Thanks to great games like these the xbox isnt just known for Halo anymore. The multiplayer is 
 also fun and addictive.... i just wish i didnt finish it the day i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan89
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I give gameplay a 7 out of 10 because while the game is fun and easy to pick up and play, you don't 
 reall feel like you are doing anything innovative or productive. It just seems like you run through 
 each level shooting bad guys, getting command posts, and fighting a boss at the end. Which brings 
 me to my next point. The bosses. the difficulty for the actual levels is very well done, but when 
 you get to the boss, you will find yourself throwing controllers and smashing things. Some of the 
 bosses are are very challenging but fun, while others are insanely difficult and unforgiving.
 
  
  Graphics get and 8 out of 10 because they are nearly perfect but not quite. The explosions in the 
 game are the best i have ever seen. you would swear they were real. While this is great it can 
 also be a hassle. A well placed rocket from your enemy will have you groping around in smoke hoping 
 no one will shoot at you before the dust settles. This may sound cool, but it can become very frusturaing 
 when trying to deal with multiple enemies. Also I noticed that there are only a few pre- rendered 
 ways your enemies fall when they are killed. But on the other hand, the snow looks great, as well 
 as the Vital Suits and character models.
  
  Sound gets a 7 out of 10 because while the sound of crunching snow, shattering ice and firing of 
 machine guns and rocket launchers is cool, the dialogue is stiff, and characters dont have much 
 to say. Enemies only say a few lines like over there and when they are killed things like Why Me!! 
 and No! 
  
  Value gets a 7 out of 10 because this game is short (only about 8 hours) and there isn't much to 
 do or many place to go in this game. You basically have to go on the straight and narrow path that 
 the game tells you to. While the game is fairly fun while it lasts, it can also be very frustrating. 
 While it is a good game, it does not live up to the hype of the advertisers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Wow where should i start!!!!! i just got this game today, i rented it, and 7 hours later i was 
 done with it!!!!! i just got done playing the game right now, and i just rented it 7 hours ago, 
 so yeah its not that long and definetely not worth 60$...... one the graphics are great!!!!!! there 
 are some framerate issued during the game, usually when there are alot of enemys on screen and 
 bombs are going off everywhere.... the sounds is awsome, my bass was shaking up my house with every 
 explosion in the game :D.... and for GAMEPLAY!!!!!!!!!! wow , it disapointted me alotttttttttt........... i 
 was saddened by this game!!! i was expecting so much !!!! i heard lots of good things about it, 
 but nope it sucked... the gameplay is the same throughout the whole game... u run and shoot collect 
 orbs, or u ride the mech and collect orbs, while u fight a boss after the end of each level.... its 
 not worth playing again, forget about the achievement points..... the multiplayer felt like star 
 wars battlefront for the xbox.... its fun, but not addicting.... the game was challenging, thats 
 the only good thing about it... other then that its just a plain o rental! itll save u 55$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  let me stop the insanity. i was also was suspect about picking up this game but after playing the 
 demo i had to. if i didn't pick this game up i would be very, very upset. the game play is great 
 just like a normal shooter would be set up. the graphics are ridiculous and the sound is just amazing. 
 the battles are (and i'm not just saying this) epic, especially the worm hunter achievement. every 
 time i go on the lost planet forums there is always a post about why did this game get such a low 
 rating, people who are playing lost planet are very confused because the game is so visually stunning 
 and there doesn't seem to be any significant flaws. a lot of people say the single player is to 
 short but who cares because the multi-player is bad ass (i could go on for hours about the multi-player 
 just take my word) . if you didn't get this game you messed up and i hope you change your mind because 
 there is no games coming out for a long time so not only is this a great game to have but a great 
 game to get you by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Lost Planet has been a long time coming since most of us have played the demo about a thousand 
 times since it came out what seems like months and months ago. Finally its here and its worth a 
 look or two in some areas. Graphically its a stunner, the enemies (which crawled right out of the 
 Starship Trooper movie) look amazing, mainly the larger ones which tower above you (the giant worm 
 is a sight to behold) and the backgrounds are incredibly detailed and look stunning with a hi-def 
 display.
  The game sports some nifty effects as well, the smoke looks amazing and another cool effect is 
 when the Akrid turn to ice and you pop one last cap in em to send them shattering into a hundred 
 pieces (not THAT big of a deal but it sure looks cool) . The sound is more than adequate. The sound 
 effects ring clear through a nice surround sound booming, screeching, and shattering with a very 
 clear crispness. The music you may forget is there, its a little on the bland side to me. Gameplay-wise 
 the game is mainly just run and gun, hop in a mech walk and gun..... thats about it, which is fine. 
 There just really isn't much to this game from a gameplay perspective simply because it just dosen't 
 have much meat on its bones in that department. The enemies (mainly the smaller non-human ones) 
 are dumb as a sack of left handed hammers, they really just sit there or walk slowly to you most 
 of them not making much of an attempt to really KILL you. The human enemies can be pretty relentless 
 and the larger akrid can be very diffacult most notably the bosses which are pretty frequent and 
 can range from a easy victory to a real pain in the you know what. Over all this is a great game 
 that has some killer visuals, moderate sound, and above average gameplay, now lasting appeal?............. maybe, 
 i might give it another go around some time, just not really any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is definitely a top notch title from Capcom. It is certainly a great 
 way to start off 2007 for the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: To describe the basic gameplay mechanics of the game, you use the right trigger to fire 
 your weapon, the X button to use the grappling hook, A to jump, and the shoulder buttons to do 
 a 90 degree turn. The controls definitely aren't very intuitive, but after awhile you get used 
 to them and most likely will start to like them.
  As far as the story is concerned, you play someone named Wayne who winds up, surprised, lost on 
 a planet filled with the Akrid (whom are aliens) after a surprise attack on his squad. Now, you 
 are found in the cold by three people named Yuri, Rick, and Luka.... whom will be your guides through 
 most of the games. The story itself is actually kind of disappointing, but yet not at the same 
 time. The reason I say this is because the parts of the story that you actually understand you 
 will be surprised about and enjoy, but whoever made up this story seemed to assume that the player 
 already knew too much.... because half the time when you are fighting a villain for example you 
 never even know he is a villain until you start fighting him. Basically, it lacks proper character 
 introduction and development. All in all though, I have seen a lot worse storylines.
  Now, when it comes to the gameplay it is simply fantastic. The shooting elements are usually pretty 
 fast paced, and are very nostalgic. In addition to shooting on foot, you have a variety of VS (Vital 
 Suits) that you can use, which are basically the Lost Planet equivalency of mechs. Unfortunately 
 though, the campaign itself is pretty short, and chances are you will beat the game in about 7 
 or 8 hours, of course that isn't counting the countless tries you will probably attempt to take 
 down bosses though.
  The bosses of this game are definitely what won the game over for me, because each one is challenging 
 and unique. Some bosses are akrid, some are other VS's, and some are neither... such as an incredibly 
 challenging giant worm. These boss battles really bring you back to the days where games revolved 
 around boss fights, and trying to find each bosses weakness.
  As for the multiplayer, it is definitely a great addition to the game. Everything runs smoothly 
 for the most part, and the matches are just the right size for this kind of game with 16 player 
 support. There are a variety of modes as well, even if some don't live up to their full potential 
 like Fugitive. In addition to all of this, it has a level system which tracks your skill, the more 
 thermal energy points you earn in the game the more that is contributed to your level. You also 
 unlock different characters and patterns for the characters that you can use as well. The one complaint 
 I do have though is that you can't continue a game after a matchup has been finished, it automatically 
 takes you back to the menu. Other than that, the multiplayer is definitely something that should 
 last you quite awhile.
  
  Graphics: This is definitely one of the best looking 360 games. The textures look great, the snow 
 detail is amazing, and some of the enemies are quite impressive visually as well. Lost Planet also 
 looks very crisp on an HDTV display. My one complaint though is that the cutscenes could look a 
 little better, and the text in the game is kind of hard to read sometimes.
  
  Sound: This game has a great soundtrack for being a shooter. The music is intense during intense 
 battles, and calm when everything quiets down. The theme music also is amazing to hear as soon 
 as you put the game in. The sound effects work very well also, and the occassional sense of fear 
 to look behind you when you hear an Akrid shriek from your back is terrifying.
  
  Value: As I said before, the multiplayer is a great addition to the game. It is too bad that the 
 single player campaign was so short, but the multiplayer battles more than make up for the shorter 
 campaign. If you would like though, you can go back in the Mission Select and do some things you 
 might have missed, such as find secret achievements. The value could have been better in the single 
 player aspect, but since the multiplayer is pretty extensive it makes up for some of the slack.
 
  Overall, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a welcomed addition to the growing 360 library and 
 a great game to both pick up and play, and to spend hours on end with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 36O
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet has always been interesting me ever since the demo was released way back in mid 06'. 
 But the game has surpassed almost every aspect the demo gave. Graphics- The beauty of Lost Planet 
 is awe-inspiring. The cold, icy world is such a original concept we almost never see, atleast not 
 in a whole game iteself. The details are outstanding and the lighting effects go beyond GRAW. The 
 explosions, smoke and fire are definitly the best I've seen so far on the Xbox 360. Though small 
 glitches like enemy weapons floating in air occasionally happen its nothing to slow down the fun. 
 Sound-One of the most best details of Lost Planet is its amazing use of sound and its score. From 
 the realistic gun-shots and Vital Suit ( mechs you occasionally get to ride in) creeks it will 
 make you want no less. The musical scores are even better in the great orchestral and such themes. 
 The main one is still in my head.
  
  Gameplay- Though Lost Planet doesn't blow away the crowd in the inutitive place, it does it better 
 than any other of its kind. The Far-3rd person shooter ( GOW to me is a close-3rd person shooter, 
 so no comparison) has all the things you need from several weapons, Vital Suits, tons of enemies 
 and much more. The Bosses are the most best of the game, they are challenging and a hell of a lot 
 of fun to fight. They range from spider-like monstrosities to giant worms that put Shadow of the 
 Colosses a run for its money. The movement controls perfectly, if there is anything capcom succeeded 
 in any thing else its the control of Wayne (main character) and the Vital Suits. The vital suits 
 are easy to control and will entertain you to game's end. The multiplayer is just as good with 
 fun that will last you hours. This game really does great with gameplay.
  
  Lost Planet in my opinion is 100% worth the purchase. The graphics, sound and gameplay work just 
 as I expected and you WILL love it. If your wanting a game that will kick-start 07' for you, Lost 
 Planet is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  A riveting sci-fi action shooter for the Xbox 360. Set within the merciless frozen tundra of a 
 hostile planet, humans struggle for survival as conflicts arise between man, the surrounding indigenous 
 creatures and the monstrous beings that have invaded. Enormous world maps unfold as players battle 
 the menacing invaders during blistering weather conditions throughout vast snow fields and deserted 
 cities. Fostering a real-time loading system, players can expect a seamless experience that leaves 
 them completely immersed. Multiplayer modes add to the value of Lost Planet by allowing players 
 to partake in intense team battles via the Xbox Live online game service. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThundraX
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The first hyped up title and the first big release of 2007 was finally upon us and passed. At first 
 glance judging by the trailers and screen shots, and of course some previews, Lost Planet was hyped 
 to be a cool new next generation shooter that would glue you to your seats. Lets see if this baby 
 is everything that we expected.
  
  Story: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is third person shooter created by Capcom which is set on 
 E. D. N. III. Human kind has left it's world in ruins to make life on another planet. On a new planet 
 they find that the extreme cold climate is not the only obstacle for survival in this merciless 
 tundra. They come accross a hostile, insect-like race known as the Akrid. The humans retreat from 
 the overwhelming akrid and discover that within these creatures is a powerful energy source. The 
 humans return to the planet equipped with mechs know as V. S. designed to battle the Akrid and collect 
 the material known as Thermal Energy. The game puts you in the shoes of a young man named Wayne 
 who's father was killed by an Akrid known as Green Eye . Found frozen beneath the snow he is rescued 
 by snow pirates. He lost his memory and only remembers his name and the monster that took his father's 
 life. With the help of his new found friends, Wayne sets out on a quest through the frozen planet 
 to find Green Eye with the hope that it will return his memory and to avenge his father's death. 
 The setting is a basic human versus aliens on another planet whichll remind you of a flick called 
 Starship Troopers . The characters including the protagonist are not memorable. You will find yourselfplaying 
 through the game and not caring about the story line at all. The action keep you occupied and through 
 out the game the story will take a back seat. The cut-scenes that support the storyline are dull 
 and uninspired. You will find yourself just skipping through it in order to get right to the action.
 
  
  Gameplay-The actionis non-stop and the enemies keep coming. Each mission you take on is filled 
 with bugs to shoot. The gameplay is your average arcade shooter followed in a simple sequence, 
 kill enemy collect item, repeat, defeat boss, stage finished. The are no sorts of tactics in the 
 game, just plane shoot and then shoot some more. Graphics-The graphics look great, especially on 
 hdtv. After a while though, the snowy environments get quite annoying and you find yourself looking 
 for some indoors to get away. Honestly, just like in the real the all white starts hurting your 
 eyes after a while. There is not much veriety in environments. You will find your self running 
 through the snowy middle of nowhere with buildings the indoors of which are all the same, and caves. 
 The enemies are rendering quite well butin my opinion, not enough to make a good impression on 
 an average gamer. Controls-The control scheme seemed weird to me and takes quite a time getting 
 used to. You control your aiming with the right analog stick, basically moving the reticle around 
 the screen to target an enemy and using your left stick to run backwards and forward or strafe. The 
 bigest problem with this scheme in my opinion is not being able to turn with the right analog stick. 
 Instead you use the left and right bumpers to turn your character ninety degrees or so which feels 
 weird. I found myself not being able to precisely turn when surrounded by enemies. There is not 
 much change when you try a different scheme from default since the effect is exactly the same, 
 only the buttons are different. Sound-Everything from the snow blowing, your footsteps in such 
 environment andweapons are a music to your ears. From the shots of your weapons to mechs sound 
 precise and realistic. I fountthe soundtrack of the game quite good and very enjoyable. The music, 
 the snow, weapons blasting, the barrels blowing, are all done reallly well and you really feel 
 like you are in the action. The only flaw is the enemies. The enemies sound quite simple and sometimes 
 like they just came out of the last gen game. The sound of bosses reminded me alot of old arcade 
 bosses.
  
  The Verdict-In my opinion, this title could have used alittle more work. It seems there was not 
 much imagination used in the storyline. The action is satisfying to say the least only ruined by 
 crappy controls. In the end, it's great title to waste some time, but that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric7233
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is just what a fun action experience should be .. It was much deeper than i expected 
 due to gamespots (usually dead-on) rating ( guess it wont be the same without greg kasavin) . What 
 more could you ask for if a game looks awesome, sounds awesome, and is really fun to play?! Nothing 
 i say except that i would love to see a sequel that takes everything this game is and adds some 
 good rpg elements..... who says you arent allowed to take a good action game and make a sequel into 
 a great Action RPG? I think they did a good job of giving an avenue to vent frustrations and release 
 tension. You really feel like you are obliterating the planet and everything that walks on it because 
 of the detail of the destructions and explosions. I would have been satified if the green eye was 
 the final boss but was pleased to see there was plenty more to havoc to wreak thereafter. On that 
 note.. most of the boss fights are some of the best ive encountered in a long time. ( maybe even 
 since resident evil 4 although i know thats pushing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spira_X
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Lost planet is a shooter different from others just because of its third person objective. The 
 graphics of the game are very detailed as well as very realistic. Contrary to what players who 
 have not played the game think, Lost Planet's environments are not all snowcovered. There are also 
 environments that are indoors such as caves where the Akrid Horde hide out. The game offers alot 
 of weaponry from the standard machine gun to the heavy artillery that the Vital suits offer. The 
 sound effects as well as the visual effects of the weapons are amazing to say the least. The game 
 isn't too difficult although it is somewhat short. Players can finish the game in about 7 to 10 
 hours. But the multiplayer online is what makes this game great. All in all, Lost PLanet is a solid 
 shooter in which players will have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vesty21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  At first i was not going to buy this game becasue although i liked the demo i was not overly impressed 
 enough to buy it at first but with nothing else new at the moment worth buying i decided i woul 
 part with my hard earned &pound;40 and give it a go!! I was glad i did as its a really good game 
 which have really nice graphics and gameplay. The mistake many peorple will make is trying to compare 
 it with GOW as thats more fast paced than this but you got to realise that if you were running 
 through snow then you would be slower.
  
  Overall its a sound investment with some really good online play as an added bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillsavard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game was sweet. the gameplay and graphics were great. the aiming is a little hard but you 
 get used to it. it didn't live up to all the hype but it was still an awsom game. i wouldn't buy 
 it bet you should realy rent it. RENT IT ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealth_Cat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I was uninterested but when the demo came out I fell in love with 
 the graphics, game play, and sweet explosions.
  
  Game play- Single and Multi player are great. Team eliminations is where its at.
  
  Graphics- 
 Probably 2nd or 3rd best on 360.
  
  Sound- Explosions.... nothing more to say cept the lip sinking isn't the best .
  
  Value- Without 
 X-box live I don't think it will be as satisfying.
  
  Get this game. You wont regret it. The difficulty and either be easy, normal or hard. After you 
 beat anyone of those you can get to extreme.
  
  GT: Lucky Biznatch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincoley
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  well i think this is a great 360 game. it has awsome graphics, great game play (not to mention) 
 lots of guns and things to kill. awsome boss fights and missions. one thing to say is that i don't 
 like the value of this game because i don't think that this is worth the $59.99 price tag but im 
 pretty sure this game can keep me entertained long enough until the expansion of oblivion comes 
 out lol. i think this game has improved my aiming skillz for halo 2 and stuff my accuracy has been 
 much better and keeps on improving. the difficulty is just right for me but it can get a little 
 hard in some spots of the game. i hope to see another LP out later in '07 because its one the better 
 games that i have played and own.
  
  happy gaming/good luck soldier your CaptainColey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: branduke
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay was good and smooth. The controls handled well although it took a little 
 getting used to the aiming. The aiming is a little different from typical shooters, as the crosshairs 
 do not stay in the center of the screen. The Mech units handled very well and were very fun to 
 use. I actually enjoyed this part of it more than controlling the main character. Graphics: I was 
 torn on this one. I wanted to give it a 9 but am trying to be a hard reviewer when it comes to 
 graphics. I believe as of now the Gears of War has set a super high bar for graphics and in my 
 opinion it is at lease 2 points higher then Lost Planet. Games that got an 8 or a 9 in graphics 
 3 months ago would get a 7 or an 8 if they came out after Gears in my opinion.
  
  The character models look really good, the Mechs look great and the environments are very detailed. 
 When up close the textures are not as detailed as they are in Gears of War, but the explosions 
 are fantastic and look very real. Sound: The sound was average. The soundtrack was ok, and the 
 sound effects didn't move me too much. The guns did not sound too great in my opinion. The Voice 
 acting was not very good at all. Games like Call of Duty 3 really set high bars for Soundtrack 
 and sound. In short, the sound was not bad but definitely not great. Overall: The shooting and 
 action was fun but very linear and too much Mission starts now, shooting over, cut scene, new mission 
 Starts now. It felt too old school for me. The story was being told in 30 second cut-scenes in 
 between missions and it felt too choppy for me. The missions were Shoot everything untill everything 
 is dead and then mission complete. But hey this game really wasn't about the story was it? It was 
 about the action and that was done pretty well. Overall it was an above average shooter / action 
 game with pretty visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Got on my 360 and popped in lost planet, pretty decent. Graphics look great although I think some 
 of the texture could have looked better. The Sound is awsome but the controls feel a bit weak then 
 again this could just be my preference. I'm not very good at these types of games but I give it 
 a shot once in a while. I think that they could've had more of a variety of Akrid and try to put 
 a stop to that stupid meter energy drain stuff. It's ok if it gets depleated but for it to keep 
 draining after you loose thermal energy it's a bit week and makes the game that much harder. I 
 for one don't like games that frustrate me but I won't give it a bad review since this is just 
 my preference.
  
  Overall this game is as solid as it can be and it will probably become an instant classic. I recomend 
 every 360 owner to give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Ok so here is the skinny,
  
  Graphics are pretty good really. I really like the snowy outdoor levels. Volumetric fog and fire 
 is pretty dope.
  Sound is pretty good, gun fire sounds just right.
  Gameplay is terrible.
  
  COUPLE OF BIG NO NO's HERE CAPCOM LISTEN CLOSELY.
  Invisible collision 
 is SO 1990's. We the gamers want fully usuable levels. FIRE ALL YOUR LEVEL Designers and pick up 
 some guys that understand that invisible barriers is weak. I cant tell you how much it sucks to 
 see a roof top that would be perfect for picking off baddies using this kick ass grappling hook 
 to get there and then bouncing off an invisible wall because you didnt design the levels well enough.
 
  
  Big NO NO number 2: I WANT TO SHOOT STRAIGHT DOWN. If i actually have managed to find a nice little 
 sniping spot, I WANT TO SHOOT AT THE STUFF RIGHT BELOW ME. Figure out how to write some camera 
 code boys.
  
  Past those 2 REALLY annoying features the game is an above average shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam0Ph0bia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  First Things First Graphics Are Great You Want To Just Walk In The Snow And See Environments. Some 
 Of Environments Like The Cave In The Second Level Are Wonderful And The Effects That You Do To 
 Snows Are Wonderful . Everything Like Explosions Smokes Akrids ... Are So Amazing That You Just 
 Wnat Too Look . In Each Level You Must Fight With A Boss They're Akrids or Robots . They're Big 
 Just Like The Bosses Of Devil May Cry Series And They're Good To Fight . The Bad Thing About This 
 Game Is That It's Just Like The Other Games Of Capcom And It Has'nt Much New Methods In It But 
 It's A Good Game And You Will Have A Good Time With It.
  If You Like The Capcom Series And Wnat To Blow Giant Creatures And Fan Of Good Graphics Buy It 
 .It's Worth Playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Micro Review
  
  Gameplay = 6
  The basic premise of the game, as a 3rd person shooter, is fine and Capcom have some pedigree in 
 this genre. However, I feel that the game has been dreadfully let down but an extremely confusing, 
 poor and unresponsive control system. A quick flick through the manual reveals a huge variety of 
 buttons/controls used in the game, with many combinations and modes. The default button layout 
 contradicts the established layouts used by many other games resulting in some confusing and frustrating 
 battles. Even changing the button mapping only partially resolves the problem as very button is 
 used for something or another! Context sensitivity seems to have been limited to just B (which 
 in itself is wrong!) .
  
  Worst, however, is the ability to turn to face your foes. It is so bad that the developers felt 
 it necessary to include further complication by having 90 &amp; 180 turn buttons to compensate 
 for the control issue. I have tried changing the settings, but it only makes a slight improvement. 
 The VSs are not much better either, and the buttons frequently feel unresponsive.
  
  Finally, the difficulty ranges from easy to stupidly unforgiving at the turn of a hat. Even the 
 opening level has you instantly dieing if you deviate by 1mm from a prescribed path. My most frustrating 
 moment, however, was the VS battle at the end of level 3: I was stuck in a situation where I basically 
 had 3 seconds to move, get into a VS and try to fight before I would be instantly killed. Im afraid 
 3 seconds of instant split second action repeated 30 or more times before I managed to get a shot 
 off was not funny!
  
  Graphics = 7
  The graphics are very good, although the character animation on the main avatar is a bit lame. 
 He looks like he is not joined at the waist! I also found the grapple/jump to be laughable as well 
 - it must be a low G environment on this planet!
  
  Sound = 7
  The game features some cheesy but acceptable voice acting, and on the whole the sound track is 
 pretty good.
  
  Value = 7 The game is frustrating in many places and also appears to be quite short. I suspect 
 the addition of the coins to collect was to lengthen the game and replay value. The online multiplayer 
 is okay-to-average: like most shooters, you run around shooting peeps, but it is nothing special.
 
  
  Tilt = 6
  I am quite disappointed with this game. I have no problem with a old-school 3rd person shooter 
 (without cover et al) but if Capcom think this is the way shooters should be they are very much 
 mistaken: more controls /= better games. This had the potential to be very good with some nasty 
 large enemies, intriguing plot, assorted mechs, and that grapple. However, the final game has been 
 let down with a lame plot, repetitive action, unforgiving difficulty, and stupidly complex &amp; 
 unresponsive controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flasheypants
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  So when I first heard about this game coming out, I got excited. I watched the video review of 
 the game on a respected videogame site. It got a more then average score. The graphics looked, 
 good, and it was from a company that makes really good games.
  
  After playing Lost Planet, all this could be further from the truth. The camera angle from which 
 you play seems like a Gears of War wanna-be. Now I am not saying this or Gears is the first game 
 to use this camera angle, but come on. The game is fun, but at the same time there is no real engaging 
 factor in it.
  
  The biggest complaint I have is when fighting other VS' there is so much smoke clouding your vision 
 you cannot see whats going on, yet the enemy somehow knows where you are at. If you get knocked 
 down, the enemy seems to have the ability to pummle the crap out of you.
  
  When not in a VS and trying to take on larger Akird, this is a lost hope. They abuse you and toss 
 you around like a rag doll. So do not attempt to kill larger then life Akrid without a VS.
  
  The levels are somewhat well thought out, and do bost some nice visuals. The cenimatic cut 
 scenes are rendered nice, and I didnt really ever see anything wrong with them. ie. out of focus 
 textures / polygon tearing
  
  Overall Lost Planet: EXtreme Condition is an ok game. Its not the first in this formula and unfortunatly 
 it wont be the last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleAnesthesia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I have seriously beaten Gears of War a dozen times and I had to have 
 something to tide me over until Mass Effect or Blue Dragon hits shelves.
  
  I wasn't really sure that I would like this game, the cover vaguely reminded me of Extermination 
 on PS2 and I hated that game. And to tell you the truth, once I got home and opened it up it wasn't 
 looking too hot. The game starts very slow.
  
  After a few levels or so it started to pick up drastically, and became really enjoyable. I would 
 recommend this to anyone that doesn't want to play Christmas's leftovers anymore, cause it's the 
 perfect snack for your 360.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this is definitely not a game that would be on the best of 360 feature 10 years 
 from now, in fact, by the time that the Q2 games I'm looking forward to roll around, I'll probably 
 forget it.
  
  In the here and now, though, this is a game that you should play, even if you just rent it, you'll 
 come away with a lot more good than bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullstomper84
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  -Intro-
  
  Ok, everyone has been looking at this game since mid 2006, as the months past, people kept on thinking 
 this would be the new Gears of War . This happens a lot, although, this game has gotten a tad bit 
 more Hyph than it might deserve.
  
  -graphics-
  
  First glance, this game looks great, good graphics overall. From snow effects, to explosions, this 
 game looks great. You'll love the character models, and the envirements as well. if anything, you'll 
 notice the animations might be a little repetitive, even then, I'm fairly picky, so it won't be 
 noticeable.
  
  Rating: 9/10
  
  -Sound-
  
  this game has a fairly good sound track, capcom does a good job about sound effects and music in 
 their games. If anything, the voice actors seem a little bored during their line readings; a little 
 bit dull at time, like they're tired of reading lines all day.
  
  Rating: 8/10
  
  -Singleplayer Gameplay-
  
  Awsome story, although some people say that the story line is confusiing 
 at times, I didn't find that a problem at all. If anything, the storyline feels a little rushed. 
 Like: ok go destroy the hive, ok now theirs pirates, so let's go destroy the pirate base, ok now 
 _________ . Besides the story, the gameplay is fairly fun. the VSs are extremely fun to pilot; 
 overal, you'll have fun playing through the campaign, on the edge of your seat at times. Occasionally, 
 you'll notice the NPC AI is a little dumbed down, they don't do any flanking. They just basically 
 stay put and wait to be shot. when it comes to the Akrid AI though, it's a lot better. Although 
 Akrid attack patterns starts to become predictable, it's still pretty fun. Boss battles are legendary; 
 you'll find you're palms dripping with sweat from the intensity of them. Something Capcom really 
 screws up in their games is the Save system, and they did it again for this game. The game saves 
 each level, no in-game checkpoints. Since each mission is like 40 minutes long, if you get to the 
 VERY last part of the mission, and die, you get to redo the whole thing over-again, this will get 
 you VERY frustated at times.
  
  Rating: 8/10
  
  -Multiplayer Gameplay-
  
  Not quite as fun as the Singleplayer campaign. Battlefield based combat, slow-paced, requires patience. 
 Can be fun at times, but overall, it's just basically who can capture the checkpoints first . Rating: 
 6/10
  
  -Overview-
  
  Lost Planet is a very fun game. You can tell that this game was rushed a little bit. The story 
 is rushed, the save system is Crap, Enemy AI could have been better, and Multiplayer could use 
 some working. With things all said and done this game is fun, but possibley not worth $60. Never 
 trust the hyph, always do you own research.
  
  Game Verdict: 7.7 -- RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Ice
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have played the game, and I have come to the conclusion that, wait a minute; did any notice 
 how much different the demo was in terms of intensity. At least in the beginning their were more 
 AKRIDS coming out of the woodwork. In the actual game even on the hard difficulty, it is not that 
 intense. The only effect is the T-Energy gauge moves faster at the more difficult modes. (What 
 is T-ENERGY?) Well you are on a cold planet, and they harvest the heat energy in order to survive. 
 How?, well you shoot things as creatures, men, or barrels, cars or anything that you can blow up. 
 Good idea for a gauge, but it needs work. Others might not like the gauge, but it makes sense on 
 a cold planet. Just a little tweaking. The bosses are not terribly to defeat. Basically just shoot 
 and kill. Granted the ending battle might be a little taxing according to users. Graphics are okay, 
 but so much snow so you really can't really judge it. It is next generation. I would buy it, but 
 I wouldn't expect too much for replay value. Overall I would give it a 7-8.4. Well go out and play 
 it for yourself. Only you can judge a great game. It was a little over hyped, but overall a descent 
 game. Personally I didn't pay for it. I traded a few game to get it free. Swap video games .com 
 of course. Well thats it, go out and shoot some Akrids, AND ride some interesting VS units.. Like 
 mechanical walkers/fighting machines, a few different ones in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought this game was pretty boring after playing the first level or two, but considering 
 that the demo was released earlier last year I decided to press on and get deeper in the game. 
 My decision paid off!!! If you give this game a chance it will grow on you. The boss fights are 
 magnificent and you will constantly find yourself under a constant state of stress. I can't tell 
 you how many times I breathed a sigh of relief after a boss fight. The gameplay really is great 
 but you just have to accept the fact that is a boss oriented game. It's an old school game for 
 the next generation and I highly recommend it. It may not be on par with halo or gears of war, 
 but if your looking for a new game pick up lost planet. It really is a great game and the reviews 
 don't do it any justice. As far as multiplayer in concerned.... there aren't a lot of people playing 
 it online right now, but when you actually get in a game it really is a blast. It's totally different 
 gameplay than gears of war. It's easier for everyone to pick up and play, but there is much more 
 strategy involved.
  
  Overall, you have a game that looks great, plays great, and is really entertaining. Some people 
 say the story is bland, but once I finished the game the story actually seemed rather good. Seriously... just 
 pick this game up. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiLlA1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  ok now this is game... how can i begin.... well just to say this game is worth ur money beacuase 
 its has some beautiful rendered graphics with not that many glithces and no lag when theres is 
 dozens of humongoues beast coming after you... now gameplay is another thing... u might need some 
 time to get used to the controls because when i first started plaiyng the game i thought the aiming 
 was guna be diffrent not that the aiming is bad or anyhting but it just acted diffrently form other 
 third person shooters like gears of war... just to sya it will take some time ot get used to it.. but 
 besides all that this game is juts plain fun and addicting... the action scenes and the boss batlles 
 are epic with gunsa and bombs shooting everywhere while ur trying to find escape or some energy 
 to regenarate ur warmth... but this game is worth it even though it ends quicly u will have a blast 
 throught the single player campaign... sound is incredibly well... with the guns sounding just right 
 and the monsters crys being great while u kill them... the multiplayer is allright even thoguh is 
 not as fun as the campaight and the VS machines are great to handle and to kill ur enemeies.. even 
 though there kinda slow... anyways got buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesar619_2002
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Another Capcom disaster. Mixing Starship Trooper, Mechwarriors, and a snowy place. Too Short, rent 
 it instead of buying. After Capcom made such a big hype about the game, it was just a disappointment 
 playing Lost Planet. It would be better to rent this game then actually buying it. The storyline 
 was too short. A game you can beat in 5-8 hours. Graphics and Sound were the only good parts in 
 the game. Online play not so good either. This game has a lot of glitches too. In the beginning 
 you fight a green eye, just a giant bug. The green eye shoots ice out of its mouth and covers the 
 place. Thinking that you get trapped in ice. Thats not the case. The glitch is that you can still 
 walk through the ice. Their's no barrier around ice. You can pretty much go through it. Plus adding 
 a gauge for thermal heat was also a terrible idea. If your heat goes to zero, you die instantly. 
 So you have to find bugs to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEITH1437
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  A great game with style and beauty comes and is here to stay on the Xbox 360. You play as Wayne 
 , a guy who was found frozen in a giant mech. He is found by Yuri, Luka, and Luka's brother. The 
 gameplay consist on little orange orbs that contain Themal Energy. (T-ENG) Once you run out of T-ENG 
 you will take more damage. You have your normal weapons like machine guns, shotguns, sniper rifels, 
 and rocket launchers. But there are new and inventive weapons that don't use ammo but instead use 
 your own T-ENG. This is a great game that everyone should experience. That is why I give Lost Planet: 
 Extreme Condition a 9.3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Lost Planet since about October, as this was my most anticipated 360 game 
 since Gears of War. Unfortunately, Lost Planet falls way short of my expectations. I't s biggest 
 draw, in my opinion , was it's story. Well, the story is never really a story, and the voice acting 
 sucks. I mean, where is the so-called war! I play as a one man army against the enemies. There 
 are no great plot twists, no great drama, nothing. Graphically, I'll give the game it's due. The 
 explosions are the best ever made, and at times Lost Planet looks stellar. But there are times 
 where I feel that the game just looks ordinary. Music and sound are okay, but nothing special. 
 Where the game takes another hit, in my opinion, is in gameplay. Is Lost Planet fun? Yes, it is, 
 no doubt about it. But here are the problems that go along with it: (1) While the grappling hook 
 is cool, it is very limited and could have been much better (2) You fight basically the same enemies, 
 and there are only a handful (3) While the boss battles are great looking and intense, they are 
 also very, very, very frustrating, as you die over and over again until you luck up and get it 
 right. I'm sorry, but in the year 2007, I don't want to get frustrated with a boss fight. I want 
 a challenge, but not in this extreme. So here's the bottom line: Lost Planet looks good, is fun, 
 and is a different experience. However, it''s story is nonexistant and terrible, it's gameplay 
 can get frustrating, and overall, it fails to meet the hopes I had for this game. One last thing, 
 don't buy the collecter's edition. It is a complete ripoff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samo3000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Lost planet extreme conditions delievers and great 3rd person shooter were you play as wayne, who 
 is discovered, frozen in his vs after his dad died to a hugde beast called green eye
  
  If you have ever watched star ship troopers, the creatures, which are called akrid, sorta look 
 like that. You will fight little flying creatures who come in great numbers to gigantic worms who 
 pop out the ground. As your t-energy is constantly draining you must kill to survive, so the bigger 
 the enemy, the more t-energy you are rewarded.
  
  The controls are very easy to get used to and are like gears of war. The game also has online play 
 which is very fun and addictive and keep you playing for hours. You can play team death match or 
 fugertive which is like playing tig or if you play halo 2, juggernaut. overall, the game is very 
 fun and hours fly buy and its worth giving a try although the story mode isnt long, the online 
 play will keep you going for hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jud0ka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is the second Xbox 360 game from the team that brought you Dead Rising. This game as 
 its cousin is a beautiful game. The game play for lost planet is best described as old school fun. 
 Your shooting a weird aliens without a drawn out plot. Well I should say that vengeance is the 
 only thing needed to start any video game. The graphics of this game are just purdy for lack of 
 a better term. That is to be expected since this is a Capcom title. The animation is smooth and 
 i have yet to hit any slowdown. The explosions are gorgeous and some of the best I have seen on 
 a console. The music is forgettable but it does not hamper the game at all.
  
  The game play really reminds me of an old school 3d action explorer. That does not make it any 
 less fun of a title. The multiplayer for this game is crazy. Since you mix it up with Mechs and 
 Rocket Launchers it makes for a fun game. This game is good for the shooter fan who is looking 
 for a different title to play than GeoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbfr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game to start out the new year. The only draw back to this game is the fact of having 
 to find the energy for your suit to stay alive. Other than that the shooting system is excellent 
 and the weapons are good. the chain gun rocks. pretty much a different version of gears of war. 
 Story is also very good. Not as good as gears but pretty darn close. Load times are pretty short 
 and sweet. The Game is overall really good. these games will keep you over until UT 2007 comes 
 out. Some say the game is short others say its long, i believe that it is just right for sitting 
 down every once and a while and playing. A game that will get you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_3000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Conditions is a Sci-Fi 3rd Person Shooter for your good old Xbox 360. In this 
 game, you play as Wayne, some dude that almost kind of looks like my cousin.... erm, anyways. This 
 new world that you are in EXTREMELY COLD!!! And also In this new world that Wayne is in, you trying 
 to find a way to live in this planet, when suddenly, the Akrid , which are these alien looking 
 creatures that you constantly run into in this game, attack. Ironicly, these Akird hold a brand 
 new energy source. Thermal Energy is your only way to survive. You wear a special suit in this 
 game that has a timer on it. If the suit runs out of thermal energy, well, you die. Don't worry, 
 thermal energy can be found by destroying Akrid, Snow Pirates and VS Suits. Speaking of VS Suits, 
 these robotic mechanisms called VS Suits (VS = Vital Suit) will help you to defeat your enemies 
 much quicker and more effectively. These things are fun to use and will be very helpful in your 
 missions. Your mission is to stop the Frontier Project from heating the planet and killing everyone 
 and everything in the process. This chick Luka and her brother Rick will help you in this mission. 
 Lost Planet is a pretty standard 3rd person shooter. You run, shoot the enemies, traverse the level. 
 Nothing quite new. But the pretty graphics and interactive environments make up for the ordinary 
 gameplay. Enemies come at you fast, making the game even more intense. But what's really intense 
 are the boss fights, really the best parts of the game. Although very frustrating at times, but 
 oh so satisfying. This game may dissappoint some fans who were expecting a lot from this game. 
 Confusing story, repetitive gameplay, not a lot of variety in the guns, short single-player campaign 
 are some of the negatives in the game. It will only take you about 8 hours to finish the game. 
 I'm on the last boss, and it pretty much took me about 7 hours and 23 minutes to get to him. Overall, 
 Lost Planet is a great game, but it could've been one of the best Xbox 360 games to date if the 
 developers put a little more effort into the game. More improvements, for example, more guns, have 
 squads with you since you're on your own when it comes to shooting your enemies, better story, 
 longer single-player campaign, all that stuff. Great game, but I suggust you give this one a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  first off this game has great grapdhics, the snow, the bugs, and especially the explosions and 
 smoke. they all look incredible. then there's the gameplay, the running and gunning is just plain 
 fun and the vital suits are crazy. the controlls are pretty much perfect but if you dont like them 
 you can change it. one problem i saw though is that, if youve seen the commersials, you saw an 
 entire plain of akrid and vs's fighting in a war with more than just you, thats what i wanted to 
 see. as for the story a little different from the norm but could have been a little deeper. I loved 
 the save in the middle of a mission deal thats what i want and if im right, what most people like. 
 all in all a must have for anyone with a 360. i would tell you about online play but my parents 
 are cheap and won't charge on credit. but still worth the $60 (or $70 for the special version) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  lost planet's single player mode is, to me at least, very challenging. i have owned many shooters 
 in the past, such as gears of war, metal arms: a glitch in the system and far cry predator to name 
 just a few, but never have i had this much trouble getting past level three in a game. it's almost 
 a little demoralizing. you see, lost planet has very intense, very large and often very challenging 
 boss fights. i don't usuallly mind this, but after my 6th or 7th attempt to shoot down the giant 
 worm boss failed due to a lack of thermal energy, i was shaking with rage. Lost Planet has a somewhat 
 odd health system in place that often kills you off in situations where, had Capcom implemented 
 a different health system, you would have been fine. In Lost Planet, players must collect thermal 
 energy to stay alive. the thermal energy allows players to pilot mechs (VSs in LP) , shoot energy-based 
 weapons, and regenerate health when hit. However, if your thermal energy or your health reach zero, 
 you drop dead on the spot. It can get very frustrating when you take a major hit that drops your 
 health to a sliver and get your health bar completely filled up again, only to drop dead due to 
 a lack of thermal energy. Another frustrating thing about Lost Planet are the boss battles. Like 
 I stated before, they are pretty challenging, which is actually a bit refreshing at first since 
 many games these days seem to feature somewhat easy boss fights (GoW Corpser fight, I'm looking 
 in your direction) . After a while, though, you wont be enjoying yourself, and every time you try 
 a challenging boss fight will be like torture until you are forced to switch over to the multiplayer 
 mode or a different game. (It should be noted that I do not find this problem prevelant in the 
 rest of the single player game, just in the boss battles. And you do get an achievement for beating 
 the giant worm and giant moth.)
  If you do make the decision to switch to multiplayer, though, you won't be dissapointed. LP's online 
 modes pack a serious punch. There are four modes in LP's multiplayer: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Post Grab (a game in which two teams try to capture all of the thermal energy posts on a map-this 
 one is my favorite) and Fugitive (an everybody vs one person sort of game.. like team deathmatch 
 only one team is only made up of one person) . Each mode has a unique flavor to it and unique achievements 
 that go with it, and these achievements are fun to get. There are a lot of weapons that can be 
 put to use in MP too. Every kind of VS, grenade and gun from LP's intense story mode makes it over 
 to the MP at some point or another, and all of them are fun to use. The only flaws with the MP 
 section of the game are 1) that it is impossible to quit out of a match already in progress and 
 go back to the menu without going out to the 360 dashboard first, and 2) that only one player can 
 play on the same 360 at a time. Still, when no friends are over and I feel the urge to go online, 
 it's almost always a choice between this game and Gears of War, which is a high compliment indeed.
 
  in conclusion, Lost Planet is definately worth checking out. I enjoy the single player campaign 
 about 80% of the time that i turn it on (the other 20% was spent trying to beat that **** worm!!!!) 
 and the multiplayer never fails to amuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryandc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  forget it the game is started with die your father first the game learn you how you play this game 
 a very big HOBGOBLIN with chemical wind and ia puff make freeze the air. and wing fishes skeltions 
 atack to you
  after that your father died you saw a demo to know that lost planet started and you see some persons 
 after your faint and i think you re future is with that girs and you will marry. (forget it)
  this game boil you enemis comefrom under grounds.
  some of them they dont mov e and after your 
 move ATTACK -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  POM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inst1nct31
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Today i'm going to talk about Capcoms latest hit Lost Planet: Extreme Condition for the Xbox 360.
 
  
  Pros: Fantastic Graphics: Explosions, and the snow environments look great, Fun Multiplayer with 
 a good quickmatch set-up, Cool mech-like Vital Suits (VS) , and Fun Boss Battles.
  
  Cons: Single player is a bad mesh of cut-scenes that don't always contribute to the plot, Single 
 player is short.
  
  In Lost Planet you are put in the position of Wayne, a solider of the human army fighting against 
 a alien army known as the Akrid. Why fight you ask? The humans fled earth to E. D. N. III and colonized 
 it and then the Akrid attacked and the humans wouldn't fight at first but then they discovered 
 the Akrid had t-eng (Thermal Energy) within there bodies that the humans needed and suddenly they 
 were more willing to fight. So in the game intro, you play as Wayne, get in a vital suit and then 
 you die (Well not really die but get kinda knocked out) from an Akrid named the Green Eye. Then 
 the green eye kills your father. When you were knocked out somehow you got placed in a total snow 
 wasted area where a group of Snow Pirates headed by a guy named Yuri finds you and then your adventure 
 begins. I think. This story is pretty hard to follow unless you look into it a lot.
  
  Ok so when you start off your just Wayne with your Machine Gun and you fight og some smaller Akrid 
 and then you get a Vital Suit and Fight the Boss. This is almost how every level goes fighting 
 smaller Akrid or other rival snow pirates and then fighting a big Akrid or another Vital Suit in 
 your own Vital Suit. While in the game the gameplay works well, you have a rappel to get to high 
 places, theres a nice variety of guns, and the akrid and snow pirates are fun to face of against. 
 The VS gameplay works well too, you get to pick a weapon for each arm of your VS and each kind 
 of VS has a special ability.
  There are also plenty of Multiplayer game types and maps and multiplayer VS combat is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealboss201
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Simply a must buy, people are underating this game by far.
  
  There is very rarely a moment where you are not trying not to think whats next or even wanting 
 to kill everything simply because its so much fun!
  
  Multiplayer cant be beat either, this game very well compares to Gears.
  
  I must say that 
 the sheer scale of the bosses is great. To me most enemies shared the same formula for killing 
 them, but still posed the challenge of how to damage them.
  Its true as with every game, you will get frustrated on the harder settings trying to figure out 
 what the **** you need to do.
  
  Once you put down the controller and complete the game, you feel like you accomplished something 
 in the gaming world... Maybe not the longest story ever, but definatly a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade233
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I just completed this game and had been intending to write a very favorable review... that 
 is until the last boss. While the game is designed very well with the each boss having a strategy 
 that will allow you to defeat it the last boss should be epic... The final battle is anything but. 
 It relies on luck rather than strategy and skill. That being said...
  
  This game is better than most I have played for the 360. The single player I enjoyed more than 
 Rainbow Six or GRAW. it is NOT Gears of War.. but what game is.
  
  Gameplay... This game is very fun to play and the controls both on foot and in the VS (mech) are 
 done well. The weapons and VS suits are fun and different enough to make things interesting. The 
 level design is also fun reminding me of a good old school game.
  Graphics... Here the game realyy shines. From the snow and smoke effectsto the Akrid and scenery 
 it is done well. It probably makes things easier since most of the board is snow but just the same 
 it is impressive.
  Sound.... I guess this was okay for me since nothing really jumped out except the akrid but the 
 voice acting is bearable.
  Value... At around 8 hours for me the first time thru I can see playing on higher difficulty level 
 and multiplayer.
  Tilts... good not great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak4Blade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game to pass some time but boy have I pased some time by now, it is just that , addictive, 
 a new concept where time (energy) is always counting down and the action is almost always nonstop, 
 from being on foot to fighting in Great vs suites, top game. Have not tried multi player yet but 
 believe it will be a blast. The Boss levels are a bit easy but that just means the game keeps flowing 
 with no real big places in the game to get stuck for hours on end. The big down side is the dumb 
 story line, makes very little sense and you will by the 7th hour of playing start to just skip 
 through the scenes as they dont make a lot of sense and the voice acting is very poor to say the 
 least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanyc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The game's not perfect. Let's get that out of the way. The enemy AI is unbelievely stupid -- especially 
 the grunts. But the hair-trigger action that leads up to the boss encounters are amazing. The learn 
 from your mistakes gameplay is what makes this game top draw on my list. There are several ways 
 to approach each level, and you are constantly on the move shooting enemies and dodging rocket 
 fire (although yes the enemy AI is kinda on the dumb side so this isn't much of a challenge) , taking 
 all that together makes the game a worthy new franchise for Capcom. A lot less frustrating than 
 the Devil May Cry series, but just as visually stunning. I highly recommend it as a second course 
 after the mighty Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The second major release on the Xbox360 from Capcom is a stunning third person action adventure 
 shoot 'em up. You play Wayne, and amnesiac looking for answers and revenge. Set in the distant 
 future on a remote ice-covered planet, humans have been battling for years with a vicious race 
 of native giant insects called Akrid, that live underground and control a fuel source called Thermal 
 Energy.
  The gameplay may seem like an average shooter at first but it has a few interesting features that 
 make it stand out. Thermal Energy is one of them.
  Your energy bar is constantly falling and killing Akrid, other humans, or initializing the various 
 data posts will replenish it. If it runs out, your health will deteriorate and you will be vulnerable 
 and will eventually die. It's interesting, but you never really get a sense of panic or urgency, 
 so it's pretty pointless because it never runs out (unless you're an idiot) . Wayne seems to be 
 one of the toughest characters ever to appear in a game; he can take multiple rockets to the head 
 and fall from great heights, but you'll rarely die. This doesn't mean the game is easy; it's fun 
 and often challenging and rewarding (especially with the numerous achievements available) but the 
 campaign mode is too short.
  The story sounds like it could be intriguing, but unfortunatly, the cut scenes do little to explain 
 things and the plot points are as fragmented as Wayne's memory. Every level you play seems to be 
 a new adventure, with little to do with the last objective. It's a shame because the set pieces 
 are incredible and the action is frantic and very well designed.
  The controls are easy to master and various moves can be pulled off such as evasive rolls and.... high... jumps. 
 You also have a grapple hook gizmo which is used to scale cliffs and buildings. It's fun to use 
 but there are not enough moves with it to really give it substance. Probably the biggest attraction 
 of the game is the use of Vital Suits (VS) , mechs which you can pilot to help you take on bosses 
 and navigate larger areas. There are a variety of models to comandeer, and various weapons to equip 
 them with. It's a pretty empowering feeling and the crazy battles turn up a notch or two when you 
 go head to head with the larger Akrid and other mechs. I just wish they were a tad faster.
  This is far more enjoyable in the multiplayer mode. Maps of all shapes and sizes are available 
 to fight in, with a nice set of modes to try. It's a hell of a lot of fun with so many people involved 
 in a large scale conflict, and there is a lot of room for tactical play or all out fun. It gives 
 you a nice sense of freedom, and its a great feeling running with teammates towards a cliff, all 
 of you simultaneously firing your grapple hooks and diving into the fray. The campaign mode is 
 excting and the combination of the controls, VS combat, small amount of exploration and good old 
 fashioned fun, make for a great package. There are a few problems here and there, such as the above 
 mentioned and some strange choices regarding the the multiplayer lobby system but other than that, 
 this game is a blast and one of the must-have titles for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- gameplay is great and has a nice grappling system and there are many different guns to 
 choose from from the machine gun to the rocket launcher there is many more. Vehicles- The vehicles 
 SUCK. the ski doo/ vs thing is a peice of trash as well as those vs and the floatin thingy it sucks. 
 Graphics- graphics are hard to tell if they are good or not in this game because of all the snow, 
 so i don't think graphics mean much about the game. Though if there was no snow i think theyd be 
 ok. Sound- sound is great, could have been better but hey u know what they say, nothing is perfect (accept 
 gears of war) so yah. Multiplayer- Multiplayer is great out of top 10 mp games this would be 3rd 
 then rainbow six then gears of war #1. All in All- all in all this is a great game and gives u 
 a dead rising feelin mixed up with a random shooting game so, if your getting tired of gears of 
 war or rainbow six vegas this will be the best game to get until another game comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlee420
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I dont get why everyone is bashing this game. It delivers in every way except for the story. I 
 dont remember the last time a game has made me kick sooo much ass, you are always shooting something, 
 it has you jumping from mech to mech trying to stay alive. NON STOP ACTION! My only other complaint 
 is how short it is but, I played it on hard the first time through so it kicked my ass. Graphics 
 are awsome, sound is great and, controls are good (takes Wayne a little too long to get up witch 
 allows the AI to juggle you sometimes.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have been knocking this game relentlessly but this is seriously one of my new favorites. 
 The campaign is fast paced and quasi original, and the best part, VS Suits. This addition is what 
 made the game for both the campaign and especially for online multiplayer. Throw in a a headset 
 and you've got hours of team based play. The visuals effects are my favorite part especially the 
 explosions, these are rendered really well and when you combine the other physics (wind, snow, 
 slow movement when carrying heavier weapons) you've got a very cool game that does not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  If you are into FPS's.... this game will surprise you. IF you are getting numb toThere the usual 
 Shooters aka: GOW, COD, Rainbow, etc. Get ready for a fun experience playing LOST. I was not expecting 
 this type of game. There is nothing out in the market like this game and that's what makes it unique. 
 By now I'm sure you have already read about the great graphics and gameplay, so I am posting this 
 message to add to the acclaim this game deserves.
  
  The boss battles are not easy, but once you get past the first boss you will know how to strategize 
 and what to shoot at. During the first boss battle you must keep moving and target the glowing 
 tail. It will take about 150 shots (at the tail) to bring him down as it seems like he cannot be 
 killed. Don't give up, just keep shooting and moving. After the battle, the game opens up and is 
 pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarpHedin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Lost planet has been a anticipated game ever since the E3 demo hit Xbox Live, and that&amp;#8217; s 
 not without a good reason. But was it worth the wait? Did it live up to the internet hype? Read 
 on to find out!
  
  Lost Planet is a third-person shooter from Japan&amp;#8217; s very own Capcom. It takes place on 
 EDN-III, a fictional planet that the humans are trying to inhabit. And that&amp;#8217; s really 
 all you need to know about the story. There are some other elements to it, but the way the cutscenes 
 are cut just doesn&amp;#8217; t seem to make sense at all.
  You immediately meet this guy named Yuri and start working for him.
  The main mission-structure 
 goes like this: Get to this hive/elevator/whatever and kill lots and lots of bugs on the way. These 
 bugs are known as Akrid, and are your primary enemy in the game. Once you get to the end of a level, 
 you are usually confronted with a huge ass boss (and sometimes regular mechs, but I&amp;#8217; ll 
 get back to that) that you have to kill. You kill these bosses by shooting them at what the game 
 calls their &amp;#8220; soft spot&amp;#8221;. Their soft spot is a yellow glowing spot that you 
 can destroy to make them go down quicker. This is a very old-school aspect, and makes the game 
 somewhat dated. There&amp;#8217; s no thinking at all when dealing with a boss which can get very 
 boring after a while. Luckily, the bosses are varied enough to stay fun.
  Another big aspect in Lost Planet are the Mechs, or VCs (Vital Suits) . These can be found on allmost 
 every level, and come very handy. There are about 4-5 different ones in different shapes and sizes 
 with different attributes. These VCs make the game a hell of a lot of fun, especially when you 
 are given access to one of the stronger ones. The graphics in Lost Planet are quite good, especially 
 the smoke effect. It almost looks real. But with graphics this good, it&amp;#8217; s a shame that 
 the environments you are in are pretty bland. Same city, cave and factory visited over and over 
 again. That aside though, this is one of the best looking 360 games out there. And the enemy designs 
 are all pretty interesting as well.
  One of my biggest beefs about this game is the sound. There&amp;#8217; s nothing bad about it really, 
 but where the hell is the music? Maybe this is just a problem from my side, I really don&amp;#8217; t 
 know, but there&amp;#8217; s absolutely no music whatsoever when I play this game. It would have 
 been a lot more engaging with booming fast-paced music when you are encountering the toughest enemies, 
 but instead I get stuck with the sound of my gun, which gets really, really old after about 600 
 shots.
  
  The game also has a pretty good multiplayer portion, but I haven&amp;#8217; t spent to much time 
 with it so I won&amp;#8217; t go on a rant about it.
  
  Should you buy this game? Well, that&amp;#8217; s a tough call. If you like third person shooter, 
 or liked the demo you played, then maybe you should. I have to warn you though, it&amp;#8217; s 
 very repetitive, and has a lot of flaws that hurt the game in many ways. In short: If you are looking 
 for mindless shooting, or maybe just want a japan-developed game, get Lost Planet. Otherwise you 
 may want to stay clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Firsty, with the exception of GOW &amp; GRAW, I think the games on the X360 so far have been disapointing, 
 so this game does stand out from the pack, but only by association. On with the review. Straight 
 up the visuals are quite good, there is plenty of detail on everything from the weapons to old 
 rusting crates lying around. The creatures look excellant, the graphics when they have been killed 
 and the heat from there body disipates leaving there corpse a frozen shell looks very, very cool. 
 Explosions look great to, with plenty of fire and smoke coming of things, makes blowing up stuff 
 heaps of fun.
  
  The sound is good also, the continual sound of the wind rushing around you adds to the overall 
 immersion of the world your in, although at times it can be annoying, if you pay to much attention 
 to it. Everything makes the right sound, but thats about it as far as gameplay goes. The music 
 is good, and adds to the tension when coming up against the bigg boss's. The gameplay and story 
 are where this game falls behind. The characters, both in and out of the mechs, move at a painfully 
 slow pace. It really takes some of the punch out of the action when moving from point A to B, or 
 trying to flank an enemy. I would presume everything moves so slowly to make everything feel bigger 
 but its just annoying, and you will find yourself nodding your head from side to side while your 
 character to run to the next position. The biggest let down for the game is having to continualy 
 look for heat blobs on the ground, to stay alive. It is just another spin on the whole collecting 
 coins business from games of old. It has a certain logic to it, but it becomes very tired very 
 quickly. I found it took away the greta level of immersion that the game has. Which is a shame 
 because at first I was totaly drawn into this world, beacuse the visuals &amp; sound are good, 
 but looking for COINS just got became realy stupid, and reminded me I was JUST playing a game.
 
  
  The story is FULL of holes, and is pretty much the same as Starship Troppers. Don't expect to be 
 drawn into it like HALO did, it just aint gonna happen. This game is about geting the biggest gun 
 you find and blowing the hell out of stuff. Again this is a shame because the BASIC idea isn't 
 THAT bad.
  
  Overall, its a fun game that is good for killing a view hours but falls short on several key points. 
 But it gets pretty close. Better luck next time guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevendabouncer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  good game of the Xbox 360 this game is awsome when i first played it i did't know what to Expect 
 the game is about a planet not know by man when the earth was full men set off to find a new home 
 and found this cold planet but what thay did't know that it was infased with tnsectlike aliens 
 called Akrid... anyway youer characters name is Wayne youer dad was killed by a Akrid by the name 
 of Green eye so you take off to kill Green eye but i did't stop ther the best thing in the game 
 is you can use this robots called V8's to help you in the game the wapons a cool too shotguns, 
 rockets, machine gun, and lasers fun stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Interesting to see a shooter from Capcom in such a long while..... This time it's much more different 
 as you explore an entire Lost Planet filled with inhuman pirates and evil bugs that are fun to 
 crush. In this Planet you may wonder why your in it in the first place... but here's my review and 
 some background knowledge of why you should or shouldn't buy this game. Story -
  
  First time actually writing a story part in my reviews.... and this story for Lost Planet is extremely.... well 
 confusing yet interesting. You take place as a guy named Wayne. He's lost his entire memory for 
 some reasons you'll find out if you play this game... He's the guy you'll be using the entire game... besides 
 Online. Even though you can unlock him online... but besides that you'll be confused in most parts 
 of the story and wonder what's going on and why you are doing a certain mission for some reason... It 
 may seem confusing but if your buying this game for a good story then don't as it doesn't really 
 feel complete in the story department. Gameplay -
  
  The gameplay of course is what you've been expecting. Third person shooting in a Sci-Fi Themed 
 World that builds up potential as you play through the game. It can be pretty easy just to pick 
 and play this game. It maybe kind of confusing that your reloading by pressing the Right Thumbstick 
 but you get used to it along the way.
  
  In this game there is some unique things that haven't been shown in most games. One example is 
 the T-ENG. There is a number count to the left side that shows how much T-ENG your holding. Usually 
 when you start a mission, it's about 1,000 or so. It just keeps dropping until you've have none 
 left, BUT you can gain more by finding some red gooey stuff or HEAT by either killing enemies or 
 shooting certain objects in the game that might carry heat. If you lose all T-ENG in the Regular 
 game you will die slowly if you don't regain any T-ENG. On Multiplayer if you lose all your T-ENG 
 then it doesn't drop down your health but instead doesn't let you regain health and doesn't allow 
 you to hop into any VS's.
  
  VS's in the game (Vital Suits) feel like Gundams but much smaller. They are fun to use but some 
 have different abilities. One can jump really high, one can go really slow, one can hover, one 
 is a spider, etc. Each vital suit you use in the game is either just to fight a boss... and you 
 usually just fight bosses in the VS more than on foot... The hardest part about the VS is probably 
 the T-ENG dropping down much quicker than just running. So it's just to use the VS's during multiple 
 enemy encounters or boss fights. You can use VS's in multiplayer but most people think they are 
 pretty cheap to use against others.
  
  There is many guns in the game, including the VS ones. You can carry VS guns in the game and there 
 is a total of 13 guns (including VS) and 5 different gernades.. there is one gernade you can't use 
 in the regular Campaign and only in Multiplayer and those are the Dummy Gernades... and are good 
 only if your shooting them against the opponent as they aren't always helpful. There is of course 
 your average gernade, plasma gernade, etc. The guns are from machine guns to shotguns to rocket 
 launchers to VS Shotguns and so on. There is Eight Different multiplayer maps in this game. Each 
 being from a small map to a large map. All of them are useable in the four modes of Online Play. 
 There is Elimination, Team Elimination, Post Grab, and Fugitive. The Elimination Modes are your 
 standard Deathmatch games while Post Grab is where your in a team of two trying to Grab these certain 
 amount of Data Posts in one of the eight levels. Fugitive is where the host is a lone wolf aka 
 on his or her's own team while fighting against 15 or less players and you can only have 16 in 
 one certain mode. So that means you can have 16 players in any mode of the game. Hopefully they 
 make more maps in the future even though most maps are really large in size.
  
  Graphics -
  
  The graphics are pretty nice and they actually aren't the best looking graphics 
 we've ever seen. Ghost Recon actually looks better from a stand point of view but the Fire and 
 Water Scenery in this game look nifty and what you expect from a Nex-Gen Game. There is some motion 
 blurs and teleporting in Multiplayer but Campaign only has some shadow effects that might be a 
 little to light then you might expect.
  
  Sound -
  
  The music is alright but I wish for more action music from a Capcom game. The Sci-Fi music is alright 
 and most parts of the game will feel tacked on from the music depending on the type of scenery 
 your playing in.
  
  Value -
  
  The bottom line is that you should buy this game if you have Live. Don't buy this game if you don't 
 as there is no offline multiplayer and you can complete the game in about 5 hours on Normal Mode. 
 If your trying to get all the Campaign Achievements then it's good for a rent instead. Multiplayer 
 can last you probably 50+ hours as leveling up is pretty simple. If you win one game when your 
 level 1 then you'll probably gain 7 to 9 levels for your first game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Bottomline -
  
  This game is still great and fast that you might want to play it a second time... but it's a good 
 idea to buy the game. If you don't have Live it's best just to rent it for a few playthroughs as 
 the game is short and very exciting.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a third-person shooter set in a cold planet filled with the NEVAC, Akrid, Snow Pirates, 
 Viral Suits, and such. I just got to say it out loud, this is one of the best games the 360 can 
 offer. It has so much good stuff in it to be fun to play even after you are done with the single 
 player.
  
  The single player is about a character named Wayne. He who wakes up unfrozen who the only memory 
 he has is not only his name, but also that his dad got killed by the Green Eye (which is one of 
 the big Akrids) . The missions are quite easy however after the later missions where there is no 
 snow involved, it gets hard. The story, itself, after Mission 3 gets really, really confusing and 
 crazy. You'll truly have to understand the story if you pay close attention to everything the characters 
 say. The length of the campaign is 7-8 hours or maybe even shorter. The only reason why it would 
 be long is because of the final bosses. The final bosses in earlier missions are easy but later 
 missions, it gets more unique, cool, but challenging. The single player is fun to replay again 
 although the length, and story is disapointing.
  
  The enemies do look odd in a good way, where they're big or small or freaking huge. You kill them 
 the old-school is where you find a different colored spot and shoot it, sooner or later, they die.
 
  
  The multiplayer starts off you creating your online character which you aren't given that much 
 of customization, but it won't matter anyways. As obvious, there are 2 kinds of matches, Ranked 
 and Player. Player matches are where you can play with friends or others and Ranked matches are 
 where you can play againt others but you have points to level you up to a rank and so on. There 
 is nothing much online except the fact you can play with people worldwide.
  
  The multiplayer is very fun at some points. However, as you might expect from other shooters, there's 
 not a lot of acutal teamwork with you and your teammates (however in Rainbow Six Vegas, it does 
 it right) . Sometimes, you'll die every easily. As if no matter where you go, you'll end up as a 
 easy target to everyone.
  
  Overall, the game is still very fun and replayable. If you're not used to the game, try the 2 demos 
 now avaliable on the Xbox Live Marketplace.
  
  The Good: The single player is fun to play again and again; awesome action involving tons of variety 
 such as enemies and locations; Multiplayer is fun to play; the mechs are very easy to control and 
 handle
  
  The Middle: Achievements are very fun and not so fun to get
  
  The Bad: The story is too random and crazy, which leaves you really confused; Some multiplayer 
 maps are too big and too small; Not a lot of interesting gametypes in multiplayer; Too many enemies 
 is sometimes frustrating; When you're knocked out, it takes too long to get you back up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet can be summed up as a mix of GOW, thrown in with STAR WARS moments and mixed in with 
 elements of Mech Assault 2 based on a HALO 1&amp;2 inspired idea. I mean come on people, how can 
 you go wrong with that.
  
  Yeah, I'll admit, it's still lacking graphically for a next-gen game (very little though) . Don't 
 get me wrong, the smoke effects and the environments in LP are superb. Also, the use of sound is 
 fantastic. But when stacked up to Gears of War, sure it will certainly put things into perspective 
 of what nex-gen really means. With GOW, the smooth textures, no slow-downs and an all 'round excellent 
 soundtrack that matches character movement and speech bang on, blah, blah, blah.... it's hard to 
 measure up. Lonely Planet is still an admirable achievement. Compared to Halo-style missions, LP 
 is short and sweet. Mission 3 was incredibly ugly for me. At first I hated it with a passion. I 
 want to be able to kill that stupid worm with at least a fair battle. This is no easy task. I took 
 the easy route after the daunting task of facing off with it. Just walk along the rock cliff. The 
 mech at the end of Mission 3 was exhausting. I almost through my controller, I was so pissed. I 
 think this could be a downside of LP fo many people. What you think should be a straight forward 
 battle, is completely the opposite. As stated by other reviewers, there's very little negative 
 to say overall and though I've just recently started the campaign (though I'm now on level 4) , 
 all in all, LP is an excellent game. Misson 3 aside, I still love it. The minute I put it in my 
 360 I was (and still am) hooked. It's very addicting. I've played it continuously for at least 
 3hrs the first night and that's saying a lot for me. The first boss fight (traditionally a straight-forward 
 fight, by other games standards) was a royal pain in the butt too; but needless to say, still manageable. 
 With battles like this, it really makes you think of how to achieve your goal, rather than just 
 attempt it guns a blazing. My advice is take a deep breath and re-try. If it's one thing I've learned 
 from gaming, you really have to embrace challenges. To think how boring would a game be if it was 
 that simple all the way through. I mean really, what's the point. Lost Planet doesn't disappoint. 
 It's a very immersive, fun, though challenging game with short missions; but with much to do and 
 appreciate. It's definitely worth a buy for Xbox 360 owners. Tip - don't forget you have a very 
 useful grappling hook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumor960
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  pun intended but puting all jokes asside the game is a good game. It has a solid fluent movement 
 and a aiming system that felt well thought of. the story is somewhat lame at start (who now and 
 days dose not have amnesia [hope that is spelled right] ) but slowly rolls like a soap opra in 
 the snow. th sound dipartment is ok, not grate but ok. there is no music so i hope you have your 
 own music and like most 360 games the music will not stop for cutsceens so you are s. o. l. if want 
 the a bedtime story. dont know much on multiplayer becouse i flat out hate it .but it is a game 
 that you eather love or hate never in the middle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is badass, tons of enemies (more than one race) the various vs you can use make the gameplay 
 intense... relatively easy at first but some points will make you WTF. but overall it fun to play 
 through more than once. Graphics-i think they're awesome, straight character modles from Dead Rising, 
 but there is nothing wrong with that, Sound- if you got 5.1 digital surround its mint, voice acting 
 coulda been a little more enthusiastic, Story- I like it, alot of people seem to not.. but f*ck 
 them. I enjoy it and i also enjoyed the ending i can see where thy could take off to a sequel. 
 Overall-Despite the fact ive yet to play online i still enjoy this game and cannot wait to get 
 online, its a definite pick up for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckat609
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say? I liked it a lot. The game is just plain fun. The story doesn't really suck 
 you in but it's kept interesting enough to keep you playing. As far as the gameplay goes, I liked 
 it... I think the akrid and snow pirates could use a little tweak here and there 'cause they don't 
 really keep coming at you... they come after your ass just when you're close to them. I loved the 
 fact that weapons were kept simple... you don't get to use ridiculous looking/sounding/shooting 
 weapons (I really dug the different types of grenades) . One thing I really liked were the VS's. 
 There's just something really cool about driving those things and blowing stuff up with them. As 
 far as graphics... well, they're cool, though not as cool as GOW but as far explosions go, these 
 are the best ones out there. Sound was great... especially when you hear those flying all around 
 you... not to mention de VS sounds... they do a great job making you feel like you're driving this 
 massive piece of machinery. I think the thermal thingy was a great idea although not used properly. 
 Sometimes it keeps a fast paced game, especially when you run out of it and a couple of shots could 
 mean death, but most of the time it's just distracting since you're carrying a lot of it and you 
 keep looking at the damn bar every 5 seconds.
  
  Haven't been playing MP that much but all I can say is it's pretty cool... especially when there 
 are VS's walking around blowing everything that comes in their way.
  
  Overall I think this game is definetely worth checking out. It just needs a minor tweak here and 
 there but I'm sure you'll have a great time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  First of all it should not have received anything lower than 8.8 if you are buying games based 
 on review numbers. The score of 8.1 does not give this game justice.
  
  Okay... so the storyline is lame, hard to follow, who wrote this foolishness?
  
  But as a gamer... be 
 honest.. how many of you follow a storyline???
  This isn't the television show Lost -----and you can't even follow that.
  
  Gameplay -- OUTSTANDING, fun 
 the minute you pick the control until someone is prying it from your cold stiff hands to put it 
 down.
  You have four levels to choose from easy, medium, hard, extreme.
  Basically... kill the bosses or try to outrun them to get to your destination.
  But beware.... this 
 lil buggers are smart. If you got past them only to die from the cold or killed. When you have to 
 mess with them again, DON'T think that move you pulled on them before is going to work.
  They remember!!!!
  
  Visuals -- This game is a combination of Space Harrier (old school sega) , aliens, throw 
 a tad of the movie Starship Troopers and add the cold elements of the movie The Thing and you have 
 Lost Planet .
  
  The blizzard and everything around you is interactive.
  Just playing this game when you're running around outside, you want to reach for your mitts and 
 beanie cap to put on!
  
  Actually, I like this game alot better than Gears Of War.
  
  Pick this game up......... and stay warm!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonam3gamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet has been a game that has been hugely hyped for almost a year now. Although this game 
 didn't fully live up to the hype that was surrounding it pre launch, it is still an amazing game.
 
  
  The gameplay in Lost Planet is one of the places where the game shines. The gameplay is incredibly 
 unique mostly because of how unique the genre is. I mean seriously, who has ever heard of a Japenease 
 Third Person Shooter? The general combat in this game never gets old in the duration of the campaign. 
 A lot of the reason for this is the variety of weapons out there. There are dozens of weapons, 
 and at least half a dozen different mechs and grenades. Because of this, the experience is constantly 
 changing from level to level. Now for the thing that most people hate about this game... The Thermal 
 Energy meter. This meter is something that is constantly draining and is the power source for energy 
 weapons, mechs, and health regeneration. People complain about this but it really is a great way 
 to incorporate all of the different things that some kind of meter would be needed for into one 
 thing.
  
  The graphics is also an aspect of this game that's amazing. It is surpassed only by Gears of War. 
 The Explosions are the best out there and the textures are also great looking. The monsters are 
 also surprisingly detailed considering how many there are on the screen at once.
  
  However, Lost Planet is severely lacking when it comes to sound and value. There is quite a bit 
 to be had with the online multi player with a level up and customizations system similar to R6: Vegas 
 but with being slightly less extensive. But other than the multiplayer, the replayabillity is pretty 
 limited because of a short campaign.
  
  The sound is another letdown about this game. The main weapon in the game (machine gun) sounds 
 awful and most of the time the soundtrack is also pretty bad. Thankgod for the fact that I can 
 stream music from my computer or else I probably wouldn't have made it through the whole game because 
 of bad sound alone.
  
  Overall, Lost Planet is an amazing game that is really worth picking up if you like games made 
 by Capcom or just enjoy shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anobleloss
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  LP is a another great new franchise by capcom, this game has some of the best graphics i've ever 
 see and the action in this game is insane. The explosions and smoke in this game never gets. I 
 LIKE SEEING THE SMOKE AND EXPLOSION EFFECTS SO MUCH I WOULD JUST BLOW UP CONTAINERS JUST TO SEE 
 EM LOL.
  
  You should try playing this game on EXTREME and try to collect all those coin things if your looking 
 for replay value, doing those things should keep you busy for awhile. The sound effects in this 
 game is great as well you gotta have the dolb 5.1 surround sound system to enjoy it at its full 
 potential.
  
  Once you get done doing that hop online personally the online is ok to me nothing spectacular, 
 but if your into shooting people in mechs then play it online. Also taking down VS with a shotgun 
 is priceless lol.
  
  All in all though this game is pretty solid in my opinion the story could have been done a little 
 bit better because it had a ton of potential hopefully they will address that if they make a sequal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun8left
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  wheni was goin to get this game i had mixed thoughts on this game and how it was goin to perform. well 
 lets just say it out did my expectations. first off i loe the idea of snow andd th visuals of it 
 and when u see it u will agree. the enemies are differemt then any other sci fi i know.... big weird 
 bugs pretty much but definetly different. the bosses are easy and the whole single player has pretty 
 retarded ai but thats ok when boil it down to u losing t energy which is a engine thing to keep 
 u warm so u dont freeze ur tookas off. the story is different but im not gunna tell u t cuz u guys 
 would get confused. the online is great espiacially the mechs and the maps go so well together and 
 the game types.. thare are 4 types of them all simple well that wraps up a short review of this 
 game.. i reccomend it so go BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lathenca
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet has been a hugely anticipated game since it's first showing at E3. It not only lives 
 up to expectations, but in some aspects, exceeds them. I always had the intention on buying this, 
 and am thoroughly happy I did.
  
  The game has an intentional arcade feel to it. You're placed at the start of a level and just have 
 to get to the end of the area, the only thing stopping you... Hundreds of enemies. These enemies 
 consist of Akrid (Alien type creatures) , Robots, and even plain human-beings. There's a ton of 
 different weapons to get your hands on, from Machine-guns to high-powered EM Laser guns. Also, 
 at all times you'll have your trusy grapple hook with you, which with a tap of a button, will send 
 you flying up onto the top of buildings, or even save you from faling down a bottomless pit. The 
 story the game tells isn't amazingly deep, but doesn't leave you feeling like you need more, the 
 action's the main focus of the game, and it works fine this way.
  
  Being honest, the multiplayer is where the real fun begins. There's four different game-modes, 
 Elimination (a typical deathmatch) , Team Elimination (like Elimination, but with teams) , Fugitive 
 (one man against everyone else) and Post Grab (first team to capture all of the data posts, a variation 
 on capture-the-flag) . All of the weapons featured offline are at your disposal, a great range of 
 maps, and even big Mechs to ride around in, doing serious damage. Online enables 16 people to fight 
 in one battle. You'll have the majority of your fun using the online capabilities. I honestly do 
 think the graphics are up there with the best ever made, as good, if not better, than the phenominal 
 Gears of War, (yes, really) . The smoke/explosion effects are the best ever seen in any game on 
 any system. Period. The character designs are typical Capcom and follow the style from such games 
 as Resident Evil. The shadow/lighting effects are spot on, as well as the background enviroments, 
 you really feel immersed into the game and like you're really there. When you're out in the snow, 
 you'll feel cold, when you're deep inside a Volcano, you'll be sweating. It's that good.
  
  The familiar music that plays on the menus is catchy and epic, so you'll be glad you'll be hearing 
 it alot. The soundtrack is truly great, you'll actually feel like you're a hero as you go along 
 the missions. The voice acting is great, as you'd come to expect from Capcom, as well as the actual 
 sound effects. The gunshots and explosions seem super-realistic. Furthermore, when you get to the 
 last minute of your online game, this amazing heroic music will play in and you'll really feel 
 like a man on a mission, it gives you a fresh breath to maybe snatch the win. While the Main-game 
 isn't amazingly long, (8 hours on normal difficulty) , there's alot elsewhere to keep you playing. 
 For instance, on each level there's 6-7 Target Markers (Small coins with letters on) which you'll 
 have to find if you wanna get some achievements. As they're hidden in unexpected places, this will 
 keep you going for a long period of time. Hidden within the game are two secret boss fights, which 
 if you manage to win, will unlock you some achievements. The Online system is fantastic. From each 
 fight you'll gain experiance points (EXP) , which is used to level up your character, at certain 
 levels you'll unlock new characters to play as or new clothes to where, but the main reason is 
 really for bragging rights. If you're a level 50+ people will respect you alot more than if you're 
 a level 1. Getting to level 99 is a near impossible feat, but I advise you to give it a try!
  
  Clearing the game on easy, normal or hard will unlock Extreme mode, which is a near-impossible 
 difficulty setting for which you can bite your teeth into. Few have achieved that, but if you do, 
 trust me, you'll gain alot of respect, as well as some hard earned gamerpoints!
  
  Lost Planet succeeds on almost every front. The only negative I have with the game is the length 
 of the main story, but even so, it's not that short anyways. If you have Xbox live I strongly recommend 
 you getting this title, as it probably has the best online-multiplayer currently avaliable. And 
 even if you don't, still give this game a go, you won't be disappointed, I promise you that much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgranger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, the graphics make this game. I haven't beaten it yet, however I am constantly impressed 
 with the visual effects that Capcom has put into Lost Planet. Building a whole game around a snowcovered 
 planet is huge, especially since you have to factor in how footprints will look, the snowfall, 
 and snowdrifts from the wind amongst other things. By the way, I aboslutely love the explosions 
 in this game. Instead of just a big fireball, you have a huge billowing ball of smoke rise into 
 the air every time somethinhg blows up. Totally awesome!! The gameplay is also good, fairly typical 
 but good, and the VS sinarios are a new and fun spin on an old idea. All in all, I think Capcom 
 has made a solid game that sets a high bar in next-gen standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nycteris
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  As Gears showed us, you don't need amazingly new innovative ideas in a game to make it fun to play. 
 So, like Gears, there's nothing groundbreaking in this game, it just does everything it sets out 
 to do well with the graphics being exceptional. Speaking of the graphics, the areas look great. 
 Especially the snow covered areas. Later in the game you'll find yourself saying to yourself I 
 miss the snow and that's despite the impressive lava flowing in massive rivers through the areas.
 
  
  Of course, the amount of mechs and the fun of piloting them is heads and shoulders above other 
 mech piloting/running around games. Most don't get the balance of the two right.
  
  Totally worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThrawnEternal
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet's campaign offers nothing new or innovative. You run around with a pretty standard 
 variety of weapons and will find yourself blasting away at hords of bug-like Akrid or human Space 
 Pirates, while picking up thermal energy so you don't freeze to death. While having limited thermal 
 energy may add a sense of tension, you'll rarely find yourself running short. The story makes less 
 sense as you get into it, and isn't memorable. The characters have little to no development, including 
 Wayne, who is given a backstory but not much in the way of a personality.
  
  A lot of this game's acheivement points are tied up in finding target marks in the missions. These 
 marks are numerous and TINY, making obtaining these achievements far more tedious and unfun than 
 not. If you didn't like collecting COG tags in GOW, you'll HATE this.
  
  This game shines, in comparison, in multiplayer. These maps are huge! Running around in the game's 
 massive maps with mechs or on foot through the game's 4 modes is a blast. Map selection seems limited 
 though. I think the game could have done better with another map or 3. The game supports 16 players 
 at a time, making for some epic battles. This alone though isn't worth the $60 price tag in my 
 opinion. This would be a greatbuy in the $30-40 range. Also be prepared for a fair deal of racism 
 towards Asians (Japanese in particular) when you play in multiplayer. This is not a criticism against 
 the game, but rather its players. You'll find a fair deal of ignorance and stupidity aimed at lvl 
 80+ gamers from Japan, just because they've had an extra month to play the game over most of us. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt sure how good this game was going to be after the two demos that came out. I had low expectations 
 for the most part, but i ended up wanting a new game so i picked it up. WOW!!! Thats what first 
 came to me as i was fighting crazy big, intense bosses in the singleplayer. The graphics are top 
 notch and the controls are unique. I thought that the singleplayer would be good and it was GREAT. 
 But what really surprised me was the online. I thought it was going to be thrown together really 
 fast and not be very good, but boy was i wrong. The online is great when u get friends together. 
 The weapons are fantastic, the team work needed its great (following in the footsteps ot Vegas 
 and Gears, where team work is a must) . The battles seem so epic in this game, weither its a small 
 or massive map, the battles are great! Sure sometimes i get owned, and sometimes i win, i am not 
 as good at this yet as say Vegas (where i whoop people) , but the game is still crazy fun! It is 
 very addicting and is the 2nd best xbox live game at the moment (Vegas is best online in my opinion.
 
  
  GO GET THIS GAME!!!! The singleplayer is epic and has the most intense bosses ive ever seen in 
 a videogame (yes even better bosses then gears) , and the online is addicting and with so many maps 
 there itll be a game that will be played on xbox live by me for along time. There is also great 
 ranking up in the online along with people joinging games all the time, no waits. Very solid game 
 that surprised me alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason15t
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics are incredible, the gameplay is superb, the storyline is alright, the only bad things 
 about this game are the grappling system could've been better, and when explosions are going around 
 (which are beautifully done by the way) you can't see your enemies, and the game itself is a little 
 short. This game is a lot of fun killing thousands of enemies and I think it has a great replay 
 value. I couldn't put my controller down this game is so addicting. I also like how you can pick 
 a level that you want to do. Plus the online multiplayer is incredible. So many levels so little 
 time. So many people it's incredible. The modes are great too. If you buy this game, you won't 
 be dissappointed. Hey I'm just saying, I'm a Capcom Lover so I guess if you are too, then go out 
 there and buy this game! Or if you're not, you will be if you play this game.
  
  Sincerely, The Capcom Lover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game rocks! I know quite alot of people say its crap because all you do is run around shooting 
 aliens in an 'average 3rd person shooter' and I couldnt agree more, the gameplay is quite average 
 it isnt quite up to the standards of the modern next-gen third person shooter gameplay, but its 
 still great fun I think in my opinion its 'old-school' because thats how third person games used 
 to be like and how we all used to love them and I think its nice to play a game with next-gen graphics 
 and old-school gameplay its quite a good mix of modern console power and taking you back down memory 
 lane and I think thats how it suits capcom games with the 'original' gameplay. It kinda takes you 
 back to the old capcom classics like the old Resident evils and the onimusha games they had simplified 
 gameplay but still alot of pick up and play addictive fun. Nothing but a Capcom classic and I love 
 the Capcom classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwami
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  It&acute; s the ultimate graphics in a game with all most every thing in it, only a flying cow is 
 missing. The game it self is great masterpiece, the bugs in the game are little bit annoying but 
 you&acute; ll get used to it. The prise for the game is worth it, if you like games with bugs, shooting, 
 robots and more bugs. The graphics of the game are superb. The story line is great and has it&acute; s 
 own turns. You can choose four different difficulties easy, normal, hard, and insane. Sound are 
 great, the ``boom`` sound is great when the things that will blow will blow. The curves are very 
 easy to me, don&acute; t know about the other players. All I can say is that the whole pack is GREAT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freedomvendingi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  I don't get much time to play video games so it's very important that when I have time that it's 
 not wasted. If I take the time to play my Xbox360 I want to have lots of fun and experience a well 
 made game. Lost Planet is just that. This game deserves a much higher score than 8.1 from GameSpot. 
 The game isn't too difficult so you don't have worry about getting frustrated or throwing your 
 controller at the wall. The sound and graphics are excellent as expected from Capcom. If you like 
 sci-fi shooters with a creative twist you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  lost planet i the best online playing game this year so far. the graphics are better than i thought 
 and the gameplay is fantastic. the campaign is short and simple but you will still have fun with 
 it. and if you have xbox live then you should get this game cause it is very addicting. it is like 
 a war game but better and has a lot of startegy and tactical action. you also can unlock new people 
 and camo for your characters to make thme better and to make he game more interesting. you level 
 up in the game like an rpg to show other gamers that u are a badass. if u like good online games 
 than this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When you release a console, youre hoping that theres a game out there that will captivate you 
 and bring you in into a new reality. But who gets that on the weeks of launch? This is a year after 
 the 360 came out, and we have a game that will keep you entertained.
  
  Lost Planet is one of the most gorgeous games to play on the X-Box 360. This frozen world pulls 
 you in with the glistening snow and the beautiful details on almost every aspect of the game. From 
 the alien Akrids, to the giant mechs youll be riding in to destroy most of your opposing forces.
 
  
  The story is simple. You play an amnesia stricken character named Wayne who is found by a pack 
 of snow pirates. All you remember is your name and a giant Akrid that killed your father. From 
 there you'll set out to plow through rival snow pirates and the Akrids that threaten the planet 
 to avenge your fathers death.
  
  Lost Planet improves on gameplay where most titles fall short. Aiming is simple, reloads are quick, 
 and it evens features a quick turn system. Instead of having to pan from side to side, just click 
 the two shoulder buttons to turn ninety degrees to the left or right quickly to take out enemies 
 that are planning on ambushing you. You even have a short grappling hook that will enable you to 
 scale small walls and buildings to complete your objective. The sounds are simple yet traps you 
 in the game itself. Enjoy this in your surround sound, because it will make you feel like youre 
 playing as Wayne himself.
  
  Lost Planet is at heart a Rambo shooter. Youll go in, clear out a massive amount of enemies, 
 and come out with one or two wounds. Youll be collecting a ton of Thermal Energy, or T Energy 
 for short. However every type of movement you make, even breathing, wastes T Energy. If you get 
 shot and your health drops, your harmonizer will kick in and replenish your health with the T Energy. 
 Be sure to collect enough T Energy, because youll need it. If you're just Wayne running through 
 the snow, the amount of T Energy you waste won't be great. However if you decide to pilot a Vital 
 Suit, or VS, be sure to keep an eye on your guage for it will drop quite steadly. Even certain 
 energy based weapons will deplete you gauge. So remember, collecting T Energy is good.
  
  Lost Planet is simply amazing. Even if youre looking for a game that you can breeze through in 
 a couple weeks, be sure to pick this one up. It will wrap you in from the moment you pick up the 
 controller until you finish the game. With beautiful graphics, stages that will wrap you in, and 
 enemies that will tower over you, Lost Planet will have you on the edge of your seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardknock
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  ONE OF THE BEST ACTION GAMES EVER CREATED
  
  If you are a fan of Action games or shooters it is a no-brainer to pick this up. The animations, 
 special effects and lighting are absolutely amazing. Definitely a must have title!
  
  ONE OF THE BEST ACTION GAMES EVER CREATED
  
  If you are a fan of Action games or shooters it 
 is a no-brainer to pick this up. The animations, special effects and lighting are absolutely amazing. 
 Definitely a must have title!
  
  If you are a fan of Action games or shooters it is a no-brainer to pick this up. The animations, 
 special effects and lighting are absolutely amazing. Definitely a must have title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Capcoms first shooter became a succsessful one; great looking visuals; Loads of action; easy 
 human and mech controls; Brilliant multi player.
  
  BAD- story is confusing and braken up; short story mode
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is Capcoms first 
 shooter, and considering its there first its a brilliant game that all shooter fans must check 
 out. its simaler to last years Gears Of War, but less ducking and more action, and i mean alot 
 more action, theres tons of bugs to fight with all different sizes, theres small ones, mideum and 
 the bog damn right large ones, but each one has a weakness and there weakness is a bright orange 
 spot somewere on its body, this spot stores T-ENG which stands for Thurmal Energy which keeps you 
 warm and stop you from freezing to death, if it reaches zero your health will then drop, but dont 
 worry, you dont need to worry about running out since theres plenty of T-ENG posts and plenty of 
 bugs to fight to obtain them, they also recover your health so it is usful for something!. the 
 controls are very easy, you have you aim and movment sticks, jump, action and transform botton 
 and swap weapons, jump, grapple and shoot, the mechs are a very easy modle to control as there 
 is'nt many easy to use mechs in alot fo games. The game will kepp you bussy for awhile as its pretty 
 short and a pretty bad story.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I love the graphics, the specilal effects are the best, i love the exsplotions and smoke effects, 
 the backgrounds look brilliant, the charactures also look great, theres acouple of framerate drops 
 when theres alot of action.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is decent, i voice acting is'nt the best part of it, but it is decent, and there is'nt 
 alot of music in the game, the sound effects are great.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall Lost Planet is a brilliant game and defenalty worth wait, a great starter for 2007 and 
 a great starter for Capcoms new genre!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet certainly is an interesting concept as it roughly throws you straight into the middle 
 of the story line. Once the formalities of basic controls are out the way you are plunged head 
 first into the action. The problem was that it didn't tell you all of the controls. Never mind 
 they are easy enough to figure out. The large robot things you occasionally drive around (known 
 in the game as VS suits) are a bit awkward but apart from that, not bad. For those who are used 
 to things like Halo &amp; Gears of War you may find controlling your character a little awkward 
 &amp; a little out of place with the aiming reticle clumsily flying everywhere. Once you have composed 
 yourself the game poses a fun and interesting challenge but using the convential system of completing 
 the level &amp; then having a boss &amp; many modern gamers may see this as a little outdated &amp; 
 anyone who has played any of the Metal Gear games or the Panzer Dragoon games will not be surprised 
 of the layout of this game. Graphically it isn't stunning as most of the landscape is snow so it 
 is all white &amp; the character models are good but nothing to shout about. Sound is a little 
 quiet &amp; muffled but nothing to worry about as you can hear it clearly &amp; if not it does 
 have subtitles. A good game that has a decent life span, but on the 360 (which has so many quality 
 shooters) it is not going to stand up against opponenets like Gears of War. Personally I wouldn't 
 spend &pound;50 on it (luckily for me I didn't because I review games for www. TFMX. co. uk) but if 
 you have enjoyed other capcom shooters you should enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  The gameplay, the story, the music, the graphics, the voice acting, Wayne's a pretty cool guy - 
 you know if you like Asian guys named Wayne, Mecs are fun to use, Using Wayne's dad's Mec suit, 
 the final boss battle.
  
  The Bad:
  Poorly thought out generic names for characters like Rick and Joe, Can be horribly difficult, Boss 
 battles can be horribly frustrating and confusing, Wayne's dad died : (
  
  The So-So:
  Achievements, Wayne's name, Rick, Joe, The werido bad guy with the glasses (Don't want to reveal 
 who he is, you'll know who I'm talking about) . The Confusing:
  What's up with Rick?, What's up with some of the names?, What's with Capcom and busty women lately?, 
 C'mon - Wayne?!, Why'd you need Thermal Energy on the lava part?, How come we never see Rick's 
 face?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Every bit of the gameplay is well done and simplified so that even the least experienced of gamers 
 will be able to figure out how to get through it. Using the Mecs in the game to battle the Akrid 
 (the alien species in the game) is really fun and isn't hard to accomplish your goals, using the 
 different guns on your friendly robot suit is wildly entertaining and not without pleasing results.
 
  
  The story is about a man named Wayne who we start out as in the game (and don't stop playing as 
 until it's over, coincidently) whose father is killed at the beginning by a Akrid called Green 
 Eye , it's name was derived from the fact is has several green eyes. Wayne decides to seek revenge 
 on the Green Eye, and along the way you make new friends, some oddball and some normal, who help 
 you out in your quest.
  
  While working your way through the story, you discover a plot to turn the snowy planet into a beautiful 
 Garden of Eden-like Earth like planet once again where you can see the grass and dirt. The plot 
 has several twists and turns, and where it eventually ends up is nothing short of surprising.
 
  
  At the end of the game the final boss battle is so much fun, it's hard to describe, but it's now 
 one of my favorite boss battles that I've ever played.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics are nothing short of astounding, the smoke, explosions, and snow effects all look 
 amazing and are some of the best in video-game history. Some of the character models are sub-par 
 and look last gen, but most of the Akrid look good and the Mecs look fantastic. You can tell just 
 by looking at the screenshots how much work Capcom put into making this game.
  
  Sound: 9
  The voice acting is all done really well and all but one of the characters look like 
 they belong to the voices they carry. The musical score is done incredibly well, and this isn't 
 a game that I will be telling you to be listening to your iPod instead. The Akrid's sound effects 
 all sound really well and very screeching crazy alien like, if you want to put it in strange terms.
 
  
  Value: 8
  Lost Planet is 100% worth the purchase, though despite the rather short campaign mode, the multiplayer, 
 gameplay, and story make up for everything that is wrong with the game, which is hardly anything. 
 Another thing to note about what's wrong with the game is that very often it can be maddeningly 
 frustrating. Sometimes you may find yourself getting knocked over by a rocket, then right when 
 you get back up you get hit again by another one, repeat process until dead. Final Words:
  I had my doubts about the game, even though my hype for the game has been going strong since I 
 first heard of it. I downloaded the Campaign and Multiplayer demos and got to playing them, I was 
 disappointed in the campaign and never got to the multiplayer demo. Now that the full version is 
 out, I'm loving what I'm playing. Not only is the single player eventful and full of things to 
 shoot, the story is also gripping and full of twists. There is no reason for you not to go out 
 right now and pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say that this game is so familiar... Do you know the game DINO CRISIS 3??? 
 Well, that's my deja-veux!!! :-)
  
  But this time, the controls are so much better!!! You see where you walk and to what you are shooting 
 at! And it has the playability as Gears of War, but I think it's just Xbox360 style. Just have 
 to get used to that...
  
  Okay... The storyline can be immersive, because if you have more imagination than just a permanent 
 brainless Xbox360-player with twinkling fingers, this game can be as beautiful as you want it to 
 be (or become) ...
  
  At this point, when I had the time to play the game, I am fighting againt green eyes... Bit tricky, 
 I must say, but I just played it two times, so I can't say that I am stuck right now... But I must 
 admit, that it is a damn hard thing to destroy it's eyes too...
  
  The monsters come hard and deadly towards you, like playfull **** to play with a mouse until you 
 are soooooo dead!!! But when they come, you will notice something first before they arrive... Not 
 much of a surprise, but hey, it's not a horror game, although survival in this harsh environment 
 is plain.
  The planet is like a fridge and body temperature turns low every second. But what I did find remarkable: 
 When I make some lovely fire, my temperature didn't rise at all... Why have we fire in the first 
 place?? Not to cook our dinner... that's on a second place...
  
  The levels aren't that huge as you might think... The game BLACK had more to offer... But the detail-level 
 is quite enormous... As like the enemies, they exsist of complete animation, not some fixed graphical 
 combination of dots and polygons that attack you... You have an almost REAL experience with each 
 of them!
  
  I wonder how many levels there may be, cause I don't suppose that green eye is the end-boss... 
 They story promises a longer action-packed adventure...
  
  The fact that you can roam around as a silly billy with a gun in his puny hands, drive a mechwarrior 
 type killermachine, keeping an eye on your temperature (so you can't roam too long around) , the 
 large amount of monsters and nasty snow-pirates and the grapple-hook to lift you upon higher grounds 
 makes this game a jewel in your Xbox360 collection! :-)
  
  To give a 10 for this is not remarkable... It should have been a 12, but I don't want to make other 
 top-games jealous... It may not be a long lasting game like Gears of War, but It took my full attention! 
 Another top title in the rank of Masterly games!!!
  
  This was my review,
  Greetings,
  Sardax a. k. Vantazzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacyoftain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  But you already have so many shooters ..... was the quote my roomate gave me when I came home with 
 this game on Saturday afternoon. I honestly up until my recent (5 months ago) purchase of a 360 
 I was never a big shooter fan (fps or otherwise) . I always looked at them as games for people who 
 hate to think . However since playing GRAW for the 1st time I became hooked on the 360 shooter. 
 Lost Planet (LP) provides a fresh look on an old concept. By infusing run and gun gameplay with 
 a more tactical element you have a game that truly pushes the genre forward in more than just graphics. 
 While there are other fantastic shooters for the 360 (Gears, GRAW, R6) , LP manages to surpass all 
 expectations of itself to provide a solid gaming experience. The game has a very anime feel too 
 it much akin to games like Armored Core not so much in terms of gameplay but over all presentation 
 and story. You play as Wayne who is a snow pirate who suffers from memory loss who is out to get 
 revenge for his dead father against some evil corperation. The story is convoluted and smacks of 
 anime influence but anyone who watches Anime (at least of the action variety) knows that the story 
 is secondary. However, what we get alot (and I do mean alot) of is action.. to be quite honest in 
 my recent gaming history I haven't had this many WTF or Holy **** moments in a video game in a 
 long time. The action in this game is extremely intense; from fighting MASSIVE amounts of Akrid 
 to rockets whizzing by your head this game really does a nice job if immersing you in the action. 
 There are a few key elements in the game play that make LP truely stand out. Firstly there is what 
 is known as a Vital Suit (VS) . More commonly known to most as mechs these devices were made by 
 humans to battle the Akrid on a more level playing field. They prove to be a major role in game 
 play and drastically turn the tide of any fight. There are a good handful of models and variants 
 to ride in and each handle and control differently and have their strengths and weaknesses. Another 
 element is the Thermal Energy Meter that is connected to your survival. You have to constantly 
 collect energy to survive in the game which adds an element of intensity to the action. Given the 
 massive amounts of enemies to kill and other sources of heat found in the game this is rarely an 
 issue but there will be times when energy conservation will be critical to your survival. It also 
 provides an excellent way to keep the action going because you never have to wait or search for 
 health packs since your health constantly regenerates so long as you have enough Thermal Energy. 
 Lastly the other key device in the game is the grappling hook. In shooters often you are confined 
 to a strict horizontal access but with the implimenting of a grappeling hook you know can explore 
 this game in its full 3D glory. It is key in securing your self the high ground or even used as 
 an infiltration device (you can repel with it as well) . Although repelling seems to have nominal 
 use because you can actually jump from any height without sustaining any damage. The sound and 
 graphics are also a treat for the eyes and ears. Let it be known that this game has quite possibly 
 the best looking explosions in any video game outside a CGI cutscene. The fire and smoke detail 
 look amazing from rocket trails to exploding VS suits. Sound is great as well with the VS making 
 nice whirring and crunching sounds as they walk and power up and rockets packing that extra punch 
 of sound.. if you have a good sound system... crank it. The voice acting and what not seems very 
 dry and phoned in but then again... like story this is a secondary adage compared to the intense 
 action. The single player can be completed on Normal in about 7-8 hours, but where the game really 
 shines in the multiplayer. Everything aforementioned (VS, grappling hooks, massive outdoor environments) 
 are there for play in the multiplayer. Even the smallest multiplayer maps are about twice the size 
 of the largest Gears map. Most of the outdoor maps are HUGE providing for some very fun and intense 
 battles. Standard MP fare is here with Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch but there are some fun additions 
 to be had with the inclusion of Post Grab and Fugitive. Post Grab is very Battlefield-esque where 
 your job is to secure all the points on the map. Fugitive is really unique in which is puts one 
 person (fugitive) against a possible 15 others (hunters) to survive. With the amount of map diversity 
 and gameplay the MP will add countless hours to the replay time of LP. In this reviewers opinion 
 what makes Lost Planet so great is not really any particular device in general; it was the fact 
 that this game broke all expectations. The amount of hype for this game was very menial comparied 
 to games like R6 and Gears yet despite low reviews and naysayers this game proved to really give 
 2007 a great start by just making a fun game that anyone can pick up and play and enjoy. That is 
 what gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obzy77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  For the casual gamer the controls may get in the way at first, but once they are mastered things 
 flow exceptionally well. Aim and movement speed both have a nice weighted feel to them and it really 
 does take more skill than luck to succeed in the multiplayer part of the game.
  
  The whole style of the game is very highly produced and there are plenty of surprises. No spoilers 
 in this review, just suffice to say that whilst flying in my mech over one of the later outdoor 
 levels, my jaw really did hang open. Occasionally beautiful in the extreme and not so hard as to 
 frustrate, this game is highly recommended.
  
  Buy it now and get online people. The lobby system is glitch-free and the games are hectic, excellent 
 fun. Ranked matches can get a bit competitive, but there's always the option to have a player match 
 and leave all of that behind.
  
  Search for the gamertag Obzy and come have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't really a fun shooter for me. But that's just my opinion. I did liked the graphics 
 alot. But the gameplay sort of boring. Basicly all you do is run around and shoot different kinds 
 of bugs. Then once you almost beat the level at the end you have to kill different bosses which 
 appear to be bugs. I would give graphics at least a 9.0 they are pretty nice. The gameplay about 
 7.5 not so exciting but i guess it isn't too bad. Sound about a 9.0 the sounds are sound like they're 
 pretty good. And the value i would say around 8.0 or 9.0. But yeah it's always snow everywhere 
 in a game which is refreshing to see. I would say first rent the game before you buy it because 
 it isn't really the same shooter as other shooters. But overall i guess it's ok but i really recommend 
 you rent first unless you find it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyglitch8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a game that has been hyped for quite a few months, thanks to the demo that was released 
 last spring. Having followed a shooter like Gears of War many speculated that the game would never 
 stand a chance. Well it does stand a chance, and it's a great way to start off the new year.
  
  Graphics There's no doubt about it if you've seen the screenshots you know that this game is 
 visually stunning. Snow has never looked so good, but that much is obvious. What really is surprising 
 is the smoke/explosion effects, you'll almost piss your pants when you first see a rocket coming 
 straight towards you it looks so awesome. The mechs or VS. as the story calls them also are visually 
 pleasing, and with varied types the mechs are about as good as you can get without being a Mech-Game 
 . The multiplayer graphics dont even take hit either, like other games (Rainbow Six, GRAW) .
  
  Story Unlike some people I found the story compelling, in a sense like action movies, while 
 cheesy keep the ground for the ACTION . The game is about humankind needing to find another planets 
 resources because they were running out, they find this planet snow covered regions of E. D. N. III 
 suitable, but things go wrong. Insect-like Akrid try to prevent them from habitating the planet. 
 Before the humans give up there fight they discover that insdie the bodies of these Akrid lie thermal 
 energy capable of warming them enough to make the planet livable. The Humans are determined to 
 fight for the planet. You take control of Wayne a Rebel of sorts who after his father dies is discovered 
 frozen is a VS. by snow pirates and begins a new lifestyle. Although the story is cheesy it's enough 
 to keep the action going.
  
  Gameplay Game play is very simple and intuitive you travel through varied locations (not just snow) 
 looking for large sources of Thermal Energy, whcih also is a big part of the game. You run though 
 the levelslooking for thermal energy which you can run out of, its a minor addition to the games 
 that only comes into play when playing it on the Harder difficulty levels. Mechs controls like 
 they should, Slow but powerful. A cool addition to these mech is the ability to transfrom some 
 of them into fast objects i. e. snowmobile, tank. Wayne has the ability to use a grappling hook to 
 get onto higher spaces, but it would have been cool if you could have used the grappling hook more 
 than once and in the air. Something i liked and disliked were the boss battles although they are 
 spectacular all of them use the same old Shoot the glowing weakspot formula and it does get old.
 
  
  Sound Sound in this game can be good and bad. Bad first, the voice acting in the game can sometimes 
 be not very good, and followed in weird long pauses even though the voice actors are talented overall. 
 The good, the weapons in this game sound sick especially with Dolby 5.1 the rockets can sounds 
 as if someone was actually blowing up your house (scary, I know) .
  
  Overall
  Pros:
  +Spectacular Visuals
  +Equally Spectacular Sound Effects
  +Cheesy but loveable story and characters.
 
  
  Cons:
  -Repetitive Boss Battles
  -Will Take you no more than 8 hours tops
  -Bad Dialogue 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertbyronz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Although it is by the numbers, I'm finding Lost Planet to be very satisfying. The animations in 
 the between mission cinematics are stiff, but the overall action is very good. Maybe many expected 
 this game to be revolutionary, but I feel it's quite strong. I'm very impressed with the graphics 
 and the action. I give it an 8.8 overall, since the action holds up, the graphics are solid, and 
 although the surround sound (it is supposed to be surround) doesn't engage all speakers optimally, 
 it's better than some. The ice wasteland premise is unique, and the health premise is unique if 
 a little difficult sometime. It does add a game dynamic that works, although perhaps not as well 
 as it could have. I would have liked to see the winter wasteland premise used in a better way, 
 or where being in it felt like you, could indeed, die at any minute. Despite all this, I'm quite 
 satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spue
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  its a awsome game just buy the demos i know it was going to be fun to play so i bought and it is 
 worth the money!! single player is solid with a pretty good story line the multiplayer is the best 
 part there these greanads like frisbes!! witch are relly fun to use and the dummy grenads and the 
 mech suits are good relly fun to be in 1 and you can take off the mech weopens to use witch is 
 fun overall a great gameand it has a relly good grapics not bad at all way to go camcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Doom212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited about this game since I heard about it. Well, the game is worth it 100%. The 
 graphics are splendid, the sound is good, and an AWESOME multiplayer. The games only weak point 
 is it's story, but it can be coped with. The story begins as the narrator explains how humans tried 
 collinizing to the frozen planet known as E. D. N 11, and while humans made thier homes, and alien 
 life force known as the Akrid started attacking the humansm so the humans needed to get rid of 
 the hostile enemies. You play as a man named Wayne who was found frozen in his VS (a mech) . He cant 
 remember anything other then his name and that and alien named Green Eye killed his father. So 
 now Wayne and his friends fight against the Akrid (aliens) , Snow Pirates, and other enemies.
  
  Gameplay- The game plays beautifully. All the controls are really comfortable, and is fun. 
 You have an arragement of weapons and VS to destroy the Akrid. While running around as Waybe, who 
 can use Machine Guns, Rocket Launchers, etc. You also have a Grappling Hook that you can use to 
 get places (this thing is soooo fun, it can save you're skin in multiplayer) . When you kill Akrid, 
 Thermal energy spews out. This energy is vital to you're survival. As you play, you're thermal 
 meter drains (unless you collect T-ENG) , so you need to fill up (dont worry, theres plenty) . Now, 
 there sre VS everywhere on E. D. N 11. These mechs are a strong point in this game. There is a big 
 variety, each with their own special ability. And like Wayne, they have a special set of weapns 
 as well. All in all, the gameplay in Lost Planet is awesome. O YA. I almost forgot to point out. 
 Lost Planet contains a classic game element: TONS AND TONS OF CHALLENGING BOSS. Most games now 
 a days only contain 3 or 4 bosses. Wellm there is a boss in almost every level.
  
  Graphis- Now, I wouldnt say Lost Planet has Gears of War graphics, but they are fairly good. The 
 snow looks good, the bosses look AWESOME (man I love these bosses) The characters look very well, 
 and overall is good. Nothing to complain about here. The cut scenes are really good. It looks like 
 you are watching a movie.
  
  Sound- The sound is very well done. The music gets very dramatic at the right time, the Akrid's 
 growls are good, and the sound of bullets is good. Everything is great
  
  Overall, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is an awesome game. Any action genre fan will love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet
  - Graphics
  Lost planet has simply amazing graphics and the aliens all have there different shapes and sizes (and 
 eyes and tenticals) , really saying the artistical achievement is great here too. The graphics are 
 well, the closest thing you'll get to Gears of War to date, Gears of War makes it hard to rate 
 the graphics on most games but Lost Planet really does a great job in comparison.
  -Gameplay
  +
  -Story
  Now the first time a casual gamer will start to play this game, theyre 
 going to give up. Oh no i have to collect goo or ill have to start ALL OVER omg these controls 
 suck It really is not that bad. If you tried the demo this is far better, Lost planet fixed the 
 major flaws but there are still some very minor yet noticable errors in the game. Basically casual 
 gamers should not give up! An hour into the game, you will be lost in the game and its very awkward 
 and confusing storyline (and 6 hours later or so your done) . But should i throw this game out once 
 im done with the short campaign? Of course not! You will miss out on the crisp multiplayer that 
 features a variety of different modes and maps. If you dont have X-Box live get it and you will 
 forget about the 60 dollars you spent on that gold membership (you'll also forget about your life) . 
 -Sound
  Explosions, bullets, and Bulging snow flying in your face oh my! The sound is amazing!!! if your 
 looking at the gameplay perspective, The bad voice acting goes along with the bad (more confusing 
 not so much bad) storyline but it doesnt really matter, laugh at the voice acting because this 
 game is fun. And if a game is fun, then its entertaining and if its entertaining you, its done 
 its job. -SHOULD I GET IT?
  The answer is of course yes, give the game an 30-60 minutes and your mind will change from the 
 first time you've played it. Have fun! Just go all out wild and have fun, skip the cutscenes that 
 have lots of dialogue (if you can i actually tried to find out the confusing story) watch the badass 
 cutscenes with action and just have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AznGamerz92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Lost Planet is one hecka fun game, but without something that makes it unique, 
 it falls short.
  
  Basically you play as Wayne, who is found by pirates after being found i a Vs. You tag along with 
 the pirates and help rid the world of Akrid, an alien species. Good
  - Frantic action, you constantly shoot something
  -Fun Boss battles whih add to the campaign
 
  -Multiplayer is one of the best I've seen rivaling that of halo
  - Vs machines are nice
  - Graphically, this game is a beauty
  - Cool weapons like disc and dummy grenades
  
  Bad
 
  - Corny campaign and story doesnt make sense
  -Can't invite people to ranked matches in online play
  - Repetitive enemies, basically face the 
 same enemies over and over
  
  This game is fun, but won't satisfy you as much like gears of war and rainbow six vegas, but if 
 your looking for a fun shooter to play with friends,
  then hey, this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swaterfront
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  When first playing the game it is easy to get distracted by the realistic-looking explosions and 
 the cool robot walkers and it was nice the weapons were kept pretty simple BUT once you get past 
 that there's nothing left.
  
  Having to constantly be warm while kind of a new idea ends up just sucking reeeeeeally bad especially 
 if there is nothing around to blow the crap out of. It was made even worse by the fact that you 
 do not lose heat based on your immediate environment and if you did, it was imperceptible.
  
  The ease of movement and learning curve made up a little but nowhere near enough for the poor 
 overall game idea.
  
  The only thing extreme about Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is thinking it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samwise911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Lets just look at this game properly. Pros=
  Graphics are top notch, jaw dropping visuals to compete with Gears in some places!
  Variety of 
 guns that make you want to try them all out just so you can see that akrid blood spray in different 
 ways.
  Multiplayer is awesome, variety of gametypes, maps of all different sizes which make for games 
 that range from close quarter battles to epic VS wars.
  All the explosions, the shooting sounds great, really blood pumping, adds that extra edge of amazingness. 
 (lol)
  Just to round the Pros up, this is really really fun and is a definite for any shooters or hard 
 core gamers.
  
  Cons=
  This is a game with tricky controls, which may detract casual gamers. some of the Camera controls 
 CAN be quite annoying, being unable to shoot directly up or down CAN be irritating.
  The storyline IS VERY confusing, you can get the basic jist from it but its attempt to make it 
 in depth and gripping fall short, a pity, because it could have been REALLY interesting. To round 
 up the Cons, this game is not for casual gamers or people who come into this expecting to have 
 a clear storyline.
  
  Still, Storyline isnt everything is it? Look at Gears.
  Fantastic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet throws you into a war going on between a strange Alien Life form, The Akrid, and your 
 own kind. And thats about all you will get out of the story. Thankfully the awesome gameplay, gorgeous 
 graphics, fun boss battles, and very addictive online play keeps this icy game HOT! You play as 
 Wayne, a by-the-book soldier who just lost his father to an Akrid known as 'Green Eye', so as all 
 revenge stories go, Wayne must avenge his father's death. On his journey of doing this he makes 
 new 'friends' and tries to remember his past. There are so many twists in this story you will probably 
 have to play it through a couple times to get it. Story-6/10
  
  Graphics, the thing that makes us buy games and a gateway to impossible things. Well if thats the 
 case, then you should go buy this game right now. This game is simply stunning, the humans, aliens, 
 VS's, and environments look they way they should and are some of the best graphics I have ever 
 seen. The smoke and fire effects are the best ever in a video game, and the way the buildings and 
 surroundings look, you will really think you are on this desolate rock.
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
  Gameplay, the ugly step-brother to graphics. Well, in this game the ugly step-brother gets 
 his due. The Gameplay is awesome in this game. It plays like an old game where you must shot the 
 enemies in their weak spots to kill them. A great twist on next-gen gameplay, it never gets old 
 and it is extremely fun, and in someways the gameplay makes the game more challenging.
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Sound, the thing that you MUST need to fully enjoy anything. Sound does a 
 great job here by immersing you into what is going on, you know what is happening and where it 
 is happening. Just use your ears. Ha.
  
  Sound-9/10
  
  Online, the best part of anygame. Well that is true for this game also. The online is phenominal, 
 the most fun I have had online ever. The levels are huge and the action is fast, frantic, and fun. 
 The amount of guns and grenades you can use is astounding. The graphics stay great even in the 
 multiplayer aspect of te game. And the rankinc system is really rewarding. You win medals for doing 
 certain things, like killing 10 people in a row without dying. And it NEVER gets old. Not adding 
 downloadable content for this game would be like slapping gamers in the face. Online-10/10
  
  Overall this game is the most satisfying I have played in the past year or two. And is worth 
 anyones money. Now, please excuse me, I must defeat the gianst Worm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextdawg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  The graphics and environment interaction are excellent in this game. At times you maybe walking 
 hip deep through snow, blowing up a car, or changing out the weapons on your mech. The sound on 
 the other hand is pretty bad. The explosions are nice but, the character's voices during game play 
 are repetitive, and simple. Tthe weapon selection is out standing! You can pick from over a dozen 
 different weapons to kill the Akrid and pirates. The single player is a little shorter than I like, 
 but, the boss battles make up for that. The multi player is different than that of other shooters 
 I've played on-line. The maps are huge and if you have 16 players there is no shortage of action. 
 Over all this is a great game, but, it may be one to play for a while then trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTyettis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lempface
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  To put it plainly this is a really fun game. The single player is involving, although the easy 
 difficulty setting won't challenge even the first time shooter player, but the story leaves alot 
 to be desired. It stops making much sense early on and just gets far more off-the-wall as you progress 
 to the end of the game. The boss fights are intense and alot of fun, but often times the explosions, 
 falling rocks, and smoke slow the game down so much you'll find a 1000 foot alien on top of you 
 before you can react. My biggest complaint however is the multiplayer... This game would have been 
 the perfect multiplayer game if a little more care was taken. The current modes are fine as they 
 are but the lack of any mode that really encourages team play, a la gears of war, is non existant. 
 Which really surprised me. It just seems unless you have a good group of friends, you'll just be 
 mindlessly firing away with out much method to the bedlam.
  
  Still, I give it a 4 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pilz-E_Uk
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  well i wasnt sure what it would be like but i was quite suprised when playing this, i first played 
 it when they brang the multi player demo, and i fort it sucked so much, but once playing it single 
 player i fort it was great. graphicly it looks pretty nice the models look great. but i couldnt 
 help thinkin it reminded me to much of metal gear solid on numerous ocations. which i didnt think 
 was to great i love meta gear but its abit of an imatation,
  
  A. I sucks sooo much the piarates are retarded, no time was spent making them anygood, weapons arnt 
 bad i love the fact that u can pick up the massive guns of the robots thats a great feature, very 
 japanese style game though jump extra high and carry stupid sized weapons and stil jump with them.
 
  
  apart from that the movement of the guy is great, i hate stiff characters in games, so i was glad 
 to see the double axis when moving the char around,
  
  graphicly it looks great but im not convinced when i see the aliens some of them look a lil cheap 
 i thought they could of done alot better. all in all a good game with a couple of problems worth 
 a buy still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsofmordor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Love this game, cant get enough. You play with thermal energy (T-energy) . As the game is set in 
 -80 conditions and you are often waist high in snow you need warmth to survive. This Thermal energy 
 therefore needs to be constantly topped up, it can be gained by shooting Akrid (the aliens) or 
 blowing up barrels or tanks. The thermal energy is converted into health when you are injured, 
 and when it runs out it simply means your health will stop regenerating. Besides, the thermal energy 
 is easily topped up, the only time it can become an issue is when fighting a boss because you will 
 be hurt so often your T-Energy will keep getting used up as you convert it into health.
  
  Each of the bigger enemies has a weak spot, where their thermal energy is showing (bright orange) . 
 Destroy their stash of thermal energy and they freeze to huge ice sculptures that can then be satisfyingly 
 smashed. Logical really.
  
  As mentioned in several of the below reviews Lost Planet has some neat little tricks. Pressing 
 the RB or LB shoulder buttons makes your character's torso spin 90 degrees left or right, a usefull 
 tactic for taking out swarms of enemies attacking you from all sides.
  There is also the zipline, allowing you to hook onto walls and ceilings and then zoom towards them. 
 This is really handy for whizzing about the landscape and looks very impressive in multiplayer. 
 I especially like the way you can drop off a ledge and absail down whilst shooting hordes of enemies. 
 Also, the ability to zipline onto enemies, then stick to them blasting away with whatever gun you 
 are currently holding. This can be very useluff for some of the bosses, although i wouldnt advise 
 trying it with the rocket launcher.
  
  I am also a big fan of the VS machines, or Virtual Suits - gundam style walking tanks. Each VS 
 has a different ability (hover, turn into a bike, etc) and you can attach weapons found lying on 
 the ground to the arms of your VS. VS is slow, but were designed to work in cold conditions so 
 prolong your T-Energy meaning you survive longer. If your vs is damaged, hop out and you can then 
 rip off one of the weapons (like a 8 ft gattling cannon) and lug it around the landscape blasting 
 away at enemies.
  
  The weapons are pretty good too, with rifles and shotguns, machineguns and rocket launchers, as 
 well as more futuristic weapons such as plasm and energy rifles that dont need ammo but use up 
 a little of your T-energy instead. I particularly like the large selection of grenades, both normal 
 and sticky, as well as disk grenades (thrown for miles like a frisbee) , Plasma grenades (disabling 
 VS suits and players) , and dummy grenades (multiplayer only) which inflate into human shapes and 
 float across the landscape - the catch is that they appear as human players on the radar, very 
 confusing for any enemies.
  
  The graphics are (as you can expect with an 360) amazing. The aliens are stunning, especially in 
 large numbers, similar to Dead Rising. The closest thing I can compare too is Starship Troopers 
 except on a snowy planet instead of a Desert. I especially like the massive explosions the engulf 
 human and Akrid enemies alike. The human space pirates that you encounter will attack in similarly 
 large numbers in an attempt to outwit you, but they also react to the landscape, so if a Big Akrid 
 turns up they will try and kill that first. Oh yes, the Big Akrids. i would call them bosses, but 
 they are too frequent to be called bosses. They are huge screen-filling monstrosities, Collosus-esque 
 enemies that each require cunning and manouvreability to defeat.
  
  I especially like the way the enemies react to damage, like if a huge armidillo-like Akrid is rolling 
 towards you and an explosion hits it from the side it will buckle, twisting and sliding towards 
 you in a scrambled mess.
  
  The game has no split-screen mode, and you dont get many oppurtunities to fight with your snow 
 pirate comrades, which is a shame. It would be nice to have some team-mates to rely on, if only 
 to see them get eaten in a variety of ways. However multiplayer is arguably the best part of the 
 whole game, allowing you to play 16 people online (its just as fun with 7 or 8 because its easier 
 to communicate) and there are a load of levels and game modes littered with weapons and VS machines. 
 Great fun, and more than makes up for the slightly short single player mode, which can be completed 
 in 7 or 8 hours. As you can see, I think this game deserves to be justified as one of the most 
 awesome games on the 360 to date, which is why i made such an effort to write an accurate review. 
 I hope it was helpful =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Alright Lost Planet is a 3rd person shooter w/ first person characteristics. You play as Wayne 
 on an icy planet killing bugs and pirates. Woohoo!
  
  Gameplay: The enemies are intriguing and fun to fight. But, I do not like the thermal enegy premise 
 which basically means death if you get lost. Otherwise, fighting standard enmies is varied and 
 satisifing. The weapons handle nicely as do the Vital Suits. But, the boss battles can be tough 
 as you get knocked over again and again.
  
  Graphics: I loved the graphics on this game. The snow looks real as you trudge through it and the 
 explosions/smoke effects are some of the best I've seen.
  
  Sound: is amazing. The weapon sounds, esp the VS weapons, sound visceral and satisfying.
  
 
  Value: For $60, you'll undoubtedly want some value. Be glad to here that despite a short single 
 player, the multiplayer is fun and varied and will keep you occupied in your search for achievements.
 
  
  Closing Comments: Do not listen to the GS score. Go get this game right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  the best japanese game on the 360 right now ( i havent played bluedragon yet, its from the finalfantasy 
 and dragon ballz guys with a hint of pokemon in there) but this is capcoms best effort yet, deadrising 
 was great, but this blows it out of waters. but its weird how all of capcoms new game come close 
 to re4. ur gonna love this game, its very japanese style, but in the end ITS A SHOOTER!!!! weird 
 and funny characters, huge explosions, mechs, rpg elements, HUMANGAS BOSSES!!!!!! and overall great 
 presentation. since this was capcoms first game that features online MP everyone was worried, BUT 
 THIS GAME's MP IS even better than the SP. its awesome. u can customize ur little fat eskimo and 
 give him custom sweaters and jackets (from re4 ofcourse, u know the one leon wears but with different 
 colors) and u unlock more when u level up. all around a fanatastic game, 9.1. and this probably 
 the only shooter where u can jump in and find actual japanese ppl. thats no small feat for the 
 xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mecamatt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I can easily understand the mixed reviews about this game, but in my opinion this game is simply 
 awesome. The controls are solid, the weapons are innovative (Yet none seem to be too unfair) , and 
 the graphics are absolutely stunning, along with the sound. The boss fights are as adrenilin rushing 
 and flat out awesome as those of Zelda's, but sadly the single player can be completed within 8 
 hours. However, the real fun comes from the Online Multiplayer. The sheer size of the maps add 
 a level of replayability alone, and every map has its own special features. (I personally like 
 Frozen Wastes the best) . Also the Mech's are suprisingly well balanced into the game and can never 
 really get you saying things like Omfg thats so cheap because they can easily be taken out with 
 a few grenades, or a couple of rockets. I believe the reason this game has been so under rated 
 is because the story line and voice acting DO suck.... about as much as DOA's. I definately recommend 
 this game to all shooter fans who've been looking for a game less Omg get to cover!!! &gt;= ( oriented 
 and more fun-based slaughter driven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDuhman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the characters are bascially a copy of Gears of War. foot soldiers and bosses. But 
 this game is great. It is a mix between a 3rd person and Halo. You have a grappling hook that makes 
 you fly around like spiderman and that is very fun in multiplayer. You have this wierd energy source 
 that is sometimes really hard to find, but not too much. A bad glitch is when you have a bunch 
 of bosses and they trample you. This makes it so you can't get up. It is pretty hard and there 
 are a lack of chekpoints, it is wier to get around as your map is useless. Overall it is a great 
 game and i definitly reccomend it to any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a great game, it almost feels like a old Nintendo game with tons of boss battles, 
 and almost a impossible story to follow.
  
  Gameplay, is interesting. Your cross hair does not stay in the middle of the screen while moving 
 it, it will move a little and when you get far enough with it it will turn. Or you can use the 
 bumpers to turn the character quickly. The game uses a thing called the anchor which comes into 
 play in the story mode, and the online mode. It works great, your cross hair will turn green when 
 able to grapple on to a ledge, then you just shoot it and you can climb things. There are these 
 mech like things called VS, they are powerful machines designed to fight the alien race on the 
 planet, these are fun to use. Their weapons are huge and very powerful, and to top that off you 
 can use then by taking them off the VS and holding them as the character. The graphics are breath 
 taking. The snow is probably the best snow in any game out. The flames are by far the best I have 
 seen, and the smoke is the best in any game for the 360. The lighting and all the stuff is awesome, 
 not the best but its very very great. The player models are very detailed and just so well done.
 
  
  The story is there, but it feel lost in translation, because you will get confused after every 
 cut scene and that can begin to get frustrating to players that love the stories in games.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, but I have not played it to much, so I couldnt point all the glitches 
 out to you.
  
  If your looking for a great shooter, online and off this could just be the one for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jezza141234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  very good game but far too short i wish i had rented it first because it took me just over 4 hours 
 to finish this game One of the great parts about Lost Planet is the flexibility of the game. There 
 is a noticeable amount of depth to the combat, allowing you to tackle the same situation in a variety 
 of ways with new results each time. Much of this depth isn't readily apparent and it's only after 
 you play through the game that you gain the skills and foresight to start exploring your options 
 for how to progress through a level. Each of the different types of grenade and guns can be used 
 in their own way with different results each time. For instance, one of the first enemies you encounter 
 resembles a pillbug with a glowing tail. You can simply aim for the tail with your machine gun 
 to target its weak point. Or you can wait for it to start rolling towards you and then toss a fragment 
 grenade in its path to cause it to splay out on its back in a vulnerable position. Or you can hit 
 them head-on with the anchor as they roll towards you to stop them in their tracks. Or you can 
 anchor onto them while they are walking along and blast them with a few rounds at point blank range. 
 You see where we're going here. Towards the end of the game, much of this flexibility is lost in 
 the all out chaos that consumes you as you're attacked simultaneously by tons of powerful enemies, 
 but that progression of difficulty just makes the game more enjoyable as you move through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Capcom really show they do have love for the 360. Its too bad Microsoft isnt 
 buying Capcom. All the games they making for ps3 would come to the better system. 360 all the way. 
 This game make 2 games in 2 months that are exclusive and blockbuster hits. Guess no Sony fanboy 
 can say there are no games for 360. LOL When I popped this game in I was not expecting to be greeted 
 by an enemy the full size of my 50inch tv. It was ridiculous. I loved it. I new it was going to 
 be a great game when I saw this. I like when the Akrid that rolls at you can be stopped by an explosion 
 and flipped upsidown. The move so real when they try and get back up. This is so next gen its not 
 even funny. I have never experienced SO MUCH damn action in one game. The action just keeps coming 
 and coming. I'm glued to this game and I havent spent a second on my wii or ps3 in days. Cant wait 
 for the sequel.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition for the Xbox 360 is Third-Person shooter set in the future, on some 
 Planet (not sure what, but not earth) You play as a guy Named Wayne, and has to fight the akrid 
 and a series of snow pirate dudes. Well the story in LP is good it can be Hard to tell what's Happening, 
 so You really have to listen and watch the cinemas. and if you Dont care for the story, well thats 
 ok you can skip them, and just start blowing S*** up. The Gameplay is what you would excpect from 
 a 3rd person shooter with a few tricks up its sleeve, such as the anchor (grappling Hook) you can 
 literraly grab on to almost anything, and you can rappel down with it, and my favorite part using 
 it on a enemy mech and hanging on to him and shooting him with your machine gun and then doing 
 a stylish backflip off him when your done. The Weapons in Lp are ranged from your classic machine 
 gun, shotgun, sniper, rocket launcher and etc but also the energy guns, but the coolest part, the 
 Mech guns you can take off any gun you want off a mech and drag in with you on foot and Unleash 
 hell. There are also vs (mechs) which are really cool there are about........6... or...8 or something 
 but there awesome, all have unique moves, 1 can lay down a smokescreen and jump really high and 
 use jet packs, some are 4 legged walkers that can transform to tanks. And Also My favourite the 
 mech that turns into a Snowmobile. Like energy guns and mechs they use energy, which can be acquried 
 differnt ways weather your online or off. 1 of these ways is by capturing data posts, you capture 
 them by going up to them and keep on pressing B, or you can by killing enemies and such. And now 
 to my Favorite part the online, First off you will be able to pick from 3 charcters, and two patterns 
 but both can be unlocked later by your rank ( 4 patterns for each charcter, 7 in total charcters, 
 4 having to unloch with rank) the online game modes are, Team Elimination, Elimination, Fugitive, 
 Post grab. Now the single-Player This is also spectacular in Lp Because of the amount of action 
 and The Tons of enemies on screen, and also the Gigantic Bosses which are so much fun to Fight!. 
 My Only complaint With Lp is sometimes confusing story and sometime difficult bosses but even that 
 shouldnt stop you to put this in you colllection. You won't Be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddyk14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is so great. I am currently playing single player and it's amazing. I haven; t rlly touched 
 multi-player because the single player is so good. You can go around climping up mountains, blowing 
 stuff up, and jumping in the vital suits. The destructible enviornments are sweet along with the 
 great array of weaponry. There are rocket launchers, homing lasers, gattling guns, plasma guns, 
 shotguns, machine guns, and plenty more. This game will keep you occupied and you'll have a great 
 time playing it. You will get lost in the game. All of the bosses and achievements rlly give this 
 one alot of replay value and i seriously reccomend that you pick this one up. This game went above 
 and beyond the hype. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackdaddy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Capcom has been working overtime to hype and market this title as a must have on the 360. The Time 
 Square ad, theater ads, and massive Internet ad presence definitely fuels the idea. If you were 
 one of the people that picked up the single player or multiplayer demos and just didn't enjoy Lost 
 Planet. I ensure you, the final build of the game far surpasses that of the demos and address -most- 
 of the things you found unenjoyable with the demos. i. e single player demo controls were slow, 
 clumsy and far from perfect. In the multiplayer demo, which is a newer build, Capcom also addressed 
 -some- of the issues that plagued the single player. Similarly, things have been fixed from the 
 multiplayer demo build to the final retail build. Controls, graphics, gameplay and the general 
 feel of the game is much different from the demos. I won't deny that there are still a few issues 
 in all of the above mentioned
  improvements from the demos, however, the game still shines in the areas that are important to 
 most gamers. The game is just plain fun, exciting and has it's fair share of Oh Sh! t moments. Something 
 A LOT of the nay sayers need to realize - this game is not up to the level of quality that was 
 Gears and Vegas, but it's still great if you let it stand on it's own. The chaos that fills the 
 single and multiplayer game along with the Thermal Energy mechanic ensure a frantic and fastpaced 
 experience. The beautiful environments, character design and boss fights that made Resident Evil 
 4 so great grace Lost Planet, albeit in a slightly less effective manner. Bottom line - Lost Planet 
 is a far jump from the 4 v 4 frag tag fest that is Gears and a much more arcadish feel than Vegas. 
 And since Lost Planet has done an incredible job of separating itself from Vegas, Gears and other 
 top rated 360 titles AND maintains a strong fun experience it definitely warrants a place in any 
 360 owners library. The replay value of the single player far surpasses most games currently in 
 the library and the multiplayer will definitely keep you occupied for months to come. People just 
 need to realize this game is a third person arcade style shooter. The complaint on story is moot 
 in my opinion, there have been many other games that have been considered far superior that have 
 a much worse story or lack there of. Play Lost Planet b/c it's fun, don't play it to find it's 
 faults.... that's what make Movie Critics suck and suck all the fun and life out of movies..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Ok to get things started the game has some good things and only few mess ups. But lets get started 
 with the good parts so the story mode is amazing in this game because the story line that it goes 
 by is just awesome. like when you are fighting the akrids it is fun and also the weapons that the 
 game has are really good like the machine gun and also when you are climbing things and you have 
 to throw the rapple and climb through everything like Spider-man .And the multiplayer is amazing 
 to because the 16 players that they made was just awesome it fits the all the players in the maps 
 good. Like when you are playing you are just walking and then you get shot, and the bad parts is 
 that the story mode only has 11 levels then you pass the game. And another bad part is that when 
 you are going to look at the achievments they all say secret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hump
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  While every new gen system has been announced as THE one that will be accessible to ALL gamers 
 ,casual included, MS has unapologetically continued to court the hardcore gamers with it's great 
 library of action titles. Lost Planet was one of the first announced games for the 360 but it is 
 now just come out and let me be the one to say its been worth he wait. The first thing you'll notice 
 is just how good looking this title is. The smooth animations, the attention to detail such as 
 snow clinging to the pants of the characters etc. Particle effects and explosions are extremely 
 impressive showing off just how potent this console is. Movement is spot-on as well. If you're 
 a typical shooter fan you might be put off about the slowness in which you move but you quickly 
 adapt and you don't notice it after a short time. The aiming mechanic is unique in that your gun 
 will slightly lead you as you move in either left/right direction. If you've played Timesplitters 
 2 you'll know what I mean. Story wise the game is wanting. I'm still not entirely sure of what 
 the hell was going on. Shady organizations, boy avenging his father, betrayals, etc. Typical clich&eacute; d 
 stuff that really won't effect your enjoyment either way. Just know this: You are on a planet that 
 humans are colonizing, the planet has huge insectile life forms, you kill them. And.... oh yeah, 
 theres snow pirates . you kill them too. Thats all you need to know.
  
  In typical Japanese fashion you fight standard AI for most of the level and at the end you get 
 a nice Boss fight (with boss health bar and all) which usually involves stages of picking apart 
 its defenses and then exposing its weak spot which you beat on until its vanquished. Many of the 
 boss fights are done via a VS (virtual suit) or more specifically, a mech. Mech implementation 
 is great. There are several different types all with unique abilities. You can customize most of 
 them by picking up weapons that lie scattered around every level.
  
  Multiplayer flat-out rocks. Thats all I have to say.
  
  All in all Lost Planet is very much 
 worth your time with very few downsides. Combat is just right , challenging but never frustrating. 
 While the inevitable comparisons with Gears of War come up they are really two very different games 
 and both should be admired on their own and not compete in some ridiculous fanboy flame war. LP 
 is worth a purchase, not just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Wow gears of war what an amazing game some say this is the best game ever and has the greatets 
 looking visuals well in my honest opinion they were very wrong. Lost planet: extreme condition 
 is a very enjoyable shooter that looks bloody amazing and feels great.
  The story is very complicated and really i can explain but basically you have to kill loads of 
 bugs and destory the snow pirates ( I think thats what there called) . The graphics are superb and 
 live up too or sometimes even better than gears of war the snows looks incredible and gives off 
 a very atmospheric feel to the game.
  The gameplay also is very simple indeed when walking in the vs it can be a little slow and a bit 
 slow to react to the jumping button this causes frustration. The health bar is a great idea you 
 have to collect thermal energy from the bugs or monsters that you kill to stay alive. The guns 
 themselves are pretty boring mostly just use a mahcine gun but large guns are quite fun to use 
 but cause the character to move even slower than before.
  While aiming he center aim can move very slowly and be quite annoying but this way it feels very 
 arcade-ish which is why its from capcom.
  Overall the game is great shame about multiplayer (non live) but the live is great and the game 
 itself is awesome but one problem is... its too damn short.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gungopea
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  i got the game 2 weeks ago because i was so excited about it i brough the promo copy of ebay for 
 &pound;45 and i havent played it since the day i got it the gameplay is way to slow and repetative 
 the shooting is similar to socom but socom is about 10 times better the graphics are amazing wow 
 whoop de de but gears is better the story sucks and i dont understand how having many enimies on 
 screen is next gen the multiplayer sucks and is empty compared to gears of war its just the same 
 as dead rising a game with massive hype but just turns out boring im starting to hate capcpm after 
 how much i loved them from resi 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  .... because he's so horribly wrong about this game. Lost Planet has great graphics, a great single 
 player campaign experience, awesome boss fights, incredible action, the best explosions ever in 
 a video game, mechs, mechs and even more mechs, great art direction and design, great sound/music, 
 and an epic feel that you'd come to expect from a triple-A class video game.
  
  Game reviewers usually rush to finish a game in order to meet a deadline, and that's why review 
 scores are always not indicative of the real quality of a game. Also, game reviews never, EVER 
 look into multiplayer modes, and in this sense, LP also shines. It's a great counter-balance to 
 my occasional online games of GOW.
  
  The previews and trailers of this game, as well as the demo, very much tell you how awesome this 
 game is. A very inspired piece of work from the geniuses at Capcom! Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  n Lost Planet, human snow pirates navigate VS (Vital Suits) through hostile ice-covered environments, 
 fighting against the indigenous Akrid creatures for the precious thermal energy they need to survive. 
 For one such pilot named Wayne, death almost seemed imminent until he was fortunately rescued. 
 However, he can only remember a few fragments of his past including the slaying of his father by 
 the monstrous beings. Yet under the veil of ice, a devious plot has been set into motion by NEVEC. 
 What really happened to Wayne and how will his destiny become intertwined with NEVECs plans? played 
 the online single player demo and the multiplayer one and I have got to say, the originality of 
 this game is awesome. Not only are the graphics just as good as Gears of War, but the combat and 
 unique way of fighting makes it all the better. And for us who remember 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Lost Planet. I held off on reviewing it until I'd gotten some good game 
 time in -- I didn't want to be cheap about it. While this game offers more than a few thrills, some 
 amazing enemies, and some beautiful scenery, in the end it feels somehow immature: it's as if this 
 game boils down too easily. It lacks soul.
  
  Oh sure, the gun play is fun and the larger enemies are without parallel. Some of them are among 
 gaming's most memorable. But the formulaic approach to these enemies soon wears thin (even when 
 you can't beat a particularly enemy time after time after time -- the worms come to mind) . In fact, 
 much of the game feels formulaic. You shoot easy enemies and feel compelled (not for any real gameplay 
 reason) to collect their thermal energy. At times, it felt almost like some kind of hardcore, gun-toting 
 Banjo-Kazooie game -- only with blobs of thermal energy instead of gems.
  
  To make this worse, your character moves at an agonizingly slow pace.
  
  This downfall speaks 
 to the greater lacking in the game. You go from the tedium of shooting pathetically easy swarms 
 of aliens to fighting incredibly challenging VSs, gigantic Akrid, and stage bosses which most often 
 can easily kill you. There isn't much of a happy medium here. And ultimately this makes the game 
 feel shallow.
  
  It isn't all bad, of course. The graphics are enjoyable, though certainly not awe-inspiring. The 
 sound is adequate, nothing more. There are plenty of interesting weapons (although you can only 
 carry two at a time) . The atmosphere of the game is intriguing, although the storyline is hopelessly 
 cliched. The multiplayer offers a whole new avenue of playability which many gamers will enjoy.
 
  
  If you are looking for a decent shooter -- and nothing more -- you could certainly do worse. If, however, 
 you are on a tight budget I recommend renting this game or replaying GoW or COD III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doohuh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  So I just got my 360 last week, and as anyone would, I bought GoW with it. Now I like that game 
 - and it looks great- but after playing Lost Planet, I had a lot more fun. This game should not 
 be taken seriously. Sure, the cut-scenes are supposed to be all tough and demanding, but when it 
 comes to gameplay, it's just over the top. Fly all over the place with your grapple, jump 6 feet 
 in the air, drive around with mecs, etc. The AI aren't all that smart. They'll run from grenades, 
 but just like lots of other games, they wont move an inch when their partner is sniped two feet 
 away. For some reason though, jumping and shooting a dude with a shotgun in mid-air is extremely 
 satisfing. To be honest, I don't care to much about the mecs. (especially the slow ones) I guess 
 there movement is a little to 'wobbly' - if that makes any sense. The graphics are very nice. Awesome 
 blur effects and I've never had those moments (like in Gears) when the textrures get all screwed 
 up. The sound isn't all that great but the plus side is it never seems to get annoying. Overall, 
 I've had a great time with this game and I will continue to play it online for a long time to come. 
 Multiplayer is very straigt forward but luckily they don't take anything away that was in the single 
 player part. It's hard to remember that we play these games to have fun - not to show off our graphics 
 or anything - and when it comes to that, I've had the best experience so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and is worth to check out. Lost Planet gives you extreme intense battles for 
 single player, I mean the battles in the game are very intense like swarms like thousands of enemies 
 come to your paths and man it is a crazy game, also the aiming system has been improved a bit since 
 the lost planet online demo. Although your a guy named Wayne in this game it you won't really find 
 him great character though... well in my opinion. But at least this game has a lot of fun things 
 like their are a lot of weapons to use in this game. Like a lot of em. Now the graphics in this 
 game is totally awesome, the snowy blizzards, the realistic smoke effects and the enemy design 
 and well put together. So give props to the developers for a splendid job on graphics:) . The sound.... well 
 there isn't much to say about sound well the walkers in this game have a realistic sound into them 
 and the gun fights sound pretty cool. O ya the mech robots are great heavy weapon duty bots and 
 it explains why they are sooo slow, like it takes like 5 min to get just 10 feet. But rather that 
 the walkers are great fun due to the heavy weapons. So single player is not bad at all although 
 you will find the story a bit dull though but still great fun game.
  
  Now the multiplayer is great fun and it definitely changed from the lost planet demo. There are 
 many more people to fight and to show your skills on. The multiplayer will definitely keep you 
 busy for awhile. So if you have a xbox 360 you should search for this game because it is worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  What a game. I have seen good graphics in Call of duty and Vegas, but these....... Just, WOW. There 
 is one level in a volcano, and you just drop your jaw at the sight of the Lava. The maps are huge, 
 this game is worth the $65.00 you will probably play. People will compare it's lack of gore with 
 gears, and they will hate it, but I say... Tough! This is a good game, wether it is a gore fest 
 or not, but so far, it's the best game I have played online in the 2 weeks that I have owned my 
 360. You will not want to log out. The vital suits, and vehicles are fantastic. When vital suits 
 are destroyed, you can snatch up there giant weapons and dominate the field on foot. Worth the 
 money, and I got it for free! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Os1r1s
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up the collector's edition of this game, which game with a little action figure, 
 an art book (which is really a small manual with screenshots in it) and a CD with the soundtrack 
 and other goodies. I loved the multiplayer demo so I decided to get it. Single player is pretty 
 good, but quite hard, even on easy. Some little inconveniences like the time it takes to get up 
 once you take a hit, or unfair mech battles make it a pain in the a$$, so either rent it, or get 
 it used when available, the fun will last for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Oh how I want to play this game on a hi-def TV!!! The graphics are gorgeous.... beautiful scenes. 
 I love seeing the snow-covered mountains. There's nothing like fighting epic alien battles in a 
 snow-covered land. I'm on the fifth mission now. And I'm having a blast with this game. So far 
 what happens is you get some mission objectives.... you go through this level and blast to bits 
 all the enemies and then at the end there's a nice big alien boss of some sort for you to conquer. 
 The action is not too hard nor too easy... I m playing on normal mode and it seems just right...... definitely 
 challenging. Many different weapons from bullets to lasers to energy blasts..... plus you get to 
 pilot some really cool mech-type machines that can jump, hover, change into motorcycle type vehicles, 
 and deliver some awesome firepower. The bosses are fun. Some of your enemies are so large you may 
 just crap you pants when you see them. Lots of surprises. This is a very very original game. I'm 
 really enjoying it. It is almost like being inside a great science fiction movie. The story is 
 well-thought out and the characters are believeable. I highly recommend this game and I can't wait 
 to get back to it. I haven't even touched the multiplayer yet so I'll try to update this when I 
 do. But I can only imagine how fun it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a360051
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Good: Fun fast paced action in the campaign mode. Stunning graphics and great sound. Good story 
 mode and the videos in true Capcom fashion are some of the best I've seen. Addition of a constantly 
 degrading energy bar gives the game a frantic feeling. Great boss fights, that give you the feeling 
 of an old school video game. Excellent multiplayer mode, that adds a nice touch with letting you 
 level up and giving you unlockable outfits and characters. Last but not least some pretty cool 
 mech's for you to pilot, with some pretty intense weaponry.
  
  Bad: Story mode could have been longer. A few frustrating glitches will manifest themselves throughout 
 the game. No real ability to take any cover in a firefight. Weapon selection is limited for the 
 character and your best gun is the first gun you get. The mechs sometimes are frustrating to move 
 around and are all too slow. All together the game is a good addition to anyone's first person 
 shooter collection. Although it's not the game to end all games, Capcom has done very well with 
 this one and I can't wait for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slusheewoot
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game, if not for ONE single thing, and that is the heat energy gimmick, i do not 
 know who came up with this idea, but more then once while playing the game and just doing incredibly 
 well, i was cut short of my immersion by a blinking red light, signifying that my health was draining 
 and i needed to find heat, i understand that when it comes to shooters these days you need some 
 kind of innovation to make the sales rise but this just never gets fun at all. it seems that whenever 
 the game would get to a fun part, my experience would be totally cut off . annoying as it is. other 
 then that lost planet excells where other games can only dream of going, the graphics are some 
 of the only truly NEXT GEN i have ever seen on my console and the enemy AI is enough to keep you 
 going and going, its just a disappointment that everytime i sit down with this game i am constantly 
 glancing at the decreasing meter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucin13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up the day of release and went strait home to pop it in. I was amazed at the 
 graphics (particularly the explosions) they seemed to stand out and say this is next-gen gaming! 
 The gameplay was totally immersive. I think the grappling hook made this game really standout, (seeing 
 as no other 360 shooter has done this) being able to grapple on to your enemys from a distance 
 and pump lead into them at the same time then followed by an awsome backflip is just stellar! The 
 online mode is also just as fun as campain mode. The replay value is pretty high in this game to 
 because you dont just have to go through the level the same way everytime, you can choose to go 
 across the roof tops and try not to get in a fight, or you could jump in a VS (vital suit) and demolish 
 everything that comes your way. I would suggest this as a must by game to any third person shooter 
 fan wanting some action. Even if your not a fan of third person shooters this is a game for you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorean
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all you may ask Beautiful how can white be Beautiful! But it is!
  The glare, how the snow clinges to your character the explosions are Hefty and forceful and the 
 Design of the Akrid is great and all the types i have seen have been differnt in the way they act 
 and look.
  
  The game play is fantastic, the feeling that you are really fighting to survive in a desolate waste 
 land with the fact that you need to kill the enemy to get heat also adds a stratigec factor to 
 it as well (though not a very big one) All the have a differnt way you must fight them and as everyone 
 brings a new challange its nice to see a diverse range of enemys. The Vital suits are Fantastic 
 the designs are great and the fact that everyone is differnt and has differnt abilities which allows 
 for new elements to be added to every level. The amount of weapons and the designs for the weapons 
 are great, there are about 8 (about 15 if you count the VS weapons that can be picked up when on 
 foot.) weapons for when you are on foot about 5 differnt grenades and about 6 differnt weapons 
 for the vital suits. The ancor (a grappling hook) makes for interesting fights against the larger 
 of the Akrid specis and in battles against the Vital Suits. You can use the Ancor to latch yourself 
 onto the a limb of the large akrids and if you are in the right postion shoot it clean off or latch 
 onto the battle suit and kill the driver without damageing the VS.
  The diversity of the tasks you must do in each level mean it doesn't get boreing and with differnt 
 ways to do things it opens the door for multiple play through.
  The online multi player is great, with intense battles and team work being a vital factor it makes 
 for a fast paced roller coaster of a ride.
  
  The music and sound effects help build a very atmospheric scene and the voice acting is quite good, 
 which is very nice considering the amount of times i have turned off voices or skipped cutscenes 
 becasue i can't stand to hear them talk.
  
  A great 3rd person shooter with a combonation of great exploration and combat a must have for the 
 360. I feel sorry for anyone who will miss out on a master peice like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets cut to the chase Lost Planet has got some problems. but the game will grow on you just 
 give it time.....
  
  The first issue is the heros name: Wayne, come on it hardly inspires does it.
  
  Controls 
 fee a little clunky
  
  Game is a little too easy in places
  
  The story line now I havent finished it but do you remember a cartoon called Battle of the planets 
 well the story lines in that were just as cheesy but the action was great and yes the actual game 
 is quite good, ok nothing really new on offer here the game does not break any new ground but the 
 environments look gorgeous so you get a sense of being cold.
  
  Some of the end bosses a huge, wonderfully draw monsters and you find yourself for a second just 
 looking at the tele So then the game is good but with problems and I have played live and Im still 
 trying to work it but if you played the demo online play is of a good standard not the best it 
 has to be said.
  
  I went for the collectors addition not as good as gears of war but a very good well put together 
 and worth the extra cash, I got a toy my very own VS suit (VSs are great in game addition by the 
 way like Mechs in Chrome Hounds but better)
  
  Extra CD contains fan site stuff and a redeem card or an online extra map upfront which will be 
 available by the summer for everyone and nice concept art book ,very nice and not to forget the 
 tin case which is on of the best designed of all time
  
  So check out the sorces pay your money and make your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Multi-player Review: The multi-player is very addictive and i can not pull myself away from it. 
 I actually stopped playing gears for a couple days now. This will be my new favorite multi-player 
 game for a while at least. :)
  
  Single Player Review: The single player is kinda hard on normal but enjoyable, i have not tried 
 it on hard but it should be interesting. This game like gears seems to be short i completed the 
 first 4 or 11 missions in and hour but i will have to play it on hard and obtain some of the things 
 in the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game sets a new standard for multiplayer. Great maps with lots of nooks and crannies to hunt 
 through, incredible weapons and vehicles that are completely unique to this game, lots of (all 
 fun) gameplay options with up to 16 players possible per match. And if that wasn't enough, the 
 goofy characters, melodramatic times almost up music, crazy voices you can apply to yourself (that 
 make your own voice speaking into your mic sound absolutely ridiculous) will have you laughing 
 hysterically and having the best multiplayer experience EVER.
  
  I love the way this game doesn't take itself too seriously. This is apparent in the multiplayer 
 as I mentioned, but also in the solo storyline. The voice-acting has a very high cheese factor 
 but it comes across as on purpose because it accomplishes being absolutely hilarious. Enemies say 
 things like I m not going to die! and Damn you! in over-acted voices but it works. The humor in 
 the game lightens it and raises the fun factor significantly. This is refreshing since most shooters 
 are very serious . The arcadey feel of the game is another nice change of pace from your average 
 current shooter. You'll fight an insane number of creatures and people on your way to a final boss 
 battle for each chapter. The boss' health bar will show at the bottom of the screen.
  
  This is not a game for casual gamers. Parts of this game are extremely hard and you will need patience. 
 Anyone with a give up attitude or not willing to commit and focus will not get through Chapter 
 One. You'll need some practice and some strategy. Some chapters are harder than others. This game 
 has moments that are harder than any other game I've ever played. Then again, the multiplayer alone 
 is enough to justify the price tag of this game, even if you don't pay a lot of attention to the 
 storyline.
  
  One big gap in the game is a lack of co-op play. Had it co-op play and maybe a little longer storyline 
 and more accurate difficulty levels to choose from the game would have been perfect. This game 
 has so much to offer that those shortcomings are not a distraction at all.
  
  This game may make you want to quit playing multiplayer on some of, or all of, the other shooters 
 currently out now, and it could easily be one you want to keep playing for a very long time. The 
 multiplayer here has the multiplayer of every other game out so far completely beat. I will still 
 play Rainbow Six Vegas online ocassionally, but I'm done with Gears of War multiplayer and many 
 of the others out there right now. I am completely hooked on the shining masterpiece that is Lost 
 Planet multiplayer. It's amazing the way this game manages to be serious (in the form of being 
 challenging and action packed) and not serious (fun, hilarious, goofy, frantic) at the same time. 
 It's absolutely brilliant.
  
  You may want to have an extra controller handy in case you break one while you're playing the storyline, 
 but GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_hall
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  An immensely good game. Thats all there is to it. Although it has minor problems, the length of 
 the campaign being one, the gameplay more than makes up for it.
  The mechanics work brilliantly, and weather you are in a Vital Suit or on foot, the game feels 
 totally accessible. The difficulty is great, while Easy wont be much of a challenge there are times 
 that you will have to retry sections. But when you get onto hard, the game really becomes fun... 
 you jump in and out of vital suits so quick, and only then do you truly appreciate how much of 
 a life save the grappling hook is!
  The balance of Akrid and Human enemies feels good, and you will soon learn to hate both... it would 
 be nice to see a little more types of Akrid, but you cant have everything.
  A definite buy, even if you dont have XBOX Live, the campaign if good enough that you want to replay 
 it, even without the added lure of the Target Markers and Achievments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calinescu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  When it comes to shooters, everyone expects something new. The bad thing is that not many shoothers 
 some up eith something new and then people get dissapointed. I tell you that it does not matter 
 if you see similliar action on a nother game this is trashy. One thing i still dont understand 
 is why they gave this game a 8 in graphics, it should get a 9 at least. I mean the graphics are 
 so amazing that makes you feel comfy and warm that you are not there in the snow, thats a feeling 
 you dont usually get with another game when you slurp from your cacao. The sound is pretty interesting 
 too, i mean its no gears of wars classical harmonic but its goes with the game just well. Another 
 thing that this game is woth remembered for is that it combines mechs in combat (not to talk about 
 the imense weapons you can carry, have you seen bigger weapons in a game?) . Multiplayer is as mentioned 
 perfect ,unlike gears of war (yes im making a comparisson to GOW) the battles are more intense and 
 more blowing up arround you, they battles also last long in comparrison with GOW.
  The only bad thing i can mention is that the controls for aiming are hard at first to get arround 
 and you cant follow an enemy with your targeting so fast. The story is great too, but does not 
 emerge in a epic story. Conlusion: This game rocks, there are a few small negative things, but 
 people need to be more tollerative and understanding and see the game from a more mature perspective. 
 In short, you wont be dissapointed, and you will really be a fan og this game!!! AND HOPE A SEQUEL 
 IS COMING!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a game that brings back some old type gaming. As opposed the 
 the usual large-scale enemy encounters and minimal boss battles, Lost Planet focuses more on fewer 
 large battles and more battles focusing on one or two large, boss-like enemies. This provides and 
 awesome feel for the game.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Lost Planet is one of the best looking games to have come out for the Xbox360 so far. All of the 
 levels are either based in snowy conditions, or indoors. Both settings look extremely nice, even 
 if you are not playing in high definition. The snow falling, movement of the bosses, and overall 
 actions that the characters make are all executed wonderfully.
  
  Audio: 9/10
  
  Lost Planet is present with an excellent soundtrack that seems to fit each situation appropriately. 
 From fast paced boss music to slow paced dramatic walking music, there seems to be a different 
 sound for each situation. The voice acting, while getting the job done, is a little choppy at times, 
 and sometimes lack enthusiasm in point where enthusiasm is needed.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  
  Lost Planet does a great job of bringing back the old feeling of large scale boss battles. 
 Throughout many of the levels, the enemies come in packs of two or three (being big, tougher than 
 normal enemies) as opposed to the usual zerg rush of weakling that you see in most shooters nowadays. 
 The idea of thermal vision, while making sense and being crucial to the story line, adds a sense 
 of tension on the single player mode, which makes it that much more fun to play. Having to collect 
 the thermal energy that the enemies drop, and receiving thermal energy from anything such as a 
 broken car to a filled up gas pump, is an interesting concept that hasn't been introduced in other 
 games. There is no true time limit on the levels, but the player must keep there thermal gauge 
 powered at all times, or else they will start to lose health, because, well, they are on an antarctic-like 
 planet, and it only makes sense to have them be able to freeze to death.
  
  Multi-player: 10/10
  
  Finally... a game with an online multi-player (ranked) that actually 
 works from the start on Xbox360. The learning curve on the multi-player is very accepting, because 
 even though this is your first time playing, it will not be like you can not do anything. You are 
 still able to make an impact, helping your team. Another nice thing on the multi-player is the 
 customizable player interface. While leveling up online, players are able to unlock new skins for 
 their online characters. These skins do not provide an advantage, but they sure are nice for bragging 
 rights.
  
  Rent/buy: I would highly suggest buying this game if you have Xbox Live, otherwise rent it. The 
 multiplayer is very entertaining, with new suits for the characters when you level up your online 
 abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Proagent514
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I loved this game, it's a much needed change of pace from the stereotypical shooters seen 
 on xbox 360 thus far. The gameplay feels epic and has alot more of an ambient feel to it then say 
 Gears of War or Rainbow Six: Vegas. Those are outright fantastic games on their own but in my opinion 
 both were really too fast pace to really enjoy the game. That is in no way to say Lost Planet does 
 not have its share of intensity, but it does allow you to really take in the whole world and amazing 
 boss battles.
  
  The mechs flow extremely well, weapons are amazing, and enemies come by the boatloads. I do admit 
 there are some aspects left to be desired specifically I found myself wishing that the akrid didn't 
 die so easily! =P Finally, people complain that Wayne's movements (the character you play) feel 
 lethargic, try running in a bunch of weather resistant snow gear in a foot of snow....
  
  All in all I think Lost Planet is a fantastic game worth of its pricetag and a glimpse of a promising 
 future for Capcom and xbox 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Im only reviewing the single player portion of this game which saddens me I dont have Xbox Live 
 yet which I imagine the multiplayer in this game would rank this game to a solid 9 but I wont be 
 trying the multiplayer modes anytime soon.
  
  Pros-
  *I really dont like mech type games but this game just made me wonder if I made any bad decsions 
 before.
  
  *If your a sci-fi geek this is a must have or even a must rent
  
  *Another great/above avg shooter game
  
  *I liked the sci-fi ish themes that they used (mechs 
 that dont suck, plasma weapons, alien fiends and a plural sp? of weapons)
  
  *decent voice acting, not the best but above avg
  
  *decent snow effects and other nifty effects 
 that your gonna have to play the game to find out ^^
  
  Cons-
  *Storyline coulda been better
  
  *Needed more Gadgets besides the grappling hook
  
  *Lacked 
 a co-op mode and other offline multiplayer modes
  
  *Get use to dieing alot at first
  
  *Thermal meter was a nice idea, but again it hurt in the long run
  
  *Didnt like the sound 
 track through out the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiLogik
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  my break down
  
  Pros
  Looks Great
  Action Packed
  VS suits
  Weapons
  Grappling tricks (latching on to an giant bug and blasting its leg off with the shotty is baddassss)
 
  Oh snap moments galore
  
  The good but could have been better
  general Grappling hook use (can`t toss mid air , getting hit retracts it automatically)
  Length 
 (i say 10 hours on normal, 9 if you skip the cut scenes and dont explore) didn`t bother me as it 
 seems the norm these days
  
  
  
  Bad Story is WTF? the whole time... B grade so do not take it seriously
  That knock down and 
 get up animation gets on my nerves
  Multiplayer (no co-op , bots, system link or split screen mar the otherwise fun online experience)
 
  
  Since the demos been available like since the dawn of the generation most people have made up their 
 mind about this game... all i have to say is if you liked the multi-player demo, buy it now ... 
 even if you hated it with all your heart and thought the single player demo was OK... rent it... 
 either way the holy **** moments in this game must be experienced , one way or the other... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortify1
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are stunning. The story line is weak but but if you like futuristic plots this game definitely 
 takes you to a whole new perspective. This game's puzzles are easy to defeat the level of difficulty 
 is only extended by the amount of shots you put into the foe. The game keeps you under pressure 
 as its health regeneration decays over time and you must continue killing or advancing to keep 
 it from depreciating to zero. There are several different game types for the online game play. 
 I liked Gears of War, but the repetitive game play keeps me from playing it after I beat it. The 
 maps in Lost planet are so large there are many different avenues and things to explore. Mechwarrior 
 feel with the armored vehicles and upright robot mechanics. Several different gun types that can 
 be carried or equipped on the armored vehicles keep the game from being repetitive. I'm just glad 
 its warm where I live because playing Lost Planet sends the shivers up the spine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeminus
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet doesn't completely suck, but there's absolutely nothing in this game I haven't seen 
 a million times before. And if there's one thing I can't stand, it's a game where if you die, you 
 have to go way back to the beginning of the level and play through a whole bunch of tedious crap 
 you've already endured. Can you say annoying ? I wouldn't mind if this game was actually, you know, 
 FUN TO PLAY ... but it isn't. It feels like a chore. The online multiplayer action is actually 
 pretty decent, and I might've raised my score based on that alone, but the single-player campaign 
 is just dullsville. This one got old really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teenwolf70
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  To start off if you are wondering which game to get - Lost Planet or Gears of War. Go for LOST 
 PLANET! This game is wonderful in my opinion. I have not completed it but as of now the story line 
 is pretty solid and interesting. Not too much info is given out at once but the story is slowly 
 unfolding. I am impressed mostly with the weapons and VS mechs. There is a plethora of weapons 
 to choose from. My favorite duo of weapons is the machine gun and rocket launcher. They work well 
 together for crowd control and taking out a VS and large araknids. There is attention to detail 
 in the larger araknids. One you can actually shoot off the limbs which is pretty funny.
  
  So far the game is a keeper. I have yet to play it on live. I doubt it will stand up to Halo as 
 a multi player game but I am sure it will be interesting to play. The only downfall for me is how 
 slow the character moves in comparison to Halo. Takes awhile to get around and forever to turn 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegitto_ss6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  when compared ot gears of war, this game is simply a joke. Althouigh the graphics nd production 
 values are top notch the gameplay does geta little repetitive and you tend tothink that youve played 
 this game before. This game is worth renting but not buying, its good but its no gears of war. 
 If someone was to buy this game it would be solely for the amazing multiplayer, which never ceases 
 to be fun. Id waitforother bettergames taht are bound to come out for the 360. In myopinion the 
 hype for this game wasa bit too much. andthey eggagerated how good this game reely is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riamo_10
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I was honestly expecting more from this game. Me and my freind went to about 5 stores to get this 
 game and we were not at all happy with the gameplay. Why this game was hyped as much as it was 
 i dont know. I also dont know why gamespot gave the game an 8.1. The average on the other websites 
 was 7.8. This is the second time i've been disappointed by a game that i was honestly looking forward 
 to. I think i marked this game pretty hard but dont take my advice. I still think it counld be 
 fun on xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenuce
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful title that has been very lovingly crafted. The single player game has some of the most 
 insane boss fights ever, making it an instant classic.
  
  The depth of the multiplayer is simply amazing. Tons of weapons and vehicles, all of which are 
 very powerful, but they all have counters to them.
  
  You really need to spend a few hours, learning how the weapons work, figuring out which weapons 
 work better on which maps, working with your team to strategize how to counter certain other weapons 
 and VSes. It's just really, really well done.
  
  I definitely prefer the more phrenetic pace of Lost Planet's multiplayer to the plodding pace of 
 Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davim84
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  love it
  people need to really give this game a chance
  great game
  capcom does it again. another great title
  if you liked the demo you will enjoy this
  Great 
 shooter for the 360 with classic gameplay
  so do yourself a favor and check it out
  this is one of the best games for the 360 right now
  multiplayer is alot of fun too
  Overall 
 Lost Planet IS a must buy for the 360. If you already have Gears of War and Dead Rising then make 
 sure you get this game to add to your Xbox 360 collection, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonbon411
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet was a great game while it lasted, and had a originial story. Online is quite simple 
 and fun as well. This game brings together great graphics without the lack of a good story line. 
 It does lack play time, i beat the game in 3 hours :- (. It also great sound quality. The funny 
 thing is that sometimes the words didn't even match the persons lips lol. Whatever capcom did tothisgame 
 they need to do to the rest of this game, and Gamespot needs to raise the rating of lost planet. 
 Overall this game seems to be one of the best so far on the 360! Capcom keep up the good work, 
 hopefully there will be a second! CHEERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsoville2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fantastic and the gameplay can get addictive. If you are looking for a fun filled 
 shooter, this is the right game. Gameplay: The Controls are sleek and easy. The game does not have 
 southpaw controls and so is not left handed friendly. The grapple system is great and makes the 
 gameplay really fun. The mech (VS) controls are th best I have ever used in any mech game yet. 
 Mechs Transforming, Hovering, Flying, Melee Punching, Melee Chainsawing, Dashing... Beat that.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game is really nice and has a solid frame rate. Great visuals are 
 superb; has one of the best explosions compared to other action games
  
  Sound: The game has some surprisingly good soundtracks, A very Clean SFX. Reloading the shotgun 
 sounds close to realistic. The shooting of the machine gun does not sound very good in my honest 
 opinion.
  
  Lost Planet is a solid and very fun packed action game. It's a must get if u are an action game 
 fan. Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  We're spoiled. Gears of War spread such a thick layer of happy on us shooter fans, it's hard to 
 NOT compare everything after with it. It's been said a hundred times, but I'll say it once more, 
 Gears raised the bar; all other developers (at least in the shooter genre) should quickly follow 
 suit. I had high hopes this game would at least give Gears a run for it's money, but it's not even 
 close. The graphics are good, even great in some places; the environments are dripping with realism, 
 especially considering it all takes place on a frozen planet -- I mean really . . . how much can 
 you do with that? Problem is, once you get over the great looking snow effects and snow-covered, 
 blown apart building buildings, it's all kinda of the same. The character models are a little cartoon-ish 
 looking (thanks again Gears!) , and the AI are about as smart as a can of tuna, but that doesn't 
 take away from what this game is all about: shooting lots of things. Lots and lots of things! Over 
 and over and over. Granted, the new aiming mechanic is sweet. Finally! A guy who points his gun 
 at what he's shooting, not his body; it looks great, and feels ridiculously satisfying. The one 
 click spin on the bumper pads is just icing on the cake. It's a nice change, and I hope to see 
 it implemented in future games. You pack a lot of firepower, but if you want (or in some cases) 
 NEED more, there's the VS mechs to climb into and wreak some havoc, though if anyone's played through 
 Perfect Dark Zero, I wonder if there isn't a lawsuit pending! I almost expected Joanna to make 
 an appearance. Either way, once your thru the silly cut scenes, there are always inventive Akrid 
 to kill, plenty of big bosses (Very Big!) , and hordes of  
 geeks to lay to waste. Some are saying there isn't anything new here, and I have to agree. The 
 Anchor is kind of ingenious, allowing players to get to places that would otherwise be impossible, 
 but it's got a little Tomb Raider: Legend feel about it. Sadly, it doesn't really give you what 
 you want it to do, which is to find alternate routes; the game forces you to use it in the same 
 old linear way, so you never get the feeling that you can go anywhere except straight ahead. The 
 thermal energy twist makes for a nice addition though, but with so much stuff dropping heat, it's 
 not really a worry -- so goes the Harmonizer, a life-support system that converts heat to restore 
 health. It's actually kind of hard to die in this game, though I've only been playing the normal 
 difficulty (and no multiplayer yet.) I will also say, I was a bit disappointed with the way the 
 game handles things you've blown up or killed: they simply disappear! . . . as do footprints in 
 the snow. It seems like old-gen console to me and had me cringing when I was able to walk through 
 fading slabs of busted concrete, or huge Akrid corpses. It would have raised my score a point higher 
 if they'd given this more attention. It really saps some of the realism out of it, and is too bad, 
 because destructible environments that remain where they fall are one of the hallmarks of next-gen, 
 and this simply ignores that. You'll notice it especially during certain Boss fights where they 
 hurl huge boulders at you and you just fall down as they disappear. To sum up, if you don't mind 
 stock, seen-that, done-that stereotyped characters (gee, a goofy computer guy, a stupid-hot girl 
 with big t*ts who talks too much, and a creepy leader with white hair; that's new!) , and aren't 
 looking for a story line any deeper than the trim two pages of prologue in the instruction book, 
 this game has a few hours of fun in the snow. I made the now standard comparison to Gears of War 
 at the beginning, and some are sick of hearing about Gears, but when you look at the innovation 
 of that game with this, it's hard not too. I put this game back in the box before I finished, and 
 I doubt I'll let it see the inside of my Xbox 360 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  While the controls feel a little clunky at first, you quickly get used to the shoulder quick turn 
 manuvers and feel right at home waging war with giant aliens and pirates. In terms of visuals, 
 the game looks great. The textures are splendid and the atmosphere is top notch. The game does 
 a great job of creating a very cool (no pun intended) world in which you get to fight it out with 
 very fun and beautiful enemies. The sound is also a huge strength, as the explosions, while looking 
 amazing, also sound very full and powerful (especially with the proper surround sound setup) . All 
 other sound effects are well done also such as machine gun fire, heavy mech sounds, and the alien 
 screams.
  
  The story falls flat, but still is entertianing enough to keep it from being much of a downfall. 
 The characters are more or less likable and the plot doesn't move too slow, even if it is a little 
 too silly or cliche. Gameplay is the selling point. Whether in champaign or online, the guns are 
 a ton of fun to use and you get into some truly epic boss battles and mech wars. Good times all 
 around. The pacing is well done and you never find yourself growing tired of the firefights the 
 game puts in front of you. While there are minor control issues as well as the issue of the game 
 going by too quickly, the online play is a blast and the game looks and sounds amazing. With no 
 xbox live it might just be a rent, but any mulitplayer fan can buy this game with a confidence. 
 A great way for the 360 and Capcom to start off the new year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I swear, the game is so fun, it kept me playing for so long, I never been this entertained since 
 Gears of War first released.
  
  Graphics are Great, detailed, and they put so many creatures on screen, and it never cripples the 
 framerate, even with the huge draw distance.
  
  Sound... I can't say its bad, nor good, just in the middle, has its times where it sounds a bit 
 weird, but I don't care all that much...
  
  Gameplay is fully flattened, no creases anywhere, its that fun, it will keep you playing for hours 
 until the next big multiplayer game comes out.
  
  Multiplayer is so fun, even with 8 or 4 players, its still alot of fun.
  
  If you don't have 
 this game, go out and buy the game, you won't be disapointed.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  To keep this short, the single player mission could be better, i mean to say that the story is 
 a little hard to understand because of the fast movment and lack of depth. Other than that is single 
 player is a blast between the awesome looking explosions and the V. S (vital suit) battles this 
 game can't be more fun. On foot combat has so many possiblities that its can't be beat, such as 
 using ur anhcor to pop up on enemies in high places and then blast them in the face or beat them 
 down.
  
  Multiplayer is probly the best and most addictive since Halo 2. Being able to land a V. S in the 
 middle of the enemy and blasting them into oblivion is just one of the finer points of the experience. 
 Although it might not be a good sign, nothing looks cooler than a V. S flying over a ridge and laying 
 down a ton of bullets on you. Simply, if you don't get this game your missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactis
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I got it today, I thought it was great! I actually like the story and the shooter is fun but i 
 think its because if any of you have played Armed and Dangerous by Locus Arts way back when it 
 kind of brought me back to that. Like how the snow and the pirates and the disk grenades, granted 
 there are a lot of differences but I still got the fun factor from it. So thats why I enjoyed 
 it very much i was expecting it to score a little more here but oh well...
  
  I thought the game is great the graphics and games play are fantastic to me because of the mechs 
 and i LOVE the cool boss battles and the bugs the graphics make them look very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandlerr_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  With all the mixed opinions about Lost Planet, it is hard to take it very seriously, but after 
 playing this game for about four hours I was sold. At first the game seems to move much too quickly, 
 starting you off in a underground complex with your father and a group of men, retreating from 
 a horde of alien creatures known as the Akrid. Pretty soon you find yourself immersed in a cinematic 
 like experience, running from a giant Akrid known as Green-Eye, your squad mates cover your back 
 while you run to meet up with your father who is struggling to fight the beast in his VS ( Lost 
 Planets unique mech-like vehicle) . The single player campaign from what I have played so far is 
 well structured and overall a very fun experience. There are 11 missions in all, which usually 
 last anywhere between 25-45 minutes, or even longer on a high difficulty. Difficulties include 
 Easy, Normal, Hard, and Extreme. In the campaign you fight both the menacing Akrid and angry Snow 
 Pirates in fast paced, action-packed battles. You use T-ENG (which you collect from fallen enemies 
 and scattered radar posts) to keep warm. If your T-ENG happens to run out, then you unfortunately 
 diebut T-ENG is plentiful, and does not go away too fast, so does not really become the BIG 
 problem other popular reviews make it out to be. I think it provides a realistic spin on the game. 
 At the end of every mission there is a boss battle to be fought. Unlike most games where you absolutely 
 despise fighting the boss and feel like throwing your controller into the wall, in Lost Planet 
 Boss battles are very fun and entertaining , as a matter of fact you might look forward to them. 
 VSs are scattered all around most of the maps, and provide a different approach at the levels. 
 They are easily one of the best parts of the game. The one major problem in the game that I find 
 rather annoying is simply the enemy Humans (or Snow Pirates) AI it is absolutely terrible. Most 
 of the time they simply stand there starring at you, squeezing off a few shots for the hell of 
 it. Every once in a while they might decide to randomly dive into a wall to avoid your shot, but 
 end up getting stuck in some random snow drift. But, it still proves fun. Graphics and Sound are 
 brilliant, even rivaling the Xbox 360s current number 1 game, Gears of War. Snow and outdoor environments 
 will simply make your jaw drop, while explosions and beautifully detailed shrapnel and debris fly 
 past your characters head or impale your VSs armor plating. Level design is awesome. I love the 
 different environments, especially the awesome abandoned frozen cities with scattered frozen Akrid 
 bodies everywhere. Multiplayer is not too shabby either. There are plenty of great designed levels 
 to keep you busy, all of them boasting multiple VSs and weapons to use against your opponents. 
 Gametypes include Elimination, Team Elimination, Post Grab, and hunt. My personal favorite is Post 
 Grab, it adds a lot of tactical aspect to the experience. Lost Planets Multiplayer experience 
 might not be the best on the 360, but it is certainly not to be overlooked. Overall Lost Planet 
 IS a must buy for the 360. If you already have Gears of War, then make sure you get this game to 
 add to your Xbox 360 collection, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet... I've waited so long for this.
  
  And, if you have been looking into it, this is not a game you should miss, for any reason. You 
 get to shoot humans, aliens, and pilot mechs. This would be enough, but it all looks so amazing.
 
  
  Anyway, Lost Planet places you in the role of a soldier named Wayne, who is with his dad when he 
 is attacked by Green Eye , a super creature of the alien bug like race, the Akrid. After a scuffle 
 with the big bug, he escapes, and his mech (called a VS) collapses. He is rescued by a group of 
 snow pirates, who want him for his VS piloting skills. They need his help to eradicate the Akrid. 
 By the end, the plot twists and turns enough to keep it fresh, but the final boss is fairly obvious.
 
  
  The game is eyecandy on SDTV, and is downright gorgeous in HD. Looking at snow for a while may 
 seem bland, but the way it looks in this game is so great.
  
  The game provides some great sound effects and believable (but not outstanding) voice work. The 
 music is pretty well used, and it all fits with the action.
  
  And, now, we arrive at gameplay. The game plays with a third person shooter style and sympol controls. 
 The area of great note is the grapple hook, which allows you to reach high places, and it allows 
 for you to stick it to a flat surface, and rapple up and down. Basically, this allows for surprise 
 attacks in multiplayer and some great positioning in single player. This game also provides very 
 solid mech battles, and the onfoot segments are amazing in their own right. The difficulty is not 
 high, but if you put it on hard, you get what you pay for. The game does not take long to learn 
 how to play, but it may take a while for one to master.
  
  All in all, this game does not dissappoint. Pick it up, and be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the FEW original titles to come out for some time. This game has very good 
 controls and a story to go along with it. All in all this game is a solid buy if you are into action 
 shooters. Compared to Gears of War.... details are close.... but it isn't Gears.... It has its own 
 look. The Collectors Edition is a good buy and you get good extras with it. If you have played 
 the DEMO from last year... it follows up on pretty much everything and has all that was expected. 
 Games are becoming this GEN for sure. It is a good buy and will impress on the nicest TVs out there. 
 This game delivers in my opinion for the price which I feel is fair.... that is really hard to say 
 with the games that have been dished out in the last year. One thing of NEXT-GEN gaming to me that 
 is missing is the CO-OP story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: explodinglamas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  lost planet is one of the most enjoyable and intense games i have ever played. the game looks exelent 
 and also sounds brilliant too, explosions rip through the room and bullets smack into snow and 
 walls and the thuds of walking vital suits really set the mood for the game.
  
  the gameplay in lost planet is in my opinion quite fun and enjoyable. as the game progresses you 
 come to face bigger and bigger akrid (the games main enemy, other enemies include rival snow pirates 
 and the mysterious NEVEC group) the enemies you face throughout the game are quite diverse and 
 interesting to say the least. the gameplay is fairly simple, almost run and gun in its style if 
 anything else. what sets this game appart from other run and gun games is the inclusion of the 
 large Vital Suits or VS's for short. the VS's add a whole new level to gamplay, not just in single 
 player but multiplayer aswell. the inclusion of VS's in Multiplayer is probably a master stroke 
 in the game, in a match when you get into a vital suit..... the game changes... dramaticly... its 
 almost sadistic the way that you can take to your petty onfoot foes with reckless abandon blasting 
 them with huge rockets and cannons. vital suits (if properly piloted and supported) in multiplayer 
 can be a huge asset to whichever team they are on. however they arnt invinciable and are suceptable 
 to many things, one cool soloution to an enemy in an open VS is to graple onto them and spray some 
 bullets into the pilot from point blank whilst hanging onto the VS for grim death! all in all Lost 
 Planet is a great game, it has all the tings the that make shooters great, and afew things that 
 make a brilliant addition to the standard formula. that being said this game, like every other, 
 may not be for everyone. ultimatly it comes down to personal choice but lost planet is an exelent 
 game, even if it isnt exactly your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I picked this one up at launch knowing full well not to buy into the hype behind it. I was right 
 to do so because this game has great visuals and sound but isnt anything too new. The gameplay 
 is standard other than the element of freezing to death if you dont find heat orbs but other than 
 that its beeen done before. Dont forget that there isnt too much variety in the game and that does 
 spell its downfall (to me at least) . Other than that this game is great for the reason that its 
 put on some fantstic visuals and sound that put the game together. When judging this game as a 
 whole its not shabby at all in fact its one of the better shooters out there for the 360. The multiplayer 
 is one of the games strong points and surely worth giving it a go. Its hard to really describe 
 the feeling of playing it since it borrows elements from different games, but it an enjoyable one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to start with this game is hard as both single player and multi player is amazing but 
 have to admit the multi player offers alot more for few reasons you gain ranks (levels) so when 
 you join servers you will get numbers next to your name to show off how much you have played it 
 lol and also theres a voice changer if im right this is the first time there has been one on the 
 360 you can have a painful little squeak to your voice lol or sound like mike tyson and theres 
 a couple more also theres options to pick what your charater looks like etc on multi player very 
 nice servers by the looks of it as well all seem very stable lag free at the moment...
  
  Single player have to put a word in for the cut scenes there great they are all on for a nice few 
 mins at least not one of those 20 second ones you normally seen and the bad guys you face one second 
 your facing soldiers next your fighting giant spiders and worms amazing graphics and actually hear 
 the snow crunch beneath your feet just superb...
  
  So basically you walk past the game store over the week end and see lost planet you can think to 
 your self it was damn worth buying that and feel glad you got it but if your walking past the shop 
 and only thinking about buying it what the hell you waiting for get your wallet out you tight git 
 lol
  
  just remember this will be the last game you will buy till halo 3 :-) or even crackdown for the 
 the halo 3 beta key lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hussein_nahidh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Again, Capcom raise up with another new universe, called Lost Planet (YEA! who knows?? maybe there 
 s somthin else comin as well !!) , after the latest announcement from capcom that LP EC is gonna 
 be comin on the PS3 as well, the game lost it's value, as more effort need to be concerned and 
 divided on both of the platforms... So far, if we take a breath, and look deep into the gameplay 
 videos ( i would say that as i haven't played the game yet! lol) we'll see how much close the gameplay 
 is from this which we experienced in Resident evil 4,, though it shows that it's great success 
 on the X360 is about to appear, lookin at the graphics now, the game has some good graphics stuff,, 
 explosion are perfect! camouflage and other designed weapons and effects (robots or wateva they're 
 called) ,,, the enemies look kool !! as they've designed to be huge and kinda scary a bid!! huh 
 .. not that much though..!!
  
  sounds? Loud and Clear ! ,,, but isnt that great as u fire a rocket or somthin! but nevertheless, 
 i would give the sounds: 8.... dont ask me why!! lol
  
  the multiplayer is amazing as it looks! really u must check it out... as it did not exist in RE4 
 ,,, but like the way the players move within the multiplayer mode of the game ... it looks a bid 
 DOGGY!!! nevertheless, it's kool 2 check it out with ur mates and ppl u kow ... it's fabulous!! 
 finally, i would conclude this tiny little review stating: this game is wicked! if u eva had the 
 chance 2 buy it, don't hesitate damn it!! but just buy the X360 copy,,, as it gonna rock for a 
 start !! and then we'll check out the other platforms copies !! gd luck 2 u all ,, and thanks 4 
 readin the review ... Hussain Nahid ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingjackass
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  One of my friends works at a game store, and he let me buy a copy 2 days early of the launch day, 
 and believe me, I was excited. But after I got to play it, I realized there was much more hype 
 about it, than there was actual gameplay. I had the multiplayer demos and I figured the real multiplayer 
 game would have much much more to offer and more weapons, upgrades to the VS units, but I was wrong. 
 Nothing much else to say about it. The single player is kinda just a shoot em' up game. If you 
 have the multiplayer demo, you pretty much have what is in the game (so far... because I haven't 
 beat the entire game yet) . And I want everyone to know that I'm not disappointed in the game, I 
 just think there could have been more to it. All in all, I definitely recommend renting it to make 
 sure you like it enough to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmanx122285
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I pretty much enjoy this game. It is true that the levels are will seem repetitive. I also saw 
 myself just wandering around, knowing that some Akrid (the resident creatures of the game's planet) 
 were bound to pop out the ground and im blasting them. The character moves slow to some people, 
 but probably because they dont read the controls. But the sheer atmosphere of the entire game experience, 
 and the fact that that same game play is fun; helps Lost Planet ease away from general games. The 
 multi player aspect are AMAZING. This game is a huge credit to Capcom as they continue to make 
 great games. All should try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name_Taken
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  well.... first of all... wayyyy to much hype about to this game... like as if it was going to be 
 the next GoW but actually... it cant even compare... its got a good setting with good ideas for 
 enimies but.... as one of the users said its all flash no substance ... pretty much i felt like 
 i was just running around shooting things... not much dramatic action and co-op your just by yourself 
 with not much conversation and voices and other things going on like most action pact games... 
 this is mostly just you in the snow by yourself except for when a guy miles away with white hair 
 that tells you what to do next... while your just shooting other things that walk around... one 
 thing that really caught my attention and was revolutionary to me was when were able to strip off 
 the gatling gun from the VS suit that was pretty nice... then you can also change the gun of the 
 VS suit by picking up another gatling gun now thats sweet... the grapling hook is nice and all 
 but... not really used... VS suits is where the game gets a LITTLE interesting not much excitment 
 but you feel a LITTLE something... summing it all up... that Lost Planet party and all these promotional 
 things about the game seems like no need... it couldnt even match up to GoW that at least lived 
 up to their hype... Lost Planet is just another occasionally good third person shooter even if 
 its not that great its still worth buying but not at the brand new $59.99 price... ALIENS RPG and 
 ALIENS FPS!! 2009!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenssus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I thought, I had made a good deal..
  After been playing for a couple of hours, I've realised something... I was wrong...
  
  The game 
 has some really pretty graphics, I must say.. Even though it has a lot of white color in it, it 
 looks really sharp. The game has the best fire effects in all of gaming history.
  
  The sound is pretty good too, but it is when coming to gameplay, that the game starts to fall. 
 The gameplay is really slow and extremely repeative. The weapons are cool and so are the enemies, 
 but is feel like you get in the same fights over and over again.
  
  Lasting appeal... well I managed to keep my interest for a couple of hours... but then again, I haven't 
 tried the multiplayer yet...
  
  I think, you should rent this game before buying.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  this game is a nice lokking game the weapons are cool and this game was worth waiting for. the missions 
 are very well designed. the mecs are also very well designedthe gameplay is kind of like halo gears 
 of war like. the limted edition contains: a bonus disc which  more 
 this game packs of fun. and the sound effects on this game is nice like the wind in the snow and 
 the sound of foot steps in the snow. and this game looks like a hard working game. so if you want 
 to buy this than go to your near game store or buy it online. just to say this game is great. to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valinus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with plenty of hours of play and online action to keep you entertained for 
 a long period of time. The graphics are great and besides a few annoying things like no sprint 
 button and a semi weird story it is still well put together. This gameis however not for everyone 
 there is allot of fire fighting and not a cover system so you have to play smart all by yourself. 
 Online has plenty of unlockables to keep you entertained for a good amount of time after you beat 
 the not to short but not to long singel player. This is a great game but just like capcoms dead 
 riseing there is allot of love it or hate it attitude because it is different. I suggest trying 
 to demo out on xbox live or renting it if you are unsure of the play. Also as a side note sound 
 in this game is great. Everything mathes up and sounds great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alnox
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Should of bin good, but wasn't! A major disappointment. if it was free id play it!
  
  The game lacks the enjoyment of other popular games like gears of war, rainbow 6. i find my self 
 playing Hexic HD more than lost planet, i don't understand how people can say this is like the 
 old school games but better, this lacks what old school games had, which was enjoyment to play 
 and never lasting play time. Maybe if there was some actual decent game play, not just some stupid 
 Japanese, robot thing which does nothing, accept dies on you when u need it most cause theres no 
 thermal energry arround. Though i did enjoyign running around as a guy, and how the crosshair moved 
 was pretty cool. that is really all i can say, if you got money to waste then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and i (did not like it) then i red that it was not the real game it was just 
 a tester this means that they just showed you what the game might b like. Once i got the game i 
 was saying in my head once i play this i will want to take it back for a new games i put it in 
 my 360 and loved it the enemys there are tons off them!!!! ive never seen as many HD enemys on 
 the 1 screen in my life you also get a good lot team mates so you will never been alone :) also 
 if your a bit off an online fan there is a lot off online ahievements for you to keep you busy 
 also there is Co-op which i played for about an hour and loved it the games itself is solid great 
 graphics a pretty good storyline and a lot off enemys and bosses!!! there is quite a few bosses 
 and the good thing is that they are very hard to kill this game is mostly in the snow its 3rd person 
 and from the start off the game tell the end its full on action. i have been playing this game 
 for 5hours now and i have loved every minute off it any1 who likes action games should give this 
 one a try and i hope to cya online in Lost Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet plays similar to Devil May Cry. You got the high number of enemies, you got the gigantic 
 bosses and you got the orbs you pick up after killing them. In this case you pick up thermal energy 
 which you need if you want to survive since your thermal energy (or T-ENG) is constantly draining 
 due to the fact that you are in an extremely cold environment.
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet are simply gorgeous. Enemies and character models look and move realistic 
 and the environments look better than most games I've seen on the 360. The big hit graphically 
 here are the explosions and smoke effects. They look so great that you want to throw grenades everywhere 
 and shoot explosive barrels all the time just to see it, plus it adds to the fun.
  
  There are a number of cool ways to take out your enemies. You start with the standard machine gun 
 but as the game progress you pick up shotguns, sniper rifles, energy guns, rocket launchers and 
 many more. You can also use mechs which have diffirent abilities like hover and yes, they are heavily 
 armed.
  
  There are some great sound effects from the guns, especially the big ones like the gattling gun 
 or rocket launcher. It sounds really massive and combined with the beautiful explosion effects 
 the action becomes even more enjoyable. When you have beaten the 11 mission long single-player 
 campaign you can allways go online which is a blast. There's the basic deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 and you also have post grab where your team needs to take control over the dataposts on the map 
 before the other team does and you have fugitive. In this game mode the host of the match will 
 be the fugitive and those who join the room will be hunters. You then work together to kill the 
 fugitive. You can customize your character you play with and when you reach higher levels new player 
 models and patterns of your costume will be availiable for you to use.
  
  Lost Planet is one of the best shooters I've played on the 360 so you don't want to miss this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iDEVIL_
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  ok here is the think! Very good graphics a good senario ,classic gameplay ,and good sounds! (the 
 gameplay it is little ''light'' i mean you don't feel too much the player move its like wing in 
 the air! and the senario is standart !you follow it like always capcom does, i think if he put more 
 search inside the game lets say secret weapons path and these thinks it will be much better the 
 resident evil 4 is better from the lost planet! Anyway the game (lost planet) ! remind me a similar 
 game in pc's the title of the game was _the think_and it was a good one! thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is an oldschool shooter.
  What that means? It's third person, you go ahead, and KILL. Yes, basically, that. But it's a little 
 more complex than that. In Lost Planet you have to fight against the Akrid and snow pirates. You 
 can do that 2 ways: on foot, or in a mech. Unfortunately, you can't always be using mechs, but 
 alot of times, yes.
  
  The game has wide choice of weaponary, starting with the machine gun, shotgun, sniper rifle, but 
 eventually you'll be able to de-attach laser guns, gantling guns from the mechs. Also, there are 
 plenty of granades: 'sticky' granades, hand granades.... if you aren't blowing something up in 
 the game, you're doing something wrong.
  
  Because, that's what the game is about: explosive action. You're on your own fighting against sometimes 
 100's of enemies. Snow pirates fight against you with guns, akrids... well... these bug-like creatures 
 have alot of things to fight against you with.
  
  At the end of each map you'll fight a 'boss'. Sometimes a snow pirate (in a mech) other times a 
 big akrid. You can defend akrids by hitting their weak spot, which is always yellow-ish. And you 
 can defend mechs by using tactics. However, it's often really difficult, because all they do is 
 jump all over the place, and they're impossible to follow with the lazy analogue sticks.
  
  Unfortunately, the boss battles can be really frustrating: if you fall, you can hardly get back 
 up, because most likely ,you'll get shot while you're down, preventing you from backing up: you 
 lose energy, and then you lose health eventually, too.
  
  What's the different between energy and health you may ask. To be alive, you need to collect energy, 
 because on the planet you're fighting, the temperature is so low, it's unbearable. You can collect 
 energy by killing enemies and taking their energy. Smaller enemies have little, bigger ones have 
 alot of energy. If you take it, it'll show up on the HUD, and in every second, you lose a certain 
 amount. If you're being attacked, then you lose more, because if you lose health, energy is used 
 to heal you back. But if you run out of energy, health starts to drop, so unless you find some 
 energy, you'll die.
  
  It may sound complicated and difficult, it's not. The AI... well the AI is nothing special. Pretty 
 dumb at places, but mostly OK. Although, I think the AI is a little dumbed down so you can shoot 
 them: the aiming might be hard for some people in this game, since it's a little more complicated, 
 however, more realistic ( the character doesn't aim with the 'body', but with the 'hand ) .
  
  The game has a story, but it's really full of clich&eacute; s. I excepted more from Capcom. 
 It reminds me of Gears of War: there's only a story included to have an excuse for shooting. Nothing 
 more.
  
  Lastly, the graphics. The graphics are good. But. Enemy corpses disappear, dug up snow quickly 
 disappears, and becomes untrodden snow. It's a little frustrating in such game: because alot of 
 times all you see is snow. And I think snow should be the most detailed thing in the game. The 
 characters are fair, kinda like in Dead Rising (it's using the same graphics engine, I think) . The 
 giant enemies, though, look really damn so good. Not only because they're big, but also because 
 they're big AND detailed. Yummy. The framerate is stable, which is understandable: as I said, the 
 graphics are GOOD, but it doesn't even come close to Gears of War.
  
  Overally, very fun shooter on a 'snow-planet' against giant bugs, pirates. There is no puzzle solving, 
 so it's pretty straight ahead. Although, I did get bored at times. Mostly when I was walking in 
 the snow for long minutes, and I didn't meet one single enemy. That, unfortunately, bound to happen 
 once or twice. The boss fights are fun, but by the end, they get more and more frustrating; I can 
 see some gamer giving up on the game because of the difficult boss fights.
  
  Lost Planet was the game I thought will innovate the third person shooters. There was alot of hype 
 surrounding it: E3 demo, very early videos, interesting infos; but at the end, it's just a collection 
 of good elements that other games already contain. Bit disappointing, but for every shooter fan 
 out there: it's a must have.
  
  [PS.: I didn't try the multiplayer part yet, but I hear it's good] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
