-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost Odyssey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/lostodyssey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Kaim is a great hero, and his supporting cast is equally appealing.
 Text flashbacks are well written and emotionally gripping.
 Spell and skill development is handled deftly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Protracted battle intros and other frustrations break up the pace.
 Some nonbattle gameplay elements are boring, pointless, or needlessly frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,762 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Mistwalker
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 12, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost Odyssey doesn't rewrite the rules for turn-based role-playing games, but its great story and 
 minor formula tweaks will keep you entertained. 

  Lost Odyssey doesn't push any role-playing game boundaries, though that won't come as a shock to 
 anyone familiar with Mistwalker's previous game, Blue Dragon. However, in the case of the developer's 
 newest effort, that isn't always a bad thing. Yes, there are times when it feels like more of a 
 relic than it does a true next-generation game, particularly in light of the tweaks made by other 
 modern Japanese RPGs such as Persona 3 and Eternal Sonata. Yet while it may borrow liberally from 
 the genre's older gems, Lost Odyssey is a game worth playing, most notably for its fascinating 
 story and its brooding protagonist, Kaim.  

           Jansen is the perfect foil to Kaim's constant seriousness.      

  Kaim, along with 
 several other characters in Lost Odyssey, is immortal, though the origin of his immortality is 
 left purposefully unclear at the outset of the game. It's hard to get a handle on Kaim at first; 
 he's the strong, silent type, the prototypical moping hero with a soulful scowl and a deep well 
 of unfathomable secrets. The game takes its time with his character development, but as information 
 slowly unfolds, it's hard not to empathize with his internal struggles. But he doesn't struggle 
 alone, and Lost Odyssey doesn't neglect the rest of its fascinating cast. Lady pirate Seth, kind 
 queen Ming, the noble Tolten, and several others provide ample companionship, and their lives intersect 
 in some surprising -- and not so surprising -- ways. It's a serious tale, but comic relief is plentiful, 
 and most of it comes from inadvertent spy Jansen, a flamboyant ladies' man who manages to be both 
 annoying and irresistibly charming.  

  Lost Odyssey is about its characters, not about its plot. In fact, the main story follows a more 
 or less predictable path, pitting you against a villain you spend half the game knowing very little 
 about. No, it's about self-discovery and the timelessness of the relationships we develop. Kaim 
 and his immortal companions unlock memories during the course of the game, and they are presented 
 in simple but effective sequences in which the memory is recounted via stylized text, accompanied 
 by pretty static images and subtle music cues. It makes for a good amount of reading, but if you 
 skip past these memories, you will miss the game's most touching and heartfelt moments. The main 
 story doesn't often reach those same heights, and a good number of the game's countless cutscenes 
 ramble aimlessly and end up feeling like filler. Yet Lost Odyssey's concluding hours, as predictable 
 as they are, make you  feel , and that alone makes this a saga worth experiencing.  

  This yarn takes place in a fully realized fantasy world in the midst of revolution both political 
 and magical. On your journey you'll certainly see your share of clichd caves and forests, but 
 there are plenty of beautiful vistas to behold: rocky seaside cliffs, looming castles swarming 
 with mysterious spirits, and portside towns with colorful cobbled streets. Lost Odyssey's art design 
 clicks, from Kaim's lazy strand of hair to detailed enemy-character models. The depth-of-field 
 blurring that stuck out in Blue Dragon is used more subtly and to greater effect here, particularly 
 during the game's most dramatic scenes. On the technical side, the game isnt quite as strong. 
 The framerate is inconsistent, and the game hitches noticeably during gameplay and cutscenes, even 
 during onscreen events that wouldnt seem to tax the Unreal 3 engine, such as the map overview 
 that occurs prior to region transitions. You will also experience some loading times between areas 
 and before cutscenes, and while they are semi-frequent, they arent excessively long.  

           Aim rings add subtle but noticeable effects to the flow of battle.      

  Thankfully, 
 the game is an aural delight, and it owes a lot to its pretty soundtrack. Some of the soundtrack 
 is predictable, like the Final Fantasy-tinged battle music, although thats not too surprising 
 when you consider that the score was created by longtime FF composer Nobuo Uematsu. Still, many 
 of the tracks are standouts. In particular, the atmospheric strains played during unlocked memories 
 are wonderfully moody and match the text perfectly. The English voice acting isn't bad, and Jansen, 
 Ming, and Kaim are particularly well voiced. On the other hand, Mack and Cooke are acted with the 
 usual hyperactive hamming that child characters so often fall victim to. Regardless, there are 
 other language options, so if you'd rather listen to the original Japanese voice cast, you have 
 the alternative.     

  The gameplay itself doesn't reach the same zenith as the story, though it's solid in and of itself. 
 Combat is your standard turn-based affair, though there are some twists, chief among them the aim 
 rings. Any character can wear a ring that confers upon its wearer one or more bonuses, such as 
 a chance of inflicting poison, extra damage against spirit enemies, and so on. This isn't so special 
 on its own, but the effectiveness of the bonus is completely reliant on your actions in battle. 
 Whenever you order a party member to perform a standard attack, a circle will appear around your 
 target while a larger one encircles the screen. To receive the full benefit of your ring, you hold 
 a trigger down to shrink the larger circle and release it when it has shrunken to the size of the 
 smaller one. The better your timing, the more potent the bonus, and if you are too far off, you 
 don't get any benefit at all. You craft the rings yourself with ingredients you can purchase from 
 merchants or find in the spoils of battle, and it's as simple as heading into the game menus and 
 choosing which ring you wish to fashion. The bonuses themselves don't seem all that potent on their 
 own, but equipping the right rings against the right enemies, along with the subtle effects of 
 other items and spells, can have real consequences in battle.  

           Youll drink in some lovely scenery.      

  Another addition to the combat is the 
 defensive bonus applied to characters positioned in the back of your formation by way of the strength 
 of those in front. As front-facing combatants get attacked, that bonus depletes, which makes attacks 
 against those in the rear more powerful -- and this applies to your enemies as well as to your own 
 party. This gives way to some interesting spells and abilities, along with some tactical considerations, 
 given that you can't always easily do damage to the powerful spellcaster in the back without first 
 weakening the lesser enemies in the front. Of course, there are other considerations in play, such 
 as attacking enemies that have an elemental affiliation with a spell of the opposing element. Nevertheless, 
 both rings and guard bonuses are slight but welcome additions to the formula.  

  Unsurprisingly, spells and abilities are the most important facets of Lost Odyssey's battles. Be 
 prepared: Many of these battles are challenging, so you'll need to have a tight grip on each character's 
 unique skills. Mere mortals have more or less predetermined skill sets, so their roles in combat 
 are generally obvious. On the other hand, immortals have just a few innate skills; instead, you 
 need to learn more of them from mortals by linking to them and battling together until the immortal 
 has gained use of them. Once every available character has joined your party, this brings up some 
 unique possibilities. Is it worthwhile to bench one mortal in favor of another, simply in order 
 for Seth to earn a desirable spell, even if that mortal isn't the right choice for your current 
 circumstance? Do you bring in another immortal, knowing he will revive after defeat in a few turns, 
 and forgo an active link for the time being? Either way, Lost Odyssey finds a pleasant balance 
 between preset character roles and player-controlled development.  

  Although these additions are welcome, they aren't groundbreaking, and other aspects of the game 
 are decidedly old-fashioned to a fault. Gameplay outside of combat feels sluggishly paced to the 
 point of boredom. At one point, you'll have to endure two yawn-inducing fetch quests in a row; 
 a short time later, you'll light a series of torches in a minigame of sorts that reduces the emotional 
 impact of the surrounding scenes and feels pointless. In another section, you must sneak past security 
 robots, and should you make a mistake, you get sent back to the beginning of the section and must 
 endure the same dialogue again. Other annoyances crop up as well, such as an area littered with 
 holes that are hard to see; if you fall into one, you're sent back to the start of the dungeon. 
 Many of these elements take a bit of time to complete, but none of them are much fun.  

           Kaim doesn't always have a lot to say, but his memories speak volumes.      

  Getting 
 the most out of Lost Odyssey will require a bit of patience, even from those used to the slower 
 pace of the genre. However, the gameplay subtleties and character-driven narrative are rewarding 
 enough to make it worth the occasional frustration. No, the game breaks no new ground, but if you 
 stick with it, you'll find a compelling emotional drama, delicate adjustments to an age-old formula, 
 and a unique and balanced skill-development system. Kaim's journey is a memorable one, and if you 
 like turn-based RPGs, you'll want to experience it for yourself.  

    Editor's note 02/19/08 : After posting this review GameSpot found that load times in the review 
 version of Lost Odyssey were significantly longer than those in the retail game. We have amended 
 the review accordingly and regret the original error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (385 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: UnsaidWarning
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a good game. If your a fan of RPG's, especially older ones, than you will love 
 it. The only people I know of that didn't find themselves immersed in it are too much into the 
 "New Age" RPG's, (*Cough* FF12 *Cough*) where battle systems have been re-invented or altered, 
 and the narrative is sometimes placed last next to gameplay. My review is going to be simple and 
 to the point though.
  
  Characters: Great cast, Jansen steals the show. The voice actors ad-libbing is hilarious. Would 
 have liked a little more interaction during the second half though, but for the most part you get 
 some great interaction and character building.
  
  Story: Has a very mysterious quality to it, and is extremely melancholy and tragic. Even the happy 
 bits are sad. The villain is pretty cliche' and there aren't many twists if that is your thing, 
 but when there are they rock. And the emotional moments have never been represented so well before 
 in an RPG of this day. Great stories in between game play moments, and even though they aren't 
 for everyone, they are written well and are highly entertaining.
  
  Music: Its Nobuo, its good. Thats all you need to know. Haunting and Beautiful.
  
  Game play: 
 Simple but never gets old or repetitive. Although random battles can be annoying, mostly because 
 it manages to give you a large flow of battles when you least want them, and exactly none when 
 you do want them. I've never understood this about how RPG's know us that well... but I digress. 
 The areas are gorgeous of course, and the battles can still feel extremely intense even with the 
 classic combat system.
  
  Overall the entire aspect is pretty oldschool, with nothing totally ground beaking, but thats why 
 its so good imo. Its a classic clich'ed rpg that is completely awesome. For the ADD generation 
 of today you may be slightly bored that you aren't pushing a button every second of game play, 
 but for those looking for something epic and well paced, and very human and well done, this is 
 for you. You should really play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a very traditional JRPG. If you have played any JRPGs, you will find Lost Odyssey 
 to be a classic in the first glance. It is not a bad thing, especially if you have played and enjoyed 
 JRPGs before, you will appreciate Lost Odyssey. I havent played any JRPGs in a while, when I first 
 get my hands on Lost Odyssey, I feel like playing JRPGs back in the olds days on the computer. 
 It is warm for me to recall the days when I was still a child. Lost Odyssey, at first, gave me 
 a pretty good impression.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a turn based RPG. You first start out only with the protagonist Kaim Argonar, but 
 eventually, you will get more members in the team. But you can only have 5 members in the battle, 
 so you have to choose which others to stand by. However, you wont be allowed to subsitute during 
 battles. The 5 members in the battle will consist of the front row and the back row, the formation 
 is your choice. The front row is for characters with high defence and health, because they will 
 take full damage, the back row is for characters with low defence and heath, so the GC (Guard Condition) 
 level, which is based on the health of the first row, can protect the back row by reducing a great 
 amount of damage. By adding the GC level into the gameplay, it doesnt make the game too complex, 
 but, in a good way, it does adds some strategic challenges.
  
  Kaim is 1000 years old, he is an immortal. There is a difference between immortals and mortals 
 skill system. Mortals only learn new skills by leveling up, immortals however, learn skills from 
 mortals and assesseries. Even though you take time and learn skills through gaining SP from battles, 
 you have skill slots that limit the amount of skills you can carry. The number of skill slots can 
 increase by certain items you can find throughout the game.
  
  Lost Odyssey also have an Aim Ring system, aim rings are a type of special equipment. It gives 
 enhancements to weapons, for example, damage, ailments, critical hit rate, etc. Aim rings only 
 work on regular attacks, skills and spells will not activate the ring you equipped. When you attack, 
 it is like a simple mini game that you have to have a good timing. The effect is only significant 
 if you score a PERFECT using the aim ring, GOOD only adds a little effect, and BAD adds no effect 
 at all. Rings cannot be purchased in a store, but you can assemble them. Materials can be found 
 after battle, in dungeons, and by doing side quests. Although Lost Odyssey is a slow paced, turn 
 based RPG, because of the Aim Ring system, it adds some action.
  
  Lost Odyssey has a main story. Kaim, since he is 1000 years old, has memories of his past. These 
 memories called A Thousand Years of Dreams serve as mini stories that you can unlock throughout 
 the game. A Thousand Years of Dreams are all text based with images, music, and some sound effects 
 in the background. This part is my personal favorite, most of the texts have some great stories.
 
  
  As Mistwalker said, "Heart warming emotions is what I feel should be experienced and left in your 
 soul through game play." Lost Odyssey did a great job on emotions. The music is the best, Nobuo 
 Uematsu is god. Voice acting, although I choose to listen to Japanese, is pretty good. Visuals 
 are very artistic. However, technically, Mistwalker did not make it to its best. Lost Odyssey uses 
 Unreal Engine, Unreal used to create good graphics, but my guess is that Japanese arent very experienced 
 using Unreal. Because Lost Odyssey, although visuals are artistically pretty, it does not have 
 the best graphics. Game mechanics also have some issues with loading, so even though there are 
 a lot of beautiful cutscenes, loadings can sometimes crush the momentum of emotions.
  
  Compare Lost Odyssey to many American made video games, it does not have the best performance. 
 But does Mistwalker succeed in bringing the emotions to our souls? Yes. Lost Odyssey is a great 
 piece of art, and a great game that everyone should experience.
  
  Goods:
  Full of emotions
  Full of art
  Instant classic
  Solid main story
  Great set of characters
 
  Beautiful, well directed cutscenes
  Superb music
  A Thousand Years of Dreams is gripping
  Aim Ring adds some action
  Skills and spells are well 
 organized
  Relatively long game length
  
  Bads:
  Looooooooong loadings
  Many, many, many loadings
  Rely too much on game guide
  Dungeons sometimes could get frustrating
 
  Graphics are not like the best ones out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luge_dalanza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a well rounded turn-based RPG. The game is based around the character Kaim, who 
 is an immortal sent to the world with 4 other companions, one of which is an evil man with huge 
 eye-brows. You travel through many cities and towns, discovering new areas and being immersed in 
 a heavily thought out story-line that will keep you entertained for many hours.
  
  This game is probably the longest I have seen on the 360, weighing in around 10 hours per disc, 
 with 4 discs. Much of the game is based around remembering what has been forgotten by the 4 immortals 
 that are in your party; Kaim, Seth, Ming, and Sarah.
  
  The story behind these characters will keep you highly entertained, and also involves you deeply. 
 I remember at one point the game itself actually made me feel sad because of a horrifically sad 
 event in the game itself, I have never EVER had this happen to me when playing a game. But this 
 isn't the only thing that may draw you to the game, the sort of unique battle style is also a huge 
 thumbs up, well designed and brings out that hand-eye coordination that people say gamers' have. 
 Having to time your hit to do more damage may have been done before, but, in this case, it gives 
 you that edge that can turn a battle around in a tight situation.
  
  Another thing towards the battling, is the skills, I love having so many skills at your disposal. 
 But this bring me to the bad, having to learn the skills over and over again through your mortal 
 characters. By this I mean the following, in most rpgs, you just want to keep going, but not in 
 this one, this one you just can't, at times you need to keep on fighting, even if there's no way 
 to heal, only because, its the only way for you to stay alive in most cases, ironic huh?
  
  I've run into many times where I have my best characters out, then I find out, I need a skill I 
 just don't have because I focused one a certain set of characters. This game FORCES you to keep 
 your characters balanced. A good thing about it though, is the variety of different skills, and 
 that the immortals can learn any skill, just by equipping an item and building up the skill points 
 for it, and linking to another person's skills and gaining them. But this also has caused many 
 pains, by having to switch my characters' skills before every battle because they didn't suit the 
 area I'm in. But this also adds a more strategic thinking to the process, what should I sacrifice 
 to be able to withstand this attack. The only problem is, in some cases its a hit or miss situation, 
 like many boss battles.
  
  In the end though, the game is definitely a good game for you to get to pass the time, if you just 
 need that game which will keep you busy, but still keep you entertained for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duhhhhhh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  At first i was reluctant because in the beginning its kind of hard to follow but the farther in 
 you get the better it gets. From the amazing opening scene its looks like an AMAZING game but its 
 goes from that to a kind of boring game of find the objective but when you leave the first city 
 is when the game starts getting great. Memorable characters and great old fashioned game play bring 
 back the memories of old rpg's but still feels kinda new with he ring system. Overall I'd say if 
 your an rpg fan pick this up because it will make a great addition to any rpg collection. There 
 are a few bosses in it that were a bit of a challenge but at higher levels the game gets a bit 
 on the easy side. A few annoying puzzle fights but otherwise good old fashions my turn your turn 
 combat which i loved because after final fantasy 12's abysmal combat system i was wishing for the 
 old days. Bottom line if you love rpg's then you'll love this so what are you waiting for, GO GET 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  It is tough reviewing an RPG, and not just because of the time it takes to play through one. How 
 do you gauge whether or not the components work or not? What is the most important aspect of an 
 RPG, the story or the combat engine? Well, fortunately, Lost Odyssey is a pretty well-rounded game. 
 While it doesn't try to do a lot of 'new' things, what is brought to the table makes for a very 
 solid RPG in the tradition of JRPGs from the SNES/PS1 eras.
  
  The very first tip-off to how nostalgic this game will make you is the fact that it comes on 4 
 discs. I have never understood the griping that goes along with multiple disc games, but I changed 
 disc 1 after about 9 hours of playtime, disc 2 after about 18 hours, and disc 3 after about 25 
 hours. So somewhere between 25-30 hours later you will be done changing discs, and even then, you 
 will have sunk a considerable amount of time into the game. I don't really see the big deal here. 
 In addition to the swapping, I installed the discs using NXE's install feature. I noticed a very 
 slight decrease in load times, but I would recommend only installing the 4th disc, as you will 
 spend the most time on that one finishing up side quests and the like.
  
  As for the content on each disc, there are a lot of really good cut scenes to expand the story. 
 While the graphics in the game are hardly mind-blowing, they are decent enough. The cut scenes 
 vary from full-on CG with voices, to in-game scenes with voices where you have to hit 'A' to advance, 
 to in-game scenes without voices where you have to hit 'A' to advance. I wish the latter would 
 have been dropped completely, as it was sometimes hard to keep track of who says what, but overall 
 it was ample. While on the subject of scenes, the voice work in the game is ace. Each character 
 has a personality, and the acting matches them pretty well, though Jansen does get a bit annoying 
 in some spots.
  
  The story contains several JRPG standards, the main being amnesia for the main character. When 
 they first introduced that I groaned a bit, but when you learn the reasoning behind it, it makes 
 sense. Without giving away anything, some of the characters are immortal, though at first you don't 
 know why or how. These immortals are the ones without their memories, but you learn a bit as the 
 game progresses. Some of the memories for the main character, Kaim, are brought out through dream 
 sequences. These dreams are sparked from events or people in the game world and are then displayed 
 as short stories. They range from tales of battle to tales of sorrow, and some are really quite 
 beautiful. Most are found through the storyline, but all 30+ of them are worth seeking out.
  
  In terms of sidequests, there are not a ton of them, but they are worthwhile for the most part. 
 Immortal characters learn skills from accessories and also from mortal characters. Mortal characters 
 learn skills as they level up, and are completely skilled by level 52 (with one character being 
 done by 49) . The mortal characters learn skills based on their archetype, so the 'healer' character, 
 Cooke, learns white magic based skills for the most part. Getting the mortals maxed out isn't so 
 much of a struggle, but to max out the immortals will take a large chunk of time. To max out one 
 immortal character, you need to learn every skill from every maxed out mortal character (there 
 are five mortals) AND learn every skill from every accessory, even if they overlap with skills 
 learned from mortals. There are over 150 accessories, and obtaining some of them is a feat in and 
 of itself, like collecting all 99 seeds.
  
  If you're like me, and you absolutely need to do as many sidequests as you can, and try to max 
 out your favored characters there is a lot of grinding you will need to do. By the time I had reached 
 the 4th disc I was only level 30-35 for all the characters. Leveling characters is a bit different 
 from leveling skill points to learn accessories for immortals, too, though both are related. Most 
 of the sidequests are for powerful spells and/or accessories, so if you are a completionist, be 
 prepared for some grinding and backtracking to get everything.
  
  Without level grinding some of the bosses and even some of the enemies pose quite a challenge. 
 At first, I was getting destroyed on a fairly regular basis, barely making my way past some of 
 the boss battles. Once I started taking better advantage of save points and items, it was less 
 of a struggle, and once I did an hour or so of level grinding, I was back on track for easier battles. 
 For people that play RPGs but only stick to the story, you may have some difficulty near the end, 
 especially considering that immortals need time to learn skills that help make battles much easier. 
 So, in order to truly take full advantage of some having a solid party, be prepared to at least 
 do some sidequesting, or stat padding.
  
  Grinding may turn off some less devoted folks, but fortunately, the battle system is quite simple 
 and I liked it immediately. It is turn based, and almost taken entirely from an earlier Square 
 game. Everything is there that you would expect, though I wish there were summon spells for some 
 more flair. Aside from the standard black and white magics, there are spirit magics, which are 
 stat boosting for the most part, and also composite magic. Composite magic is a little different, 
 but it is what it sounds like, the combination of spells to make a larger, more effective spell. 
 While it's nice, I would have liked to be able to combine my own spells, like you can with some 
 of the ring accessories.
  
  The rings are another major component of battles. Rings are accessories that have certain attributes 
 associated with them, some cause status ailments, some have elemental effects, some steal items, 
 some are a combination of several of those things. You can find them, buy them, but most importantly 
 you can create them. Creatures drop rare items after most battles, and these rare items can be 
 combined to create rings with corresponding effects. Obtain enough items to meet the requirements 
 of a ring, and you can create the ring. Rings also have levels, so you can continue upgrading them 
 to be more effective. In battle, in addition to the status effects, holding down the right trigger 
 for a regular attack is sort of a mini-game where you have to get a ring inside a target ring. 
 Have the ring match up perfectly nets a 'perfect' and more damage is done, you have better chance 
 of a critical hit and/or the rings effects.
  
  When it comes to achievements, Lost Odyssey has some of the best for an RPG. Instead of the standard 
 fare of all collection-based achievements (get 100% of ___) they are somewhat diverse. The game 
 starts you off with some easy ones, and then you get 125 pointers for finishing every disc. However, 
 after the initial achievements, the next ones I got were for finishing discs 1, 2, and 3. It was 
 not until the 4th disc that I started getting other achievements, so there is a bit of a long stretch 
 there. Just for beating the game, you are guaranteed 500 points just from those achievements, though, 
 which is nice. The rest of the achievements are for leveling up characters, learning all skills 
 for immortals, finding all spells, and extra boss fights. They aren't worth much, but if you do 
 sidequests, you will end up with a lot of them.
  
  
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is familiar. It probably doesn't do anything new if you have been playing 
 RPGs for the past 20 years, like I have. However, I don't see that as a bad thing, necessarily. 
 RPGs haven't changed drastically in that time, and maybe they don't need to. A lot of the components 
 of this game work now just as well as they first did, the only difference is their age. It's almost 
 nostalgic playing this game, and I was frequently reminded of RPG gems like Final Fantasy 7. I 
 truly hope that we see more installments in the Lost Odyssey franchise, as the groundwork laid 
 is both solid and engrossing. As far as JRPGs on the Xbox 360 go, this is definitely worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenswan32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey has the bases of any good, old rpg: a turn-based system, a wonderful soundtrack, good 
 voice-acting, a deep story, a couple of flashbacks, some love plot there in the middle, stereotyped 
 characters and a malicious villain. 
  I think the real problem in this game is the lack of originality in terms of a new rpg generation. 
 Then, should we think that there should be a new, rpg generation? Old-school games, where are they? 
 The ages where we played those rpg's where the characters were a bunch of pixels of three united 
 polygons? The ages where music was in MIDI quality and not made of great orchestral scores?, 
 
  Lost Odyssey combines elements that old players remember from the last one or two decades: a good 
 soundtrack, made from the largely acclaimed composer Nobuo Uematsu, complex characters interaction, 
 potions and another recovery items, the turn-based system we love so much, good graphics, typical 
 elemental magic, a couple of good big swords, each character has its class...
  There's nothing trully bad about Lost Odyssey. The lack of originality is what rewards this game 
 with an overall 7.5 score. 
  Play the game, people who miss old-school rpgs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best JPRPG I've played hands down on the 360, and it offers a lot too a old 
 school JRPG fan, but it doesn't exactly appeal to every JPRPG fan, which is why this game is either 
 being avoided by many or gets mixed reviews, so let see what good and bad shall we? 
  
  This game isn't long if you avoid the frustrating achievements, which one would wonder why they're 
 4 disc? I honestly I have no idea, cause the game is incredibly short, so it could be the amount 
 of in dept content graphically , but i don't really know. The graphics are stunning and vivid, 
 and the unique battle system is kind of frustrating at first (the whole ring thing) , but it becomes 
 easy over time. And If you've played Legend of Dragoon, then you'll pick it up fairly easy cause 
 they're both identical in some ways. The random encounters are a pain, but that old school at it 
 best when it comes to a JPRPG, so not complaing lol :P. If you love the Kingdom Heart feel or anything 
 within the area where it free movement + no random encounter, then you may want to avoid this, 
 cause the battle system/encounters doesn't change, so sorry. 
  
  The story line is kind of confusing at first, meaning that you'll be lost at the start, but after 
 playing for a while you'll get the hang of what going on, which is a interesting way to set up 
 a story line. There a lot of sad and funny moments and there actually not too many corny lines, 
 which JPRPG's are usually good at, which is good, if you hate them like me :D. A man name Jansen 
 who you'll come across fairly early in the game will be the man that you'll have to judge weather 
 or not is he is corny, or not sense he the "funny guy" within the game. I think he pretty funny 
 and not corny funny, and the guy who play the english voice over did a great job, so you should 
 be convinced either way, if you're focus on the comedy portion. 
  
  The boss difficulty in this game can be very hard depending if you're entering the fights with 
 or without knowledge . It clear that the creators don't want you power lvl, which = overly leveling. 
 This method has always been a easy and kind of lazy way to get things done without the stress of 
 fighting bosses with the lvl the creators want you to be when you fight them, which makes it challenging 
 + fun. In most cases You rarely get the advantage in any of the battles, only a couple, but majority 
 are battles where you have to work to make things happen, and basically sometime believe there 
 really is a lady luck, so, don't be a shame to combine your method of tactics with others, sense 
 some of bosses can be insane.
  
  Overall I love this game, cause I'm a JPRPG fan at heart old and new, but I know for a fact with 
 how new battle systems in JPRPG's are progressing like Eternal Sonata and Kingdom Hearts, and how 
 people are slowly moving in that direction, which is cool, but it also jades people mind into avoiding 
 great titles like this all together. If you like FF, then you'll love this game, if not? I suggest 
 you take caution, if you're new to the old school scene, but it doesn't hurt to give it a try.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is more like a Super Nintendo/Playstaion 1 RPG with XBOX360 graphics. But is this 
 a bad thing; for the most part I would say no.
  
  The story is fairly basic with cliched characters that are ripped straight from Final Fantasy games. 
 You have the quiet, pretty but tough protagonist in Kaim. The tough but sassy Seth. The powerful 
 magic wirlding wife of Kaim, Sarah. The nearly identical at least statistical wise to Sarah, Ming 
 the queen of Numara. These four mentioned are the immortals who have lived a thousand years but 
 have lost their memories. There goal is... you guessed it to regain their memories and save the 
 world. There are five other mortal characters that are not nearly as powerful and cliched as well 
 but no need to go to deeply into them.
  
  The gameplay is turn based with the ability to hold in the right analog stick when attacking for 
 either bad, good, or perfect strikes. There are the basic magic attacks as well. What I didn't 
 like was the limited customization of the characters. Basically Kaim is going to be your powerful 
 physical attacker and Sarah your magic attacker for example. There is also advantages to this system 
 as Lost Odyssey is a fairly easy RPG to pick up and play. The magic based attacks look good but 
 I would have liked to have seen a more fantastical looking magic like the summons of the Final 
 Fantasy games. Also the inability to skip through the magic animations really slows the game down 
 at times and makes things start to become monotonous toward the end of the game.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a fairly straightforward RPG with a few sidequests along the way to keep the game 
 from being to linear. The stroy is straightforeward as well with not many wow moments. A couple 
 of touching moments but I would have liked to seen more emotional charge at times. The story is 
 good though and will keep players pressing on to see the fate of the characters.
  
  Overall RPG fans, especially older ones, will enjoy the old school feel of Lost Odyssey. It will 
 be a nice tide over until the bigger titles arrive. I could also see a sequel as being on par with 
 the Final Fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticcop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey
  
  A 7.5 if there ever was one.
  Having spent 65 hours in the political turmoil that surrounds Uhra I have come to the conclusion 
 that this game could easily have elevated itself to much loftier heights than 7.5. The graphics, 
 sound, and voice acting are all easily above the average mark. The cutscenes and dialogue are well 
 done, as is the "dungeon" design, but for some reason it always feels like you are playing a "pitch" 
 rather then the actual game.
  
  ***Spoilers!!***
  Essentially, nothing ever happens after the first hour. A bad guys does bad things, and your good 
 guy attempts to thwart him. Remember in Phantasy Star 4 when you defeat Zio and it turns out he 
 is just a puppet for the real badguy? I kept wishing that was the case in this game. The main enemy 
 never really seems like much of a threat. Sure, he wants to be a god, and yes he hurts people- 
 but he is no Kefka that is for certain! The idea of immortals chasing other immortals around is 
 a gold mine for story line. However the only place this game makes use of that huge creative license 
 is in the "dreams". 
  
  Every so often the main character recalls a memory from his past, some are bittersweet and others 
 make you think. They are very well written and I enjoyed them a lot. Although they are basically 
 static scenes with a paragraph imposed over it. As an old school guy I don't mind, but the youngin's 
 are sure to have a hate on for it. I mean we couldn't even keep ancient snake from wearing an IPOD!
 
  
  The rest of the story line is a throw away. I found the pacing suspect too. I found that I was 
 lead along too much by the hand, never really having a say in how my characters developed. Im not 
 one to mind that but I found that the way that you traverse the map, until the end (and really 
 its more of an illusion) is very constricting. Dots on a map do not encourage exploration, which 
 is what I enjoy.- a huge world to explore and find secrets in. Some may feel that this game did 
 this, but I on the other hand, found it very linear.
  The graphics are very good, in the very first battle I sat not touching the controller because 
 I thought I was watching a cutscene. Sometimes there is some choppiness at the beginning of the 
 story scenes, and the load times at the beginning of the fights can be a little long but I did 
 not find it to be unreasonable. In particular one boss has an attack, more of a "summon" really, 
 that causes the game to hang up a bit, but nothing tremendous.
  The music is very familiar if you grew up with Square, and the voice acting as I mentioned is very 
 good. Especially if you consider the size of the project.
  
  I have a feeling, that if this title had been given "Squeenix" money it would have been a tremendous 
 game. Without all the money its still worth playing- but a guy has to wonder what it COULD have 
 been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrinith
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  First a little introduction. Lost Odyssey is a game about Kaim Argonar. He's an immortal, who has 
 lived for a thousand years. You'll be playing Kaim, and throughout the game you'll meet other immortals 
 and mortals which will join your party.
  
  I'll be dividing this review in different parts. First I'll start with the story. I'll be rating 
 every part with a different score.
  
  Presentation: (Contains no spoilers)
  Lost Odyssey has one of the most intriguing stories. If you're looking for a great (and huge) story, 
 this could be your game. It has quite some political influences, but still remains within the fantasy 
 theme. When you're playing the game you just feel like you're sucked in the world of Lost Odyssey. 
 It has a lot of twists and turns, which will keep you asking for more. 
  Some other thing that is pretty unique about this game, is the feature A Thousand Years of Dreams. 
 Along the adventure recalls Kaim Argonar (the main character) his memories which he has lost. These 
 memories are told through some pretty long (sometimes a bit too long) stories, with no dialogues, 
 just text with a pretty nice relaxing background music playing.
  I was surprised when I bought the game, because the shop owner was putting four discs in the box. 
 From that moment I was already thinking this should be a long adventure ahead of me. And that's 
 true. You'll probably be playing for about 40 - 50 hours for the first playthrough. That sure is 
 a positive thing for me. I like games that have a long time span. But something the producer succeeds 
 in, is that the story stays fascinating, and you keep asking for more.
  But the story has some problems too. This problem is that it's told through some cheesy dialogues. 
 But for me, this didn't really matter that much.
  
  The menu's look a bit outdated. There are just some bland steel-looking buttons. But still, this 
 isn't really frustrating but they could've spent a bit more time into that. But nevertheless, the 
 menu is good to overlook.
  
  Something else that does bother me (not very much, but it can be frustrating sometimes) about the 
 presentation are the loading screens. There are helluva lot loading screens. But this doesn't really 
 spoil the fun of the story and the other parts of the game.
  Presentation: 9.5
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are quite appealing. Lost Odyssey uses the Unreal Engine, which also 
 have the capacities to make a game look good. Lost Odyssey really has some fine landscapes, and 
 the character models are pretty nice too. But sometimes you see the fingers of the characters, 
 and they don't really look that good (for example) . They are quite rectangular, or whatever you 
 call it. But that's a small detail. The overall graphics are still very nice, despite some framerate 
 problems. Yep, here comes the fun part. The game suffers from some framerate problems. You won't 
 see any in the cutscenes, but in-game it might stutter sometimes. Not very much though. Just once 
 in a while, and it doesn't really bother you. Your gameplay won't suffer, so that's fine to me.
 
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  Gameplay:
  The game uses some unique features. First we'll start off with the ring and accessory system. Every 
 character in your party is able to wear rings and accessory. Accessory will give the character 
 an extra skill, which depends on the accessory you're wearing. A ring will give you some extra 
 elemental damage (depends on what ring you wear, for example: you're wearing a Flame Ring, then 
 you'll deal Flame Damage, etcetera) and some other bonuses, such as Damage Up. These Rings are 
 crucial for the combat. It will allow you to give more damage to an opponent with the opposite 
 element (for example you'll deal more damage with a Flame Ring to an Air Elemental enemy) and it 
 gives you the ability of the combat ring system which I will explain to you now.
  Lost Odyssey is a turn-based game, typically a JRPG. But it adds some depth to it. When you want 
 to attack an opponent, you need to look carefully at the screen (This is only when you physically 
 attack someone, not by magic or skills) because there will appear a two rings on the screen. One 
 small which is centred on the enemy, and a large one. Your objective is to press the Right Trigger 
 so the large ring will shrink and you have to fit the large ring into the smaller ring. If you 
 time this right, you will get a 'Perfect' or 'Good'. If you got a Perfect you'll get some pretty 
 heavy damage, and with a Good you'll still give some good damage. But if you didn't time it right, 
 you'll get a Bad. This doesn't many consequences, you'll just give a bit less damage than a Good 
 hit. 
  Next we got the Skill Link feature. Every immortal is able to use Skill Link. This will enable 
 him or her to use a skill of a mortal. Throughout the game your mortals will learn skills by leveling 
 up, and your immortals will be able to learn skills from the mortals by using Skill Link. But to 
 fully learn a skill, you got to earn SP (Skill Points) . After a fight your party will earn EXP 
 (Experience) and SP. EXP is used for leveling up, and SP is used to learn the skill you currently 
 got linked. So for example you need five SP to learn some skill you got linked. After a few fights 
 you gathered five SP, and your immortal will be able to use the skill you've linked. 
  This all sounds quite complicated, but it's pretty easy when you'll be playing the game.
  Gameplay: 
 9.0
  
  Sound:
  The music score has been composed by Nobuo Uematsu, famous of Final Fantasy. The score is pretty 
 good, but isn't really outstanding. It just fits the game. But it doesn't have any memorable songs, 
 yet it doesn't have any annoying songs either. So the music is fine, but not really outstanding.
 
  The sound effects are just average. It isn't bad, but it doesn't have any earblowing sound effects.
 
  Sound: 8.0
  
  One last note. If you've bought the game, I recommend you to install the game on the hard disk 
 to prevent long loading times. This has increased the score for Presentation.
  
  In short:
  Presentation: 9.5
  Intriguing story, outdated menu and long load times which can 
 be prevented by installing the game. 
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Great graphics, despite some character models and framerate problems.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  The 
 Ring system and the Skill Link feature makes the combat addicting.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Not very special, but it does fit the game.
  
  Total: 9.0 (Not an average)
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a game almost exactly a year old as I type this, and I was quite amazed to see 
 a pre-owned copy in my local Blockbuster store for 8. That's about $11.50 which is quite a bargain, 
 and money definitely well spent.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Lost Odyssey as you're most likely aware of is made by the same guy who created Final Fantasy, 
 so as expected there are a lot of similarities between this game and that series and a lot of traditional 
 RPG gameplay elements. What that translates to is a game that's very easy to understand and play 
 when you first start out, and although Lost Odyssey hasn't redefined the genre it sticks to a tried-and-tested 
 formula that works well. Some are saying it's outdated which is understandable, but as the text 
 you clicked on the read this review stated - if it aint broke don't fix it.
  
  Graphics
  
  Visually this game is stunning. Along your journey you'll encounter beautiful landscapes and 
 scenery, and the attention to detail is near-perfect. Sometimes cutscenes can lag a little, but 
 installing each disk to the 360 hard drive as you go helps that issue a lot.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound effects, music and voice acting is probably my favourite aspect of Lost Odyssey. 
 The main protagonist, Kaim, is your clichd quiet type with a hazy background that's gradually 
 unlocked as you progress through the game. The guy who voices him does an excellent job, and the 
 characters you meet compliment him well with their own styles, quirks and occasional annoyances. 
 I mentioned earlier that the creator of Final Fantasy worked on this game, he got Nobuo Uematsu 
 on board to compose the music. What he's produced is astonishingly good, with memorable background 
 music accompanying you through towns and forests and heart pounding enemy and boss battle music. 
 All of this makes for a truly excellent experience.
  
  Value
  
  I've looked at various websites and found that Lost Odyssey can be found for a good price almost 
 anywhere. I was lucky and got a pre-owned copy in very good condition, but even brand new this 
 game is cheap. It's well worth the money for sure, with four disks and over 50 hours of enjoyment 
 to experience.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  Anyone will tell you that Lost Odyssey is not a game that redefined the RPG genre. Some will tell 
 you it sticks to a solid formula (in both gameplay and story) that's been a success for years, 
 others will tell you it's outdated and generic. I firmly believe this game is underrated and deserves 
 far more praise than it gets, no doubt if it did have totally new features people would slam it 
 for not staying true to its JRPG roots. I rate it very highly because it has an excellent storyline 
 and a gameplay system I'm happy with, I highly recommend you try it if you haven't already and 
 of course develop your own opinions as you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: All_3st
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Ever since FFX was released in 2001 almost every big RPG game has failed to met its expectations 
 and Lost Odyssey isn't an exception.
  
  Don't get me wrong Lost Odyssey is a great game. 
  It has everything a RPG should have, an epic 
 storyline, lots of magic, giant monsters and even an immortal sorcerer with blond hair as its main 
 villain.
  So where did it (and almost every other next gen RPG) go wrong?
  
  By sticking to the same formula that was used back in the nes days!
  
  It's like they (the 
 developers) have a check list when they make these kinds of games.
  
  A medieval / Sci Fi fantasy setting... Check 
  A main character with amnesia... Check
  A story 
 line that is 40+ hours.. Check
  A love story.. Check
  Flare, Flara, Flarus... Check
  A warrior, a white mage, a black mage.. Check
  Boring still life cities across the world map... Check
 
  Etc...
  
  I want developers to take some risks while staying true to the formula. 
  I don't want Lost Odyssey 2 to be a FPS adventure game, or even a realtime RPG, but I would love 
 to see some inventiveness. 
  RPG's need an edge to them, something that lets them keep there ancestors charm and still feel 
 fresh.
  
  But the game itself works, and is easily one the most enjoyable RPG's on next gen consoles. 
 
  The game isn't childish like Eternal Sonata or Blue Dragon (Which in my case is one of the greatest 
 thing about Lost Odyssey) . 
  The story is thought provoking at times, but has a tendency of being overdramatic and filled with 
 Clichs.
  The characters are likable especially Jansen who made me laugh quite a few times. (Jansen was nominated 
 by GS as best new character)
  The battle system is turnbased as we have come to know it and love it from the FF series, though 
 with some exceptions.
  The graphic is good and there's a lot of CGI's throughout the game which keeps the story flowing, 
 but at times it feels like the game developers became lazy and just said "well.. that's good enough.. moving 
 on.." and that irritates me. (won't go into details) 
  The game is overall a good RPG that sticks true to the formula.
  So if you are a RPG hungry fan 
 this game will definitely satisfy your needs.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a high 7 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  There are a ton of things that I loved about Lost Odyssey. The dungeons were fun and full of random 
 puzzles. I love the collection aspect of the game, there are a ton of accessories, skills, spells, 
 and treasures to find. The skill system was addicting as hell. The music was awesome, and the graphics 
 were good enough. I loved the huge amount of sidequests, optional dungeons and optional bosses. 
 
  
  However, I was not a big fan of the world map. The map made the game feel extra linear. The first 
 three discs (35 hours or so) were extremely linear and confining. I especially hated the third 
 disc because your team breaks up through most of it, I can not stand it when that happens. Some 
 parts about the graphics bugged me, especially that white line that would pop in and out on the 
 screen. The story and characters are take it or left it. I enjoyed it enough to finish the game, 
 but it is hardly something I'll remember for a very long time.
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is a worthy title, not the Final Fantasy killer it attempted to be. It's 
 still worth checking out if you're into turn-based RPGs.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Lost Odyssey is a turn-based RPG. You impute all your characters 
 moves at the start of a fight, then watch the battle unfold like in rounds. The enemy or character 
 with the best speed will attack first. They give you a battle order, like in Final Fantasy X or 
 Evolution, but it's almost pointless since you can't strategize with it. 
  
  There are 9 playable characters in the game. Four are Immortals and Five are Mortals. Immortal 
 characters are basically blank slates in terms of skills, kinda like the characters in Final Fantasy 
 XII. However, the characters grow in different orders, unlike FFXII, the two melee fighters grow 
 in strength, high HP and defense, while the two mage casters have high magic defense, high MP and 
 high magic power. Outside of that though, they can learn all the same skills. 
  
  Mortal characters learn unique skills by achieving pre-determined levels. Each character, mortal 
 or immortal, can equip 1 weapon, 1 ring and between 1 or 3 accessories. 
  
  The way Immortal characters gain new skills through equipping accessories with skills or by skill 
 linking from a Mortal character. They attach to a single skill a Mortal character has already learned, 
 and can learn that skill by acquiring Skill points after a battle. Once an Immortal learns a skill, 
 they gain it forever. You then have to assign it into a Skill box to actually use it for battle. 
 An Immortal can assign a maximum of 30 skills. This almost breaks the game though, just like in 
 Blue Dragon. By the end of the game your characters just get WAY to strong. The skill system is 
 ALOT like Blue Dragon in a way. 
  
  It also doesn't help by the way you level up either. You gain experience after a battle like most 
 RPGs. Only the characters that fought the battle will gain Experience or SP. You only need 100 
 Experience points to gain a new level though, like in Suikoden and Final Fantasy Tactics. This 
 makes for easily leveling, especially for lower level characters fighting higher level enemies. 
 
  
  The thing that worried me the most about Lost Odyssey was the Ring system. I was afraid it would 
 be slow like Legend of Dragoon or Shadow Hearts, but it actually makes a bit more interactivity 
 to the game, and it's completely optional. You only use the Ring system for Melee attacks, so if 
 you have mostly Mages, then you won't be bogged down with it. The Ring system basically works like 
 this. At the start of a melee attack, your character starts charging the enemy. You have about 
 30 or so seconds to Charge the ring. When you start charging the ring, a circle starts closing 
 into a ring in the center of the screen. If you miss, then your attack will be "Bad", if you hit 
 the ring, then it will be "Good", and if you hit the center of the ring, it will be a "Perfect" 
 attack. It's not difficult to master, and is kinda fun.
  
  The dungeons are fun puzzle dungeons. There are alot of blocks to push, levers to pull and things 
 to ring and switch around. They're not hard, but fun. The battles are randomly generated (most 
 of the time) but it's actually not that intrusive. You can run around for a full minute without 
 getting attacked. I THINK, don't quote me on this, but I THINK the lower the level you are, the 
 higher the encounter rate is. If you are level 90 running around a dungeon with level 30 enemies, 
 you probably won't get attacked so much.
  
  
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Kaim, a quiet solider haunted by nightmares 
 of his past. You are an Immortal among mortals, but your memories are mostly gone. Kaim, while 
 working as a mercenary for the Uhra army, was the lone survivor during a recent battle after a 
 freak Meteor crashed down to earth, killing everyone but Kaim. 
  
  Kaim is sent on a mission, along with fellow Immortal Seth, and mortal Jensen to find out more 
 about a Grand Staff, that may have caused the Meteor to crash on the battle field. 
  
  Kaim and Seth slowly regain their memories, and find their true purpose on this land. 
  
  The 
 storyline was alright, hardly original fodder at all. The characters aren't very original either. 
 There are 9 playable characters, so there are some clunkers obviously. I liked Kaim, Seth, Sarah, 
 and the kids, even Seg. The rest I felt was out of place or just generic as hell. 
  
  My biggest gripe is how they treated the characters. Sarah's entrance to the game was FANTASTIC, 
 but after that she was basically a background character, with just a couple lines here and there. 
 Most characters have a HUGE entrance and then slowly become unimportant. Ming for example, she 
 had a nice entrance to the game, but they hardly fleshed out her personality. 
  
  Jensen is the only person in the game that wasn't one-dimensional. I wasn't a huge fan of him though, 
 because he was obvious comic relief, but he was the only character to progress as a person. That 
 sad thing about that is he had the worse entrance to the game. 
  
  The story is still good enough to get you through the game. You won't be shocked about anything, 
 if you're a big JRPG fan, but it's still nice. 
  
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  I think the graphics are completely inconsistent. Sometimes they look freaking gorgeous, other 
 things it just looks like a last gen game. For example, the facial features are pretty impressive 
 for some characters, mostly Sed. Then you have Jensen, who looks like a character model from Jade 
 Empire. The cutscenes either use the game engine, but if there is a TON of action in them, you 
 tell it was pre-rendered. 
  
  The character models are highly detailed, and the towns and fields are lush. It's kinda creepy 
 at times how much detail they put into a character, you can even see the veins in Ming's breasts. 
 Then the next minute, you'll see the close up of someones hand, and it's a blocky last gen mess. 
 
  
  My biggest overall complaint with the graphics is easily the stupid line that continuously pops 
 up during game play. Basically, it's just a straight line of dots that randomly pop up on your 
 screen. This is the only 360 game which I encountered this, so I'll assume this is strictly a Lost 
 Odyssey problem. It was annoying and distracting.
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The sound is great for the most part. The music is great, although not original, but it's rememberable, 
 with exciting themes. I think it's an improvement over Blue Dragon. I'm pretty sure they even recycle 
 a Blue Dragon song, although just for a sidequest mission. 
  
  The voices are very well acted, but sometimes the voices are really loud, other times you can barely 
 hear the voices. Sometimes the music drowns out the voices. It's inconsistent. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is kinda weird and broken off into two sections. 
 The first part of the world map is just a basic menu map, where you just select the available locations 
 that you can travel to. Simple as that. 
  
  The second world map, which you unlock later, is the "Ocean" map. You can free roam the entire 
 world over the ocean (and later, the air) , and can even dive under the sea to search things. I 
 have no idea why they made a standard generic menu map, then unlock a free-roaming world map. You 
 have to use them both through out the entire game, you can't land on the earth. 
  
  The first 3 discs of the game are painfully linear, there is not much freedom to be had. When you 
 get to the 4th disc is when you start unlocking your ship abilities, and where you can basically 
 travel wherever you want, and tackle any sidequest you want.
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  80:45
  
  I think I could have beat this game in 
 40-45 hours if I wanted to. I tried to do all sidequests and get all achievements (I missed one) . 
 So if you wanted a longer experience, you can get it if you want. 
  
  The game saves after you complete it, where you can start a New Game. I'm not sure if there are 
 any bonuses after restarting but it wouldn't shock me if there was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  
  This is one good game if you have played ff7 and enjoyed it then you will love this one, so far 
 10 hours in and i can tell it will take some time to finish the game.
  
  Story is good from the beginning keeping you interested, overall difficulty is easy but it does 
 get very hard every time you have to fight the boss i would say even to hard.
  
  I found that most times you will have to go back and level up more if you even want to stand a 
 chance against bosses, it's not a problem if anything it a good quality that makes you change your 
 strategy and plan your attacks more carefully.
  
  Graphic are great for the style of the game controls are easy to remember, in game character setting 
 are good many choices of weapons it does take a bit of time to get use to how to maximize some 
 options to your advantage.
  
  The only thing i found unpleasant at times is how difficult are boss battles.
  
  If you are 
 fan of ff7 or just want to play a good game with awesome story then give this game a go 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC_Gold
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Finally a really good turn-based RPG for the 360. This game is so addictive, the story is very 
 well written and has the classic power-thirsty villain. The characters is where it shines, you 
 really start to feel a connection with them. It grows and grows until the ending that was really 
 amazing. I'd say it's epic but I loathe that word so i'm sticking to Awesome. If you're a 360 owner 
 and haven't experienced any Turn based RPG's before, then this is a great one to start with to 
 really fall in love with the genre. Onto the gameplay, the Immortals really make it unique in it's 
 own way, being able to learn Skills from the other Mortal characters and Accessories makes it simple 
 yet fun, the turn-based is untimed so you can sit for ten minutes selecting your attacks without 
 the enemy attacking you. Even if you get stuck on some harder bosses the story will keep you immersed 
 enough to keep trying just to see what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:17 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a Turn-based RPG for the XBOX 360 made by the creators of the Final Fantasy Series. 
 It takes many good concepts from RPG and applies it to the game. The storyline is brilliant, as 
 you progress through the game it does well to make you feel the characters pain and suffering thus 
 it has a depressing atmosphere. You Play as Kaim an Immortal who cannot remember anything about 
 his past, on his journey he meets up with other Immortals that have the same problem and together 
 they chase down a man named Gongora. While the battle system is nothing new it takes the best of 
 the old and and adds a few new things to it such as the attack ring. If you take the time to unlock 
 all of the acheivements and don't rush through the story to the end you can get at least 50+ hours 
 if not more. I love the Characters too each of them are well developed and add a depth to the game. 
 I suggest that anybody who loves RPGs should try this game out especially those whose enjoy the 
 Old-school RPGs. I hope to see many more good RPG from Mistwalker 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevelanders
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Just because the "middle 50%" of the U. S. population would probably not like this game, doesn't 
 mean this game is not great in its own right. 
  
  Amongst the various review sites the argument for lower scores has been:
  - It's a turn based 
 RPG, there's nothing new about that
  - The story is cliche' - you're a good guy in the face of evil
  - Loading times
  
  A "traditional 
 turn-based RPG" is a genre, and not a drawback. It's not that the genre is somehow 'less modern' 
 than more recent action-oriented RPGs - but rather a gaming platform that has lost appeal to the 
 now-wider audience that plays video games. In today's video game market of shoot-em-up-hits, the 
 emotional and artful exchange between characters is extremely rare. The public wants less talk 
 and more cheap thrills. 
  
  In a similar statistical phenomenon - we're able to predict and manufacture a marketing/singing 
 icon via "American Idol" - as we have an audience of sufficient size to please.
  
  As a rule of RPG thumb, if a turn-based RPG gets above a 7.0 - you know that it's going to be a 
 hell of a turn-based RPG - and that it's definitely underrated by today's biased-against-turn-based-RPGs 
 review system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animenerd2000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:21 am PT
Review:  I believe that Lost Odyssey is one of the greatest RPG's ever created. It has a good and understandible 
 storyline (which is rare in an RPG) ; it has characters that you can relate to. The thing that got 
 me hooked on the game was that it is turn based with no gimmicks. Basically like FF X, an straight 
 up turn-based RPG.
  The game starts as you are watching an epic battle in a massive open area. At the start, it looks 
 like the funny looking guys (Uhra) are getting pwned by the other guys (Khent) . But then Uhra comes 
 out with massive machines to even the odds. But Khent one-ups them and has machines to destroy 
 those machines. Then, a few Uhra sorcerers start reviving the fallen soldiers. Finally the camera 
 fixes on the main character (Kiam Argonar) and he is demolishing the Khent soldiers that the other 
 guys were having so much trouble with. The very first battle of the game is when you are surrounded 
 by enemy infantry. You cand fend all of them off without breaking a sweat. Then the tutorial boss 
 is agianst a giant mech. It is asimple alternation attack battle that is easy. Then out of nowhere, 
 a massive meteor comes down on the battlefield.
  This is one of my favorite tutorial levels in gaming history. The rest of the story is good with 
 only a few dull points in the game. The LONG game. This is a F-O-U-R disc game! But despite the 
 games unbelieveibly long game, it has a great story. The whole time, of which, Kiam is trying to 
 recover his lost memories.
  The only different aspect of the battle system is the rings. Rings are items that when equipped 
 give you special abilities like to deal elemental damage with a standard physical attack or to 
 do extra damage in general or against specific enimies. The Rings activated only during an attack. 
 When your character starts sprinting, you hold down the Right Trigger and a large ring will shrink 
 and to make the shrinking stop you have to let go of the trigger when it is the same size as a 
 smaller ring that remains the same size and is cetered around the enimy being attacked.
  The only downsides of the game are its length, or at least make it two discs. Another thing I didn't 
 like is that Kiam and every other cotrolable character runs like a homo. But all things considered, 
 it is one of the greatest turn-based RPG's ever created. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meemy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  No, I havent finished it yet. I'm like 2-3 hours from finishing. I don't know if the ending will 
 have any twist but so far, it's the best you can ask for in RPG. The story is far better than the 
 last FF (what was it... can't remember...12?) - FF was really great, it was a whole lot of joy 
 but the story is just too plain boring. Seriously, I couldn't beat the last boss of FF (12) . Not 
 because it was difficult, but because it couldn't make myself go thru all the trouble - the ending 
 is predictable anyway. Back yo Lost O - this is one of the best RPGs so far. The old stay menu 
 command is just awesome. I'm sick of the running around action RPG slash/hack crap - no strategy 
 involved. About the graphic in this game... well, what can I say... the creators must have no life 
 at home. No copy paste, new stage - new texture, more models. Monsters are beatifully crafted -unlike 
 FF!!!
  
  Please make more game like this!!!!!! Take your time, don't rush like SE. Go GO Mistwalker!
  
 
  Buy it people, it's worth all your money and time.
  
  My next game will be "The Last Remnant." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brady73oak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Like it says, its and next-gen game, with and old school feel to it...... Which is a good thing. 
 Its been so long since I played a *really* good turn-based rpg, I'm talk like Final Fantasy VIII, 
 don't get me wrong Final Fantasy X was good, but not great. It seems to me that the common denominator 
 to these greats (opinionated) is the music scores by Nobuo Uematsu. To this day every time I hear 
 a song from my all time favorite game, Final Fantasy VII, I can picture the scene it was played 
 in, almost the same with VIII. Another aspect people seem to lose track of is play time, while 
 game like KOTOR were really good , they just didn't have enough play time and side quest options. 
 Lost Odyssey's story was also very immense and catching. I mean really, anyone who played Final 
 Fantasy VII can remember when Sephiroth come down from the sky and kills Aeris, same with FFVIII 
 when Squall finally meets Laguna. L. O. really gives you a sense of satisfaction while playing. 
 Kudos to Mistwalker on a job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lachy08
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is abosloutly amazing do youself a favour go out and get it it has the most amazing soundtrack 
 from final fantasy musician nobue uematu the story is spectacular it is about 1000 year old immortal 
 and him finding his memories which are these stories you read withch are beutifally written the 
 combat is like any other rpg witch i love the turn based style it is very addictive there are lots 
 of side quests in lost odyssey like getting final weapons dungeons arenas and so on last thing 
 just get the game. this game is abosloutly amazing do youself a favour go out and get it it has 
 the most amazing soundtrack from final fantasy musician nobue uematu the story is spectacular it 
 is about 1000 year old immortal and him finding his memories which are these stories you read withch 
 are beutifally written the combat is like any other rpg witch i love the turn based style it is 
 very addictive there are lots of side quests in lost odyssey like getting final weapons dungeons 
 arenas and so on last thing just get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  very stunning but I cant help but notice this is just a final fantasy clone for the 360 and I also 
 noticed that there is little to no variation in tht rpg formula they basically took the really 
 good parts of final fantasy and tried to port them to the 360 which isnt neccessarily a bad thing 
 but I expect a little change the game is called lost oddssey not final fantasy I definitly praise 
 the game for its incredible graphis probebly some of the best on the console and the storyline 
 is pretty good and it holds your attention pretty well but the most horrible fault of this game 
 I could pick out would be the sheer amount of talking and text I know they took a long time putting 
 the game to gether but I really dont think they should elaborate on the story every 10 minutes 
 there definitly should be more play and another thing I noticed was the turn based fighting was 
 a little slow it took a longwhile to execute attacks and to level up which became a serious problem 
 but all together the game is pretty solid the sheer amount of content is well worth the $30-$40 
 dollers you'll pay for it 4 disks is alot of game time (to bad most of its text) my favorite part 
 of the game would have to be the bosses simply epic and on a very large scale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannabis64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Amazing story, clean graphics, fine turn-based fighting system, these are the reasons this game 
 is truly a first class rpg. Not like the rpg's of todays "next-gen" craze, but a real true rpg 
 like the days of old. This game is thick with story, sidequests, and realistic scenery. With an 
 excellent character lineup and plenty of character development, anyone who enjoys a well told story 
 could appreciate this 1000 year long story. 
  
  My only real qualms with this game would be the surprisingly hard boss fights (i mean they surprise 
 you...) , and how fast the main story can be pressed. although if you take time to go for the sidequests 
 length will not be an issue. I would have preferred a more traversable world map too. This game 
 is not going to appeal to the younger crowd who is too used to elder scrolls being called an RPG, 
 but for any classic rpger this game is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovirew
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  After working on Lost Odyssey now for a few weeks, I think I've got a pretty good grasp on what 
 I should expect from the game from here on out. I want to start by saying that, Lost Odyssey is 
 by no means a bad or terrible game - it is probably the best example of a traditional turn-based 
 RPG on the 360 right now - yet I am something of a tough critic and I feel it's my duty to give 
 other RPG fanatics the inside-scoop on this game. That said, here is my first GameSpot game review 
 - feel lucky LO!
  
  Story
  
  Like most Japanese RPGs in existence, Lost Odyssey suffers from the dreaded generic RPG storyline. 
 You play as an amnesiac named Kaim who wields a sword and goes on a quest with a love-obsessed 
 pirate woman (who looks and acts nothing like a pirate) and a perverted ladies' man mage to check 
 on a machine that runs off of magic energy. Of course, the story gains a little more substance 
 when you discover that there are some twists and turns in the plot, though some are more obvious 
 than others.
  
  Probably the most interesting aspect of the story is that Kaim is immortal, and has lived for over 
 1,000 years. The game poses a lot of questions to the player about what it might be like to live 
 forever and whether this is something they feel would be a positive or negative experience, and 
 it explores this idea quite often as the game goes on. Since Kaim has lost his memory, you'll often 
 experience short cutscenes during the game as Kaim witnesses events that cause him to regain his 
 memory of who he was.
  
  You'll also occasionally reach points in the game where past events from Kaim's day-to-day life 
 are revealed in story form, as written text - but this is actually not as boring as it sounds. 
 The stories are usually quite well-written and not immediately predicatable, and usually contain 
 an enlightening message about life and the human identity. Of course, from what I have seen these 
 stories share little in common with the main story of the game, but it's still enjoyable to read 
 them when they come along.
  
  The characters in the game are a mixed bag. Kaim is pretty cool, though his personality is a little 
 difficult to understand at times. Seth (yes, it is a female) is usually kind of annoying and overly 
 feminine - especially for a female fighter. Jansen is pretty cool and serves as the comedic relief 
 much of the time, but he is usually made out to seem whiney and his personality seems a little 
 bit overdone. Later on in the game you will meet two little kids who join your party, and the girl 
 has a very annoying voice that makes you do a double-take and check the game's box again to ensure 
 this is truely a Mature-rated game. Yes, the voice-acting in this game leaves something to be desired, 
 but I would have to say that I have certainly seen worse before. Cutscenes can also be skipped, 
 which should be a standard feature in every linear story-focused RPG these days in my opinion.
 
  
  One thing that really bothers me, more than anything about the game's story, is that it is way 
 too sappy and gut-wrenching at times. I feel like I am watching a Japanese soap-opera instead of 
 an action-adventure film, and that's a bit of a let-down. While I like that the game is insightful 
 and smart, I would like to see more fighting and explosions, if you catch my drift. There is one 
 scene I recently watched, where a sappy sad scene dragged on for about 15 minutes - and yeah it 
 was a sad event in the story but it involved a character that was probably not that important to 
 the storyline (who we just met) and it felt like the writers were really pushing to get you to 
 cry, when it felt annoying and embarrassing more than anything. (What rating is this game, again?) 
 The game is also four discs in length, so surely other things will happen along the way to change 
 the story.
  
  
  Graphics/Gameplay/Controls
  
  While some things in Lost Odyssey will fill your excitement tank (like that awesome battle at the 
 beginning of the game!) I have to say that I am really not all that impressed with the graphics 
 in Lost Odyssey. I mean, you can tell this game is slightly nicer-looking than games from last 
 gen, and it has good lighting and shadow effects and stuff like that, but everything still looks 
 'stiff', and I can almost set Final Fantasy X side-by-side with this game and they would look nearly 
 identical in terms of graphical quality.
  
  Even beyond that, when you walk around the towns in this game, it looks and feels a lot like the 
 world of FFX, Kaim even looks like a modified sprite of Tidus. It's like Mistwalker took the system 
 they used when they worked at Squaresoft on FFX, and just recreated it with some graphical changes 
 here and there. Of course as much as it may look like that, this is in fact not the case - the 
 game was reportedly created on the Unreal 3 engine, I think is what I read. This is the first role-playing 
 game created on it, too. But there is no denying the similarities in the overworld between this 
 game and the aforementioned one.
  
  As you explore areas, both in towns/cities and in forests/other outside locations, you will come 
 across objects you can interact with by pressing the 'A' button. This is similar to the '!' bubble 
 feature from FF9 that I really enjoyed, though it is not quite as intricate as that and the items 
 are usually much easier to find. Not only that, but the things you find are usually either parts 
 for ring customization (more on that shortly) , a few coins, some healing items and on rare occasions 
 an accessory. Usually you will walk up to these pots that are identical in appearance to find items, 
 though you can also obtain them from trees, wrinkled flyers and shining 'spots' that you can examine. 
 By investigating towns for these hidden items alone, you could easily rack up an hour of gameplay, 
 but most players will probably find this to be tedious and barely worth your while, usually rewarding 
 you with lame finds. Of course, it is easier to acquire a bundle of rare ring parts this way as 
 well.
  
  More recently during my exploits, I have found that more interesting features are implemented into 
 the game's towns, in the form of unofficial mini-quests. You will talk to some random character 
 in a town, just some generic NPC, and they will say something like "I wonder where so-and-so is, 
 he is late!", and then when you talk to the other person they will give you a reward and go to 
 where the original person was, and usually the other person will reward you as well. This requires 
 you to talk to pretty much everyone you see to ensure you don't miss out on anything, though, so 
 once again it can get tedious and repetitive fast. Of course, I had to complete one chain of mini-quests 
 to gain access to a shop with valuable weapons (I had the same weapons for the first few hours 
 of the game until I reached that store) and accessories, so I felt like that was a little unfair. 
 The shop also features a custom ring-maker, who can create rings you otherwise can't obtain on 
 your own.
  
  One thing that really bothers me is that, unlike FFX where you transition from location to location 
 by walking there, in Lost Odyssey you walk outside of a town and select the next location on a 
 map without even going there in an overworld or anything like that, ala FFX-2 or Tales of Symphonia 
 2. It is something that I think will disappoint players a bit, since all of the battles take place 
 in locations you visit, so I dunno, feels a little restrictive I guess. Also, this weird little 
 feature lets you move the camera around the viewable area a little to see things offscreen, with 
 the right stick. It's kinda strange and doesn't serve much purpose, especially on a fixed-camera 
 game, but it is fun to play with sometimes - I'll give them that.
  
  
  Music
  
  All of the music in LO was composed by none other than Nobou Uematsu (sp?) himself. Of course, 
 this isn't the next installment if the main Final Fantasy series, so don't expect anything too 
 powerful, emotional or memorable. For what it's worth, the music in Lost Odyssey isn't horrible, 
 but it is still pretty basic and generic, and mostly orchestral in nature. The music that played 
 in a recent city was very nice and mellow and I enjoyed it, and the theme of a recent forest area 
 in the game feels very mystical and full of wonder, so it is bearable anyway. But I can almost 
 guarentee you won't remember any of the music in this game years from now, even the main battle 
 theme doesn't do much for me.
  
  
  Battle System/Character Customization
  
  Here is what you have been waiting for - the meat-and-bones of the game. So how does the actual 
 battling in the game hold up? Well, first and foremost LO is a traditional RPG, and by traditional 
 I mean that in every sense of the word. There is very little customization in this game compared 
 to most modern RPG outings, and the characters even feel a little bit unbalanced - okay, a lot 
 unbalanced - but there's still some good 'ol challenging boss battles and party-health-managing 
 to be had.
  
  The theme of mortals and immortals is emphasized during battles in this game, with most immortals 
 being physical fighters and most mortals being magic and skill users. Immortals do not learn abilities 
 on their own, while mortals do as they level up, so in order to learn abilities immortals either 
 have to equip accessories and gain skill experience to learn them (ala the equipment skill system 
 from FF9 that I loved so much, but still not as good) or else 'link' the immortals to the skillsets 
 mortals learn to learn them that way. This is a double-edged sword, since on one hand you can 'customize' 
 which skills your immortals learn, but on the other hand you can teach all of the immortals every 
 ability in the game and they all become superior to mortals in every way, and they have no real 
 weaknesses or advantages in battle. It's a very simplistic system, and frankly, I would have been 
 more happy if everyone had just learned unique abilities as they leveled up like the mortals do.
 
  
  The front and back row system has been improved upon and emphasized a lot in this game as well, 
 with the stronger characters (immortals) in the front row guarding the weaker characters (mortals) 
 in the back row. The total health of the front row is shown as a meter at the top of the screen, 
 and acts as a barrier for the back row, so as your front row characters take damage, your back 
 row characters lose defense and become more vulerable to attack. I also discovered that, if an 
 immortal character dies in battle, they will auto-revive after a few turns, whereas a mortal will 
 not, so this adds a little more strategy to the mix yet, and gives the whole mortal/immortal thing 
 some more purpose.
  
  The order of turns is, once again, FFX-esque, with the speedier characters getting their turns 
 first and the slower ones recieving theirs' last. The only difference is that the portraits of 
 the characters appear from left to right on the bottom of the screen, and aren't as spiffy-looking. 
 Up to five chatacters can be in the party at once, if memory serves me, but it might even be six. 
 This may sound like a lot, until you realize that enemy swarms can wear down on your party pretty 
 quickly, and some monster fights even become challenging quickly. Still, this is nothing that a 
 seasoned roleplaying fan couldn't handle.
  
  As you explore the world, you 'find' magic like it is an item, kind of like you would in the first 
 3 FF games, and only then does it become a useable magic from its proper skillset command. Magic 
 takes longer to execute than regular attacks, with stronger spells requiring multiple turns to 
 use, and most spells only target a single enemy, unless of course it harms all enemies. There are 
 no special abilities the individual characters possess that I know of, like a limit break or anything 
 of that nature, so once again the only thing that really sets the immortal characters apart in 
 the end is their weapons.
  
  There are rings you can create and equip in the game, that act as a sort of 'timed hits' system 
 like in Mario RPG games or the Shadow Hearts games, though it works a bit differently. As your 
 character runs towards the enemy, a timer counts down to zero and a large circle closes in on a 
 smaller circle, and you have to time the button-press just right to overlap the two circles and 
 score a successful hit. The only thing this ring system affects is how successful the added affect 
 of your ring is - so if you have a poison added affect, you are more likely to poison the enemy 
 with a 'perfect' than a 'good' rating, but you can't even poison them at all with a 'bad' rating. 
 It's kind of like a conrolled critical hits system, but it is still pretty difficult to pull off 
 and still feels like it has luck involved most of the time.
  
  Creating rings is somewhat fun, requiring you to collect various resources enemies drop (or steal 
 from them, though the steal command rarely works) to build them, and then they can be upgraded 
 with even rarer parts, and combined with other rings. Of course, some rings are definately more 
 useful than others, so a lot of them aren't worth bothering with to begin with. It does add some 
 extra side-quest content to the game though, and it can be challenging trying to get some less 
 common ingredients.
  
  Accessories are probably the most important part of learning abilities. You can equip the items 
 to both immortals and mortals to give them their affects while they are equipped, but immortals 
 can permanently learn abilities by having the items equipped for a while and gaining experience 
 from battles. The catch is that immortals can only have so many of their learned skills equipped 
 at a time (though the maximum number of skills that can be set can be increased with power-up items) , 
 so you will have to switch out the skills you have set to your character to prepare them for the 
 monsters of the next area. Mortals automatically have all of their abilities set, so this is the 
 only real advantage of mortals over immortals that I can think of. I should note that all of the 
 accessories in the game have unique graphics that show up on your characters when they have them 
 equipped, which sounds cool until you enter a serious scene in the game with Kaim wearing girly 
 earrings and Jansen sporting cat ears. Yeah, you probably want to master those skills as soon as 
 possible, so you can just set the accessories aside and avoid embarrassment.
  
  Beyond this, though, there really isn't much else to say about Lost Odyssey's battle system. The 
 characters talk in battle sometimes... oh, and I don't think you can switch out your characters 
 in battle, but don't quote me on it since I am not that far yet. Once again though, this is probably 
 the closest thing to a good traditional turn-based RPG on the XBox 360, and it is still fairly 
 enjoyable.
  
  
  Downloadable Content
  
  There are two add-on packs available for download on LIVE Marketplace. The first one is an extra 
 dungeon at some laboratory on the fourth disc, and the second one is a set that contains one extra 
 dream story sequence, a rare and powerful ring that you get from the start of the game, and an 
 orb that appears in the ship you gain access to later in the game which lets you re-watch past 
 cutscenes. I can't remember exact prices but it wasn't too expensive, so it's worth a buy for anyone 
 who has this game and enjoys it.
  
  I should mention that Japan recieved another dlc pack (a free one) that was never released in the 
 US, and since LO came out almost a year ago now, it is unlikely that it will ever be released here, 
 but you never know. I guess that fans were making Japanese LIVE accounts to gain access to the 
 add-on for a while, but Microsoft has since put an end to this. It didn't work with the US version 
 of the game, anyway.
  
  Final Words
  
  Lost Odyssey is a simple, yet different kind of RPG that fans of traditional turn-based RPGs will 
 appreciate, despite its many shortcomings. While I don't feel that the game was overrated or underrated, 
 I think that for what it is Lost Odyssey serves its purpose - to be an original RPG exclusive to 
 the 360 that shows the potential of Mistwalker and Microsoft in the JRPG field. As I have said 
 already, it isn't a bad game, but it gets overly dramatic at times and becomes boring and repetitive 
 on occasion. I guess the main word I am looking for here is 'uninspired' - Lost Odyssey claims 
 to be the next-gen RPG, but it doesn't really fill those shoes and doesn't live upto the standards 
 set by your Final Fantasy games. But Mistwalker has shown obvious improvement from their first 
 game, Blue Dragon, and the game shows promise for future projects the company may be working on.
 
  
  I would only recommend LO to the more serious RPG fans that can look past the game's quirkiness 
 and enjoy it for what it is. If you have an XBox 360 and like RPGs, you might want to rent it or 
 buy it secondhand just to see if it's your cup of tea, but don't go expecting an RPG of massive 
 proportions or you may walk away feeling disappointed. That's why I give Lost Odyssey a 6.0 out 
 of 10 - it is a fair game and one that many RPG fans will appreciate, but it still isn't up to 
 the standards of modern RPGs, and is still noticeably awkward in many respects. It's generic, but 
 at the same time a little bit better than a lot of generic RPGs.
  
  NOTE: I should also mention that the way the game is packaged is a little strange - only 3 discs 
 fit onto the case's disc holder, so the fourth disc is packaged in a cheap paper disc protector. 
 The could be remedied by simply having one disc in the disc tray, but then you probably own other 
 360 games you want to play as well. I have found that, to some extent, the case will hold all four 
 discs on the reem if you kinda set the first disc on top of the other three and 'stick' it into 
 place, but I suggest you be careful if you do this to ensure you don't scratch or break the discs, 
 and make sure you close the case all the way when you are finished messing with the discs.
  
  PS: As I have not played the entire way through Lost Odyssey, I may choose to edit and/or change 
 my review at a later date as I make more progress through the game. Should I choose to do so, any 
 reader comments will be deleted from the review, so I apologize in advance if I have to make any 
 adjustments to this article.
  
  ~ Ovi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekodeadman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, where I start, allright, I'll begin with graphics; graphics are really amazing, one of the 
 game with best graphics on Xbox 360, very detailed models, excelent textures, and very good designed 
 scenarios; graphics are beautiful, but sometimes it has framerates falls, so it's a bad thing, 
 but in general, graphics are very good; the sound is great too, the music is relaxing and worth-listening, 
 but sometimes the sounds don't accoard with characters' speaking...
  Gameplay... well, it's the best part of the game, I love turn-based rpg-games and this is one of 
 the best, I also love the ring system, it's awesome, where you can mix your own rings and even 
 make them of many powers, if your timing is perfect you can get a critical hit into your enemies 
 (and some of them have weakenesses of some elements, so it's excellent!) , the spells is also a 
 great part, you can make white or black magis and also advance into levels to get more spells; 
 you can choose between many characters and see their strongnesses against the enemies you're going 
 to battle; also killing the bosses is really funny, it's sightly hard to kill'em but it's really 
 a challenge, it makes you thing and generate strategies against them; you can also choose various 
 weapons for your characters and better those weapons; the gametime is awesome, it's more than 30 
 hours of gameplay and about 3 hours of cinematics, it's really fantastic. The only one problem 
 with this game is that it comes in various DVD's  ( now I understand the importance of the blu-ray, 
 at leash they could use the HD-DVD to put this 30GB game on it, it would be awesome... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codakera
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The story is downright amazing, very interesting and fairly addictive. Attempts to teach moral 
 lessons and show how precious life really is. The gameplay is not terrible, but can become fairly 
 boring when you are constantly changing rings. Outside of battle you need to constantly utilize 
 your immortals skill link abilities which may also become a hassle and fairly overwhelming. Characters 
 are very well used, Kaim is the your typical silent but deadly cool guy, while Jansen is your conniving, 
 but charming pretty boy. The rest of the characters are utilized very well, and have a lot to add 
 to the story. The gameplay runs fairly smooth, a few minor problems, but nothing that distracted 
 from the game or story. The dreams initially seemed like a pain because i am too lazy to read, 
 but after further inspection, they come to be very touching, and emotional. Oddly enough this game 
 does more to teach the player how precious life is instead of telling a story, but this does not 
 take away from the story line. Play for the remarkable tale and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmytpot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Easy all,
  
  just thought i would comment.
  
  I trust gamespot for all my purchases. Still do. But I dissagree with the results for this game.
 
  
  Its the best title on xbox360 iv seen so far. 
  
  The design & music score alone are something to appreciate, esp with winter here in UK at the moment, 
 perfect time for a game like this..... [late november/december] .
  
  I like turn based RPGs best. Previous to this title, Dragon Quest VIII on PS2 was the best IMO, 
 but thats been beat by this game i reckon.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. Yes iv done similar things before in the JRPG format but this game 
 is still outstanding.
  
  I loved FF10, but in all honesty the storylines completely baffled me... I never knew whats was 
 going on I just like the battles/cutscenes/music/etc.
  
  The story in this game is layered pretty thick, and the cut scenes are very long, but integrate 
 with a silky smooth quality that makes FF10 look average. I can actually follow the story (as long 
 as you are willing to relax & absorb the story/dreamsequences)
  
  Battle system is the best quality turn based RPG iv seen (IMHO) . it looks stunning.
  
  if you 
 liked dragon quest VIII: Journey of the Cursed King, I recommend u give this game a chance. I paid 
 16.99 delivered, I im glad to contribute to the developers.
  
  Peace out. Tpot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Few "Final Fantasy" fans like the new course of the series, with Yasumi Matsuno's different approach 
 in "FFXII" and the growing number of uninspired series' spin offs. Let's face it, after Square 
 and Enix merged, Square's brands have been milked far beyond comprehension: in between remakes, 
 spin-offs, special editions and sequels, SquareEnix has released several dozens of games in the 
 past years. And though that has netted a steady flow of cash into the company, it has sprouted 
 a wave of disbelief in the company's standards by long-time fans. For all of the motives above, 
 it is fair to say that FFXIII is the least expected episode in the series in many years. So, when 
 word got out that after leaving Square, Hironobu Sakaguchi formed a new company named Mistwalker, 
 expectations reached an all time high for the "Final Fantasy" hardcore fans. "Blue Dragon" came 
 out, and those expectations faded: it featured an archaic battle system and a horribly childish 
 script. So, "Lost Odyssey" was released with little fanfare: reviewers everywhere dismissed the 
 game as mild effort to repeat the "Final Fantasy" formula once more, and the hardcore fan-base 
 of the 360 wasn't mildly interested in a classical JRPG. So, the question that needs answering 
 is: how does "Lost Odyssey" stack up when compared with the "Final fantasy" legacy?
  
  "Lost Odyssey" is the tale of Kaim Argonar, an immortal man that has lived for over a thousand 
 years. It is set in a high fantasy scenario with sci-fi elements, in everything similar to that 
 of "FFVIII", where a number of political conflicts have engaged the world's countries in a series 
 of wars. Of course, the reason why the world is at war is rather simple: there is a powerful and 
 somewhat mad wizard that wants to take over the world with his magic, and uses these conflicts 
 to gain power; alas, nothing new on this front. Sakaguchi's scenario is really poor, so much that 
 it pains me to write so. The plot is so obvious and dull it hurts: in the first few hours it will 
 be plainly obvious who the bad guys are and what they're plotting, and what the good guys' purpose 
 is. No plot twists, no grand finale, no hidden meanings, no nothing. Yet, the old Sakaguchi charm 
 still manages to creep up, with a cast of touching and funny characters giving the story a much 
 needed interest. Jansen, a womanizer with the appetite for booze and prostitutes is delightfully 
 funny; Seth, a cynical pirate that is Jansen's complete opposite, picks on him throughout the game 
 making them a great duo for any comedic act; and then there's Sed, Seth's son, an elderly pirate 
 that still calls his mother "Momma". The rest of the cast isn't as interesting, and can seem mostly 
 underdeveloped, especially, the main character Kaim, who is so "emo" it becomes annoying: all his 
 dialogues can be resumed to a series of careless, dry, uninteresting one-liners. But that is where 
 things get interesting
  
  As you might already know, "Lost Odyssey" features collaboration from (supposedly) famous Japanese 
 writer Kiyoshi Shigematsu with the name of "A 1000 years of dreams", a collection of memories belonging 
 to Kaim's one thousand years of living. These memories were translated to screen only using text, 
 a few abstract images and sound, and of course, Uematsu's riveting soundtrack. The result is, by 
 far, the best narratives "Lost Odyssey" has to offer. Here, Kaim is portrayed as a real, multifaceted 
 character, with proper feelings and personality, and his life-episodes are much more deep and emotionally 
 provocative than anything Sakaguchi can come up with. They can be described as somewhat philosophical 
 tales about war and peace, love and hate, life and death, but nothing I could ever write could 
 transmit how powerful and well written they really are. After the first one, I was literally hooked 
 to these pieces of literary magic, that managed to make me weep (yes, weep) every single time, 
 due to the intensity of those vivid dramatic moments, made all the more touching thanks to Uematsu's 
 music. It's so damn good, that if "Lost Odyssey" focused on these "1000 Years of Memories" instead 
 of the silly "Madman wants to take over the world" plot, it would probably have the best JRPG story 
 ever. It's not that Sakaguchi's plot doesn't have its share of powerful emotional moments, it does, 
 it's just that there are a lot of silly clichd subplots in between each one, and they lack the 
 depth present in Shigematsu's tales.
  
  The gameplay, as would be expected from Sakaguchi, is the standard in classical turn-based RPG's, 
 i. e. nothing new here as well. And if it does feel dated and overused, one must admit that at least 
 it's well executed. Some things have been improved: the player is fairly rewarded for exploring 
 the world; grinding is not an issue, thanks to the use of an experience system that grants levels 
 with great speed; and very importantly, the tradition of obscure side-quests is gone, with most 
 of the hidden secrets in the game only requiring a healthy amount of exploration and reasoning 
 to find. So if you like to reminisce about classical "Final fantasies", then the gameplay will 
 surely make you happy with nostalgia. Nobuo Uematsu's fully orchestrated score will also make you 
 very happy, as it follows the spirit of the series, meaning its one hell of a soundtrack. And it's 
 completely original, which allowed Uematsu to go to new, unvisited places, instead of having to 
 rearrange time and time again the same melodies. The result does bear some nostalgia, but also 
 manages to go forward in creating new sounds and styles: expect everything from metal to erudite 
 music to be present.
  
  On the technical side, the game has its share of ups and downs. The art-direction is very good 
 and translates well into the extremely detailed Unreal Engine, producing beautiful sets and characters. 
 It isn't, by any means, nothing that hasn't been done before: most of the aesthetic is reminiscent 
 of past "Final Fantasy" games, and the usual Japanese quirky silliness (like dresses that lack 
 fabric in bosom and rear) is all too present to make the world's environment feel believable. The 
 fact that the game doesn't run all that well, doesn't help: there are many loading-screens and 
 stuttering-cutscenes waiting players who want to get through to the end of the game. At least, 
 the cutscenes and FMV are the best I've ever seen, with fast cut editing, dynamic directing (finally 
 a game that masters the use of low and high-angle shots) and use of simultaneous multiple POVs 
 (giving a comic-book feel similar to that of Ang Lee's underappreciated "Hulk") . Apart from the 
 simplistic lighting, the marvelous visual direction by Roy Sato (animator of "The Flight of the 
 Osiris" from the "Animatrix" short stories) is highly commendable.
  
  So, is "Lost Odyssey" a worthy successor of the "Final Fantasy" legacy? The answer is yes. Though 
 "Lost Odyssey" has many flaws, it fares remarkably well in upholding the series' concepts and production 
 values. Everything one would expect from a "Final Fantasy" is present. Yet, "Final Fantasy" has 
 always been a series that, in each episode, went further in the genre and "Lost Odyssey" feels 
 exactly the opposite: it tries to go back to the roots of the genre. At first, that might be a 
 letdown, but after crying endless times from reading every "1000 Years of Memories" and watching 
 the gorgeous cutscenes, you'll understand what Sakaguchi is trying to say with his game: why go 
 forward, when the dramatic potential of the genre is still underachieved? "Lost Odyssey" is Sakaguchi's 
 greatest masterpiece, a game so heartbreaking, profound and beautiful that it fully deserves the 
 title of "Final Fantasy". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuRen6899
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid I've given up on Lost Odyssey. I've never said that of a game before. Having played 
 for over 30 hours, I've grown tired of tedious puzzles and overly-challenging boss fights.
  
  Which is a huge shame because it all started so promisingly. Through Disc 1, I honestly thought 
 this was going to become one of my favourite Xbox 360 titles. The story, whilst highly melodramatic, 
 was engaging and immersive, the characters interesting and the dialogue well written. I also enjoyed 
 some of the short stories featured in Kaim's "dreams".
  
  And so, eager to see how it all turns out, I struggled through what was to follow. Once the novelty 
 of the ring-system combat wears off, this game unfortunately becomes very repetitive. Silly puzzles 
 involving switches and platforms - often with random battles interspersed, just to help disrupt 
 your train of thought - only serve to destroy the momentum of the plot, and it's made all the worse 
 by the fact that you can only save at certain points (I will never, ever understand games which 
 force a select few save points upon players) .
  
  The load times are also an issue, and they seem to get worse as the game progresses, which heightened 
 my frustration as I reached Disc 4. For while the story is a good one, it does feel very drawn 
 out and I found myself investing more and more time for less and less payback.
  
  And so, realising that my curiosity as to where the story was going was now my only motivation, 
 I decided to call it a day after three times failing a stupidly difficult challenge which involves 
 defeating four bosses in less than two minutes! Maybe I'm just a very poor gamer... or maybe this 
 game fails to cater for those that aren't strictly hardcore and willing to figure out which combinations 
 of rings, skills, spells, party members and items will work best for each and every individual 
 battle.
  
  In summary, I really wanted to love Lost Odyssey and I really thought I was going to. But it tried 
 my patience to the point that I snapped and watched the ending on YouTube. A great shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner_93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox and the Xbox 360 really have not had much to offer for RPG enthusiasts. That was mostly 
 Sony's territory, as the PS2 had a barrage of excellent, and not so excellent, Role-Playing Games. 
 The 360 now has had Blue Dragon and currently Lost Odyssey in the US alone. While Blue Dragon wasn't 
 a well received game, Lost Odyssey manages to do better.
  
  Lost Odyssey comes from the mind of Hironobu Sakaguchi, (The creator of the first five Final Fantasy 
 games) and from the sounds of Nobuo Uematsu. (The ever popular composer from a number of the Final 
 Fantasy games) Lost Odyssey has a wonderful story with enlightening characters, but suffers from 
 some in game lag.
  
  The story of Lost Odyssey begins with a man named Kaim Argonar. At the start of the game, all you 
 really know of him is that he is an immortal. An immortal is somebody who cannot ever die. However, 
 although he can never die, he does not remember anything. His memory has been completely wiped, 
 and anytime he even remembers anything, it turns out to hurt him. A battle ensues as the game starts 
 and at the end, a meteor wipes out all but Kaim. When he returns to Uhra, he is told by Gongora 
 to go check on Grand Staff as the city believes it was the Grand Staff that caused the meteor. 
 He eventually meets another immortal named Seth, and Jansen, who is not immortal. As they approach 
 Grand Staff, Kaim and Seth begin to remember as their stories begin to connect with each others. 
 Later on they meet other characters, some immortal, some mortal, and discover what is really going 
 on.
  
  Not only is the story fantastic, but the game also has characters which make the whole experience 
 even better. You have Jansen, who just like Irvine from Final Fantasy 8, is a ladies man. He enjoys 
 being around women and the way he acts around the team is really funny. The story has many twists 
 that happen later on, and you'll learn that most of the characters that are immortal have also 
 lost their memories and begin to remember. And as they do, everybody's stories begin to connect.
 
  
  Combat in Lost Odyssey is turn-based. You'll have a total of 5 characters on the field and everybody's 
 turn alternates along with the monsters. If you've equip your characters with these special rings, 
 then they will get an added bonus when they attack. And when they do attack, a ring will circle 
 around the screen prompting you to hold down the right trigger and release it at the right moment 
 in order for it to say Bad, Good, or Perfect inside the rings. If you manage to get it to say perfect, 
 you will get all of the added bonus effects, whether it be poison an enemy, increase critical damage, 
 and so on. You can customize rings anytime you like so you can mess around with various combinations 
 of items you attain while battling or that you find in treasure chests.
  
  While it does add that nice new feel to the combat system, combat is still boring. You'll encounter 
 monsters and fight, and fight, and fight. Because the game, like most RPG's, has random battles, 
 it also has them frequently.
  
  There are some design quirks that really limit the fun value. First off, the game lags quite a 
 bit. If you run a lot with the characters, you'll notice the screen skipping. This, while it does 
 happen rarely, is still annoying when it happens. Another thing is the load times. Every time you 
 go from one area to another, you get these long load times which can last up to 20-30 seconds. 
 That can get really annoying when you have to go from one place to another constantly.
  
  The game also has a few side-quests for you to partake in. While the objective in some, or most, 
 is rather dumb, it still is pretty fun to participate in these side-quests.
  
  Lost Odyssey has a leveling system just like every RPG. The downside is that it takes almost forever 
 to get up one level. What is normally done in a new area in RPG's is to level up until the monsters 
 give you smaller amounts of EXP. In a normal RPG, you could get up quite a few levels. However 
 in Lost Odyssey, you'll be lucky to get up one or two levels until they start giving you extremely 
 small amounts of EXP. 
  
  Another feature in the game is the feature to Skill Link. When you have immortals on your team, 
 i. e. Kaim, Seth, etc, they can't learn skills by just leveling up like the mortals. They have to 
 learn the skills from the mortals that learn it. The immortals can only learn from either Skill 
 Linking or from accessories. What you do is you assign an ability for an immortal to learn. (Black 
 Magic, White Magic, Spirit Magic, etc.) The ability will have a required number of Points that 
 you need to obtain in order for the immortal to learn the skill. Once they do, it will be on a 
 list of abilities that you can give your immortal.
  
  The downside to all this is that you can't really have all the skills unless you have enough space. 
 An immortal only has a few slots to put abilities into, and the only way to increase the number 
 is to find slot seeds, which can't be bought. You have to find them, and they are extremely rare. 
 So you'll really have to be balanced with who will have what as you don't want everyone having 
 the same abilities set.
  
  Although Lost Odyssey is plagued with long load times, some laggy frame-rate issues, and other 
 things mentioned in this review, it's still an extremely fun game to play. If you are able to look 
 past all of the negative things such as the dull combat and long load times, you can still enjoy 
 the game. Lost Odyssey is definitely an adventure that you won't want to miss and you should definitely 
 consider purchasing a copy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speranza318
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  STORY
  
  Lost Odyssey is the story of Kaim, an immortal man who has lived 1000 years. He lost his memories 
 and has no intentions of getting them back. In fact, he hates the past, yet as the story unfolds 
 he is reminded of his past through visual/auditory cues. These are told through text, and there 
 are many to be found. Most people would find them repetitious and boring, but I liked them and 
 I felt they added a lot to Kaim's character. Unfortunately, these sequences would have been much 
 better appreciated in full motion capture. Living so long, and unable to die, he makes the perfect 
 candidate for a mercenary, so as the game opens up we meet our protagonist in the middle of a war. 
 From there, he reports back to his commander as one of the few survivors and the story continues 
 from there.
  
  As one progresses, the player learns of other immortals. They all have some contact to Kaim, and 
 the plot unfolds. There are no major twists in this game, but the plot is solid and the voice acting 
 is well done and enjoyable to listen to. The facial expressions are done quite well, but the lip 
 sync is not 1st rate.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  There is a ring making system which makes this game unique compared to some others, but it's nothing 
 spectacular. During combat, you have to stay awake because there is a ring sequence that forces 
 you to time your attacks with the right trigger to exert maximum power (a "Perfect") . 
  
  Also, your immortals learn abilities from your mortals, and you can pick and choose who excels 
 in attacks, magic, etc
  
  Other than that, this is your typical turn based RPG.
  
  VISUALS
  
  This game looks fantastic. The characters are well done. When you wear trinkets 
 and wear new armor and weapons, they show. Each scene is gorgeous as you walk through each area. 
 CG animations are beautiful. 
  
  MUSIC/Audio
  
  Some of the music is very pretty, but for the maker of Final Fantasy (Nobuo Uematsu) , it doesn't 
 compare to some of the masterpieces he has created in the past. It doesn't make it bad, just not 
 the best I've heard.
  
  SUMMARY
  
  A solid RPG that you should experience if you enjoy a good story driven game. However, there are 
 no revolutionary plot twists or genre defying moments, which is a let down.
  
  The extras are limited to a Backyard area where you can battle enemies with special abilities, 
 but most end up too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aguaybana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  First off.
  
  The 2 reasons why i bought this game
  
  1. Kick ass gripping commercial. (the song in the commercial is called White Rabbit by Jefferson 
 Airplane) i loved the song in the commercial and bought the game despite gamespot giving it a 7. 
 5
  thinking it was too low but it was just right.
  
  2. The music composer for the Final Fantasy series: Nobuo Uematsu. If for some of you like me have 
 downloded songs of FFX from this composer the this game will not let you down in mixing songs with 
 the adventures that you undergo. Game Music wil keep you entertained.
  
  Story:
  
  Now, the story is mainly about an immortal (Kaim) who lost his memory and as you pass through the 
 game you will find villigers doing common things like two kids fighting over a piece of candy or 
 a man selling cloth. on the screen it will show something that says "Kaim has unlocked a memory 
 deep within his heart" . You would expect a video clip but instead they put these BORING pages 
 for you too read a mini story which feels like forever everitime you read another page you hope 
 it would be the last one and you get these almost every 30 minutes in the game when you are not 
 fighting of monsters. Fortunately you can skip the entire thing and these mini stories have very 
 little involvement with the actual game story. But you will have to have the paciance of a saint 
 to continue on after the first 10 to 20 hours because its so boring and i spent more than 50 hours 
 still trying to get a clue out of what was happening. For hardcore achievement people who are thinking 
 of buying the game find a good internet guide to get every achievement that way you dont miss anything 
 and so wont have to spend an extra 40 hours trying to get an achievement that can only be gotten 
 by playing the game again because you had missed it and cant go back ( Weve all been there) . But 
 if like to read than this game is for you. 
  
  Battle system: 
  
  It is solid. there are some good things found in the battle system now that you could not do FFX 
 for example: Now in Lost Odyssey you can switch your equipment depending on there attributes and 
 you wont lose a turn. And the spells are based on the Old school ROCK, PAPER ,SCISSORS formula. 
 The elements are Fire, Earth, Wind and Water. The battle system does it job in keeping you entertained 
 an customizing your characters which will really be addicting for wanting to have your own kick 
 ass line up.
  
  Music: 
  
  Music is very good and will not bore you in the sense of monsters popping out and having to hear 
 the same song over and over again since they have a variety of battle songs.
  
  Display:
  
  Loading times are decent you dont have too wait too long its usually 5 seconds or so. There 
 are four discs in the case. 
  
  Overall: 
  For hardcore achievement people who dont have that much pacience (no offense) this game is not for 
 you. But i am still willing to recomend this game to any RPG fan that is willing to give it a second 
 chance through the story. Like i said the battle system once you get more characters you WILL be 
 entertained by custumicing of your characters ability.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirulon
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth playing. I picked it up on a whim when I found it for $30. I am glad 
 I did.
  
  The gameplay is straightforward and nothing too complicated. Not to worry though if you like strategy. 
 There is enough there to keep it interesting since the learning curve is short due to good explanations 
 early in the game.
  
  The biggest problem I had with this game were the loading times. It wasn't so much the loading 
 from place to place as it was the battle intros. They just seem overdone and overlong to have before 
 every battle.
  
  Another minor disappointment is the length of the game. For four disks I expected it to take at 
 least 40 to 50 hours. It was made up for partially by the beautiful cut scenes.
  
  I would have given this game a 7 had it not been for the dream sequences.
  They were well written 
 and gave the characters so much more depth. Along with the background music and colors I found 
 myself reading them intently.
  
  All in all, this is a great game to pick up for about $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Excellent 8.5/10
  Gameplay: Good 7/10 (There is not enough character develpment)
  Storyline: Superb 9.0/10
  Music: n/a (I do not play with the music)
  RPG factor: 6/10 there 
 is not enough character development apart from the intros
  Difficulty: Just right
  There is about 50 hours of gameplay from start to finish. (longer if you want to explore)
  
 
  Pros; Excellent Storyline
  Cons, not enough character development
  
  
  Ok here goes. These are my first impressions. There are 9 playable Characters. Excellent storyline 
 (goes off track in a few parts) . The graphics are great & the individual's mortal's storyline is 
 great.
  
  This is a game you have to bare with for the benefits of the storyline. As the story goes is gets 
 very interesting on how Gongora has made the mortals life miserable. Kiam cannot remember his 1000 
 year past & his memories unlocks as you start moving through the game by dreams, sometimes you 
 get to a point where you are stuck & do not know what to do next. This is where you have to bare 
 with the game. Once you are back on track you just want to rush & get to the next interesting part 
 & what is hiding round the next corner. When the game starts you have just Kiam to play with & 
 you meet up with different characters as you go along. When you get to 6 characters you can only 
 have 5 in the party, this is when it gets complicated, as obviously you want to have the best characters 
 in the party from the start, but you will have to change characters to increase the skills of the 
 immortals (Kiam, Sarah, Ming & Seth) These are collected by Skill links with the mortals. I used 
 the tactic of the 4 immortals & 1 mortal this works out great. The ring creation system is ok but 
 disappointing. They could have given more description & stats on the rings you are using, 
  
  Bottom line Great game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Classic Battle principies
  +Outstanding Soundtrack
  +Well executed Storyline
  
  The Bad:
  -First 2 Bosses are really a pain
  -Maybe sometimes 
 a bit long loading times (I personally could live with it)
  
  First off, I was disappointed in the Final Fantasy parts that came out on PS2. I expected a bit more 
 of them. Storywise, Gameplaywise and when it comes to the special Atmosphere coming with the parts 
 before. Even if all the comparing to FF is getting old, its pretty much like the PS1-FF-Parts, got 
 the same composer and producer.. and its a lot better then most RPGs today.
  
  The Graphics :
  Well... good. LO is almost split in two parts. Some places look not worth mentioning, while 
 some others look outstanding. I love the Character-design and the overall style which, even if it 
 got its ups and downs always fit. Only the Battles against many enemies (actually only 2 times in 
 the game) it got little slowdowns.
  
  The Sound:
  The Soundtrack is one of the best our japanese Friend ever made. Really. It always supports the Game, got 
 wonderful Melodys and is always nice made. I dont even remember downs. The Voiceovers are great, and 
 even the american Version supports German (which I played and is well done... doesnt happen often) , English, japanese 
 and... one I forgot XD. You dont have to change your System, you can always switch them and the subs 
 are not bound to the spoken Language as well. The Sound Effects are pretty standard, as the DD5.1-Mix 
 is. So theres no reason to complain, nothing to jump around for.
  
  The Gameplay:
  The Fighting-system us basic JRPG-Style but its good as it is. It doesnt get old unlike some of 
 them. The Playtime is 40-100h, you got egnough sidequests, the Power-up-system motivates and keep 
 you busy... It feels like 10 years ago, and I LOVE IT! It plays exactly like I hoped, its not too 
 easy in the beginning (which is good, motivates you to get progress) and feels like the old FF-Parts 
 in a absolutely own world. If you played FF7-9 when you were younger this game is more must-have 
 then any other JRPG right now.
  And the random encounters are NOT a problem. They dont happen too often and never have been a problem 
 back then... it almost supports the old-days-feeling. Plus, if you want to power up its no problem.
 
  
  The Storyline itself got some twists, but comes pretty expected. This is not really bad because the 
 way how it is executed is really awesome. The small Storys you get to read about are well-written 
 too and give the Characters deepness and keep the game interesting interesting until the end. The 
 Ending is also one of the best Ive seen the last 10 years... maybe it steps in a lot clichees, BUT 
 it gives all answers you want, while others are often too open or just flat.
  
  So...:
  If you love RPGs, even if you only liked the Final Fantasy-Series, you will be happy with this one. Its 
 one of the most impressive RPG as a whole, it doesnt care too much about the changes made in the 
 last 10 years, and most of them werent good in my opinion. I LOVE THIS GAME! It gave me exactly what 
 I expcted, wanted and missed the last years. Thats what it makes a instant classic itself.
  If you love JRPGs : GO! BUY! NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mart_mart
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  When i heard about lost odyssey, i didn't know what to think, judging from Mistwalker's Rpg predecessor 
 of it; Blue Dragon you would turn tail and run, but the words "From the director of Final Fantasy" 
 gave inspired hope, it could maybe, possibly be all that a FF game is, and guess what? It is.
 
  From the moment the game opens you know there is something about it, the opens the game, with a 
 graphically superior cutscene, reminiscent of the FFX cutscenes, also in a battle which is all 
 quite exciting, it then goes on and towards the end of the cutscene you are left quite bedazzled, 
 Is it trying too hard?, Did I waste my money?, That was pretty awesome?. Many questions, or I could 
 just keep playing the game and see what happens.
  It then gets down to the grind, with a nice storyline coming in, it introduces the main characters 
 propery. 
  
  The battles in lost odyssey are one of the games main strengths, it is turn based, but not in the 
 manner of ATB or in the FFX style, it is more Dragon Quest, at the beginning of the turn, you choose 
 all your moves and then they played out, and then you choose again, it is really effective with 
 other little tweaks to it like having delays for larger moves, and when you physically attack someone, 
 it has a little mini game where you have to line up one ring onto another, if that makes sense. 
 Okay, its complicated, on the screen firstly before you press anything there is a ring, and this 
 is where you hold down the RT button, bringing down a second ring from of screen towards the ring 
 on screen already, once, the ring you are controlling lands on the primary ring, you release the 
 RT button and will get a Perfect, Great or Bad, depending on where the ring ends up, and if you 
 think this would take too long, you would be wrong, it only takes a matter of 3 seconds in which 
 behind the rings onscreen your characters are seen charging towards the enemies, which is really 
 quite impressive graphically.
  
  Story-wise Lost Odyssey might aswell be a Final Fantasy game, if it does anything well, it lays 
 down an exceptional story, it is a story-propelled RPG and very well knows this as it focuses alot 
 on things such as cutscenes, graphics and sound these it does well, and add up to some memorable 
 moments in the game which stick, especially an exceptional ending, I won't spoil it.
  
  Lost Odyssey's excellent soundtrack was orchestrated by Final Fantasy's own Nobuo Uematsu, and 
 as guessed, it adds into the cutscenes through-out the game massively and as you may have guessed, 
 the final boss theme is outstanding and makes the final moments of the game breath-taking. 
  Aswell as the solid music in the game, the voice acting is of a fairly high standard aswell, which 
 is needed for some of the more comic moments in the game.
  
  The characters are one of the most exciting parts of the game as they are tied tightly too each 
 other, and so when one or another pass away, you can feel the lump in the back of your throat. 
 Throughout the game, the characters have some predictable relationships, but like watching a movie 
 again, its fun to see them play out.
  Lost Odyssey has some nice little added features that can be enjoyable, such as the thousand years 
 dreams, which are little stories your character recalls through the course of the game, but become 
 tedious after the first few and don't drag you in enough, aswell as an arena you can compete in, 
 but once again doesn't keep you reeled in once you have completed the game.
  
  All in all, this game is a definite rental, sure if you can complete a 4 disc game in the time 
 you're allowed to rent it, but if you buy it, you'll complete it and never touch it again, but 
 I don't want to end on a negative note, this game is a great piece of art and will definitely leave 
 an impression on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonStrom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game was reccomended to me by a manager at a local gaming store, based on the games we always 
 talked about when I went into the store. I had never played a turn based rpg video game before. 
 Having played RPG's it was a similar system but took some getting used to in a video game. Most 
 rpg's i have played had simultanious combat systems. The other thing I was not used to were the 
 LONG cut scenes. However they are spectacular and tell a great story.
  
  Over all the game play is very enjoyable and the character while sometimes annoying are very well 
 done. 
  A good sellection of skills and weapons/items for each character in the game. Very interesting 
 mix of strengths and weaknesses in the characters, forcing you to make the right choice of party 
 members in certain situations. It is not always best to go barreling in with swords a swinging...
 
  
  A suprisingly enjoyable game that has caused me to look for more similar genre games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  With so many role playing games, popping up on PS3, 360 and Wii alike, we are left with a plethora 
 of bad games sparsely lit with the odd diamond gem, one of these games is the highly polished Lost 
 Odyssey. Coming from across the seas, and developed by the father of all RPGs Hironobu Sakaguchi, 
 Lost Odyssey seems like an ode to all things RPG, and most notably the Final Fantasy series... well 
 the box does boast that it is from the series creator.
  Set in a beautifully rendered world born of magic and technology, the events begin to unfold when 
 a massive meteor strikes the land, wiping out thousands and devastating acres. However, there are 
 two survivors; the cold and taciturn Kaim, and the overly zealous Seth. Surrounding their survival 
 is both mystery and a deep darkness, and as the two work to discover why they are alive, an epic 
 unfolds that will leave you breathless.
  LO plays like any major FF game, it has a simple field screen to allow for exploration and story 
 evolution, you are free to roam around the world given to you, and this is sped up by your ability 
 to hold a button to run faster, making traversing the same ground less inhibiting.
  The menu system is as simple a creation as we would expect from Sakaguchi, both streamlined yet 
 complex enough that you can play around with most of the settings, from your items to your weapons 
 and even your character management.
  The battle system is a hark back to turn based combat seen in RPGs of yore, each character will 
 be presented an opportunity to attack, heal or use an item. However, there is a multitude of skills 
 and abilities to further effect that turn based system, speeding up, or even slowing down your 
 characters actions.
  LO does not seem to do anything too new despite its next generation console unleashing, but it 
 does jazz the game up with some little quirks. There is a wall like effect in battle created by 
 the front line of your team, drastically reducing the damage the back line takes, or the clever 
 Ring system which affords you a time based mini-game every time you attack normally in order to 
 gain nifty little bonuses. One feature that stands out is the way your characters learn; there 
 are four Immortals, and five Mortals all in all, and the Mortals learn naturally a fixed set of 
 skills as they plod along gaining experience. Cooke will only ever be a White Mage, and Mack will 
 only ever use Blue Magic, but when an Immortal links to those individual skills, they are afforded 
 any ability they link to long enough to learn it. Bear in mind, both characters must battle at 
 the same time. It's a nice way to build a highly refined and powerful team of five characters.
 
  Another of LO's major features is a collection of "Memories" spread throughout the game. Over 
 30 shorts stories have been placed around the world, and as Kaim and his comrades adventure, these 
 memories are unlocked and present you with stories from the Immortals past that are nothing to 
 do with the main story but work as individually beautiful moments within the game. Each story will 
 play out to some well rendered backdrops and simple sound effects. I have to confess, I was brought 
 to tears and grins of joy by several of them they were that deeply written, they are worth the 
 effort to find.
  Graphically speaking no RPG even compares to Lost Odyssey, even the mighty Mass Effect cant face 
 up to this epic game, everything flows so smoothly and loads quickly. This further highlights the 
 polished nature of the games core. Does the game look next generation though? Yes and no... The 
 rendered world is utterly breathtaking, but you can't help but feel it could have been a little 
 more breathtaking to behold. Don't be fooled however, the cut scenes and the lip synching are astounding, 
 and I have never seen more convincing tears on a sprite.
  When those graphics, the character models and the music are all strung together, Lost Odyssey is 
 a maestros dream in unity. Sound and visuals dance together perfectly to both move and amaze you, 
 any RPG fan would be unwise to miss this game as a result. The voice acting is top quality. Every 
 character works hard to remain out of the cheesy zone of games voice acting, even the witty Jansen 
 stays on the right side of annoying despite the way his character was written. You would expect 
 such a man to be irking, yet you find him charming and loveable.
  Kaim at first will seem sad, flat and hollow, but as the game opens up as he does the same, you 
 may very well hear some of the finest voice acting since Balthier in Final Fantasy 12.
  The musical score is both dramatic and haunting. If you are not made of stone, you will be hard 
 pushed not to have your heart strings firmly plucked near the end of disc 1 by the music that accompanies 
 a very moving scene. The battle music is wonderfully reminiscent of the style of music we are used 
 to hearing in games of Lost Odysseys ilk, and it will incite both nostalgia and excitement.
  Any RPG gamer will be presented a plethora if games playing with LO. It took me almost 50 hours 
 just to complete the massive 4 DVD storyline, and this was with very few of the extra quests taking 
 up my time. So stretch that time out and you have certainly gotten your money's worth for the story 
 alone.
  On the whole, I wish I could score this game perfectly, but the fact that it fails to deliver on 
 all the next-gen criteria for a next-gen game, sadly loses the title points, not too many, just 
 enough to keep it shy of ten. That should by no means put you off, as it's perhaps the finest RPG 
 ever produced, and quickly rocketed to the top of my favourites RPG list, (sorry FF9) .
  Embrace the Lost Odyssey.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadDonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  I'm definitely an RPG lover. I was checking this game out for a long time before it came out, but 
 I was unfortunately gone on a trip when it did, so I didn't get to play it for quite some time.
 
  
  I'll admit that my first impression of Kaim, the main character, was not a good one. I didn't really 
 like anything about him. He sounded like Keanu Reeves and was just as stiff, with not a whole lot 
 of expression and a boring appearance (the hair in front of his face pissed me off for some reason) . 
 Characters are a hugely important part of the game for me no matter what i'm playing, so I was 
 thinking "Aw crap, there's no way i'll be able to play the whole way through this game." But after 
 you get teamed up with some more lively characters, you start to take a fondness to Kaim. He still 
 keeps his stiff, expressionless feel for the whole game, but as you find more about him, it seems 
 like it fits quite well.
  
  The other characters are quite gripping too. As in most JRPGs there's a very wide spread of personalities. 
 Aside from Kaim I found that Seth and Sed were also very likable characters. It would have been 
 nice to know a little more about each of their pasts - to draw you in more, like they did wit Kaim 
 - but I think that they still did an excellent job.
  
  With many of the newer JRPGs I find that they are getting more and more hectic to play. Many battle 
 systems are now run time and there's always too many characters to manage (games like FFX2 comes 
 to mind - terrible) . If I wanted a faster pace game I could play an FPS. I prefer a game where 
 I can take my time and not worry about dying every time I have to search for a potion. That's one 
 thing that I liked about this game. I know they don't win any awards for creativity, but I say 
 why change what works? And it was really nice to be able to change your gear and formation while 
 you were in battle. Being able to swap equipment mid fight allows for a whole other angle of strategy. 
 One more nice thing about the battles was the ring systems. When you have a ring equipped, you 
 don't get the benefits unless you are able to overlap 2 rings using correct timing in battle. Although 
 it is not hard to do, it just adds an extra piece to the battle and makes you feel like your a 
 bit more involved in how the battle develops.
  
  Although the skill system was quite interesting - having the two types of characters learn skills 
 differently - it made the mortals incredibly useless in the later parts of the game. I think that 
 they should have maybe added 1 more immortal to complete the party so there wouldn't be the one 
 awkward member of your party who was usually a corpse. But as a whole it was a nice skill system. 
 It really felt like you were beefing your immortals up.
  
  One part of the game that really impressed me was the thousand years of dreams. At first I thought 
 to myself "Ugh... reading? Why couldn't they have made this bit into a video clip?, but once I 
 got through a couple I found that the writing quality was amazing. The short stories really give 
 you a vivid picture in your mind and spark emotion. Every story has a little lesson about life, 
 but it makes it interesting by putting it in the view of someone who has never-ending life. And 
 they also help build on your understanding of who Kaim really is and why he's like that. You also 
 get a bit of a glimpse into Seth's past too, but those "dreams" are done in a bit different format 
 of writing and I don't find them quite as effective or moving.
  
  Now on to what I consider to be most important in any RPG, the story. Lost Odyssey's story is, 
 in my opinion, one of the best recent game stories. Although it does get incredibly cheesy in some 
 parts (but really, try to name a JRPG that doesn't) , it is generally quite fitting to how people 
 may really act in those situations. This gives it a nice crossover of realism into a very fantasy 
 based world. Its certainly not the first time that a game has been based off of an amnesiac character, 
 but they throw in a little twist by using multiple characters with no memory as well as them all 
 being immortals. Its like a Highlander meets Memento kind of thing. One things that unfortunately 
 didn't quite hit the spot for me was the kind of "love story" going on. It just feels like there's 
 no chemistry between Kaim and his wife Sarah. It seems like she could have been just some girl 
 that he met yesterday because he has no emotion. I found that he softens up more with the kids 
 than he does with her. But that's just a small part of the story.
  
  So as a whole I believe that this game is definitely worth giving a shot, especially if your a 
 JRPG person like me. It doesn't quite weasel its way onto my favorite games of all times list, 
 but it is certainly one that I have enjoyed playing and will probably go back and play it again 
 in the future. I would normally give it a 9.2 out of 10, but since we can only give ratings in 
 the multiples .5, I'll have to give it a 9.5 because I believe it definitely deserves more than 
 a 9.
  
  Best part of the game: Story/Back story (Thousand Years of Dreams)
  Worst part of the game: The time it takes transitioning in and out of battles.
  Coolest gameplay 
 difference from other RPGs: Ring battle systems
  Favorite Character (s) : Kaim and Seth
  Rating: 9.2 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurohubby
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  I laughed, I cried, and this is only on the first disc. Day before yesterday I finally rented lost 
 odyssey and sat down and played for 18 hours and I got to say this is my crack, I'm addicted. Awesome 
 Story sure it nothing new but what is, But the way it's told is one of the best presentation I've 
 seen in a long time and it's not hard to follow which, as I'm sure some JRPG's can get lost in 
 translation, this is spot on. I actually care for the characters. Great voice acting. some games 
 try to be funny and me personaly I don't laugh or find them funny this is not one of them. I honestly 
 can't remember the last time I laugh (or cried) at a game. It's a new with the idea of a Immortal 
 in a game yea they die, but they will get back up which is cool. music is awesome. It is turn base 
 but with a little twist you get to time your attack which is a neat idea. This will proably be 
 the last great turn base RPG which if it is I cannot think of A better send off. Don't do be like 
 me buy it don't rent and now it's cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroididiot
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  All the reviews gave it sevens. I can see why I guess, it's not inventive enough, and isn't all 
 very groundbreaking. But hell, its fun! The graphics are stellar, the story wouldn't quite make 
 a novel, but its still very, very good (the end is uber epic too XD) . I loved the characters, and 
 the battling system was simplistic, but I never got bored of it. The ring system gave it enough 
 to keep it from getting dry, too. Its difficulty is near perfect, and there are enough side quests/achievements 
 to keep anyone busy for quite awhile. The music was incredible to. It always set the right mood, 
 whatever it is. So what if this is "old school," that doesn't mean it's bad. The game isn't incredibly 
 long if you play straight through, maybe 35 hours. But if you get all extras it can take well over 
 80. Anyway, this is a good game, well worth your money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc0682
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I didn't enjoy playing Lost Odyssey as much as I had hoped. The beginnning was promissing but then 
 I quickly lost interest. I quit before the end due to a boring deja-vue cheesy storyline. Also, 
 combat is slow and boring. having to switch between CDs is annoying. Loading is slow. LO didn't 
 feel very next gen..
  
  The 3 pillars of a good RPG: story, character development, strategic combat:
  
  LO Story: B
 
  
  LO combat: B-
  
  LO characters: C
  
  I would recommend spending 40 hours on a SNES classic RPG rather than this... Otherwise, there 
 are other next gen RPGs worth checking out: Mass effect, Oblivion
  
  Side note: I read a lot of coments about people wanting an x360 over a PS3 for the # of available 
 RPGs.. Don't get fooled by the quantity of RPGs, because, in the case of LO, the quality just isn't 
 there...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackmb
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a really enjoyable RPG that is fun to play throughout and really sucks you in.
 
  
  As far as the story of Lost Odyssey goes it is fairly generic, following the story of Kaim as he 
 attempts to save the world from the grasp of the evil sorcerer Gongora. In general the story unfolds 
 very effectively, as cutscenes gradually reveal information about the immortal Kaim and his friends 
 as well as the actions of Gongora and company. At its best the story is very engaging and keeps 
 you wondering what will happen next, but the ultimate outcome is quite predictable and perhaps 
 a little disappointing.
  
  Often it is the characters of Lost Odyssey that are more engaging than its storyline. Kaim himself 
 is a really engaging protagonistand the effective sequence of 'dreams' you unlock that reveal his 
 past add greatly to the game and provide some really poignant moments. At times the game is laugh 
 out loud funny, and most of the humour comes through the escapades of Jansen as the likeable idiot. 
 Seth and Ming are also engaging as characters, and though you could argue that the child characters 
 of Mack and Cooke are overacted and not overly effective, the cast of Lost Odyssey is one of its 
 strongest assets.
  
  I really enjoyed the gameplay of Lost Odyssey, though the combat is fairly standard turn-based 
 fare the ring system (wherein you hold a trigger down and release it at the optimum moment for 
 boosted attack power or other effect) adds a little entertainment to the battles and stops them 
 from becoming button-mashing affairs. Battles are also enhanced by the formation system, which 
 will mean you have to think out your strategy in standard fights, often attacking weaker front 
 line enemises before damaging the protected and powerful magic users at the back. Added to this 
 the boss battles in Lost Odyssey were stronger than most other RPGs I've played, some of the boss 
 fights are really challenging but almost all make for really enjoyable and often innovative experiences.
 
  
  Graphically Lost Odyssey is fairly impressive, though some areas and backgrounds feel lacking in 
 detail many are visually impressive and the character models are very good. The musical score of 
 the game complements it well, and still sounds fresh as you approach the end of the game.
  
  Overall Lost Odyssey is a great RPG for the xbox 360 and the best I've so far played on the 
 system. Though it doesn't do anything revolutionary to the standard format its strong cast and 
 engaging world make Lost Odyssey a game well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nogglez
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  A game well worth playing. I've always loved playing RPGs for that feeling of living in an alternative 
 world. This game so far has given me that feeling far more than any other RPG. 
  
  Great graphics, battle system, user interface, RPG components (items, experience, etc) . The game's 
 mechanics are simple to understand, ye and supports the story-telling of the game.
  
  The cutscenes, ingame animation, story, characters all add to the experience, in particular drawing 
 out emotion from the player. The overall storyline is a little weak when compared to the quality 
 and finish of the other parts of the game.
  
  The 'dreams' that Kaim has may seem boring to read, but not one of them are half-baked, allowing 
 the player to have a deep understanding of Kaim and his character. Well worth the read.
  
  Like any JRPG it does need a good amount of time (40+ hours) and a 'slow' start as the game builds 
 things up.
  
  Overall, I'm not really sure why this game has been given a 7.5, it is at least an 8.5, and easily 
 a 9.5 against other JRPGs. I literally learned a lot from this game, it may be an imaginary world 
 but the concepts within it are easily transferable through to 'our' world. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colinschindler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Who cares if the game play is not some new flashy system. Lost Odyssey is a role playing game that 
 has you playing the role of Kaim where you slowly learn his story, how he thinks, and what he does. 
 Your objective is to acquire the means necessary to do this. I really enjoyed how they depicted 
 Kaim through his various experiences as such a humble guy. How he actually takes time to look at 
 everything knowing he has all the time in the world, how he deals with the inability to attach 
 himself to anyone knowing that they inevitably will die, and how he is so humble and modest from 
 his acquisition of centuries worth of knowledge that has made him wise all make this game worth 
 playing. All I am saying is that it is a great story so who cares that you have probably played 
 a similar play style with a different story. Have you ever played more than one shooter game? Was 
 it not fun because you have experienced the same thing before? Hell no! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I was eager to play this RPG. With the lack of great RPG's in this generation on any console, but 
 after several hours of playing this title I was left with the impression that I would be waiting 
 even longer for the great RPG of this generation. Don't thumb's me down just yet, let me exsplain 
 my reasons for this statement.
  
  First graphics are average with some great artistic creatures and then some pretty lame looking 
 ones too. I will admit that some of the scenery is just fantastic and detailed to the point of 
 pushing the 360's gpu to the point of freezing and locking up the system all though this is rare 
 it seems to always happen in the middle of a level and you will have to start all over again.
 
  
  Game play is very linar, this game would have been a lot better if it had an open sand box type 
 of enviorment to it. The bgame does alow you to do a lot of item searching and treasure hunting 
 but it gets kinda of boring in a linar maze like game. you do get a some what sand box feel in 
 some of the towns but even they are kinda mixed.
  
  The best part to me is the story its self and the story doesnt fail here. I feel that you get to 
 learn and grow with each playable charactor in the game. But this is where the game has its flaws 
 as some of the voice acting is just terrible in my humble opinion.
  
  the game play is no differant then any other average rpg good against evil bla bla and sometimes 
 gets very repeative. It is in this i feel that if you had a more opened world with better side 
 quests to do instead of boring mini games this game again would have added more excitement to it 
 self. even the turn based fighting system is the same old same old it doesnt even change the order 
 tha the charactors fight really. I will admit that the linked skill is kinda cool and using the 
 ring thing to get a whopping 10% percent in physical attack power really doesnt add to the game 
 it really fustrates you when you fail to get perfect every time. the magic special effects can 
 sometimes be pretty cool looking and after a while get boring because they always doe the same 
 effect. the music is even worse in combat mode its always the same bla bla.
  
  over all I am glad i played the game, but i just felt that i have played this game over and over 
 thier is just nothing new here. you take a great story with average gameplay you get an average 
 game and thats it.
  
  For those that love RPG's will like this game and maybe worth the bargain bin price of 29.99, but 
 i would reccommend it as a great rental. The game is at least a 40 hour game from start to finish 
 or about 10 hours per disk doing the main storyline and side quests so you may have to judge if 
 its worth the rent our the price tag to own it either way you really wont loose.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffviiifreak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The only thing bad I can say about this game is that its turn based when the majority of the market 
 wants something else (they don't know what but just not turn based) its a great game I have been 
 tracking it since it was announced and its not disappointing in the least especially its seem-less 
 blending of cinematics with in-game action either battles or exploration. I love the ring gameplay 
 and how it is based on timing. I should also mention how it allows you to switch equipment during 
 battle without using up that characters turn. The characters and atmosphere is amazing I love the 
 way they use immortal characters to show the long repetitive nature of life in general instead 
 of other series and people that think immortality is great and has no problems. Its great if your 
 thinking about getting it and your an RPG fan you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talbot_kincade
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has definitely been an amazing experience the animation and game-play is remarkable. 
 What is new with this game that has not been done yet is the ring assembly system. These rings 
 allow for augmentations to the character's attack relative to the timing and accuracy during your 
 attack time. In terms of artwork and animation the quality is certainly there. In this genre the 
 amount of FMVs has always been substantial and Lost Odyssey is no exception. I was especially grateful 
 for the DLC provided on the Marketplace which enabled me to revisit clips without having to replay 
 the entire game. Another feature which I have not seen in some time and certainly not as a main 
 focus is the concept of searching for lost memories within ones dreams. When looking at the storyline 
 one can say without debate that it is certainly imaginative and in truth I never anticipated how 
 it would all end. If you love Final Fantasy then Lost Odyssey is for you. There is only one downside, 
 if you are like myself and try to unlock everything before beating a game then this really has 
 no re-playable value as the plus game mode only increases the difficulty. On the other hand fully 
 completing the game will take a long time so really there is no need for it to be re-playable. 
 All in all the storyline, visuals and refreshing game-play earns this game a great score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizmond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  A warning in advance. This review will be long. In fact it's going to be really long, because I 
 really wanted to love this game, as I did with Final Fantasy VII, VIII & also Shadowhearts 1 & 
 2. I was really hoping that Lost Odyssey was going to be the one to deliver on the current generation 
 of consoles, but a load of minor flaws & a few big flaws really left me feeling frustrated to the 
 point I'd just had enough & didn't even bother completing the game. So, yes, I'm a bit bitter & 
 most of the review will seem more like a rant than anything else. So, read on at your peril !
 
  
  So, anyway..... I thought, finally.... a decent Final Fantasy-style RPG for Xbox 360 and for a 
 while it lived up to my expectations, only for the cracks to start appearing.
  
  For Disk 1 & 2 the story was moving along nicely & I was really getting in to it, then on Disk 
 3 it started to lose momentum. On disk 3 the game just got way to tedious & highlighted some of 
 the major flaws of the game.
  
  First of all: a grand RPG like this & there's NO SUMMONING or LIMIT BREAK style attacks in this 
 game. WHY ?!?!?!
  For me, the coolest part of the combat in the FF series were the summons & limit breaks. As well 
 as looking incredible, they were great to use if you were having trouble in a big boss battle. 
 I was really disappointed they had nothing like that in this game. I realise, they didn't want 
 to copy everything from the FF games, but they copied a lot any way, only they left out the coolest 
 parts.
  Also there's no uber-magic like Ultima, Flare, Holy, Meteor etc. that looked so good, that they 
 actually LOOKED like they were doing massive damage. The magic in Lost Odyssey looks & feels pretty 
 tame compared to the magic in a game that's 11 years old.
  
  Another major thing missing from this game: A Quest/Log book. EVERY RPG should have this, so you 
 know: where to go next, what quests are active, quest progress, quests you've completed etc. I 
 found I had to manually write pages of quest info myself, just in case I didn't play it for a few 
 days. It doesn't sound like it should be a major issue, but it is. When you're trying to navigate 
 6 pages of notebook scribblings to complete the sidequests, it really is a pain. Especially when 
 you get your in a dungeon full of monsters, which brings me to the combat system.
  
  Ah, the good old random battles & turn based combat system. The Lost Odyssey combat system has 
 just as many pros, as it has cons.
  The ring system is a great idea, as it is much better than pushing just one button for attack, 
 magic, items etc. Although, they did steal this idea from Shadowhearts on the PS2.
  The skill-linking system was a good idea, but it was a bit annoying after a while, referring to 
 the menu to see who'd learned what, what they were currently learning & from who. Not only that, 
 having to switch party members could also be frustrating as I was sometimes having to take weaker 
 characters, or characters I just didn't like using on main quests with me, just so I could learn 
 certain skills from them.
  The wall system was a really good idea, but it could've used some refinement. I found that in really 
 tough battles, I was having to either constanly heal the front row fighters, to prevent more damage 
 to the back row. Or letting the back row of my party get wiped out & then try & win the battle 
 with my stronger front row.
  The other problem with the combat is, that even battles against a big group of smaller foes, although 
 easy, could take alot of time. This is the problem with having a 5-person party: More good guys 
 = More bad guys & with it being turn-based, the battles can take longer than they really should.
 
  
  I did look past these flaws for the most part, but by disks 3 & 4, this is where the game really 
 fell short. There were so many tedious puzzles & maze-like dungeons, you could play for an an hour 
 or two & get absolutely nowhere. The annoying thing was trying to do these tasks & fight the numerous 
 random battles as well. This was a real nuisance as it really slowed down the momentum of the story 
 & the game just started to feel more & more like a chore. I appreciate the fact that Mistwalker 
 tried to add a little variety to the gameplay with the puzzle solving. But with a game where random 
 battles are pretty frequent, it just doesn't work, especially when you get killed halfway through 
 trying to solve a puzzle or navigate a dungeon, as save points were pretty far apart.
  The combination of time-consuming random battles, having to repeat areas after dying, puzzle solving 
 in monster infested dungeons & having to constantly fiddle with the skill-linking system got to 
 me so much, that by Disk 4 I'd had enough. Because of all this I just didn't care about the story 
 anymore, so I turned my 360 off in a mixture of frustration, disgust & bitter disappointment.
 
  It's the first time, after 20 years of gaming, I've gotten so far in an RPG & not finished it 
 due to sheer frustration.
  I did try to go back to it recently, but quess what ? No quest journal, so I didn't have a clue 
 what quests I was doing. I decided to try & crack on again with the story, but got to my first 
 puzzle-dungeon full of monsters & turned it off after just over of an hour. I have now since traded 
 it in.
  
  I'm maybe being overly-critical. But when you make a game like this, it's always going to be compared 
 to the Final Fantasy games. Lost Odyssey just isn't in the same league. The good graphics & sound 
 just don't make up for the flaws this game has. The story may be good, but it just gets dragged 
 down by the tedious gameplay, to the point you just don't care anymore. But be honest: Is the story 
 as good as FFVII & VIII, Shadowhearts ? Is the story even as good as other types of RPGs like Star 
 Wars: KOTOR or Mass Effect ? No. It isn't.
  
  Maybe you can see past the flaws as many on here have (which probably accounts for the high User 
 Rating) . I couldn't & I think the other reason the User Rating is so high, is that they think it's 
 the Xbox 360's Final Fantasy. It's not.
  I also find it a bit disheartening that in 10 years, not much has came close to touching Final 
 Fantasy VII & VIII in the turn-based RPG genre. The only exception being Shadowhearts, but then 
 again, it was the team behind FFVII & VIII that made it !
  
  I really hope that a turn-based RPG comes along, re-vitalises the genre & blows everything out 
 the water for story, depth & presentation. It might just be with the massive success of the Final 
 Fantasy series & the big boom in online gaming, most studios don't see a big market for this type 
 of game anymore. It's a real shame.
  
  
  
  
  If you read all this review: Thanks & congratulations..... I don't think I would've read this far. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's the fact that I expect so much from this studio. Maybe I expect too much. Because now 
 on its second title, Mistwalker has failed to deliver a meaningful game yet again. Let's start 
 with the manner in which it decides to deliver you the past of your main character. The dreams. 
 The first couple of times, I said, "Ok, this is kind of cool. It's a little retro, but I can take 
 it". By the tenth dream, I stopped bothering. Uncompelling writing and cliche delivery on most 
 of the stories made them too boring to bother. On to Gameplay. The camera is just retarded. Why? 
 Why in this day and age would someone have a fixed camera? And what the heck was the purpose of 
 the zoom? Did this add something that I just didn't notice? Because they tell you when you find 
 something of interest in the field, so why bother zooming? Combat is boring and uninspiring and 
 the spell system ended up making the whole thing to tedious to bother. Sure it was an attempt at 
 something, but whatever they were going for failed to hit home with me. On to the story. From what 
 I played (onto the second disc) , the thing was like a telegraphed punch in a fixed fight. I saw 
 ever twist coming a mile away. Chalk that up to failing to defy convention. Which from someone 
 whose whole legend is built upon defying the convention of the game, is rather sad. Graphically, 
 its about what you should expect from the 360. It's not going to make you drool, but it isn't going 
 to make you groan. Music seemed like it was trying to hard to be a FF game, but couldn't be bothered 
 to try to be better.
  
  All in all, it seems as if they've decided to rest upon the laurels of the traditions they wrote. 
 But after playing a dozen FF games and god knows how many RPGs, others are doing it too and some 
 are doing it better. And sure, you get some points for being historic and legendary, but after 
 two sub-par titles (one which rest on the laurels of DB and one which rests on the laurels of FF) , 
 you'll no longer be an auto try from me. Now I'll wait to see if it's worth it based on what I 
 see and hear. Then maybe I'll rent you. Then if you manage to make me fall in love all over again, 
 I'll buy you. Used at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burrito_Bandito
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey takes the old school JRPG style that a lot of people love, and throws a little zest 
 on top.
  
  You start out as Kaim, a invincible human who has lived for a thousand years, endured extreme hardship, 
 but has lost all of his memories.
  
  This game got me hooked from the first cut-scene, and I knew I was in for a great game. Amazing 
 visuals, excellent score, and that classic JRPG fighting style that I just can't get enough of, 
 with a little originality. 
  
  The story is extremely compelling and you really get attached to the characters, their gains, their 
 losses. Also, every once in a while, you trigger a dream. Dreams (if you choose not to skip them) 
 are pretty much text based short stories of past memories that your characters are exposed to. 
 Which is full of excellent writing, that almost draws you in as much as the game itself!
  
  Now the only downfall I seemed to point out in this almost perfect game, was that the story seems 
 to drag on a bit towards the end. You seem to be running around in circles for awhile before you 
 get anywhere. After that has past (Middle of the 4th disk) , things start to pick up again, and 
 your back into a very addicting and compelling storyline.
  
  This game is definitely going down in my top 5 RPG list, as it will become a classic that I will 
 recommend to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey could have easily been one of the most memorable JRPGs of all time, if it wasn't for 
 some annoying gameplay elements.
  
  The story is about 5 immortals named Kaim, Seth, Sarah, Ming and Gongora who come from another world 
 and it is time for them to return to their world. Not all of them are happy about it, since they 
 have established themselves on the current world. Ming is now Queen of the elegant nation called 
 Numara. And some of the immortals now have children on the current world and they will not be able 
 to bring the children back with them to their own world. Gongora is unhappy about it because he 
 has plans to conquer the current world so he wipes out the memories of the other 4 immortals and 
 continues with his plans to conquer the world using a form of powerful magic.
  
  The other 4 immortals need to rediscover who they are, what is going on, and stop Gongora. Some mortals 
 named Jansen, Mack, Cooke, Tolten and Sed join your party.
  
  The world is also at war due to the rapid growth of technology due to the use of magic. You mostly 
 are in control of Kaim and can rediscover his past by regaining memories (that are unlocked from 
 deep within his heart) and you do this by talking to people or going places. You can rewatch these 
 memories as many times as you like.
  
  The cirumstances in the story can be quite incredibe. You see how Seth looks much younger than her 
 son (who is an old man now) . Because immortals don't age beyond a certain point.
  
  Some of the memories you watch a very painful. Such as when Kaim remembers how he was friends with 
 a little girl who was deformed and slowly dying from a disease. Kaim would come and spend time with 
 her and did this for years until she died.
  
  There is many other memories that are intriuging and it's great to learn about Kaim this way (instead 
 of jamming long cutscenes or flashbacks somewhere into the game like other RPGs do) 
  
  But of course much of the story is told through dialouge, cutscenes and FMV too. And some scenes 
 are incredibly sad such as when people die from illness because the medical technology in the world 
 isn't good. I remember the scene when
  
  
  SPOILER
  
  Kaim found his daughter moments before she died and she was happy to see him but he couldn't remember 
 her. Her children Mack and Cooke (who were Kaims grandchildren but he barely looked old enough to 
 be their father) Mack and Cooke started bawling uncontrollably, and I found it hard not to shed a 
 tear during this moment. You even had to do a death ritual where you had to use Mack to light up 
 some torches and the music was so incredibly sad.
  
  Kaim and Sarah also discovered they are married but have no memories of it. I can't imagine how 
 this must have have felt for them.
  
  END OF SPOILER
  
  And all the emotional scenes are done so delicately, with very sad, but beautiful piano music.
 
  
  You see how characters develop romantic feelings for eachother, it paces itself well and some of 
 the romantic scenes start off cute but later get deeper and you hear a beautiful, love song play 
 too.
  
  There is other twists I'll let you discover for yourself, but you won't see them coming, but they 
 fit the story so well, and the characters (whether they are immortal or mortal) and plot all gel so 
 well.
  
  The characters have good variety and realism for their personalities. Kaim was the typical quiet, tough 
 guy but when he saw the children crying he tried to comfort them. Jansen was goofy and funny and 
 thinks he is a ladies man. Mack and Cooke who are little kids have to cope with the death of their 
 mother and grow up quickly, they are brave in battle but go back to being just kids when they have 
 the opportunity. Seth is a bit impatient. Sarah is quiet and suffers from depression. Ming created 
 the nation of Numara where people could be free, and it's a very beautiful and elegant civilzation 
 and Ming is proud of it and she just wants peace. Tolten is a the king of the nation of Uhra but 
 Gongora wanted control of it and forced Tolten to flee and join the group. Sed is the wild pirate 
 and the son of Seth but he is an old man now and Seth still looks young.
  
  As for the gameplay, well it's another turn based, Japanese style RPG. But for uniqueness there is
 
  
  -A ring system. The characters wear rings that can do extra physical or elemental damage and status 
 effects everytime you attack. You see a circle when you attack and you need to press the button 
 at a certain time. The more precise the timing the more damage it does.
  
  -Immortals can learn the skills of other characters. And they can wear skill learning accessories 
 and after they acquire so many SP they learn that skill permanently. Skills can be combo hits, being 
 able to cast multiple spells, immunity to status effects and many others.
  
  -When an immortal is Koed they are automatically revived after a certain amount of time, while a 
 mortal is not. But to make things balanced the mortals have attributes and abilities that greatly 
 increase your chances of winning in battle.
  
  -When you enter a location for the first time, you level up extremely quickly for a few levels to 
 allow you to do the neccesary levelling up quickly, but then it slows down to prevent you from becoming 
 over powered.
  
  Negative things
  
  -The loading times on disc 4 were way too slow, I don't know if it was just my disc, but they were 
 very extremely slow eg If I wanted to enter/leave an area it would take 30 secs-1 min.
  
  -Some items you desperately need to defeat certain enemies/bosses like anti- petrify can be hard 
 to find/buy.
  
  -You cannot escape some dungeons after you enter until you defeat the boss (some people will say 
 ''well that is the point of a dungeon'') well it can take over an hour to get through and sometimes 
 no save points or HP/MP restore places are provided (not even right before the boss!) And there 
 is lots of back tracking for the puzzles.
  
  As for the graphics, presentation and sound.
  
  There is LOTS and LOTS of cut scenes (no wonder the game is 4 discs) The characters have detailed 
 skin tone and facial structure.
  
  The FMV can be breath taking with beautiful views of the ocean and sunsets. Some of the action FMV 
 scenes can be very exciting, fast and spectacular as Final Fantasy games. You see the lucky escapes 
 in flying vehicles as something is about to explode and dodging the debris. You see lots of energy 
 being generated at Gongoras bases. You see medieval style war machines and high tech vehicles travelling 
 very fast in combat with eachother. You see cities with flying cars as well as towns that look like 
 something from the 1940s. In Numara you see beautifully architectured buildings and lovely homes 
 and things like a beautiful water fountain and nicely paved roads.
  
  The tropical places have beautiful sea water, and detailed sand dunes and the most realistic palm 
 trees I have seen. Some places the sand dunes are submerged with water and you see little sea creatures, and 
 other places the sand dunes are quite higher than the water.
  
  The sky can be a mixture of yellowish/grey and when it combines with the old world buildings it 
 adds a mellowed out effect. There is realistic looking rainfall and high, mountain altitude effects 
 and heavy blizzards.
  
  For realistic physics it's slippery on ice, heavy rains slows you down. Seccurity robots can hear 
 you knock over objects or heavy footsteps (sometimes you need to knock over objects to get their 
 attention to clear a path)
  
  Kaims and Jansens voices match their personalities perfectly. The children sound energetic, brave 
 but can go back to being kids again. The female characters were a bit quiet though. Gongoras dialogue 
 was horrible and repeititve. Sed sounds like a cowboy to suit his pirate occupation. Tolten sounds 
 very posh and formal being royalty. There is good expression in the voice acting too, when the characters 
 are crying or heart broken you really feel their pain. When they are happy they sound very cheerful.
 
  
  I've explained how the music can be beautiful, sad, moving and a lot of the music for sad moments 
 are done beautifully and slowly on piano. I also mentioned about that beautiful love song that plays, but 
 it plays at the perfect time when Jansen and Ming are trying to stay warm on the cold, frozen mountain 
 and they finally share what they are feeling with eachother as they realize they might not have 
 the opportunity to do so for much longer.
  
  Overall-An incredible game, just let down in a few areas, but one of the most moving, and beautiful 
 RPG's you'll play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterholmes
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  7.5 my a** this is an instant classic, gives FF a run for the money, story line spectacular, graphics 
 decent. I love it. I don't know who reviews these games (RPG) but sometimes you all are right on 
 on this one its a miss. This game is spectacular.
  
  7.5 my a** this is an instant classic, gives FF a run for the money, story line spectacular, graphics 
 decent. I love it. I don't know who reviews these games (RPG) but sometimes you all are right on 
 on this one its a miss. This game is spectacular
  
  7.5 my a** this is an instant classic, gives FF a run for the money, story line spectacular, graphics 
 decent. I love it. I don't know who reviews these games (RPG) but sometimes you all are right on 
 on this one its a miss. This game is spectacular
  
  7.5 my a** this is an instant classic, gives FF a run for the money, story line spectacular, graphics 
 decent. I love it. I don't know who reviews these games (RPG) but sometimes you all are right on 
 on this one its a miss. This game is spectacular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMR1904
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm at a loss to understand the general ambivalence from the professional critics towards this 
 game. It seems that they feel that any game that is not in some revolutionary cant achieve high 
 marks. Oblivion was an astonishing technical achievement, but I never understood how a game which 
 was so empty of emotion content could be so highly rated. The opposite is true of Lost Odyssey, 
 it is true that this game does not attempt to reinvent the wheel. Instead it concentrates on telling 
 a complex and original story as beautifully and compellingly as possible. 
  
  The game play is old fashioned japanese rpg turn-based fair, but it is none the worse for that. 
 It asks you to think tactically about your battles rather than instinctively. There are some nice 
 touches, the ring system introduces a timing puzzle which rewards the player with a nice bonus, 
 without unbalancing the combat. The magic is mostly well thought out (though the fact that the 
 most powerful spells take so long to cast does rather exclude them from being of much use) the 
 range of characters in terms of combat skills works well, as does the skill system, based round 
 learning from each other and from items. 
  
  The graphics are simply gorgeous, the animation of the characters, their faces and their movement 
 is fluid and joy to watch. The colour pallet while muted (particularly compared to two recent classics 
 on the ps2 Dragon Quest VIII and Persona 3) feels appropriate to the more mature characters and 
 mood of this game. It evinces a subtle melancholy which fits the story being told.
  
  All of this is enhanced by one of the finest scores to ever grace a video game. There is simply 
 not a single moment when the music is anything other fitting and lushly beautiful. The sound washes 
 over you and you are taken along into the heart of whatever is happening. 
  
  The central characters are well drawn and well acted. They are written to change believably over 
 the course of the story and the voice work from the cast is excellent. Michael McGaham as Jansen, 
 is particularly notable, as he manages to make the comic side-kick that rarest of all beasts, actually 
 funny. 
  
  All in all this is a masterful creation. It is lovely to look at and listen to, the story is fascinating, 
 the characters well written and well acted and the game play solid. It should be given high marks 
 by any reviewer based on what it is, but it seems that it fails in the minds of many because of 
 the things it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patamon93_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This was a very interesting game. Many will say that the battle system was not that great, which 
 it was not, and many will say that it had some tedious parts. But i think any good game or movie 
 should break up the pace with these kinds of things. What really stood out to me was the type of 
 story. For example, this story was very mature and aged. Most Japanese RPGs are and superpowered 
 12 year olds in super-androg-wear trying to save the planet//universe with really crappy puppy 
 love themes that don't fit. In contrast this game was very adult. Characters really died, and there 
 really was a feeling of loss in some parts.... this game is not a must buy, but it is highly recommended.
 
  
  my only complaints would be that the graphics were not that great ( but still on the next gen level) . 
 Some of the dreams dragged on for way too long, and some of the dreams should have been flash backs 
 or at least voiced over to bring them to life. Lastly the amount of slot seeds available to both 
 seth and kaim is greatly unbalanced... they get the most before you are forced to give to the other 
 immortals and some of the skills where irrelevant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I never thought it'd be this fun to play a turn based game. Even though at time's it's frustrating, 
 it's also rewarding in the end.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the lack of a proper tutorial. This might be a decision to make 
 it either more immersive, or just let you jump into the game since it's so straight forward. 
 
  
  Hunting for treasure and hidden seeds is a good time passer between the story and grinding. However, 
 some places doesn't alert you to where you have to go, so you may end up in a battle you can't 
 escape.
  
  The story is one of the most immersive, and saddest stories on the Xbox 360, and is guaranteed 
 to make you pity Kaim, the main protagonist. The enviroments follow hand-in-hand with the story, 
 with almost photo realistic effects.
  
  The darker side of the game is it's lack of proper freedom. You need to do most of the things for 
 achievements during the story in order to get them, otherwise you won't go back to the area again (at 
 least not as far as i am) .
  
  Overall; A game worth getting for anyone missing a wonderful Adventure or Turn Based Strategy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacky89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  After seeing Gamespot's score on this game and because I have grown out of the turn-based rpg combat 
 and am a fan of real-time action rpgs, I only expected this to be a mediocre filler game until 
 better games come out. Boy was I wrong.
  
  This was the first rpg I've played in nearly ten years that allowed me to experience the same immersive 
 and engrossing feel I had when I played FF7 and FF8. Actually this game reminds me of FF7 and FF8 
 in everyway, except with significant enhancements. Well this isn't surprising since it is made 
 from the Final Fantasy team. 
  
  Therefore the best way to describe this game is: Imagine Final Fantasy 7 or 8 with much improved 
 graphics, much more interactive environments that feels alive, a very deep story on par or superior 
 to FF7, and music that beats all Final Fantasy games to date.
  
  Gamespot said this game is old fashioned, with little innovation. But this really shouldn't be 
 a negative thing if it is good ol fashioned like FF7 and FF8. 
  
  Although I don't like turn-based battles, I actually found the battle system in this game enjoyable.
 
  
  The music in this title is probably Nobuo Uematsu's (Final Fantasy series composer) best work so 
 far. It is absolutely beautiful and fits in perfectly with the specific settings.
  
  The English voice acting is actually good in this game. It's much better than the annoying voice 
 acting in FF 10, which I always wished could be disabled.
  
  The load times in some areas can be somewhat long, which is what most reviews bash on. However, 
 with the Fall 08 Xbox 360 update, you can install the game on the harddrive and all load time issues 
 will be gone.
  
  If you are sick of the kiddy type JRPGs of late (Tales of Vesperia, Infinite Undiscovery, Blue 
 Dragon, etc.) and want to play a JRPG with a great story, this is a great game to pick up. I am 
 surprised to find that this game, an Xbox 360 game, replaced FF7 and Chrono Trigger as my all time 
 favorite RPG. This game could have easily been labled FF13 if the developers were still with Square. 
 Now I'm hoping the actual FF13 won't disappoint when it comes out after being spoiled by the high 
 standards from Lost Odyssey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubs54
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Lost Odyssey has a lot of things going well for it. The characters are unique and not your typical 
 run of the mill RPG characters. The visuals are astounding and coupled with the great music it 
 provides a wonderful landscape to set the game. The battle system elicits a roar of cheers from 
 any Final Fantasy fans who felt put off by the new real-time battle system of FFXII and wanted 
 the turn based fighting setting back. 
  
  The story is unique and the dream sequences, although unfortunately told without any voice or flashback 
 visuals, are extremely well written with each story filling in more of the blanks about the 1000 
 year history of the immortals. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  As good as many of the elements above are, especially for those of you who might be licking your 
 lips after reading that this game shares similarities to some of your favorite past RPGs all while 
 displaying what modern technology can do to put a new twist on an old formula, the negatives unfortunately 
 take their toll on the player. First, although the battle system is great and a throwback to old 
 FF days, people who love to level their party and grind will be displeased to see that the leveling 
 system is quite faulty. 
  
  By this I mean every character gains experience just fine in the area that they are in for the 
 current part of the story that the player is in. However, after leveling up a few times, all of 
 a sudden each battle provides almost no experience. Suddenly battles that leveled up characters 
 after only 2 or 3 fights provide 1 or 2 experience points (literally) . Due to this, once you've 
 reached a certain level in a given area each battle is essentially pointless, as it only serves 
 to drain your HP/MP and supplies, as well as your time. This wouldn't be too much of an issue if 
 you could see your foes on the field, but since battles are randomly generated, if you are crawling 
 through a dungeon and keep getting hit with battles that will do absolutely nothing to progress 
 the levels of your players, it proves to be a BIG nuisance. 
  
  Aside from the battle system, the other huge gripe that essentially made me stop playing the game 
 was the huge wall that is the 3rd disc that somehow manages to kill the fun I was having during 
 the game. The first and second discs were fantastic. You'll blow through them telling yourself 
 that you're having a great time and the game is just what you were hoping it would be. However, 
 disc three proves to be a disc full of tedious tasks and dungeons, a whole lot of fighting for 
 almost no experience points, and trying to persuade yourself that the main boss is worthy of being 
 the main villain when in fact you just feel like he is more annoying and takes away from the game 
 than being someone who drives you to get your characters to the end so you can cut him apart. 
 
  
  Due to this, after I finally got through disc three and started disc four, I had been so drained 
 by the negative aspects of the game that I decided to call it quits because by now I finally realized 
 I didn't really care what happened in the end, which was not at all how I felt when I was halfway 
 through. 
  
  Lost Odyssey starts out flying high and providing all that you wanted from a RPG, but unfortunately 
 after a while it just crashes and burns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: song_cb34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The reason I like about FF because of good story and music that keeps u play the game to the end. 
 There are too many RPG games out there that do not have good stories behind. Therefore, it wont 
 keeps you play the whole games. Lost Odyssey is the one that has good stories support, nice style 
 of gameplay for these FF fans. The music and charactors design are also fantastic.
  After FF10, FF series is like lose its spirit and this game finally bring the heart of FF back 
 on Track, thanks to Hironobu Sakaguchi. The only downside of this game is loading time are too 
 long and too frequent. This game is not only for the traditional RPG fans but also for the new 
 gamers that want to try RPG and get some challenges. It's totally different from Blue Dragon.
 
  in the conclusion, if Blue Dragon is like the FF1~6 feeling, then Lost Odyssey would be like FF7~10 (I 
 dont consider FF11 and FF12 are FF games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The story is about 5 immortals from another world that came to this planet 1000 years ago but 4 
 of them seem to have forgotten why. Their memories were taken from them by the 5th immortal who 
 is trying to use his power to rule the mortal world. Your semi-typical RPG story. 
  
  You start out as Kaim who is part of the Uhra army and follows the orders of Gongora, a member 
 of the concil. Soon you meet up with 8 other playable characters and your adventure takes on a 
 whole new meaning. You find out that Gongora is an immortal and is responsible for locking your 
 memories away. You soon come to learn each charcters history and really become attached as the 
 developement is truely amazing.
  
  The leveling up is different from most RPG's in that you have to obtain 100 points for each level. 
 The hard part is that enemies don't give you that much SP to begin with so at the start of the 
 game you could play for many hours and only rise a couple of levels. (I recommend this by the way) 
 Only the active characters will gain points so it forces you to rotate your characters every so 
 often. This is great because in order for the immortals to learn most skills and magic they have 
 to learn it from accessories and mortals who are active in the party. This aspect also helps while 
 leveling up because you can keep switching what skills to learn while building levels.
  
  The battles are pretty straight forward. Choose attack, magic or skills and then watch as the players 
 do what you selected. One major difference is the rings. Each rig you have will do a certain amount 
 of damage or elemental property damage to certain enemies. So you have to be aware of the type 
 and element of each enemy and have the correct rings attached. Then you hold down the trigger button 
 and try to center the ring in a short time span for the most effective attack. So you always feel 
 part of the game because making a perfect on the rings can make the difference in a battle. 
  
  Many of the best weapons and spells can be found in treasure chests throughout the game so 
 it's important to search everywhere. Make sure you do all the side quests when you reach disk 4 
 as the rewards are more than worth your time. If you have 2 certain skills learned... I wont say 
 which so I dont ruin it for you... the final boss will do almost zero damage, seriously! 
  
  Overall the game is fun to play and you can "warp" to different areas so there is no wasted 
 travel time. You also get a small ship and then a larger ship late in the game. The storyline keeps 
 you involved and the gameplay is smooth. Definately worth playing. Only one major negative to this 
 game and that is the battle load time. It takes forever to start a battle as it skips between 4 
 or 5 screens before you can attack. It's a huge waste of time and can be frustrating early in the 
 game. Otherwise this is a great game and I recommend it to all players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jchristenberry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I have long been hesitant to jump into any Japanese based or designed RPG due to the wonderful 
 change games like KOTOR and Fable have brought to the genres. However Lost Odysset is no doubt 
 a penacle of occomplishment in what it has to offer. It over does nothing annoying from past Japanese 
 style RPG's and brings PLENTY of the goods such as an emotionally charged story, exceptional voice 
 acting, lovable and hateable characters, and smooth gameplay. It has a very retro feel over all 
 in its interface and command structure and nothing is really new in that area, but it takes them 
 all, gets rid of the annoying bleeps and bloops, rediculas odds, and streamlines them to function 
 as part of the game rather than a stopper to it. The story (thus far-disc 4/4) has been a masterpeice 
 that I spend every moment in the game wanting to see more and more. 
  
  The downsides to the game are almost unoticeable. It does have some of the annoyances from older 
 RPG's like dungeons that seem pointless... however just when you think they are too long and cant 
 wait for them to end, they do end and you are treated with a wonderful story as to the why and 
 how of the on going plot. This for me has been the best classic style RPG I have played since Final 
 Fantasy 7! A must own for anyone who loved that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furple0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, this game has received 'good' but not 'great' reviews. I will tell you right now, 
 this game is better than great. It is a game that could easily fall into the category of classic 
 RPGs. At long last, a RPG finally returns to its turn-based roots, and people like me applaud this 
 return.
  
  This game contains all the elements of classic RPGs such as the Final Fantasy series. Turn based 
 battles? Check. Powerful and sweet looking spells and abilities? Check. Intricate story? Check. 
 Likeable characters that develop over time? Check. Great music? Check. Long? Check.
  
  I'll just start with the characters. It is hard not to feel fond of these well developed characters 
 (9 playable ones total) , which you watch change over the course of the game. Kaim is the quiet, 
 contemplating character who has seen so much death that he is indifferent towards it. Jansen is 
 the comical relief and is absolutely great... it seems like every line he utters is hilarious. The 
 characters are truly the lifeblood of the story.
  
  The story is also what you would expect from a classic RPG, with a heavy focus on magic and politics. 
 But what really sets it apart are the dream sequences, some of which are optional and others you 
 come across during the course of the story. These sequences are extremely well written and convey 
 insightful information about human nature and emotion, and what it would truly be like to live 
 forever. I couldn't help but get a tear in my eye when reading some of these.
  
  The music in this game is exceptional, and that should come as no surprise as the composer is the 
 legendary Nobuo Uematsu, who created the music for the majority of Final Fantasy games. The music 
 is integral in setting the mood for each area you visit and each cutscene you watch, and there 
 are plenty hummable tunes.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game looks great overall, though some early areas aren't very detailed and 
 don't look spectacular. But as any RPG guru knows, graphics are one of the least important aspects 
 of a quality RPG.
  
  Last but not least, the gameplay. Battles feel very much the same as battles in FF7 and FF8, so 
 if you liked those games you should like this. It's got that classic turned based feel, while still 
 implementing some innovations such as the Ring system, which keeps you more involved during the 
 fights. Random encounters happen at just the right rate, not too frequent but not too sparse. Difficulty-wise, 
 the first 3 or so boss fights are very rough, but much of the remainder of the game after that 
 is not difficult at all, so don't get discouraged if you have trouble in the beginning. If you 
 like challenging fights, though, thankfully there are quite a few optional bosses accessible in 
 disc 4, some of which provide a level of difficulty that requires very specific strategy. Lastly, 
 the length of this game is right up there with the longest RPGs, at about 40 hours for the main 
 quest. You can squeeze even more out of the game, though, if you partake in the numerous optional 
 quests, many of which relate directly to the main story or a character's background. With all said 
 and done, I spent a little over 80 hours completing the entire game and all its side quests.
  
  Bottom line, this game is a must have anyone who enjoys RPGs. It is a superb game that deserves 
 much more attention than it gets. No, it doesn't reinvent RPGs, but who ever said a game must revolutionize 
 a genre to be great? I can say with confidence it is one of the best RPGs I've ever played, and 
 believe me, I've played a lot of RPGs. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short as this is a long title and i really don't want to write pages of reviews 
 since i have better things to do but yeah. 
  
  Lost Odyssey is a RPG about a bunch of Immortals that reside in the mortal world, but with their 
 1000 years of living there they have no memory of their 1000 years. The story can get a bit tricky 
 to get grips on but it is well presented through many cut scenes which Lost Odyssey is really good 
 at.
  
  The graphics and cinematic are as always astounding like most JRPGs. It really pushes the Xbox 
 360s capabilities. The sound and musical score is also riveting and exciting from the fight music 
 to the music during cut scenes.
  
  The game play in Lost Odyssey is like most turn-based RPGs but with some new unique formulas like 
 the "ring" function which gives a more depth into fights and making fights more interesting. 
 
  
  Many scenes in this game can be very immersive and many that tung on your heart strings. Great 
 voice acting and character animations help put more emotions in the game.
  
  Overall I had a great time playing through the world of Lost Odyssey and i hope you that pick it 
 up have a great time to.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulja_gam3r
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  well I only rented it (and 360 rents are 5-day, not 7) so I don't have much 2 say, but here I go! 
 (oh and by the way, i can get pretty off topic, so try to stay with me)
  
  
  
  first of all, graphics: AMAZING!!!!!!! (except for the hair... which is flat and stuck together.) 
 I don't like turn-based action/adventure games that much, but this was a pretty good one, but rent 
 it first. any ways, one thing that really annoys me is the DREAM SEQUENCES!!!!! it take pretty 
 long to read just one, so i wonder how long it would take for someone to read ALL OF THEM IN A 
 ROW! (i forgot how many there are though.) the spells are cool, but take long to use (at the end 
 of 1st turn or beginning of 2nd or 3rd turn) especially if you use Kaim. Jansen is the best spell-caster 
 and Seth is ok too, but keep Kaim with an appropriate ring type and just use attack... really. 
 some battle sequences are pretty hard, and *SPOILER ALERT!* the part where you have to meet the 
 queen and go unseen by the robots and alarm floors on the White Boa *SPOILER ENDED* anyways,
  
  Gameplay: good (it would be better if i liked turn-based more
  
  Graphics: as i said, AMAZING
 
  
  Sound: well im not really a person that cant tell the difference between good and great sound (no 
 surround) but its good
  
  Difficulty: ehh... could have been easier
  
  What else is there? oh well
  
  
  all in all, the games good so its worth a try
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoSapphire
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a good game. If your a fan of RPG's, especially older ones, than you will love 
 it. The only people I know of that didn't find themselves immersed in it are too much into the 
 "New Age" RPG's, (*Cough* FF12 *Cough*) where battle systems have been re-invented or altered, 
 and the narrative is sometimes placed last next to gameplay. My review is going to be simple and 
 to the point, just like most reviews I do.
  
  Characters: Great cast, Jansen steals the show. The voice actors ad-libbing is hilarious. Would 
 have liked a little more interaction during the second half though.
  
  Story: Has a very mysterious quality to it, and is extremely melancholy and tragic. Even the happy 
 bits are sad. The villain is pretty cliche and there aren't many twists, but when there are they 
 rock. And the emotional moments have never been represented so well before in an RPG.
  
  Music: Its Nobuo, its good. Thats all you need to know.
  
  Gameplay: Simple but never gets 
 old or repetitive.
  
  Overall the entire aspect is pretty oldschool, with nothing totally ground beaking, but thats why 
 its so good. Its a classic clich'ed rpg that is completely awesome. Worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imm
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Japanese style turn-based RPG's, this game will be instantly familiar to you. 
 The story isn't especially compelling and the gameplay is not innovative or much different from 
 any other games in this genre. But there are definitely some funny cut scenes and varied environments/enemies 
 to battle. 
  Unlike some other RPGs there is not too much backtracking or "mirror image of the same level" in 
 this game.
  If you are planning to go for 100% completion on this game, be sure to have a item walkthrough 
 handy. The commercial guide available for this game has some missing items which are needed for 
 one of the achievements.
  
  I would not recommend the downloadable content unless you are trying to get the associated 100 
 achievement points. The downloadable area consists of what is basically the same level 25 times 
 with different enemies to fight and a boss at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniwisdom
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey's story is probably one of the best to date. The dreams are very moving and the music 
 helps create a subtle atmosphere. The graphic of the game are superb, with some really nice towns 
 and diverse levels. The game challenge amps up nicely but if you don't do a lot of random battles 
 to level up your character to the maximum allowed by each level, it can become very frustrating.
 
  Lost Odyssey uses the classical system of turn based battles with a small innovation, the rings 
 system, that allows you to enhance the weapons and deal additional damage. On the other hand the 
 battles are very repetitive and the randomness of them can be very frustrating as you try to explore 
 a level and you kept getting interrupted by a random encounter, especially since the load times 
 are rather long.
  The menu is not very friendly either and it takes a while to find the item you need. Also, the 
 designated save points can add a lot of frustration as sometimes you just want to save and exit 
 as you keep exploring to find them while getting interrupted over and over by random encounters.
 
  Overall, Lost Odyssey makes up with its amazing story and great graphics but suffers as far as 
 the battle system is concerned and the saving system. It offers a good amount of entertaining play 
 time but this is a game you should pass if your not a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, how can it?!
  
  I've tried to like this game, I really have. It has great graphics, a decent combat system with 
 a few innovations, and some pretty damn flashy skills. Why the hell can't I enjoy it? Simple: the 
 storyline. They had a great idea here, and they executed it poorly.
  
  Anyway.
  
  I will say that I completed the first disc before getting incredibly bored, and quitting. So, the 
 game might become incredibly amazing on the last disc! To be honest, I don't really care!
  
  So, you follow a small chunk of Kaim's -- said immortal -- life. Woop de doo.
  You meet up with 
 another immortal shortly, get stuck with some prick from the government, and then... it's off to 
 some generic location. WOO!
  
  The whole game -- fights included -- just felt like one massive cutscene. That's a great thing, but 
 also a bad thing... "Hey look! [Something] happens here! Let's go!" 
  The entire story felt interchangeable, and felt as though little effort was actually put into it. 
 ("Let's see... we're the people who make Final Fantasy, so of course all our fans will buy it, 
 because all our past games have been epic!")
  
  
  Bottom line, I'm not going to discourage a single one of you who reads my review. I want anyone 
 who reads this -- if you're deciding on whether or not to buy/rent the game, JUST DO IT. The game's 
 well worth playing, even if only for the amazing visuals... 
  
  {Outro}
  
  Lost Odyssey is well worth playing. Seriously. The only thing that's actually bad about the game 
 is that the storyline, while it should be wondrous, winds up feeling tedious. While they gave the 
 characters a decent amount of depth, they still never gave me a reason to really give a rat's arse 
 whether or not the character lived or died (Kaim in particular) ... well, okay, no. I take that 
 back. I cared if Kaim lived or died, because I didn't want to have to load.
  
  Again, this game's definitely worth playing... especially if you like Turn-based RPGs, and decent 
 storylines. (Decent. That's the best it gets from me.)
  
  ... Play the goddamn game and stop reading my reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottiescott238
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I picked Lost odyssey up as soon as it came out, i was really looking forward to playing a good 
 "old school" style RPG.
  
  I wasnt dissapointed, the first thing i noticed about the game is that it was very final fantasy 
 like, you can tell it was made by the same producer.
  
  
  I'l start with the combat , its very traditional , but it had enough depth to keep it interesting. 
 Due to the front line acting as shield to the back line it made the combat tactical especially 
 during the harder battles. You'l find the magic and skill spells very familiar if you have played 
 final fantasy 9.
  The main thing i found about combat in this game was that , there wasnt as many battles as other 
 rpg's but they were more challenging. occasionally there would some slow loading times going in 
 to the battles particulary near the end of the 4th disk. The ring system was similar to the gunblade 
 trigger in final fasntasy 8 and i feel was another well implemented part of the combat.
  
  Now on to the story , when I started the game i thought, Here we go , its the typical guy meets 
 girl story, but its far from that , infact its alot different to the rpg stories i have played 
 before. It was unexpected with plot twists and genuinly emotional moments. The thousand year dreams 
 are written exceptionally well and you can tell the writers were of great talent. Often moving 
 and always having a great moral story i feel the thousand year dreams were an excellent inclusion.
 
  
  Moving on the charactors ,they are very sterotypical to any games made by japanese developers. 
 All are varied and have differant charactoristics , I dont want to explain the charactors too much 
 becasue I may give away the story a bit , but what i can say is the charactor artist who created 
 sed id obviously very talented, the detail in his charactor is unbelieveable.
  
  The side quests are a part of the game i feel they could have done better, they feel rushed. A 
 few on the 4th disk were pretty cool, but most of them didnt really have enough appeal to draw 
 myself away from the main story. 
  I also feel the ring system could have been made more important, having a really good ring at most 
 times didnt make too much difference on the out come of a battle and therefore searching for parts 
 to create new rings had no or little appeal at the best of times
  
  The things i would change about this game
  * More varied and exciting side quests
  * Cut down 
 loading times going in to battles
  * A more important ring assembly system
  
  
  Overall lost odyssey is a great game and one i would reccomend to any RPG fan, and due to its simple 
 gameplay perhaps one for players new to role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyperson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I didn't have high hopes for it being a xbox 360 RPG and me being an old 
 PS2 lover. But this game succeeds in bringing a great old school RPG experience with an engaging 
 and tear jerking story.
  
  The game has good graphics and great in game rendered cut scenes with plenty of good English voice 
 acting which is rare in a game as well as some good humor too. The only down fall is an inconsistant 
 frame rate that dips all over during play sometimes. 
  
  The sound in this game is very Final Fantasy esqe and you'll feel right at home if you've played 
 FF before. But there's nothing new that hasn't been heard in a square RPG although that has a lot 
 to do with the music producer being the same fellow. With that said the music and sound is very 
 well done.
  
  Game play is throw back to FF7, no fantasy active battles or free range movement as found in Eternal 
 Sonata or the Tales series, its all turn based here. There is learn able skills and you can easily 
 customize your immortal although they do have stats embeded in them which makes them better at 
 either physical or magic attacks regardless of how you build them.
  
  I think they could have done more with this such as add summons, learnable skills from monsters 
 or more grandiose composite magic (combined spells) because right now the amount of skills in combat 
 feels limited.
  
  The story is defiantly where this game shines. The cutscenes as mentioned are voice acted very 
 well and there is many scenes where you will genuinely feel empathy for Kaim and crew. The dream 
 sequences are little short stories which are equally heart tugging.
  
  To summarize great graphics and story and voice acting, good cast of characters. If you enjoy reading 
 novels or good RPG story, then this game is for you. If you are more into action and great combat 
 then story then this is probably not the game for you as reading the dream sequences will most 
 likely annoy you if you don't skip them and the combat system offers nothing new and exciting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, a nice rpg for the 360. Turn by turn battles, characters attacking and running back to their 
 assigned spot, and many over the top storyline plots. Has to be Sakaguchi's lovely Final Fantasy 
 Antics.
  
  -Storyline-
  
  In Lost Odyssey you play as the amnesia filled immortal named Kaim, A man who is remembering his 
 past in text based dreams. He survives a molten bombed battle and is questioned on why he survived 
 by his countrys council. So your sent to investigate a certain site where magic is being leaked 
 out. Anyways, throughout the many ups and downs of the story , you are joined by many characters 
 like your wife, your grandchildren*Note: You look old enough to FATHER the Grandchildren*, A Lady's 
 Man, A Pirate, And a lovely thousand yearold Queen. Different.
  9.5/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  Its like your usual Final fantasy, you run around town talking to people, steal their stuff 
 by reaching into pots or raiding their cupboards, and tear posters off walls to supposedly get 
 an antidote or two. And the battles are the same as ever but they added a few little twists. They 
 have a "Ring" system which allows you to craft certain rings that have different effects , like 
 fire damage, more damage to a certain enemy, or just more attack power. ( hmmm Final fantasy X?) 
 You switch rings accordingly when you attack a certain enemy and just bombard them with the opposite 
 element. Though, its not like you know what element these enemies have because they dont show it 
 right away, so you may have to put a accessory on to see what they are, what they're carrying or 
 even how much health. Also, the Immortals dont Learn skills based on level, they have to learn 
 skills by skill linking with a active Human characters in the party, or they learn the skill from 
 their current accessory. Neat, but sometimes the battle system gets to... ahh ... repititive.
  8.5/10
  
  -Visuals-
  
  The visuals are great, Sakaguchi still knows how to make a very 
 flashy game with nice character models and beautiful cut scenes. Thumbs up big guy.
  10/10
  
  -Audio-
  
  Ahh another Final Fantasy Staff member, the musical score is pretty nice, but 
 as it is on the 360, I like the billions of other xbox owners turn on their own music. Still the 
 Music still fits nicely and is utterly beautiful.
  10/10
  
  -Overall-
  
  A singleplayer, Final fantasy turn by turn based adventure that will satisfy any Final fantasy 
 fan that coveted a Rpg for the 360.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  I swear if I was able to give a game an 11 I would. Recently finishing lost odyssey was an amazing 
 feeling. It was both a feeling of satisfaction, but also sadness. The satisfaction was that I just 
 completed a baseline of 60 hours of gameplay and I was grateful I made it to the end. The sadness 
 is that I would not be able to play the storyline anymore. I know there are side quests, but the 
 plot to the story was truly amazing. Pretty much, if I could sum up the plot in one sentence, I 
 either wouldn't be able to or it would be something like this: The plot to Lost odyssey was truly 
 amazing, dashing, sad, happy, emotional, epic, tear-jerking, more epic, more truly amazing, and 
 every single good adjective to describe a plot put together squared. I seriously loved it. I would 
 give the plot a 15 out of 10 if I could. I would only give the gameplay a 9.5 out of 10 though 
 because it was highly addictive and fun, but I would have to say it could get boring if you played 
 maybe five or six hours non-stop. The cut scenes were great it was like an extremely long epic 
 five star movie through out the whole game. I would recommend this to anyone I didn't wish dead. 
 It is just an amazing game, maybe even my favorite. Definitely my favorite disc game for Xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus_Reaper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  
  
  What is it?
  Lost Odyssey is a Japanese developed RPG for Microsoft's Xbox 360. What's special about it is that 
 it was developed by former Squaresoft members, including the very creator of Final Fantasy himself. 
 Unlike Mistwalker's other 360 release, Blue Dragon (more on that game later) , Lost Odyssey includes 
 a more mature story line that Final Fantasy players have become accustomed to in the past few years. 
 It follows the story of a man who can't die, and his involvement in saving an entire world.
  
  Gameplay:8.5/10
  Just like most traditional JRPGs, Lost Odyssey utilizes a turn-based battle 
 system. There isn't much different to the system from others, but it does include a SMRPG kind 
 of flair to normal attacks. Throughout the game, you can create and obtain "rings", which augment 
 your attacks but require good timing to activate. You do this by holding the right trigger and 
 releasing it as a circle overlaps another. With good timing, you activate the effect, while with 
 PERFECT timing you boost the effect. This act actually becomes somewhat addictive, and I found 
 myself enjoying this simple addition.
  As far as magic goes, it works exactly the same as any RPG. Gone is the charge system from Blue 
 Dragon, but without it comes the ability of Composite Magic, making for devastating all-hit spells 
 and all-auto life skills. Of course, you can't use this type of magic without having a character 
 who has learned it, and the best casters are immortals. That brings another important part of the 
 gameplay into focus. Immortal characters can't learn abilities by themselves, and thusly must link 
 skills with a normal character through the skill link option in the menu. To learn a skill, you 
 fight until you gain the required SP. Once you have a skill, you can mix and match it with others 
 in an immortal characters skill slots, and you are able to gain more slots to allow even more skills 
 with special accessories and items. This brings back the old idea of a customizable party, and 
 I've always been a sucker for that kind of thing. Not to mention, Immortal characters can also 
 learn the accessory specific skills, while normal characters themselves can't, making it possible 
 to turn your immortal characters into ailment and magic immune monstrosities of death. 
  As for the overworld gameplay, it's pretty much just get from A to B while fighting the odd battle 
 or too. Battles are random, which is kind of odd in this day and age, but the encounter rate isn't 
 so high that it would annoy the average player, and leveling up isn't much of a hassle either. 
 The game's areas all have level caps, and generous amounts of exp are handed out until that cap 
 is reached. There's even an area that you can use to level your characters up to level 50 with 
 ease, and then another with a cap of 75. In short: The gameplay isn't anything new but it's still 
 very enjoyable maybe even more so than the traditional Final Fantasy fare, as the ring system and 
 skills keep you addicted to the battles.
  
  Music:9.5/10
  Lost Odyssey is yet another game composed by the famed musical genius, Nobuo Uematsu. Once again, 
 Uematsu provides a wonderful selection of tracks that range from classic orchestrated music to 
 intense rock. Almost every single track in this game is good. Except for one that I really must 
 mention since it's a fair warning to prepare you for it. The game's main theme "What You Are" is 
 an incredibly cheesy love song, but that seems to be the case with a lot of RPGs. Just grin and 
 bear it, for the rest of the game's songs are amazing. Particularly, the final boss music. Which 
 I won't spoil for readers, but I can assure them that it's just as amazing as songs such as One 
 Winged Angel.
  
  
  Story:10/10
  The story is perhaps one of the most amazing RPG stories I have come across, but not in a tradtional 
 way. The main story itself follows the exploits of an immortal man named Kaim Argonar, and his 
 journey to regain his memories and find his purpose in the world. This basically boils down to 
 beat the bad guy who's trying to take over the world, and even includes some annoying little kids 
 to boot. However, there is the inclusion of a character named Jansen. Who manages to keep the traditional 
 story from becoming too overbearing, and counters the annoying children with the humor that he 
 presents. He even manages to keep the theme from annoying players during the middle of the game, 
 by singing it himself and turning it completely ridiculous. 
  Though I've pretty much said the story is traditional in the past few paragraphs, the true brilliance 
 comes through in the Thousand Years of Dreams mechanic. This mechanic is a series of stories that 
 you can read throughout the game's progression, and reveals the past of Kaim. These are EXTREMELY 
 well written by Kiyoshi Shigematsu, a well-known author in Japan. These stories had me excitedly 
 hoping for the next with each passing one, and there's 34 in all.
  
  
  Graphics:9.5/10
  Lost Odyssey runs on Epic's Unreal Engine, which people would think is an odd choice a JRPG, but 
 it manages to shine brilliantly. Everything in Lost Odyssey is a tour de force and highly detailed. 
 The magic animations, and one of particular skill called "Ultimate Hit", look beautiful in action. 
 It shows that the 360 is certainly capable of wonderful effects and wide open areas. Included in 
 the game is various FMVs of the highest quality, and this is why the game is 4 discs. It's just 
 packed with them, and every single one doesn't fail to amaze.
  Another great graphical achievement comes in the character models and enemy designs, which are 
 all highly detailed. In fact, this game might have the best monster graphics in any JRPG, ranging 
 from cute Kelolons to grotesque Rotting Dragons. Every single one is inspired, and is a wonder 
 to see in motion. The only reason the graphics don't get a 10 is due to one minor, but sometimes 
 very noticeable problem. Some in-game cutscenes can have very choppy frame rates, which is an utter 
 shame.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  Not much to say. The controls are perfect for a JRPG.
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  The game has plenty of sidequests to keep the player occupied, and can bring 
 your total playtime upwards of 70 hours. Every single one is nicely designed, and prove for great 
 diversions to keep the game going. However, once it's all over, there may not be a reason to replay 
 it again for a long time. There IS a New Game+ mode, however, for all fans of going through a game 
 all over again, wrecking every single thing in their path with their epic party. Still, you'll 
 find yourself popping the disc in again for another replay down the road, this I can guarantee.
 
  
  Overall:9/10 (NOT an average)
  Another valiant effort from Mistwalker Studios, and proves that Sakaguchi still has it in him. 
 I actually prefer this game to many of the Final Fantasy titles, and hope that Mistwalker will 
 make this one of their franchises, just like they did with Blue Dragon. The game certainly is amazing, 
 and proves that Sony isn't the only company to look for when looking for the Final Fantasy-esque 
 fix. In fact, the story in this game is a lot better than most Final Fantasies, with a TRULY mature 
 story, rather than the dark and brooding theme that many of the titles have adopted in the past 
 few years. In closing: If Blue Dragon wasn't for you, this one certainly will be, due to its closeness 
 to the Final Fantasy franchise. My highest recommendations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omnisugarius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  When first heard about Lost Odyssey for the Xbox 360, I was extremely excited to hear it was being 
 made by the legendary Final Fantasy creator himself! Now that the game is out, these are my thoughts!
 
  
  STORY- So far in my opinion, there is no other RPG storyline that comes close to Lost Odyssey's. 
 Sure it may be a little predicable, but as long as the road to those moments are exciting and action 
 packed, it's OK by me!
  
  CHARACTERS- Also the best I've ever encountered thus far. Kaim is serious most of the time, but 
 isn't so annoying in his moodiness much like Squall (FFVIII) or at times Cloud (FFVII) . He has 
 the ability to be soft and kind when needed. The other characters play their roles perfectly and 
 are not annoying while filling them.
  
  GRAPHIC- While ridiculously awesome, I do wish that MistWalker would have taken the time to create 
 their own Graphics Engine for the game. The Unreal 3 engine seems played out to me in my opinion. 
 Slight frame-rate drops are a tad bit of a pain, but not enough to get frustrated at.
  
  SOUND- If only Dolby Surround 12.1 existed! But at 5.1 or 7.1 the sound is amazing!
  
  REPLAY- 
 Might be low for some people, but I already excited about starting a new game!
  
  GAME PLAY- Unfortunately it really doesn't mix up the standard Turn Based JRPG system all that 
 much. But for what it does do, it does it real well! A different battle system would have been 
 nice.
  
  OVERALL- AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrono3577
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Hironobu Sakaguchi has released his second Xbox 360 game and his third game with his new company 
 Mistwalker. In this new game Lost Odyssey you play as the immortal named Kaim (ky-m) . Who has lost 
 his memory and finds himself fighting a war between Uhra and Gohtza. As a soldier for the Uhran 
 army fighting off an endless amount of Gohtzan soldiers and machines until a fallen meteor kills 
 every one except for only a few including Kaim. 
  After Kaim returns from the battle he starts to remember fragments of his past. Kaim meets many 
 different people such as another immortal named Seth, who also lost her memory and the funny Jansen 
 who is a messenger for a Uhran council leader named Gongora. 
  The world of Lost Odyssey is an amazing place. With things from time travelling mirrors to floating 
 boxes which play music, although these do not help you much they still are very weird and exciting 
 inventions. 
  The video graphics aren't anything special and the characters hair looks very poor. The cities 
 and villages are all different. Wether it's the technology or buildings they are different in certain 
 ways. 
  The game play is very simple and repetitive but also it is very addictive. The battle system is 
 turn based, you select your actions (e. g. casting magic to heal your team) and the order is decided 
 on the speed of your character.
  The second part to the battle system is known as the ring system, this where you try to stop a 
 shrinking ring so it overlaps another smaller ring and this powers up your melee attack with the 
 effects of your current equipped ring. This at first seems like something that would easily bore 
 you, but it gets just as fun and addictive as the turn based fighting itself.
  Although the battle system is great and the ring system is just as good. Most of the game is mindless 
 walking around and annoying puzzles, which can cause you to be stuck in the same area for hours. 
 
  Another feature in the game that disrupts the game play is the "A Thousand Dreams" feature. This 
 is when Kaim regains another past memory for you to view, but it is not played out as a cut scene. 
 It is a large amount of text with pictures trying to explain the memory. (I did not completely 
 view any of these because it took too much time and seemed very boring)
  Lost Odyssey is an amazing and emotional game so big Mistwalker had to put it on four DVD discs 
 although at times it is very confusing and boring. It is perfect for fans of games like Final Fantasy 
 X, Eternal Sonata and Blue Dragon. No matter what video game fan you are Lost Odyssey will take 
 longer then 20 hours to complete the story.
  
  
  COMPLETED TIME PLAYED TIME TAKEN
  x 24 HRS (Disc 3) 40HRS?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman16
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game , graphics are great, storyline is great , difficulty just right (wouldn't 
 mind if it would be more challenging) , spent hell of a time playing it lol. All and all great game 
 i think it deserves more than 7.5 well atleast thats what i think. All rpg fans should give it 
 a try with this game if they already didn't. Keep up the good work 360 keep those RPGs coming can't 
 wait for The Last Remnant and Star Ocean to come out it will be crazy i just hope they worth waiting... (just 
 kidding) ... by the looks of trailers and screen shots i think it WILL worth to wait, as i said before 
 and i'll say it again keep em' coming thats all there is to it to keep me happy lol... hope seeing 
 more of them in future as long as its on 360 or ps3 i don't mind either way... 
  If anyone knows any good rpgs as long as they are for 360, ps3 or ps2 send me a message! 
  THX! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is one of favourite games for the Xbox 360. The 360 isn't heavy on story based role 
 playing games but this fills the empty place for me. 
  
  The story is like the usual RPG but with a twist. You are an immortal (age 1 year every 1000 years) 
 who must save the world from destruction. The story is far better than most RPGs though but falls 
 to some cliches that other RPGs fall to. The big bad is pretty bad ass. But what takes the cake 
 in Lost Odyssey (story wise) are the dream sequences. Most people will unfortunately skip right 
 through them but the dream sequences were one of my favourite parts of the game. Whoever wrote 
 them seriously needs some kind of medal. The plot sustains throughout the entire game and the ending 
 is very satisfying (sorry Eternal Sonata) . Everything comes full circle in the end.
  
  The gameplay in the game is far more challenging than Blue Dragon and Eternal Sonata. I'm not the 
 greatest role playing gamer but this game was way harder and way more challenging than anything 
 the 360 has put out in the JRPG category. However, I felt that Lost Odyssey needed to be challenging. 
 I needed a fresh experience that tested myself as a gamer and moved me to the next level. 360 fans 
 not use to RPGs (like myself) have slowly moved on to difficult things. Blue Dragon was easy, Eternal 
 Sonata was easy but had its moments, but Lost Odyssey is just plain challenging. There are random 
 encounters but its not as bad as you think. More times then not, I really wanted to get into a 
 battle and level up my characters but sometimes the random encounters don't come enough. 
  
  Anyways, Lost Odyssey is a regular turn-based RPG. There are some differences though. First, 
 when you attack and your character is running up going to attack the enemy you can hold the right 
 trigger to try to get a circle into another circle. If you do you get a 'Perfect' and it will do 
 more challenging. I liked this because it gave you something to do instead of just press A constantly. 
 There are so much upgrades for the Immortal characters. You need to constantly look at their stats, 
 equipment, and skills to absorb other characters skills. This adds to the challenge and I (being 
 the RPG noob that I am) didn't really perfect this until late in the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing. The CGI cutscenes were welcomed and looked stunning. The 
 non CGI cutscenes and ingame graphics were also amazing. I had no complaints whatsoever.
  
  The framerate did fall a few times but it doesn't take anything away from my experience. The only 
 technical problem is that load times are just a tad too long even though they don't deserve the 
 massive complaints most reviewers give them.
  
  The best part of the game is the orchestrated music. Lost Odyssey has one of if not my favourite 
 gaming soundtrack of all time. The music is just beautiful and it just flows with the cutscenes 
 and dreams perfectly.
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is THE role playing game for the Xbox 360. The single player experience is 
 breathtaking and this game is a must play for all fans of great stories and role playing games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentOfLight
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I have a headache as I write this so I may end up angry on a few points. I just want this review 
 to be done and over with. (I preferred gamespot's old rating system, I can't seem to pick out a 
 proper score on this new one!)
  I'll do this review by good and bad points. I know this is not literally an FF game but it is from 
 the maker...
  
  
  The Good
  
  Story
  Graphics
  Combat
  Music
  skill link (heroes learn skills from others)
  Battle rings (Hold the right bumper to strengthen 
 your attack)
  
  
  The Bad
  
  Pointless bits
  Slow Gameplay
  Repetitive Dialogue
  Dream Sequences
  Annoyances such as dying (try dying from a boss and you'll 
 know what I mean)
  Checkpoints are rare
  No healing at checkpoints
  checkpoints are save points (Can only load from them)
  Redoing bits over and over (die and reload 
 at 20 minutes back...?)
  Takes ages to start a battle
  bosses are fustrating
  
  I... When I first got this game, I thought it would be pretty cool. It drops you into a battle 
 and if you are familiar with the final fantasy series, you will know what to do in the beginning. 
 Otherwise, You'll have to read the instruction manual (which you should anyway)
  There are some puzzles that are obscure. In the beginning, when you are attacking a boss (you can't 
 die...) the solution to killing it is obscure. I was hitting one part of the boss for about half 
 an hour before I decided to go right-left-right which seemed not to have an effect earlier. It 
 died 20 hits later or so.
  Later, you are free to roam. Along a fixed path. Enemies come up to you and attack and make you 
 endure a very long opening battle scene thing. (Swirling hoops and purple effects for 18 seconds)
 
  
  Later, when you finally talk to people, another obscure bit occurs. You are told to take some resources 
 but where are they? I found them 5 minutes later. 
  
  The menu screen? Boring. Very boring. Just a metal sheet. Oh, and don't try playing this on a small 
 screen, you won't be able to see the tiny text that details each item. (I have a 10" how do you 
 think I feel?)
  
  Bosses reanimate. Bosses are awful. They should be fun and hard to beat, not fustrating. This is 
 overdoing it. Magic insect A charges magic, powering up the boss. I defeat all the insects and 
 kill the boss. Another one comes along, leaving you on the same HP and stuff as the end of the 
 last battle. I have no more MP so I obviously lose.
  
  Obscure, much?
  
  Oh, and one more thing. The camera is fixed. Try working out where to go most of the time. I had 
 to follow these guards at the beginning and they walked so slowly I kept walking into different 
 areas and back. There's a zoom-in feature but I had to search online to find the ladder in the 
 mining site.
  
  If you want a proper, less obscure RPG (but still hard) try Final Fantasy XII. Even with all the 
 criticisim against it, it is very addictive. There's more bonus to leveling up there than here. 
 Bosses don't reanimate. They do here. 
  
  Keep in mind this is all personal opinion. I think this game is far too hard and while the combat 
 system is ok, the rest of the game is SO BORING.
  Rent it first... And prepare for the headache after an hour or two of playing. Wish for some on-screen 
 prompts and instructions. Don't just drop us off like this, maker of Final Fantasy series, whatever 
 your name is.
  
  I'll go back to Final Fantasy XII. This game is not for me. (But go ahead and pick it up for 15/$30 
 if you want at a local preowned shelf or something)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowwow27
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  i like the old days when they threw you out into a vast wilderness to explore from the very begining, 
 didnt feel that with this game. but in its defense i only played it for an hour or so. didnt pull 
 me in fast enough i guess, ended up playing final fantasy I on the psp that night. the next day 
 i traded it in for mass effect, maybe ill come back to it later, but for now i dont have enough 
 time to force myself to like it. I have to admit the music was reminiscent of the old school days, 
 although a little too tranquil if you know what i mean. and the gameplay felt as if you didnt have 
 much of a choice about what you could and couldnt do, all the secret items were stashed away in 
 cans and containers, all of wich had items. and it put you on a track to explore only what they 
 wanted you to explore. if you have ADHD you wont like it, if you feel like reading War and Peace, 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite_Dubs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a highly anticipated role playing game published by Microsoft Game Studios. Since 
 the 360's game library is dominated by many high quality shooters this game was highly anticipated 
 since it was developed by those involved with developing the Final Fantasy series, and was anticipated 
 to help satisfy the role playing community. Anyone looking for a old school role playing experience 
 with a handful of innovative additions need not look any further. The 360 finally has a role playing 
 game it can call it's own. 
  
  Lost Odyssey is set in a world torn by war between three kingdoms. You play the role of Kaim, a 
 no nonsense serious hero which can be best described as sounding like Keanu Reeves. Thankfully 
 Kaim's lackluster personality and lack of dialogue is offset by a great supporting cast of characters 
 who unlike our hero you will find yourself caring and cheering for. Jansen is likely to be one 
 of the most funny supporting characters in a game you will have seen in this genre who will certainly 
 provide players with several laugh out loud moments. Additional characters include a female pirate 
 Seth, Kaim's wife Sarah, their grandchildren Cooke and Mack, Tolten the king of Uhra, and Seth's 
 son Sed. The storyline pertaining to each character are fleshed out well, and lead to some tear 
 jerking moments towards the conclusion of the story. Still like many games of this genre they try 
 to do a little to much and in the process may lead to some people having difficulty following the 
 story along the way.
  
  Make no mistake about it as this game is old school. Players and the enemies they encounter will 
 take turns attacking one another. Unlike more recent titles in this genre there are no "limit breaks" 
 or special attacks associated with our heroes. There is however enough new mechanics to make the 
 battle system anything but what you are use to. The ring system which requires timed button presses 
 to achieve maximum damage in an attack is a welcomed addition and one I hope other games of this 
 nature pick up. This makes battle feel a bit more involved rather than sitting and punching commands 
 all the time. Sadly this was not applied towards magical attacks. 
  
  Magic in this game is also improved. Far too many genre's make users save their casters for the 
 big boss battles so as not to run out of magic points in a critical situation. Not only are the 
 cost of casting spells reasonable, but with the many added additions that will allow casters to 
 regain magic in the heat of battle regularly makes worrying about running out of magic points a 
 thing of the past. For the first time in this genre I did not feel I had to hesitate when using 
 my casters. 
  
  Still this game is not without it's shortfalls. The game could have used more various mobs to encounter. 
 Each area seemed to only have 3-5 various enemies which quickly gets repetitive when you run into 
 your random encounters. The story while above average seems to fall into the pitfall that may games 
 of this genre run into in that they try to make it so deep that in the process they loose the gamer. 
 Also for a game which had Nobuo Uematsu composing the music the results are far below his previous 
 works. I found myself envisioning Yani playing in the background every time I traveled to a new 
 location. 
  
  Still despite these shortfalls Lost Odyssey is a game gamers should find themselves enjoying. There 
 is more than enough old school elements to make veterans of this genre comfortable while incorporating 
 enough new elements to keep them engrossed in the combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  I'm not a great fan of Japanese RPG's, I've played plenty of them and very few have been memorable. 
 Lost Odyssey however has been one of the best games I've played.
  
  The first problem I have with Japanese RPG's are the characters, they are the same in just about 
 every game. Spiky haired teenage ladyboys and half dressed jail bait are not really my thing, someone 
 should point out to the designers of these games that people are not past it at twenty. Lost Odyssey 
 doesn't have this problem, adults are adults and the two kids behave like kids and are believable. 
 Over the course of the game the characters develop and I found my initial impressions where wrong 
 as I got to know them, they have backgrounds and histories that make them what they are. Maybe 
 I'm reading too much into it but they certainly have more depth than those I've encountered in 
 other games.
  
  The story is excellent, I'll leave it there so not to spoil it.
  
  The combat in the game is your typical turn based fare, made more interesting with the addition 
 of rings that let the character add effects to weapon strikes. These rings can make a huge difference 
 and are worth experimenting with. The spells are the usual elemental stuff with the usual paralyze 
 and the like thrown in, as usual the spells best suited for use against bosses don't work on those 
 bosses, nothing new there then. Skills are learnt from other party members or accessories and there 
 are a limited number the player can have at his/her disposal and any one time, the number increases 
 as the game progresses. It's a good system that works well.
  
  Graphically the game is very good, the only let down is the fixed camera. Locations are well designed 
 and show imagination without being weird. There's the odd framerate dip but nothing too bad.
  
  The sound in the game is very well done, that includes the voice acting which is excellent.
 
  
  I can't recommend this game highly enough. Fans of JRPG's will love it, even those who aren't should 
 give a try, they'll be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufu7-11
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Lost Odyssey seems like just another JRPG. While this is true to a certain extent, 
 it does things well enough to put together an all-around terrific RPG.
  
  The story-telling is fantastic. The characters look and act lifelike and the voice acting is very 
 well-done. Cut scenes are dramatic and cinematic, really drawing you in to the narrative. 
  
  The story itself, on the other hand, leaves a little something to be desired. It often races 
 through some interesting areas, and then turns into a lull, dragging on in parts that seem to have 
 little to no impact on the story. Thankfully, the ending is satisfying and leaves you feeling like 
 the experience was worthwhile.
  
  The game play, while not entirely original, is excellent. Combat is done in an interesting and 
 sometimes frustrating way. It's semi-turned based. You select the actions for all of your characters 
 at once, and the enemies do the same. You then watch as the battle unfolds. The characters with 
 the quickest reaction time go first, while those with the slowest will carry out their actions 
 last. This causes some headaches early on, but as you figure out your characters' strengths and 
 weaknesses, as well as their reaction speed, things start to get a little easier. This type of 
 battle system forces you to be more strategic and to carefully plan out your actions ahead of time.
 
  
  Graphically, Lost Odyssey looks amazing, sometimes too amazing for it's own good. Characters look 
 extremely detailed and every single brick in the roads and building are rendered beautifully. But 
 sometimes the game will momentarily freeze, as if it's loading or having trouble processing the 
 graphics. 
  
  The music is wonderful, as it's composed by Final Fantasy music composer Nobuo Uematseu. However, 
 it suffers from the same problem that the graphics suffer from. Occasionally during cut scenes 
 and during battles, the music will suddenly shut off, forcing you to watch music-less scenes and 
 endure music- free battles.
  
  With side quests, you can expect to spend between 50 and 60 hours of your life in a play through. 
 Side quests are plentiful and rewarding, and most of them come with a little bit of story. You 
 really have to be stupid not to do side quests in this game. Many of them reward you with items 
 or spells that couple with the extra levels to make the final few boss fights ridiculously easy. 
 One problem is that side quests don't become available until near the end of disc four, forcing 
 you to do them all at once. This might not be such a problem for most gamers, but I like to do 
 a side quest or two, advance the story a little, then side quests, and so on and so on. But since 
 I had to do them all in one giant bunch, I was a little annoyed. Also, all side quests are highlighted 
 on the world map, taking the fun out of discovery and exploration.
  
  As your adventure unfolds, the main character Kaim will recover some of his lost memories from 
 the last thousand years. These return to him in the form of dreams. These dreams are entirely text 
 and are all worth reading, albeit they have no impact on the actual story.
  
  On the surface, Lost Odyssey may seem like just another unoriginal JRPG. But don't be fooled by 
 this. Lost Odyssey is an under-appreciated diamond in the rough. If you are a fan of JRPG's, you 
 can't afford to not give Lost Odyssey a look.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  There are two types of very prevalent Role Playing Game (RPG) categories in video gaming in this 
 day and age. The first is the Western Role Playing Game (the "WRPG") , and the second is the Japanese 
 Role Playing Game (the "JRPG") . While this may be considered generalization and stereotyping, it 
 is true that the two sides of the world produce similar, yet vastly different games. I purchased 
 Lost Odyssey with an open mind, I hadn't truly enjoyed a JRPG since Legend of the Dragoon in the 
 days of the PS1, but I had heard good things. There are three things you must understand about 
 Lost Odyssey if you want to buy it. First off, Lost Odyssey is a very traditional JRPG, and it 
 doesn't try to be anything different. It has a few features that change the genre a little bit, 
 such as level capping and a ring hit timing system, but if you are expecting something new and 
 surprising look elsewhere. Secondly, Lost Odyssey is not a balanced game, the game starts off much 
 more interesting than it is through the middle, and this will leave many gamers waiting for a long 
 period of time to beat the core of the experience. Last, expect to read. The game focuses highly 
 on the use of short stories to develop Kaim as a character, and without them the general story 
 seems very lacklustre.
  
  Heres the story, If you havent played or just dont know.
  
  The story in Lost Odyssey lies on two heads of the same coin. On one hand Kaim seems like a very 
 deep and well thought out character, but only while you read the short stories of "A Thousand Years 
 of Dreams." Kaim's dialogue throughout the game, while superbly voice acted, is not as expansive 
 as you would expect, if you had read through the stories first and then played the game. While 
 the short stories are amazing (one story where Kaim decides not to tell an entire village they 
 are poisoning themselves comes to mind) , the story of the actual game is standard fair. The world 
 has discovered and thrived on magic energy, and of course a typical 'bad guy' wants to harness 
 the magic energy and use it to his advantage. All of cast and characters are voiced extremely well 
 in all of the languages, and each of the characters have their own unique quirks which will make 
 you wonder what they will do next. The game has its share fair of touching moments (a moment with 
 Jansen singing in the snow comes to mind) , and the story, if you can get through the turn based 
 fighting, should keep most players enthralled.
  
  Ok, now heres the gameplay.
  
  Remember when I said that Lost Odyssey was a traditional JRPG? I meant it, and no matter what shade 
 your glasses are, you cannot fail to see that fact. Lost Odyssey uses a traditional turn based 
 system common in many PS2 games, and one of the main issues is that Lost Odyssey is difficult. 
 You will find yourself dying repeatedly and then being annoyed that you cannot grind your level 
 up due to the level cap. The level cap, ring hit system and party formation are all interesting 
 and useful features, but the fact that all the bosses are rather difficult, along with the fact 
 that there is a large number of them, may turn some players away from the game. If you like the 
 game play in turn-based RPG games, you will like the game play here. It is different in a very 
 minor way, and the creatures you fight against are excellent (if a bit odd) .
  
  Now the presentation was what I thought was good.
  
  If we see another RPG that looks as good, 
 and is designed as well as Lost Odyssey this generation, I will be surprised and impressed. The 
 art direction in Lost Odyssey is stunning. Everything from the character designs to the cities 
 (especially the city of Uhra) to the monsters that you frequently combat is immaculate. Coupled 
 with the superb voice acting, and perhaps one of the greatest musical scores in a game this generation, 
 Lost Odyssey will make you want to fight enemies over and over again just to see a different version 
 of the same monster. J Deuces !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amar_Sejfovic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Xbox and the Xbox 360 really have not had much to offer for RPG enthusiasts. That was mostly 
 Sony's territory, as the PS2 had a barrage of excellent, and not so excellent, Role-Playing Games. 
 The 360 now has had Blue Dragon and currently Lost Odyssey in the US alone. While Blue Dragon wasn't 
 a well received game, Lost Odyssey manages to do better.
  
  Lost Odyssey comes from the mind of Hironobu Sakaguchi, (The creator of the first five Final Fantasy 
 games) and from the sounds of Nobuo Uematsu. (The ever popular composer from a number of the Final 
 Fantasy games) Lost Odyssey has a wonderful story with enlightening characters, but suffers from 
 some in game lag.
  
  The story of Lost Odyssey begins with a man named Kaim Argonar. At the start of the game, all you 
 really know of him is that he is an immortal. An immortal is somebody who cannot ever die. However, 
 although he can never die, he does not remember anything. His memory has been completely wiped, 
 and anytime he even remembers anything, it turns out to hurt him. A battle ensues as the game starts 
 and at the end, a meteor wipes out all but Kaim. When he returns to Uhra, he is told by Gongora 
 to go check on Grand Staff as the city believes it was the Grand Staff that caused the meteor. 
 He eventually meets another immortal named Seth, and Jansen, who is not immortal. As they approach 
 Grand Staff, Kaim and Seth begin to remember as their stories begin to connect with each others. 
 Later on they meet other characters, some immortal, some mortal, and discover what is really going 
 on.
  
  Not only is the story fantastic, but the game also has characters which make the whole experience 
 even better. You have Jansen, who just like Irvine from Final Fantasy 8, is a ladies man. He enjoys 
 being around women and the way he acts around the team is really funny. The story has many twists 
 that happen later on, and you'll learn that most of the characters that are immortal have also 
 lost their memories and begin to remember. And as they do, everybody's stories begin to connect.
 
  
  Combat in Lost Odyssey is turn-based. You'll have a total of 5 characters on the field and everybody's 
 turn alternates along with the monsters. If you've equip your characters with these special rings, 
 then they will get an added bonus when they attack. And when they do attack, a ring will circle 
 around the screen prompting you to hold down the right trigger and release it at the right moment 
 in order for it to say Bad, Good, or Perfect inside the rings. If you manage to get it to say perfect, 
 you will get all of the added bonus effects, whether it be poison an enemy, increase critical damage, 
 and so on. You can customize rings anytime you like so you can mess around with various combinations 
 of items you attain while battling or that you find in treasure chests.
  
  While it does add that nice new feel to the combat system, combat is still boring. You'll encounter 
 monsters and fight, and fight, and fight. Because the game, like most RPG's, has random battles, 
 it also has them frequently.
  
  There are some design quirks that really limit the fun value. First off, the game lags quite a 
 bit. If you run a lot with the characters, you'll notice the screen skipping. This, while it does 
 happen rarely, is still annoying when it happens. Another thing is the load times. Every time you 
 go from one area to another, you get these long load times which can last up to 20-30 seconds. 
 That can get really annoying when you have to go from one place to another constantly.
  
  The game also has a few side-quests for you to partake in. While the objective in some, or most, 
 is rather dumb, it still is pretty fun to participate in these side-quests.
  
  Lost Odyssey has a leveling system just like every RPG. The downside is that it takes almost forever 
 to get up one level. What is normally done in a new area in RPG's is to level up until the monsters 
 give you smaller amounts of EXP. In a normal RPG, you could get up quite a few levels. However 
 in Lost Odyssey, you'll be lucky to get up one or two levels until they start giving you extremely 
 small amounts of EXP. 
  
  Another feature in the game is the feature to Skill Link. When you have immortals on your team, 
 i. e. Kaim, Seth, etc, they can't learn skills by just leveling up like the mortals. They have to 
 learn the skills from the mortals that learn it. The immortals can only learn from either Skill 
 Linking or from accessories. What you do is you assign an ability for an immortal to learn. (Black 
 Magic, White Magic, Spirit Magic, etc.) The ability will have a required number of Points that 
 you need to obtain in order for the immortal to learn the skill. Once they do, it will be on a 
 list of abilities that you can give your immortal.
  
  The downside to all this is that you can't really have all the skills unless you have enough space. 
 An immortal only has a few slots to put abilities into, and the only way to increase the number 
 is to find slot seeds, which can't be bought. You have to find them, and they are extremely rare. 
 So you'll really have to be balanced with who will have what as you don't want everyone having 
 the same abilities set.
  
  Although Lost Odyssey is plagued with long load times, some laggy frame-rate issues, and other 
 things mentioned in this review, it's still an extremely fun game to play. If you are able to look 
 past all of the negative things such as the dull combat and long load times, you can still enjoy 
 the game. Lost Odyssey is definitely an adventure that you won't want to miss and you should definitely 
 consider purchasing a copy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Despite a number of well-received titles, epic Japanese-style RPGs have long been a rarity on Microsoft's 
 Xbox consoles. So it was not without a certain level of joy and anticipation that Lost Odyssey 
 was received by the game-playing public. Following the release of 360-exclusive RPG Blue Dragon 
 and the DS game ASH, this is the third game from new studio Mistwalker. Mistwalker were formed 
 by legendary Final Fantasy mastermind, Hironobu Sakaguchi, and it is easy to see from where the 
 majority of influences on Lost Odyssey's development have come.
  
  It has become obvious to me that all JRPGs follow a set formula, one laid down in the mists of 
 history by genre trailblazers Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest and tweaked, added to and polished 
 to perfection over the years. Game designers are required by law to adhere to a strict set of rules 
 when creating a console-style RPG, with the singular goal of winning over the rabid legions of 
 Final Fantasy fans. A game designer must never deviate too far from the accepted norm when attempting 
 anything new and improved with a JRPG. This would only serve to alienate a guaranteed fanbase, 
 right? It's a rather sad state of affairs, resulting in innumerable cookie-cutter RPGs, each less 
 memorable than the last.
  
  So I could not help but approach Lost Odyssey with a sense of trepidation warring with the joy 
 and anticipation. I didn't need to worry. It's obvious that Lost Odyssey was trying to achieve 
 Final Fantasy status: that much is a given, so let's forget that for a moment and move on. When 
 something is done this well it doesn't matter that it wasn't the first of its kind. The structure 
 of the game follows a somewhat familiar pattern  you take control of a group of memorable characters 
 and go on a fairly linear set of adventures across a beautifully detailed fantasy world, battling 
 foes, collecting treasures and gaining power as you do so.
  
  Lost Odyssey reverts to the tried-and-true system of random encounters as you travel across the 
 game fields. Love it or hate it, it appears that this is an RPG staple we are not yet willing to 
 let go of. Final Fantasy XII tried to shake things up with a real-time battle system and it didn't 
 really work; Lost Odyssey goes far to the other extreme and features a methodical, turn-based combat 
 mechanic. All your basic commands are present: attack, defend, cast a spell, use an item, use a 
 skill, run away if anything the combat is a little too dry and dull. An attempt to spice things 
 is made with the ring system, where by equipping rings with different attributes your characters 
 can deal extra damage and whatnot depending on how accurate your trigger finger is and how well 
 you can line up a quickly decreasing on-screen target ring. It's a nice addition, but I wouldn't 
 miss it if it wasn't there.
  
  Boring random combats aside, much of the rest of the game progresses in a perfectly acceptable 
 way. The storyline presented is mostly linear, with a few minor distractions along the way and 
 a fair number of optional areas to explore. The gist of things is this: you control Kaim, a 1000-year 
 old immortal who has been drifting around the world for a millennia, doing whatever it is immortals 
 do (which is never what any real person would do on discovering they were immortal) before suffering 
 catastrophic memory loss and getting whacked on the head by a meteor. For some reason Kaim is then 
 sent off with another immortal and the obligatory annoying character (to be fair; I actually like 
 the annoying character in this game) to a techno-magical device. Then things start to spin out 
 of control and before you know it you are kidnapping queens, stealing ships, gaining a busload 
 of companions and dashing across half a continent in order to thwart Evil Genius' plans. No matter 
 how silly it all sounds, in reality it's almost magnificent and quite frankly the plot is the best 
 part of Lost Odyssey.
  
  It's not as long as four discs would lead you to believe  it's all cutscenes, beautifully rendering 
 in memory-hogging detail  but there's enough twists, heart-thumping set pieces and tear-jerking 
 emo drivel to make a clown weep. Sure, there are a few moments where you wonder what the game designers 
 were thinking, such as a half-hour section on the first disc involving gathering flowers, collecting 
 wood and playing some pathetic mini-game with torches that not only seems completely pointless 
 but will no doubt leave you mystified beyond belief and flicking your gaze to the stack of unplayed 
 games sitting on your coffee table that have so far been neglected because you've been playing 
 this wonderful little Japanese RPG that has sucked you in so totally and completely that you've 
 not only forgotten to go to work but have forgotten your name, the name of your other half *and* 
 the location of your house keys. Yeah, it's that good. I'll even forgive the overly wordy nature 
 of the whole thing  I'm the sort of person who enjoyed every word of dialogue in Mass Effect, 
 so you'll understand when I say it's *wordy*  because it's all pretty well written and most importantly, 
 features a spot-on translation.
  
  The characters, for once, are all interesting, well-developed individuals with their own backgrounds, 
 drives and reasons for being there. Main character Kaim may appear at first glance to possess all 
 the qualities of a typical brooding RPG hero, but as the game progresses he becomes ten times more 
 likeable than a barrel full of Squalls. The rest of the gang are generally quite fun and thankfully 
 feature less of the emotionally-retarded attributes that seem to define game characters. Your party 
 is split between immortals and mortals, and they each develop in different ways. The immortals 
 gain levels through experience, but can only gain skills in one of two ways, either from equipping 
 accessories that grant the required skills, or by linking to a mortal. Skill points are gained 
 in battle along with experience and allow for dozens of skills to be learnt by each immortal. The 
 mortals adhere to a simpler system, merely gaining a set of skills as they level up through experience 
 gained in combat. The experience system itself is worthy of note. Unlike many RPGs that encourage 
 endless hours of level-grinding in order to even beat a single boss, Lost Odyssey does away with 
 such tiresome nonsense. Instead, each area has a predefined recommended level. If your party is 
 below said level then you will gain lots of experience each battle until that point is reached; 
 after that you will gain very little. This discourages the sort of ber-character that could easily 
 spoil a game and should be welcomed by most gamers who are not into making a career of grinding.
 
  
  Now, let's move away from all that storyline and character nonsense and talk about what's really 
 important. Does it look good? Oh, yes. I've already mentioned the word beautiful, so I'll say it's 
 stunning, gorgeous, and pulchritudinous in its eye-catching splendour. Play it in high-definition, 
 if not to make it look even grander during the many cutscenes, then just to make the text legible. 
 Yes, it's another squinty game, but really that all depends on how good your TV is and shouldn't 
 detract from how pretty it all is, should it?
  
  Sound design follows much the same formula as the rest of the game: it goes somewhat out of its 
 way to provide an enriching experience for as many areas of the brain as possible while sticking 
 to a mainly set formula. The music is good, composed by another legendary Final Fantasy alum: Nobuo 
 Uematsu. It's not his best score and I could have used more variety especially in the battle music, 
 but it's beautiful in parts. Voice acting is outstanding, head and shoulders over many other games. 
 All in all, great.
  
  So, when all is said and done, we have a typically huge RPG done in a typical fashion. It's more 
 than worth it for any RPG fan, with enough optional extras to satisfy even the most hardened Final 
 Fantasy completionist and a long, gripping and mostly exciting main game for everyone else. Lost 
 Odyssey may be traditional, it may not tread new ground, but it presents itself in a style that 
 is honed to near perfection  and that's all we ever wanted anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lll_ROCK_lll
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I just started playing Lost Odyssey and i am not very far i must admit! but so far this game has 
 blown my mind with amazing graphics, realistic scenery, Strong Bosses, and a sweet in game concept. 
 I may have just started playing but i can tell this game is a classic. The Battle system is understandable 
 for an Rpg so its pretty easy to understand. The games story is pretty sweet so far i mean the 
 idea of Characters being immortal is sweet being forced to walk the earth forever is a fresh breath 
 into the rpg universe. The whole ring concept in battle is suprising as well it reminds me of earlier 
 rpg set-ups like "Legend of Dragoon" in which u could chain attacks when properly timed. Lost Odyssey 
 is a step up for Rpgs on the 360 console and a game that breaths new life into its players i give 
 it a 10 out of 10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegraver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPG games in the Xbox until now. As any RPG player first you will look 
 for a story that you want to discover. Lost Odyssey have a great story that would like to share 
 with you all, briefly you are a player that have lost his memory and for some reason you can't 
 die, you are an immortal. Some people may think that it's cool but while playing you will realize 
 how much pain you will go through because you are an immortal. 
  
  The game play is cool with some nice new move were you have to press buttons while in a movie. 
 You will be able to Learn new moves from mortal people around you. 
  
  The graphic are nice with great movie in the game. There are good details for players and the weapons.
 
  
  There are also some nice sound tracks in the game. Personally I liked the fighting sound track. 
 
  
  
  Stroy: B+
  Gameplay: A
  Graphics: B+
  Sound and Music: B+
  
  Overall the game is great and it is totally worth playing for whoever have an Xbox360 and love 
 RPG games. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ES-Cobra
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Let first start by saying this game was not meant to break any barriers in the JRPG genre. But 
 what it does do is expand on it and tweak in parts you would not have needed tweaking. 
  
  The game starts you out right in the middle of a huge battle. In this chaos you take control of 
 one of the man charaters in the game named Kaim. During this battle a huge metor comes from ther 
 sky killing everyone but Kaim. After the events of the major battle at the start of the game the 
 story begins and from there the story is a mix deep emotion depicted through little stories that 
 will pop up through the game.
  
  The gameplay is simple traditional JRPG and if like this type of gameplay you will want to pick 
 this up. The main story can last about 30 hours, but the game has so much more to do you can easily 
 reach the 80 hour mark and enjoy every moment .
  
  LOST ODYSSEY PICK IT UP!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a special breed of JRPGs. While it doesn't do anything completely new with the 
 gameplay, the story does a complete 180 compared to most out there. It tells the story of Kaim 
 Argonar, an Immortal who has lived for 1000 years (so far) . While most people think that living 
 forever would be great, Lost Odyssey shows the brutality and hope that life gives to everyone through 
 the eyes of Kaim as he wanders across the planet. Some of the Dream Sequences Kaim has are very 
 powerful, and will surprise you on how moved you will be to the story. Mistwalker did story-telling 
 that hasn't been seen in JRPGs in awhile.
  
  The gameplay doesn't do anything completely new, the acquiring of abilities like Black Magic are 
 changed for some of the characters. While in most RPGs, the player levels up the characters and 
 they learn new abilities, right? Half-right. The Immortals cannot learn any skills or spells, so 
 they must rely on the mortals for abilities. After the SP of the ability is fulfilled, the Immortal 
 has learned that ability. The setup is similar to the skill setup in Blue Dragon.
  
  Another thing is the removal of armor. The characters still have defense, but armor has been replaced 
 by rings. Equipping rings do the same thing as armor, but the Immortals can learn from some of 
 the effects the rings have (like immunity from paralysis) . If you have a ring attached to a character, 
 in battle, when the character attacks, a ring appears on the enemy. If you time it right, you can 
 add the rings' effect onto the enemy (like poisoning it or adding extra damage if you have a ring 
 that does extra damage to a certain types of enemies) .
  
  The music is amazing. Uematsu always amazes me with his music, and Lost Odyssey's soundtrack is 
 no different. Every song fits with the moods throughout the game perfectly. Once hearing the theme 
 of Uhra, I had to get the soundtrack for myself. 
  
  Wile the game is amazing, it does have a few downsides. The first being the loading times. The 
 loading isn't long at all, but there are many of them throughout the game. Walking into a tavern 
 and walking out has around a 2-5 second loading time. While minor, it is very annoying. The second 
 are the Dream Sequences that Kaim gets. There stories would be better if they were vocal and not 
 written, but that's not the main problem. the problem is the color of the text to the background. 
 if the background is very dark, the text will be white, which is fine, but in one of the dreams, 
 the bottom of the screen was a bright glowish-red, which signifies the event happening then. The 
 text was white, which made me having to squint at the television trying to make out the words in 
 that location.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a great game, despite the downsides. I think Lost Odyssey shows events that are 
 happening in the real world and the cycle that has been going for centuries. Lost Odyssey is a 
 game that should be picked up by anyone who has a 360 and is a RPG fan. Now the question is, do 
 you want to dive into 1000 years of memories? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey arrived in a heavy package. It tells the thousand year tale of Kaim, an immortal living 
 in a world that brutally limits lives other than his. Intuitively, longevity and invincibility 
 shouldn't make for video game materials- after all, what's a game if your character can't die? 
 Just like how Kaim and the other immortals cheat death in this game, Mistwalker was able to untwine 
 such logical limitations, delivering us a role playing game that not only weaves a conceivable 
 tale, but that of a truly emotional one. 
  
  Graphics are ordinarily beautiful, music is ordinarily soothing, and game play is ordinarily simple. 
 But Lost Odyssey is by no means an ordinary game, exploring lives and humanity like no other. While 
 invincibility is a theme mostly explored with many video game antagonists, Lost Odyssey only imposed 
 such luxury on their anti-thesis. Luxury can be punishment too. 
  
  For the seemingly impossible feat of telling a thousand year story in a 40 hour game, Lost Odyssey 
 adopted a retrospective approach that risked compromising the main story progression. Such emphasis 
 was given in exploring the backgrounds of each unwilling immortal- done in the fashion of dream 
 sequences- players' patience may be severely tested. Indeed, Lost Odyssey seems intent in letting 
 us have a taste of what it is like to live a life where time is of the infinite, something not 
 all players can necessarily agree on. To the most willing of gamers who are able to grasp the true 
 meaning behind this story-heavy game, the experience could be the most peculiar- story advances 
 and backtracks simultaneously, yet only obligatorily so.
  
  Lost Odyssey introduces 2 forms of being, the mortals and the immortals. The latter, heavily weakened 
 by their locked memories, need to rely on the mortals to learn new skills. The immortals are therefore 
 given much room for customization, whereas the mortals have to make do with an innate set of skills. 
 While it would soon become crystal clear that the mortals' usefulness is limited, the notion that 
 any person who has lived a thousand year longer ought to be stronger than these fragile beings 
 stays consistent. If most RPGs have to grapple with the balance in having the right amount of customization 
 for their characters, then Lost Odyssey's dual system would have effectively bypassed such worries. 
 
  
  Hironobu Sakaguchi attempts the impossible- explaining how it feels like to be person who simply 
 cannot die. He did this by first eliminating the memories of a person who has a thousand year's 
 worth of it, which at first glance seems convenient, if not terribly clichd. Not so. Understanding 
 a mere fraction of the immortals' past may be sufficient for the game to coherently progress, but 
 like how life can often turn out to be, it's the little memories- ones that we swear they exist- 
 that could matter the most. Across Kaim's journey in understanding more about his relevance in 
 a world where time so cruelly burdens him, he will encounter many side events, many of which will 
 happen at the most unexpected of places. These shall trigger many of his defragmented memories 
 in the form of dreams, ones that may seem less important, but really none the less so. Some are 
 poetic, some may appear apathetic, but all are almost outrageously simple. This adds a touch of 
 subtlety, lending weight to the underlying life lessons each dream sequences seeks to replicate.
 
  
  In fact, subtlety is a theme that is thoroughly reverberated in the entire game. The refreshingly 
 simple game play hinted sophistication with the ring system. Whenever an attack is executed, players 
 have to hold on to the RT button, letting go only at the exact moment in which the two layers of 
 a ring overlap. Depending on how accurate such an endeavor is, bonuses such as greater damage or 
 status infliction can be added to each attack. Rings can be created and customized by collecting 
 materials found over the course of the game. As grinding for levels is impossible in Lost Odyssey 
 (characters stops leveling once a certain threshold is met) , players will find it most advantageous 
 to build an arsenal of rings to deal with the many challenging boss fights. But in having to use 
 different rings in different situations, stability is sacrificed for strategy, often making battles 
 a cumbersome affair.
  
  The same subtlety characterized graphics, sound and music. Powered by the Unreal Engine, Lost Odyssey 
 looks absolutely stunning, yet uncannily, hardly overplayed. The sharp and crisp in-game graphics 
 showed little difference from the abundant cut scenes found in the game, though often let down 
 by the many loading times. Music is especially impressive, an accolade that is to be expected of 
 maestro Nobuo Uematsu. Lost Odyssey is also mostly voice-acted, and when we consider the diversity 
 of the extremely likeable cast of characters, the actors did a really good job in making all of 
 them believable, and perhaps more importantly, bearable. The scripts are as well extremely well 
 translated, the emotion-evoking dream sequences an easy example.
  
  Regrettably, Lost Odyssey is often let down by technical deficiencies. Each battle would have a 
 5 seconds initial drag time that further burden the already slow nature of its turn-based system. 
 It is also at times victimized by frame rate issues, again a glaring fault considering that cut-scenes 
 are most generous. The side quests are often so uninteresting they border to the point of being 
 crude, adding nothing to the game but some desperate play time. It is unfortunate a game that revolves 
 around the concept of time is encumbered by the very nature of which. 
  
  If life is a journey, then what is life on a thousand-year journey? Lost Odyssey could well be 
 a sage skillfully disguised as a competent video game. In an era where the industry is so often 
 being blamed for all things that belittle lives, it is so heartening to have a game that seeks 
 not to blow us away, but to show us that quite on the contrary, one can actually learn a thing 
 or two about life from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirFrosty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is an RPG developed by Mistwalker and published by Microsoft Game Studios, just in 
 case you've been living under a rock :P The game follows the story of Kaim, an immortal who has 
 lost his memories (what else is new? Seems like that's the trend these days) , in his quest to defeat 
 Gongora, another immortal who locked Kaim's memories away. Along the journey, Kaim meets up with 
 many other characters (and when I say many, I mean it. There are a TON of characters to fight with 
 by the end of the game) , including 3 other immortals, who have also had their memories locked away. 
 
  
  Lost Odyssey doesn't really add anything new to the RPG genre. It's a fairly standard turn-based 
 Role Playing Game, with some minor tweaks. One of these tweaks is the ring system used in the game. 
 Throughout the game, players can find and create many different rings for their characters to equip, 
 with many different effects. When a ring is equipped to a character, players will notice a change 
 in battle. When a character equipped with a ring uses his or her normal attack, two circles will 
 appear on the screen; a large circle and a small circle. The large circle will shrink down into 
 the small circle, and it is the player's job to press the Right Trigger when the large circle is 
 perfectly in the small circle. If he or she does so, the ring's effect will be more prominent, 
 if the player gets the timing close to perfect, the the ring's effect will be normal, and if the 
 player doesn't get the timing correct at all, the player's attack will not carry the effect of 
 the ring. It's a hard thing to explain, but it's very simple when you use it in the game. The ring 
 system can add a deep level of strategy to the game, with players needing to equip the right rings 
 at the right time.
  
  Another tweak to the standard RPG formula is the different abilities of the immortals. First and 
 foremost, if an immortal is KO'd in battle, he or she will revive automatically within a certain 
 number of turns. This is an interesting feature, and can really help in tough boss battles. On 
 top of that, immortals do not learn their own skills. They must learn skills from the mortal characters 
 in the game through what is called "Skill Linking". You set which skill you want the immortal to 
 link, and then you enter into fights with both the immortal who is linking and the mortal who has 
 the skill originally. Eventually, the immortal will learn the skill, and it can be set to his or 
 her skill slots. However, immortals have a limited number of skill slots, and will need to use 
 Slot Seeds to add more slots. This is another feature that can add a really deep level of strategy 
 to the game, as well as customizations abound.
  
  Now, on to the true showcase of any RPG: the story. Lost Odyssey has a deep story, with extremely 
 developed characters (especially through the Thousand Years of Dreams) which interact with each 
 other very well. Jansen provides a perfect foil for Kaim's seriousness with constant joking, which 
 is just one example of the great relationships between the characters. Some of the characters in 
 the game tend to be a bit irritating, but it's nothing unbearable. Sometimes the dialogue is very 
 cheesy, but again nothing that can't be tolerated. The story itself is somewhat predictable, but 
 very involving nonetheless. Players will more than likely find themselves eagerly waiting for the 
 next scene so that they can see Gongora's next evil actions, or Jansen's next blunder. 
  
  Now, about the graphics. Lost Odyssey has EXTREMELY beautiful in-game graphics, and the cut-scenes 
 are breathtaking, especially the scenes with water. Every now and then, the game's framerate suffers 
 a hiccup, but it's not often enough to be a nuisance. The game definitely utilizes the 360's graphical 
 power, and I am thankful for that.
  
  Aside from all that, there are a few nit picking things I have to say. Sometimes, the loading times 
 are longer than desirable, which is kind of annoying. Towards the end of the game, there is a very 
 annoying lack of save points, which caused me to have to repeat a very difficult boss battle several 
 times. Finally, the game has some extremely irritating sections, which seem completely unnecessary.
 
  
  All in all, Lost Odyssey is a very solid RPG which is most definitely worth your time, with the 
 story rewarding enough to be worth the experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWarpLynx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The story is centered on Kaim Argonar, an immortal that cannot remember his past, who goes on a 
 journey to find other immortals and mortals who decide to unite under the same goal. The adventure 
 is in a world resembling ours but centered on aspects of the industrial revolution.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a dramatic and long RPG. There is also humor and romance. With characteristics 
 of artifacts and attire typical of the Middle Age and Modern Age as well as Contemporary Age the 
 game has also many futuristic aspects detailed within beautiful graphics.
  
  It features a system of rings for weapons that all characters can use depending on the kinds of 
 enemies that need to be destroyed. These rings are for close range attacks and they add some action 
 requiring skill with the controller on the players' part to land Bad, Good or Perfect attacks. 
 All the player needs to do is hold the Right Trigger and release it at the appropriate time. 
 
  
  The game has a simple system involving the four elements known as Water, Fire, Wind and Earth, 
 where Water is good against Fire, Fire against Wind, Wind against Earth and Earth against Water. 
 Rings have different levels of element damage as well as other kinds of damage reserved for machines, 
 or magic wielders among other things.
  
  Immortals can learn numerous skills from objects and from mortals by a process in the game involving 
 equipping objets and skill-linking with mortals. Mortals learn skills as they level up. While there 
 are no decisions to be made as the characters level up, such as applying points to strength or 
 magic, there is a lot of decision making when it comes to choosing who should attack at close range 
 and who should use magic at long range or who should stay up front and who should stay behind protected 
 by the strong ones up front.
  
  Interactions with objects and people in this game are subtle things which force the player to pay 
 attention to every detail present in the surroundings until, by being near something, the player 
 is cued to press the A button. To talk to people the player has to approach individuals and press 
 the A button also but without any cue. There is no journal so the player is required to write down 
 where in the story he or she is and what needs to be done to progress in the main adventure.
  
  There is not much in terms of decision making through dialogue in this game. Enemies appear 
 randomly in certain places as long as the character ventures in these places. For the most part 
 the player controls and sees only Kaim. Some of the others appear during battle and the ones present 
 in battle are selected by the player while there is no ongoing battle.
  
  There are four discs which comprise the game and many hours to be spent enjoying a game with superb 
 music, poetry and imagination. Lost Odyssey is this game.
  
  I would recommend playing this game with a guide or a walkthrough and with time in your hands to 
 enjoy everything the game has to offer but advise that some of the fun of exploring this game is 
 substantially removed by doing so. Play it without help first and then seek help if you feel you 
 need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiggums
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  A massive melee is taking place in a large desolate plain, between two rival countries, Uhra and 
 Gohtza. Soldiers fighting one on one, backed up by large war machines and magic. In the midst of 
 all this chaos is a lone man, Kaim Argonar. Kaim blazes through his foes, striking them down one 
 after another, while simultaneously dodging every attack they send his way. He quickly proves he's 
 a tremendous warrior.
  Suddenly, the earth beneath the fighters trembles. But it's no ordinary earthquake. Up in the sky, 
 a meteor comes crashing down, with Kaim near the epicenter. All are killed it would seem. However, 
 as Uhran soldiers search for survivors, Kaim steps out, completely unscathed. He's brought back 
 to Uhra, and our journey begins.
  
  Gameplay:
  The most notable part of Lost Odyssey's gameplay is the Ring System. It's a system that uses rings 
 to affect the characters' attack strength.
  There are 3 levels of the Ring system, being Bad, Good, and Perfect. As you can no doubt tell, 
 Bad is the weakest of the attacks, with Good being normal and Perfect being strongest (and dealing 
 the most damage) .
  The system works in holding the right trigger as the character's attack begins, and releasing it 
 just as the shrinking outer ring matches the ring surrounding the enemy. It seems more confusing 
 that it actually is. It boils down to good timing is all.
  I was anticipating something similar to The Legend of Dragoon's ring system when I first heard 
 of it, but it is much different (and actually much easier) .
  
  Another key point in Lost Odyssey's gameplay lies with the Skills. Mortals learn their own skills 
 as they gain levels, while the Immortals learn their skills by linking to the Mortal characters 
 or equipping certain accessories. This essentially allows for the Immortal characters to do anything 
 in the game, however it doesn't mean they will be so good at the skills they learn (they may not 
 have strong magical ability, which means while they can use a certain spell, it would be weak) .
 
  
  Speaking of ability (or rather, stats) , the characters in Lost Odyssey all have a set of different 
 statistics, ranging from Physical Attack, to Magical Defense. Each stat gets a "grade" so to speak, 
 from A (the stat is very high and therefore powerful) to H (the stat is low, and pathetically weak) . 
 Some characters tend to have great stats on one end, but terrible stats on the other, while some 
 other characters have well-rounded stats. To have a good party is to strike a balance between the 
 statistics in the party.
  
  Story:
  The story of Lost Odyssey revolves around the Immortals, a group of humans who, for some reason 
 they are unaware of, are unable to die, no matter the situation. Granted they "die" in battle during 
 the game, they will revive only 3 turns later, requiring no revival medicines or magics. Kaim, 
 Seth, Ming, Sarah, and main villain Gongora are the only Immortals involved.
  The first four (the good guys) are unable to remember much of their pasts, which have gone on for 
 over 1,000 years. Throughout the game, they encounter certain situations or events that trigger 
 a memory, referred to as "Dreams" in the game. They are quite lengthy, which is a real downside, 
 but they let you in on who the characters are as people, their personalities if you will. That 
 is, if you don't mind the long read (they are just word memories, which is rather dull) .
  Gongora is the only Immortal who has retained his memories, which he uses to his advantage to gain 
 the upper hand on our heroes. Unlike most villains of the RPG genre, he uses and manipulates the 
 characters constantly to get where he needs to be. He uses magic, and a titanic structure by the 
 name of Grand Staff (which harnesses magical energy) to create a world for him to reign over (as 
 with most RPGs right?) .
  
  Graphics:
  While I haven't played this game on an HDTV yet, I can safely say it has some impressive graphics. 
 The cutscenes are graphical masterpieces, and that's saying a lot for being played on a traditional 
 television.
  The battle opening scenes, while overly drawn out, show the magnificent backgrounds and settings 
 for the battles, and seem to be a way of boasting the graphical power of the game and the X-box 
 360.
  
  In short, a great RPG for those who are avid fans of the genre. I look forward to future Mistwalker 
 titles thanks to this game, and I'm sure I won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animefreeze
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  First off the Game is a classic JRPG, meaning that its turn-based and it has random encounters. 
 But thats not to say that the game is boring as hell. I found the combat system to be engaging, 
 it has just enough depth to keep you entertained and enough strategy so that its not too overly 
 complicated, but fun at the same time. And don't fret about the Random Encounters, The Makers of 
 the game (Mistwalker) have made the encounter rate surprisingly lower than probably ever RPG out 
 there that has used the Random Encounter system. You can literally run around for about 5 minutes 
 at a time and not run into an enemy, also you have the option to run fast which is a big help, 
 believe you'll love it.
  
  The Game also has an amazing story which did kind of suprise me, after playing FFXII I was just 
 put off by the story of that game, if you've played it then you know what I'm talking about, and 
 if you haven't then don't bother, the only upside to it is that its based on the world of FF tactics 
 Advanced. But im getting off topic here, SO as I was saying the story in this game really is good, 
 each character is well-crafted and each has a reason of why they stay and help Kaim and the rest 
 of the immortals to defeat Gongora. Also what is a HUGE and I mean a huge plus for this game is 
 that for once it isn't some damn prepubescent little spikey haired kid who has the hots for some 
 girl who either doesn't know he exists or that she is just plainly not interested, and the spikey 
 haired little kid just seems to be given an amazing power or weapon. No this game does not have 
 any of that at all. Kaim is actually a pretty intriguing main character, in the beginning of the 
 game he is cold-hearted and doesn't care to form a relationship or even a form of bonding with 
 anyone else, all he is concerned with is finishing the task he is assigned too, this all has to 
 do with the fact that hes lost his memory. And yes, the whole "I've lost my memory and i need to 
 get it back" is old, but the way Kaim's stories/memories are told are simply amazing.
  
  Throughout the game you'll find hidden "dreams" which are basically just short stories of Kaim's 
 adventures and experiences. Not all of them are happy and go lucky, most of them leave you thinking, 
 and most are pretty sad, thats not too say though thats its flat out depressing, because its not. 
 They just sort of leave you mesmerized, and make you get to know more about Kaim, and why he is 
 as cold-hearted as he is, since well at least 5 of them deal with one of his loved ones having 
 a bad experienced. Also, don't complain about having to "endure" reading these, because if you 
 simply hate reading then I don't see why your even reading my damn review, but its highly probable 
 that this review will not even be read at all but I could really care less, because this is the 
 longest review I have ever wrote for a game, and this just shows how much I just love it. 
  
  Now I won't lie to you, there are some problems with he game, like how every time you get into 
 a fight you have to wait through the beginning fight scenes of the landscape and enemies before 
 you can actually fight, and that lasts about maybe 10 seconds, could be more or less. Also, theres 
 a suprising abscense of mini-games, seeing as this is made from Hironobu Sakaguchi, the Father 
 and creator of the whole entire FF series, I guess you could also call his the God of Mini-games, 
 seeing as how hes probably the main reason why we even have mini-games in our RPG's nowadays. but 
 anyways, LO is lacking in the mini-games department, after fighting and traveling the world and 
 reading the dreams and interacting with the characters in the game it would have been nice to have 
 atleast some sort of mini-game even if it was a last minute job. And well my last beef with this 
 game is that its not really normal TV friendly, what I mean is that as with all next gen games 
 nowadays, developers think we're so rich that we have enough money not to only dish out money for 
 consoles and games but to also but a freaking HDTV. If you have a regular TV like I do, you can 
 still play the game fine, but at times you may have to squint your eyes when reading the main menu, 
 and during the "dream" sequences. 
  
  You might have also noted that I rated this game a 10, and well seeing as how its not my job to 
 rate and critique games, I rate games based on how fun they are, how much time I spent playing, 
 and how much of a lasting effect its had on me. And LO has surpassed every single one of my expectations 
 of this game. And the Dream sequences are really the highlight of the game, and if this isn't too 
 cheesy, those dreams really are good for the soul. And if you don; t believe you have a soul, then 
 the dreams will leave a big impact in your mind, because they are just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey was a jewel in the eyes of RPG lovers for quite a while preceding its release. Coming 
 from Mistwalker studios, Final Fantasy fans were hoping that it would prove itself as a better 
 RPG than Blue Dragon. Ultimately, what one gets with Lost Odyssey is a satisfying RPG experience 
 that will quench a thirst for RPGs, regardless of the fact that it doesn't work very hard to bring 
 innovative features or an action-packed battle experience.
  
  STORY === 9.7/10
  
  Though Lost Odyssey might not bring anything particularly new or exciting to the genre, its story 
 is no less than incredible. Not only is the main storyline an extremely interesting one that will 
 act as motivation for your continued efforts, but you also have further story which you can unlock.
 
  
  You play as Kaim, an immortal who doesn't remember any of his past. However, you will be happy 
 to find that you aren't the only immortal in the world. You will command your way through an intriguing, 
 emotional and action-filled storyline. It is a pretty intricately-woven RPG story, and one of the 
 better ones that I have encountered in modern RPGs. 
  
  Perhaps the highlight of the storyline are memories, or "dreams" which you can unlock as you wander 
 the world as Kaim. Throughout the world, you will encounter people or events that trigger certain 
 memories in Kaim's mysterious past. Though they are not directly necessary to understand or complete 
 the story, they help shed more light on the protagonist's interesting, winding, and in many cases, 
 sad, life. The reason these are so good is because of the quality of these developments, which 
 act as many short stories in the game. They will usually be accompanied by artistic backdrops and 
 excellent music. The stories themselves are some of the best pieces of writing I have ever encountered 
 in a game; more than once you may find yourself tearing up because of the quality of the story 
 and the realism which it encourages. 
  
  The story is a somewhat lengthy, though mostly slow-paced ride which is without doubt the highlight 
 of the game. It is refreshing to see a quality story in a more modern RPG.
  
  GAMEPLAY === 6/10
  
  The gameplay isn't too say bad, it's just not diverse or a blast. It's 
 one of the slowest pace turn-based RPGs I have ever played, if not the slowest. The way the system 
 works promotes the use of strategy; your typical button mash of X will earn you a quick death in 
 Lost Odyssey. The main problem is that I simply couldn't find enough enjoyment in the limited amount 
 of spells and abilities there are in the game. The game feels squashed at times, and sometimes 
 even feels like it's running in slow motion.
  
  Another major downside about the combat is the fact that there aren't any "limit break" type abilities 
 that build up over time to unleash a massive, eye-candy attack. There are no types of summons, 
 just attacks and basic spells/abilities. Some players may find this more limited arsenal enjoyable 
 or see it as a new type of challenge, but for me it diluted the gameplay, making random encounters 
 a bore quite quickly.
  
  Other than that, fans of typical RPGs might find themselves struggling at the beginning of this 
 game. Though game mechanics are simple enough, the game seems to thrust you into somewhat difficult 
 battles quite early; at least, the battles can quickly become difficult if you don't keep your 
 head screwed on the right way. 
  
  Other than that, the only innovation present within the game is a unique ring system where you 
 can add special effects to your attacks if you release R1 with proper timing. It does add some 
 interest to battles, but is quite easy to master.
  
  PRESENTATION === 8.9/10
  
  Lost Odyssey quite simply, is a beautiful game to play. Beautiful graphics and detailed environments 
 add to the excellent storyline. You will find yourself traveling across a myriad of diverse, enjoyable 
 environments, all of which were designed with great attention to detail. 
  
  The only problem that comes within this is that at times, there seems to be significant frame rate 
 drops. Most of the time it's possible to ignore the dips in fps, but sometimes it really does become 
 distracting and may even give you a headache depending on how sensitive your eyes are to it. There 
 is also sometimes a hazy look that was engineered in the game which is mostly enjoyable, but can 
 also sometimes become bothersome.
  
  The only other part of the game that seems to lack, presentation-wise, is the spell/ability art. 
 A more artistic approach to spells would have made the limited arsenal less of a factor, but instead 
 the game sticks with very simple, very basic spell arts that not only don't seem to go along with 
 the rest of the game, but can become just as boring as the battle system at points. 
  
  The FMV sequences are AWESOME, the voice-acting fits along pretty well, and above all, the voiced 
 over sequences are both emotional and often quite humorous. 
  
  REPLAY VALUE === 7/10
  
  Honestly, there isn't much replay value that I can find within the game. The vast majority 
 of achievements can be easily unlocked on the first playthrough. The story is interesting, but 
 the battle system isn't quite good enough to sustain one through subsequent playthroughs. 
  
  Perhaps the only feature worth revisiting at a later time are the unlockable dreams, which 
 can be viewed from the main menu, as opposed to actually opening up your save file.
  
  TILT === 7.5/10
  
  This game is a good experience, and as I've said, an excellent way to satisfy 
 any hunger for RPGs. It may not bring anything new to the board, but what it takes from traditional 
 RPGs it does well. An interesting cast of characters keep the gamer interested, but a somewhat 
 weak battle system seems to hamper the greatness of the game.
  
  Coming from some of the developers of Final Fantasy, it is a good RPG, but it's not quite what 
 one would hope for from the next big SE title.
  
  STORY === 9.7/10 (20%)
  GAMEPLAY === 6/10 (30%)
  PRESENTATION === 8.9/10 (30%)
  REPLAY VALUE === 7/10 (10%)
  TILT 
 === 7.5/10 (10%)
  
  BOTTOM LINE ==================== 7.86/10
  Lost Odyssey is an enjoyable experience with a deep and possibly emotional storyline and gorgeous 
 FMVs that is cut short of greatness by its slow and sometimes boring battle system coupled with 
 frequent drops in frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shujikun07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Shuji's Corner:
  
  This game's storyline is epic and comes on 4 disks. The story is really good, and there's a lot 
 of it, including a lot of reading in the form of "dreams."
  
  The gameplay is good, what you'd expect from a turn-based rpg, and throws "rings" into the mix 
 which is like a timed contextual action. It gets repetitive and soon you'll learn the timing to 
 pull off perfect ring attacks, but if you care about an extra bit of damage it'll keep your hand 
 on the controller. 
  
  Random encounters are the name of the game as you don't see enemies as you travel over terrain 
 towards your goal, but they see you. Which brings me to poses... The camera will pan around your 
 characters as they pose before every fight. Which is probably my biggest peeve about the game, 
 I'm not sure if they put in poses to hide loads, or if they thought it was cool... but after a 
 while it becomes a hindrance and is something you'd probably want to skip... if only given the 
 option to press start or select to bypass them.
  
  Be ready to put a couple weekends of non-stop play into this game to finish it. There's enjoyment 
 to be had from this game, but the pacing of this game is most definately of the slower breed. If 
 you're used to quick payoffs, this game may not be for you... Then again, you may enjoy the change 
 of pace. This game is like reading a really good book... Really... Because you'll be doing a lot 
 of it to get the most out of the story.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsciiSmoke
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  For Final Fantasy Fans only.
  
  This game is a real drag. I managed 2 hours before I couldn't take any more. For the first 5 or 
 so fights you enter you have to sit through painful Tutorials where you don't get to learn by doing 
 the required action. You have to sit and read instructions whilst watching a slide show of screen-shots, 
 I will never understand why they thought though it appropriate to show screen shots of a game, 
 FROM WITHIN THAT SAME GAME! Not to mention the incredibly dull 'dream sequences' which basically 
 amount to you reading a good chapter's worth of text for the back story every 10 minutes.
  
  Anyway, past that point you'll fight the usual random battles against pointlessly easy enemies 
 until without warning, you'll bump into a proper hardcore enemy, in my case a huge griffon. Who'll 
 practically kill each of your team members with a single swipe.
  
  When staring unbelievingly at a screen asking me if I'd like to load my last save. I realised; 
 this game is designed purely for those with OCD and not for people who really enjoy a decent RPG.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 6
  STORY: 7
  GAME PLAY: 2
  
  AVOID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Sakaguchi and Mistwalker got off to a rocky start with Blue Dragon. The game had boring characters 
 and a weak story that ultimately made it a boring experience and an extremely terrible attempt 
 at a good JRPG by the creator of the legendary Final Fantasy franchise. In comes Lost Odyssey to 
 show that Sakaguchi still has it. 
  
  Not only does Lost Odysse offer a great story, it has great characters to boot which makes this 
 game one of the best JRPGs on the 360 and this gen. The game may do nothing new in terms of gameplay, 
 but its design coupled with an exceptional story and fun characters makes this one of the best 
 old school gaming experiences out there.
  
  The story is off an immortal named Kiam. Who has lost his memory but has lived for 1000 years. 
 He is eventually sent on a mission with Jansen and Seth (another immortal) to go see what is going 
 wrong at Grand Staff. As the story progresses you find more characters, and find out your actual 
 enemy Gongora (not much of a spoiler, he was kind of a given) . As the story progresses you should 
 be able to find these "dream" sequences. In these situations the game will ask you to begin dreaming. 
 In which case the game will continue in a text form. These sequences are very well written, and 
 add to the rich story in Lost Odyssey. THese dreams are powerful and quick to pull on the hearts 
 of who ever is playing. In fact the events of the game, the themes presented, and the dreams make 
 this a very poweful and well thought out story. Some of the best in the rpg genre, especially by 
 current gen standards. 
  
  Visually the game is stunning. The lighting is fantastic, enemies are very well designeed, animations 
 and character models are believable. The game is artistaclly brilliant. Lots of nice details. Audio 
 wise Nobuo delivers again. From the boss melodies, to the final cutscenes the music is in typical 
 final fantasty form fantastic. 
  
  The only major weakspot i would give this game is probably its gameplay. Like i said the game is 
 oldschool. The combat is essentailly turn based with some nice twists. Magic is far more powerful 
 than physical attacks, the depth is limited to just accessories and rings. You can also have your 
 immortals link to mortals to learn new skills. What is nice about the combat is that it is challanging. 
 The game does not allow level grinding because of an exp cap. This keeps every battle fun and never 
 makes the combat seem pointless.
  
  Unlike Blue Dragon, Lost Odyssey has a very good pace from start to finish. The characters are 
 very well thought out. The story is well presented. The music/audio quality is fantastic, and the 
 visuals are stunning. It may not be the deepest RPG, or allow you to control the story like Mass 
 Effect, but the game is exciting. The story is all around fun. This is old school gaming done right 
 by the creator of Final Fantasy. For 360 owners looking for a japanese RPG on the level of the 
 old school Final Fantasy games.. you found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyvian
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a detailed, slick, well packaged old school turn based RPG with an in-depth story, 
 but is it a good game?
  
  For me it was average, considering that this is my favourite genre, and I grew up playing pen and 
 paper RPG's I almost play this game out of boredom, as if it's a poker machine and im pressing 
 a button, because of many parts of the game that's what it feels like, it just is . Boring.
 
  
  But, maybe that's harsh, there are fun aspects of the game, the script and dreams are quite well 
 written for the most part, and the characters are interesting, the combat is old school but ok, 
 and the fights aren't pushovers.
  
  My biggest gripe is in some parts of the game you are looking at the clock and its 8.00pm, you've 
 been playing for 1 hour and have progressed not much because the game is rather slow, and you think 
 ill just play to 8.30pm and watch that show on TV, 8.30 comes and you've just been boringly watching 
 3 back to back cut scenes and then run around trying to find a flaming save point and cant and 
 then bam, your fighting another boss and you have to concentrate.
  
  There are a few mini games in this and they all SUCK, they are honestly ridiculous, and often in 
 these turn based RPG's mini games really make the difference.
  
  Overall, I guess ive come across as not liking this game, which isn't true, but its just pretty 
 ordinary, is it worth buying? Well it's not worth hiring from the video store because it takes 
 ages, and you will get a lot of game play if you do buy it, just don't expect to be blown away 
 by anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the05birdman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply one of if not the best RPG I have ever played. From the start of the opening 
 cinematic I knew that I was going to love this game. The game starts off kind of slow in terms 
 of combat. Because immortals cannot learn new skills unless they link to a mortal, and your first 
 two party members are immortals, combat is kind of boring at first. All you have available to you 
 is the attack command. But after you pick up another party member who can learn new skills, the 
 combat starts to pick up. Also, once you get some components to create rings, it adds a nice little 
 touch of interactivity to the basic "attack" command. 
  Combat is the classic turn based action that you find in a JRPG. You have basic attacks, skills, 
 magic and items to use in combat. There are a variety of skills to use in combat which can deal 
 damage to enemies or protect characters. Magic spells range from standard elemental attacks to 
 healing spells to very devastating attacks. The higher level magic spells look very nice when they 
 are cast.
  Leveling up is a very simple matter of finishing fights. I really liked the way the leveling system 
 was in this game. In most RPG's each time you level up, you have to get even more experience to 
 reach the next level. In this game, it was a standard 100 experience to reach the next level every 
 time. The more you fought, the quicker you leveled up. 
  The difficulty of the game was just right. Some parts proved to be a real challenge that made you 
 think about how you would overcome a certain enemy, and others would give a break with some easier 
 enemies. This was the way it was through the entire game. You were never required to level grind 
 just so you could beat a certain boss (although it does help) . A little note: If you want the game 
 to still give you a challenge at the end, do not level grind too much or the game will be extremely 
 easy. This is the route I took. Well, it was partly level grinding and partly just because I wouldn't 
 run from any fights and I did almost every single side quest.
  The story of the game is very well written and fleshed out in the game and can be very captivating. 
 While the basic story is the usual "guy tries to conquer and rule the world and the heroes have 
 to stop him," but the introduction of immortals helps add a little twist to the story. Parts of 
 the story actually made me feel sad for the characters in the game which has never happened in 
 my 13+ years of gaming.
  I absolutely loved this game, however I did have two minor complaints. First off is something that 
 seems to happen in quite a few RPG's; spells that don't work. Once you get pretty far into the 
 game, you can obtain some very powerful spells as well as useful status spells (if they worked) . 
 You have access to a few spells that have the potential to do massive amounts of damage to an enemy, 
 however every time you cast the spell it misses. You also get access to spells which are supposed 
 to inflict different status ailments which would greatly help you in a fight. But yet again, when 
 you cast the spell, it either misses or the enemy is immune to it. Why put spells in the game if 
 they are pointless to use because you will never land a hit? While this isn't a big problem and 
 certainly doesn't take away from the experience, it is still very annoying. 
  The second thing is the lack of a save anywhere feature. I have played many games that only have 
 certain spots where you can save the game, so I'm used to it. I found myself on more than one occasion 
 not playing the game because of this, however. I would have maybe 10 minutes or so before I had 
 to leave to go somewhere and I'm like, "I'll just play a game on my 360 till I have to leave." 
 But in times like that, I wouldn't load up Lost Odyssey even though I really wanted to play it 
 because I never knew when my next save spot would show up. I didn't want to get into a quest and 
 make some progress into the game only to find out that my next save spot isn't until the end of 
 the area and then see that I had to leave. Then I would be faced with the dilemma, "Do I play and 
 just leave my 360 on for a couple of hours while I'm gone, or do I turn it off and just do it all 
 over again when I come back?" If I wanted to play this game, I had to make sure I had at least 
 a half hour to dedicate to playing so I could be sure I would be able to save my game again. This 
 is not a problem that I have with the game itself, but rather the whole system of dedicated save 
 spots rather than being able to save anywhere. 
  I would say that the overall quality of the game is very high. It has a great, engrossing story 
 and very satisfying combat if you are a fan of turn-based combat. If you like to explore the world 
 and do all the little side quests, you can spend a great amount of time playing this game. I just 
 finished the game today, and my final play time was 100 hours and 35 minutes. If you are a fan 
 of JRPG's then I would tell you to definetly pick up this game, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sakura321
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Remember the good old days when a Japanese RPG would have simple turn-based gameplay, but still 
 have enough depth and skills to use in it so you wouldn't get bored with it? Remember when they 
 had amazing characters that you felt you were close to by the second half of the game? Remember 
 they always had a plot that just kept getting better and better as they game went on? And remember 
 they had amazing places to go explore in between? Well, this is what Lost Odyssey is. My favourite 
 game is Final fantasy VIII. Lost Odyssey is a very, very strong second. So strong that it came 
 close to beating FFVIII...
  
  The game is set in a world similar to that of Final Fantasy X. It's old fashioned, but slightly 
 modern. The game starts in a battle field. A war between two sides where one side absolutley destroying 
 the other. Just when it looks like one side is losing, in comes Kaim (The main character) and absolutley 
 tears into the ememy, showing just why this guy is a badass! Two battles later, a meteor strikes 
 the battle field and wipes it clean. Every soldier is dead all except... Kaim. He hasn't got a 
 scratch on him. On returning to a city, the council suspect that the meteor has something to do 
 with a machine called "Grand Staff" so Kaim is asked to investigate. Not before we run into two 
 other characters who manage to become part of the mission, too. There's plenty of side stories 
 and side quests that add to the story. The main side story here is that Kaim and some other characters 
 in the game are 'Immortals'. Which means something happened to them, they can't die but they completley 
 forgot everything about themselves and their life. Throughout the game Kaim (mainly, anyway) begins 
 remembering and minging in with the main story it also begins to give Kaim a personality.
  
  The characters are very well mixed. There's Kaim who's got virtually no personality at the 
 start, but as he remembers be begins to care, talk more and show more emotion. Seth is, in general, 
 a happy and strong woman and quite bubbly. Jansen is a manwhore and quite the idiot, but his humour 
 constantly makes you laugh. Cooke and Mack are two kids, Cooke is the more bossy one while Mack 
 is the more childish one. Both of them are influenced very easily as you'll see around disc 1 and 
 2. There's more characters later on in the game but, to be honest, the game doesnt manage to keep 
 the later characters interesting as after you get Cooke and Mack the ones you get later are fairly 
 boring.
  
  The story in general is amazing, though. It's hard to explain how good the plot is (or how boring 
 the later characters are) without giving anything away. Figuring everything out for yourself is 
 really one of the best parts of playing a Japanese RPG (and Lost Odyssey especially) .
  
  Of course, a good story is not enough reason to buy a game. The gameplay's gotta do it's part, 
 too. This is typical JRPG stuff, you explore, go to cities/villages, buy new weapons. Eventually 
 getting a ship you can go around the world map. There's all that stuff you can expect out of every 
 JRPG. The battle system is pretty old school only offering you a small minor new feature. The Ring 
 system, you make Rings through items you collect. When you equip a ring, a normal physical attack 
 will set a character running towards an enemy and a small black circle will be around it. You have 
 to hold the right trigger and a bigger circle will get smaller eventually becoming in line with 
 the smaller black circle around the enemy, when you think it's perfect timing you must let go of 
 the right trigger. You can either get 'Bad', 'Good' or 'Perfect'. Obviously, good and perfect will 
 increase your attack power.
  
  Another thing unique to Lost Odyssey is the Skill Link system. Only the Immortals can use it. They 
 can't 'learn' skills and magic like the other characters do, they have to skill link to a skill 
 they want to learn with a mortal character who has it, and be in the same battle as that mortal 
 until the immortal learns it.
  
  Also, on a side-note, this game is much better than Blue Dragon. It's got a far better plot, much 
 better characters and the main thing; When you're exploring in Lost Odyssey. You don't have to 
 search every pipe, rock, sandback, large stone, chair, knut, bolt, screw or peice of golden machinery 
 that's in the game. No, the item will either be shining, in a pot or in a treasure chest. Infact, 
 sometimes in the game it even has you just RUN THROUGH a crate to get an item, not stop and press 
 A. Whoever thought that having us explore every inch of a room (or worse, desert) in Blue Dragon 
 would work well, should be shot.
  
  As I've said before, the game does have a Final Fantasy X kinda look to it. The caves and cities, 
 while beautiful, aren't anything you could stare at for ages without blinking. Every city and village 
 is fairly hit and miss but never bland.
  
  So, to sum it all up: Lost Odyssey is almost the perfect JRPG. It's got amazing characters (mostly) , 
 a plot to beat any other this year, old school gameplay with enough depth and new features to keep 
 you interested and environments that (mostly) are seriously awesome eye candy. If you didn't like 
 Blue Dragon, this is your alternative. And what a damn fine one it is, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gator08
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start out by saying that I'm usually not a big JRPG player, but after buying Eternal 
 Sonata I was eased into the genre. Lost Odyssey starts off you off in the shoes of thousand year 
 old Kaim Argonar, an immortal on a quest to regain his lost memories. Throughout the game you will 
 meet several others that are immortal like Kaim, as well as some memorable mortals. 
  The story brings you to many kingdoms of the world that are all going through a "magic revolution". 
 Over the last couple decades, the energy stored in all living things has increased greatly for 
 some unknown reason, this energy has been coined as magic and it is used to create powerful magic 
 engines that are used in anything from cars to giant obelisks of power. Through the story you learn 
 the origins of the magic and you unlock the secrets of your lost memories, all while you are being 
 influenced by the games antagonist who I will leave unnamed (although it begins apparent soon enough) .
 
  The battle system in Lost Odyssey is just like the one in every other game in the genre but it 
 uses a ring system that lets you hold down RT and try and time it so that rings on the screen overlap 
 each other perfectly as you attack, this allows you to have increased damage or effects, depending 
 on which ring you have equipped in your inventory (there are lots to choose from) . A few other 
 features of the game are the ability to craft your own rings by collecting ring components and 
 the ability to have an immortal learn skills from mortals in your party using the skill link feature. 
 Its nothing revolutionary but it changes it up just enough to keep you interested.
  The presentation in Lost Odyssey is amazing, the graphics and art style are beautiful and the world 
 is really amazing to look at, I was blown away by the opening scene in the game where Kaim takes 
 on a bunch of soldiers and a war machine in the middle of a huge fiery battle. Although the environments 
 look great and the character models are nice, the game suffers from a couple of technical issues. 
 During some of the in game cut scenes for example the game seems to struggle a lot, this also happens 
 when action on the screen gets heavy at times. Also, I have to mention the music because its so 
 addictive I have been humming some tunes all day and I haven't even played it today. The orchestra 
 sounds amazing and the quality is crystal, although, sometimes I get a strange glitch and the music 
 cuts out just before a battle and I just hear the sound effects alone which is kind of boring, 
 but the sound effects aren't bad either.
  In terms of replay value, there isn't too too much to do, you could try and collect all of the 
 chests in the game for an achievement or level up your party. There is a neat side tidbit called 
 a thousand years of dreams which lets you collect dreams by talking to people in the world and 
 being reminded of something. The stories that you unlock are very well written and feature some 
 sound effects and pictures to keep you interested, now that I think about it they may be one of 
 my favorite aspects of this game. 
  The game features a cool minigame where you collect score sheets and recreate music on some cubes 
 (err, you have to see it) which reward you with presents. In the 4th discs (oh, did I mention its 
 on 4 discs yet?) the game really opens up, allowing for a lot of quests to be done, but its also 
 strange because the difficulty seemed to spike up in the middle of the 4th disc and that left me 
 feeling a little uneasy (could just be that I am bad though) and there is an oddly long period 
 of bosses and cutscenes with no savepoints as well.
  Overall, this game is very pretty to look at, has a great story, okay gameplay with a few new features 
 to change it up a bit and is beautiful to listen to but suffers from a few minor technical issues 
 and gets a little repetitive after awhile. This game is good for a play though but It doesn't keep 
 me coming back for more. I would suggest renting it and playing through it if you are hardcore 
 enough to pour in the 40 hours it will take over a week. ;) 
  
  One more thing, I should mention that this game crashed a couple times for me and that my xbox 
 seemed to make some strange noises while playing this game but I have a suspicion that that is 
 a hardware issue and not a softtware one. (froze right at the end of a really hard boss darn it!)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashinho
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is your typical JRPG game. You take control of a character named Kaim and like in every single 
 JRPG he has stupid hair, a never changing serious expression on his face and stupid clothing and 
 a big sword, so your typical JRPG hero, along the way he meets various different characters with 
 stupid hair and clothes such as the like of a pirate. Then like in every typical JRPG you have 
 two annoying little twerps called Mac and Cheese. I know cheese isn't her correct name but IDC 
 cause she's F***ing annoying. Mac is the younger and the more annoying as he frequently gets into 
 trouble and you even have to save him in a boss battle. But he can't seem to make his mind up whether 
 or not he's a coward, cause at one point he could be "I'm Scared Kaim" and about 2 minutes later 
 he'll say "Let me fight grandpa I'm ready", Yes kaims a 1000 year old fossil but only seemed to 
 have offspring when he was about 940 years old. But yeh they are your typical JRPG children that 
 you would rather throttle than love and if you love them you need to go and take a look at your 
 life because you love characters in video games and you need theropy.
  The plot is again your Typical JRPG you take control of a character and perform a series of quests 
 and puzzles, and finding and using a zillion items, seriously it would be easier if you just found 
 "The master Key" for every door rather than having to use trial and error until you carry on the 
 path of logic which only JRPG fanatics and the designers can follow. But you carry on plodding 
 through the game levelling up your team, I got mine up to about level 80 and then my data became 
 corrupted at the last part of the 4 BLOODY DISC GAME, so I can't comment on the ending as I don't 
 know it. But as with every JRPG you will inevitably save the world from an evil bad guy named Gongora. 
 Again not very original, were they got "Original, Fresh and Epic" from I don't know because there's 
 nothing here that I haven't seen or done before. 
  
  The story itself isn't too bad, Kaim is from a Planet that is parallel to Earth and his planet 
 is perfect and pure. Only the corruption on Earth has somehow caused his planet to be interfered 
 with. Kaim and a few others are sent from their home planet to Earth to investigate why. They stay 
 on earth for 1000 years, which is conveniently 1 year on his home planet, and it's nearly time 
 for them to go home. Gongora is one of the party sent to investigate and he is corrupted by power 
 and locks Kaim's, Seth's, Ming's and Kaim's wife I can't remember her name, memories and they can't 
 remember any of them. As you progress through the game you unlock dreams, which are all text with 
 it being a JRPG as they believe everyone who plays them are deaf and incapable of hearing script 
 so we read it instead. This can get annoying but it's okay. But the dreams don't seem to serve 
 any purpose in propelling the plot along as they are just side quests. The main story line iis 
 very slow to pick up and as you play it for the first time expect to take about 45 minutes before 
 you actually do anything proper. But isn't that the case with all JRPGs.
  
  Graphically this game is brilliant, they make a deal about loading times but they are bearable 
 as they are only 5/10 seconds at most. I don't mind loading times as I don't really like to pause 
 my games but these 5/10 seconds gives me time to have a sip of my drink without breaking the games 
 flow to much. The scenery is nice and if you want to go on a sight seeing adventure game then I 
 would say this is the game for you.
  
  But there are many things wrong with the game such as Turn Based battles, why do they persist with 
 these, nobody enjoys them; it takes the control for the player as then gloats at the player as 
 it performs fantastic attack moves, which you have nothing to do with. It makes you feel empty 
 and a sense of am I actually doing anything here or just moving my character from A to B and I'm 
 just sat watching a plot unfold that I have nothing to do with. This is an issue with JRPG's as 
 they seem to put the story and the player on two separate sides of a very large wall to keep you 
 apart. Only you have looking glass so you can view the story without ever actually being involved. 
 Or maybe that's just me.
  
  And the fact there is random battles, these grow old fast as I just thing they are there to draw 
 out the game play time, last time I looked at mine I had played 50 hours. Which is along time, 
 now your thinking how can you play the game for so long yet no like it too much? Well that's not 
 the Case I don't actually mind the game there's just many little things that I like to point out 
 so you know they are there. The actually game itself is quite engaging and has kept me occupied.
 
  
  A new feature they have brought into the game is the ring in battle system. All this is, is if 
 you have a ring equipped you get bonus abilities from it such as extra damage, steal health or 
 MP Etc. But you have to hold the R Trigger when you're watching one of your attacks and you have 
 to get a big circle which closes up into a smaller circle which is around the enemy; the closer 
 inside the circle you get it the more your special abilities take effect. But there are only really 
 3 types you can get: poor, good and perfect. No matter how much the game tries to fool you saying 
 that it calculates it based on how close to perfect you get. This feature is new but it's not really 
 a major part of the game which causes you to shout WOW. 
  
  This game is your average JRPG which can keep you entertained if you have a lot of patience. It's 
 just average at best, as I feel after Final Fantasy 7 and 8, most JRPGs are just copies of these 
 successful games and companies are just trying to milk a dead cow to try and get a fresh pint of 
 awesomeness but seriously leave that formula alone and be original. I would recommend you buy it 
 though if you can find it in you bargain bin for about 15, as it's not that bad of a game just 
 very long. Like this review. 
  
  And if you give me a bad recommendation, stop looking at the game through rose coloured glasses 
 cause if you think this game is original you probably think britney spears is cool. Fanboys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  2008 is shaping up to be the year of the RPG. It's still early on and yet there are numerous titles 
 being released across many platforms, the most interesting of them being the 360. Lost Odyssey 
 isn't the first JRPG to grace the system, but it certainly is the best.
  
  Lost Odyssey follows the story of Kaim, an immortal who has walked the earth for a thousand years. 
 The catch is that he seems to have lost his memories from that period of time. He is a mercenary, 
 and a proficient one at that - he is immortal, after all. The story throws several other characters 
 into the mix ranging from Jansen the bumbling playboy, to Cooke and Mack the young brother and 
 sister duo. All the characters have a unique and very likeable personality that play off each other 
 very well. The plethora of heroes come together to go on an adventure that will see them trying 
 to stop the evil lord Gongora in his attempt to take control of the political world and become 
 a God amongst men. It's not breaking the RPG story mold by any means, but it shines in its delivery 
 of the story and the characters that drive it.
  
  The main game itself does a fantastic job of illustrating the story, and you will see your fair 
 share of both in game and CG scenes, but when you are playing as someone who can't remember anything 
 from his past, it makes it hard to connect with him as a character. This is where one of the game's 
 key features comes into play. A Thousand Years of Dreams is a series of short stories that are 
 unlocked and viewed after finding the places where an event will trigger the memory for Kaim. They 
 tell various stories from Kaim's past and let you in on just what he's been up to for such a long 
 time. The stories themselves are remarkably well written, and will play with your emotions more 
 than you'll expect them too. Some of them are so good you will want to read them for a second (or 
 tenth) time. Doing so is quite easy as whenever you use an inn to rest you may view any of the 
 dreams you have unlocked so far. You can also view them from the games starting menu, if you so 
 wish - and trust me, you will. They aren't just text on a white screen though. The stories come 
 fully equipped with beautiful animated backgrounds and sounds that echo what text is on screen 
 at the time. They truly are very well done. There are quite a few dreams to be found throughout 
 the game and some will be revealed through normal play while others may be a bit more hidden. A 
 good story in a RPG is great, but it won't hold up without great music to go with it. Luckily, 
 Lost Odyssey delivers in the music department as well.
  
  If you are a total role-playing geek, you will more than likely recognize the name Nobuo Uematsu. 
 He has been bringing incredible music to games for a long time now, and so it shouldn't come as 
 a surprise that he has delivered yet again. The theme for the game itself is sweeping and infused 
 with strength and powerful notes that will have your heart skipping beats. The battle theme is 
 great the first hundred times you hear it, but having at least a few other themes for regular battles 
 would have been nice. Bosses have their own theme, but again some variety would have been a good 
 addition. The music is absolutely top notch, but even the best music can become droll after seventy 
 hours of play. It isn't a kind of nagging that you can get from some music, it just becomes more 
 unnoticeable as you play through the game, which is a shame because it is very well written and 
 played. The sound effects during battle and in the general world are all well done and do a good 
 job of making the world seem alive. The voice acting is also very well done on the whole, with 
 only a couple of characters being a bit iffy. Gongora's voice actor has his moments, but in some 
 places he just seems to be trying too hard, and General Kakanas suffers from the same issue.
  
  Graphically, Lost Odyssey is really solid. It's running through the Unreal 3 engine, and it's 
 used decently well. The character models all look great standing still or in action, but they start 
 to crumble a bit when you get in closer, which does happen a lot during cut scenes. The color palette 
 and overall artistic design is very well done and strays from the usual JRPG spiky-haired teenager 
 theme just enough to pass as marginally unique. The battle animations are all well done, but the 
 magical attacks are a bit lacking. Where there aren't any summoning abilities you kind of hope 
 for some really flashy magical attacks but you will more than likely be a bit disappointed. The 
 elemental attacks all look basically the same as you get stronger variations of them, and the fearsome 
 game-ending magic you can acquire all look surprisingly similar, save one, which won't be mentioned 
 for spoilers. 
  
  One of the two issues that stand out the most graphically speaking, is that during cut scenes that 
 use the in game engine the emotion expressed by the voice actors aren't always very well portrayed 
 in the actions and facial expressions of the character. The king of them all being Gongora who's 
 voice actor seems to be way to over-zealous for the corresponding actions of the character on screen. 
 A maniacal laugh looks more like a man who's had a stroke, giggling. The other major hitch, though 
 hideously exaggerated by some, is the load times. It isn't so much the battle load times, or the 
 transition load times for entering new areas, as it is during cut scenes. Nothing pulls you out 
 of an emotional moment like a load screen showing you Jansen's battle rankings.
  
  Some people would like to see the traditional game play elements of JRPGs to die, such as random 
 encounters and turn-based battles. If you are one of those people, you might have a hard time playing 
 this game. Lost Odyssey stays true to its JRPG roots, and is basically a graphically improved traditional 
 JRPG. The battles are all random encounters, aside from a few instance battles thrown in the odd 
 place like many of the genre have. The battles are also turn-based and offer the usual commands 
 of attack, item, magic, defend, and flee. 
  
  To make the battles more strategic and involved, Mistwalker has included the ring system. Basically, 
 there are numerous rings that can be found and crafted if you have the correct parts. These rings 
 all have varying abilities to aid you in battle. The abilities range from increasing damage or 
 critical levels, to status inducing or hp/mp absorbing. There are three levels to almost all the 
 available abilities a ring can have, and so their effects increase. There are also ultra versions 
 of many of the rings in the game, which give the same abilities but increase the attack circle 
 size to make it easier to land a perfect attack - which we'll go over next.
  
  The ring system adds an interesting twist to melee attacks in Lost Odyssey. As your character runs 
 at the enemy, a circle contracts from outside the screen inward to match up with a stationary ring 
 surrounding the enemy. You hold the right trigger to start the process, and you basically want 
 to have the contracting ring land within the stationary circle to produce a "good," or preferably 
 on the outer edge to produce a "perfect" attack. If you land outside the circle, or take too long 
 and the timer runs out for your attack, you will be rewarded with a "bad" attack. You want to get 
 good or perfect as these are the only outcomes that will result in your equipped rings' abilities 
 to work. The better the attack, the more effective or higher the chances your rings' abilities 
 will be against the enemy. It all might sound a bit convoluted, but it's very simple in action 
 and works very well. You also have the ability to switch rings at any time during a battle to adapt 
 to different enemy types if you so wish. 
  
  There are also accessories that you can equip to your characters to boost their attack, defense, 
 etc. There are an incredible number of accessories to be found throughout the game, and they, like 
 the rings, can vary in strength. The other usefulness of the accessories is that your immortals 
 can learn the skills applied to them. This one way that immortals can learn skills for use, as 
 they don't learn them through leveling like the mortals do
  
  Immortals don't learn skills as they increase in level, as mentioned above. Instead, they learn 
 them through one of two ways. They can equip accessories and earn SP through battling until they 
 have enough to master the accessory. The other way they can learn skills is through skill linking. 
 Skill linking is the process of simply linking an immortal to a mortal's skill though the main 
 menu. From there, you learn the skill through gaining SP just as in using accessories. The mortal 
 you are linked to must be in your party in order to learn the skill, so you can't just link to 
 a mortal who is on the sidelines. 
  
  Learning skills for your immortal characters is a vital part to being successful, and you will 
 be doing it quite a bit. It will rarely have you resorting to grinding, which is nice. You won't 
 be grinding for levels either, or at least you won't have to. Each area in the game has a cap at 
 which the enemies will eventually give you barely any experience. This effectively kills the grinding 
 aspect that a lot of JRPGs suffer from and it makes for a smoother gaming experience.
  
  Something that a lot of JRPG fans will miss, especially those who have played the Final Fantasy 
 series of games, are summons and character specific special attacks. You are left with regular 
 attacks and spells, nothing more, which can be a bit boring sometimes but you get used to it fairly 
 quickly. It would have been nice to at least have some special attacks of some kind to add some 
 more excitement to the battles, but the battling is just fine the way it is.
  
  The only real gripe with the game play is that it is actually a fairly easy game. Most of us do 
 not want to have our butt handed to us a million times before we beat a boss, but Lost Odyssey 
 seems to reverse the difficulty curve - it gets easier as you get further. If you just play through 
 the game and skip everything but the main track, you might have a struggle in one or two places. 
 However, if you do an odd side quest here and there, the items you receive combined with the levels 
 you gain make for a very easy game. Even the optional bosses are a breeze. If you thought you were 
 going to dance with the cousins and close relatives of Emerald Weapon, you might be a bit disappointed. 
 With that being said, the recent release of content for the game does throw some seriously challenging 
 things your way, so if you spend some extra cash you might just get a run for your money so to 
 speak. In all though, the lower difficulty level doesn't entirely detract from the enjoyment of 
 the game, and you probably won't notice it unless you go looking for it.
  
  The average player will more than likely be able to beat the game their first time around in about 
 70-80 hours if you do at least one or two side quests. If you are a veteran JRPG player you might 
 be able to blast through in less than that, but you'll miss out on a lot of great story and character 
 development. The newly added content will tack on another few hours of play but will only be for 
 those who are looking for a good battle challenge. There is also the option to start a new game 
 at level 50 for your immortals, but mortals get their regular levels. You also don't keep any items 
 or weapons at all which kind of makes this a bit of an odd addition to the game, but it is there 
 for those who want it nevertheless.
  
  Those who were hoping for a fresh take on the genre will be a bit disappointed, but will still 
 enjoy the game for what it brings to the table. At its heart, Lost Odyssey is a story-telling machine 
 that sacrifices the flashy stuff for the delivery of the story. If you own a Xbox 360 and have 
 that JRPG itch that needs to be scratched, Lost Odyssey is definitely going to do the trick. If 
 you are new to the genre and want to dip your toes in without being in over your head, this is 
 your best bet so far. A rewarding experience from start to finish, Lost Odyssey is a must play 
 for fans of the genre and story lovers alike.
  
  True Score: 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverkhalsa1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many rpg's on the 360, well, not worth mentioning, and even from the original xbox 
 i was wandering when Microsoft would do something, rather then rely on Fable !
  
  Lost odyssey was an absolute shock ! I remember walking into my local video game shop, not knowing 
 much about this game, and have had played everything else, thought id give it a shot ! It's been 
 a long time since a game has sucked me right in from the start, the first fight scene i remember 
 going back to later on, again and again, just amazed ! The story all the way through the game is 
 great, and you'll be waiting to find out what happens next !
  
  For all you true rpg fans, its going seem a bit similar to, id say FF8, as you get a bit more involved 
 with the fights, (trigger system) The game system allows you to tweak your characters to exactly 
 how you want them, but leveling them up can be a bit tricky, as it limits you a lot of the way 
 through the game, but there are ways to get past this ;) All the characters are well designed and 
 will find it hard to choose a favorite ! The only thing in my opinion which stopped me from giving 
 this a 10 was, i loved the summons you could do in the FF range, its just that really big spectacular 
 move which you've been waiting to grasp power of , lol ! There was nothing really like that with 
 this game, but either way it did do real good, even without it !
  
  A few things slow the game, some of the scenes tend to carry on a bit, and intro's to the fights 
 ! At the beginning of the game, it seems really slow, but i guess its a way to ease you in, learn 
 the story a bit, and once you're off, you're off , lol ! 
  
  Im not saying this is the greatest rpg ever made, but i think its by far the best you'll get to 
 date on the 360 ! so much so, this is the first review ive ever wrote, and thought i should just 
 to let you guys know, if you like the final fantasy series, you'll like this, and its been made 
 by half of the squaresoft staff ! This is a gem of a game, and worth giving some of your time up 
 for !
  
  MUSIC : 9
  STORY : 10
  CHARACTERS : 9
  GRAPHICS : 9
  GAME PLAY : 9
  OVERALL : 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Good: This game has so many good things about it. It has one of the best stories ever told in a 
 video game. The main story line follows Kaim, who is an immortal as he tries to stop another immortal 
 from taking over the world. Since Kaim is an immortal, he is 1000 years old. And throughout the 
 game, you unlock different memories throughout Kaim's past. And all of these stories are storytelling 
 at its best. Many of them make you want to cry. (if you go through this game without crying, or 
 wanting to cry, you have no soul) . Along with the Kaim, there are 8 other memorable characters. 
 There are 3 other immortals and 5 mortals. All of them are great and you become attached to them 
 all. Ecspecially Jansen who is hilarious, he can make a serious moment turn into a hilarious one. 
 And I have to give praise to Nobuo Uematsu for creating another game with amazing music. I seriously 
 haven't heard music like this since Final Fantasy VIII. The gameplay is a typical turn based RPG 
 with a few twists, like the immortals can revive themselves after a couple of turns. The main story 
 isn't terribly difficult. The first couple of bosses are hard, but once you get use to the game 
 it becomes more manageable. The game takes about 40 hours. And it is all worth it. The ending was 
 great. I sure hope they make a Lost Odyssey 2. 
  
  Bad: Some of the load times were pretty excessive and at certain times the animation would get 
 choppy. 
  
  But overall you need to get this game. This game is on the level of Final Fantasy. This IS Final 
 Fantasy for the Xbox. Just like Final Fantasy it has amazing music, story, and characters. This 
 game blew me away, and it was just so good. I loved it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkster77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a stellar role playing game from Mistwalker that is unabashedly old-school from 
 it's turn based combat system to it's linear story progression. Fans of golden age Japanese RPGs 
 such as the Final Fantasy series or Chrono Trigger will certainly find a lot to love from this 
 modern take on the genre. 
  Lost Odyssey focuses on the journey of Kaim Argonar, an immortal who has lived the past 1000 years 
 but has recently lost all of his memories. He starts his journey as the stereotypical brooding 
 hero. As his memories return, he grows into a much more memorable character whom the others on 
 the journey come to look to and admire. Kaim's companions include a number of other immortals who 
 also are searching for direction after losing their memories as well. The party is filled out with 
 a few mortals as well, including Jansen who serves as comic relief throughout the story. Jansen's 
 cockiness and one-liners caused more than a few laughs on my end and the rest of the cast is developed 
 nicely. As the immortals find their memories, and the mortals mature, the growth of the cast is 
 evident and extremely well done. Instead of your usual cast of stereotypes, each character is unique 
 and feels all the more real through their insecurities and strengths. The characters really make 
 this game and ultimately how you feel about them will determine whether or not you enjoy the story 
 overall.
  Recovered memories are delivered in text based story sequences that act like chapters from a novel. 
 They are filled with emotion and some are very touching, others very sobering. They are skippable 
 and really don't relate to the main story if they aren't to your liking, but you'll be missing 
 out on some amazingly well written tales of Kaim and other immortals' past that serve as a great 
 addition on top of the rest of the game itself.
  Combat is enjoyable and well paced even in it's turn based form. Your usual selections are present: 
 Attack, Item, Magic, Flee, Guard; and after choosing the actions for each of your characters, a 
 bar appears at the bottom of the screen to indicate the order everyone will perform their actions 
 in. Spells have a strategic element to them based on their casting time. The more powerful the 
 spell, the longer it takes to execute, so you have to decide whether or not that heal will land 
 in time or whether or not there will be more than one enemy left when you unleash an expensive 
 and powerful offensive spell. The basic attack function is spiced up via the ring system. Characters 
 equipped with rings will have a ring appear as they attack. You hold the right trigger down to 
 close the ring on the enemy and must release it at the right moment to do maximum damage. This 
 keeps combat from being a dull button-mash that a lot of turn based combat games fall into. 
  Rings add certain elements or abilities to your attacks as well. Some rings, for example, add fire 
 damage to your attack. Others do more damage against flying-type enemies. The best rings in the 
 game combine a number of these abilities on one ring to give you the best chance to do maximum 
 damage to certain enemies. Rings can be swapped at any time between turns on combat and by the 
 end of the game you'll have well over 100 to choose from. Enemies have two types associated with 
 them, an element type, and a monster type (beast, aerial, spirit, etc...) . Finding the right rings 
 for the right situation is another piece that makes the combat system very enjoyable.
  The final piece to character development and combat is the ability system present in the game. 
 Mortals gain abilities based on their character level and can supplement those with abilities from 
 accessories. Immortals start with few abilities, but learn them over time from equipped accessories 
 and can also learn any ability a mortal as learned by spending time in combat with them. Immortals 
 can only equip so many different abilities at a time though so choosing the right ones for the 
 situation isn't always easy. Accessories can be swapped in combat, but abilities cannot. With this 
 system in place, it encourages the use of all characters in combat over time to learn different 
 abilities from all mortals as well as develop the abilities of your immortals. This is supplemented 
 by the way experience is earned as the game goes on. Characters who are behind catch up extremely 
 fast, and characters who are essentially at the max level for a given area only earn minimal xp 
 until you move on, discouraging meaningless level grinding.
  The sound in this game is amazing. Nobuo Uematsu's score is very well done and varies from beautiful 
 orchestrated themes to jamming guitars based on the situation. Voice acting is superb throughout 
 all characters and the veteran voice actors present pull off each character very well. Sound effects 
 in combat are stellar and bring a lot of life to the spells and environments.
  If you enjoy role playing games, or just great stories and characters, you'll really enjoy Lost 
 Odyssey. All of the elements that make up a classic old-school RPG are present and work very well 
 in this generation of gaming. If you like the Final Fantasy series or Chrono Trigger, give Lost 
 Odyssey a shot and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This has been one of my most anticipated titles of 2008 and I must say that this game deserves 
 better than a 7.5 rating from GS. I don't know why they gave it such a low review for such an amazing 
 game like this. Especially with Hironobu Sakaguchi (creator of the early Final Fantasy games) producing 
 this game, how can this game go wrong?
  
  The story starts as Kaim battling a war then all of a sudden a meteor hits the warzone and there 
 are no survivors except for you. You don't remember anything and you are just going on your journey. 
 You eventually meet up with Gongora, who sends you on a mission with Seth and his pet Jansen. But 
 as the story unfolds, Kaim and Seth regain their memories through dreams and they end up realizing 
 that Gongora is up to all the evil and they must stop Grand Staff. It is a wondrous adventure you 
 will be going through.
  
  As you progress throughout the game, you unlock dreams and when you get to these dreams, they involve 
 a lot of reading about the characters past. It is one of the main attractions of the game because 
 you don't really know Kaim at all at first but instead of knowing him at the jump off, you discover 
 what his life is like through these dreams and this is some of the best storytelling in a video 
 game I've ever seen.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing. The cutscenes look like you will be watching a CGI 
 movie in the theaters. In fact, I've had people over at my house and they thought we were watching 
 a movie the entire time I was playing this game. You definitely can't go wrong adding this to your 
 HDTV gaming collection as this game looks gorgeous.
  
  The sound in this game is overall amazing. The voice work is top notch and the soundtrack is some 
 of the best this new generation of video gaming has had.
  
  Gameplay is similar to those of Final Fantasy, Blue Dragon, Legend of Dragoon, etc... not exactly 
 congruent as you get a circular ring if you time it right, you can make additional damage. The 
 ring system works very well too as you make different combinations and wear them. If you wear something 
 such as a Bio Ring you could do a lot more damage to life creatures and even poison some enemies!
 
  
  Overall, I say this game is a must own for any RPG fan out there desperate for finding one on the 
 Xbox 360 or the next generation in general. Everything I've discussed in this review should tell 
 you how great this game alone is. If not, well, find another game. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munnybag5
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey follows the story of an immortal warrior named Kaim. Throughout the story you will 
 me several other characers, some quite likeable, others less so.
  First off, let me say that Lost Odyssey has GREAT graphics. You can practically count the hairs 
 on each characters head, and skin and terrain are well textured bringing a very lifelike feel to 
 this game. Unfortunately, these excellent graphics are, on occasion, ignored due to the lag in 
 cutscenes. At times it looks like a character just jumped forward several inches. Graphics 8/10
 
  The battle system is neat, though certainly nothing we haven't seen before. It is a simple turn 
 based system based around the Speed stat of each individual character and enemy. The ring system 
 at least keeps you awake. Despite the lack of originality, battles are, for the most part fun, 
 although certain boss battles can be long and tedious. Gameplay 8/10
  Although I only rented this game, I managed to reach the second disk. The story seems fairly interesting 
 although at some points it is hard to tell whats going on and why. However, the true advantage 
 to this particular story isn't the story itself, but the interaction between characters whithin 
 the story. Each character has an individual personality and you find yourself taking pity on Kaim, 
 and mistrusting the fast talking ladies man, Jansen.
  Story 8/10
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is a worthwhile RPG and its advantages certainly outweigh its faults. If 
 your ever in the mood for a good old school RPG, Lost Odyssey is a game worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poopinhammer
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  After beating the game, I look back and reflect on this game. the best way to describe it is to 
 basically take a Final Fantasy game, strip out pretty much all of the hard parts, and you get Lost 
 Odyssey.
  
  Visuals - beautiful but on bar with the rest of games coming out right now
  Sound - Nothing to write home about. Would of liked to have different fight music every once in 
 a while.
  Controls - Just Fine, nothing complain about.
  Story - The end was bitter sweet. Little bit of a let down. It also got way to touchy feely and 
 lost the gritty and funny edge that it had in the beginning. There was a couple of times that i 
 actually burst out laughing on one of the main characters.
  
  
  All and all, I don't regret buying it.
  
  MAJOR PROBLEM: the loading... from ever... section... 
 takes forever... nothing is... loaded... before hand. and that is how the game works. Forever loading. 
 
  
  Gamespot had it right when they were talking about this AND the extremely pointless mini-games. 
 Right around the end of Disc 1, i almost ripped my eyes out cuz i was so bored.
  
  Dream sequences have nothing to do with the game btw (other then achievements) skip them if you 
 don't feel like reading for up to 30 mins sometimes. They are individual stories, nothing relates 
 to any of the other dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcphantom
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  For those of you out there looking for a true RPG look no further than Lost Odyssey. If you're 
 the type of gamer that was in love with the traditional RPG's and then fell in love with the RPG 
 era that evolved around Final Fantasy 7 then this is the game you've spent years waiting for. The 
 graphic detail in this game is stunning but that won't be the part that has you entrenched in the 
 game. The story for this game never ceases to pull you in deeper and deeper with each scene that 
 passes. After the first few dreams you unlock you'll start to feel that ache in your throat every 
 time you see that he has recalled a new memory. Even though this part of the game is just text 
 it's obvious that the writer was reading his script from the very soul of an RPG lover. You will 
 never feel that this game is lacking as before any cut scene can become too long it finds a way 
 to pull you in or involve you directly. 
  
  Now for the casual RPG player that's not really as into this genre of games, you might not find 
 this a 10. This may also go for those that have waited hoping RPGs would evolve into something 
 else. However, for those that have been craving a classic style RPG with all the goodies of the 
 modern consoles this game is easily the "Final Fantasy 7 of the xbox 360. There are load times, 
 but nothing that will have you getting out of your seat while you wait. There are beautiful effects, 
 but none that feel as though "It was nice the first 10 times but now I am sick of it". Every once 
 in a while you will be able to pull yourself from the story and the details of each characters 
 personality to take a look at the game play and graphics. When you do you won't be let down there 
 either as the variable elements added to combat from crafted enhancements are enough to keep you 
 focused on every attack while the relaxed nature of the combat system allows room for bathroom 
 breaks after hours of non-stop gaming.
  
  In closing for any RPG fan that owns an Xbox 360, this one is a must have in your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all, this is a TURN BASED game, some hate it, some love it, I personally think turn 
 based is more fun than real time. The reason this gets a 9.5 is the fact that it takes the classic 
 RPG parts but throws in enough variety so that you never say, "I've played this a million times 
 before". The "Ring" system allows you to customize rings that will affect you and your enemies, 
 fighting a big dinosaur boss? throw on a ring that gives a damage bonus to his species, fighting 
 a giant paralyzing electric worm? equip an anti-paralyze ring before he attacks. This makes the 
 game much more interesting.
  
  Now I am gonna break from the Gameplay to talk about the story and characters. For me, the Final 
 Fantasy games lost its character development after number 7 (this is made by former FF people btw) , 
 however, with Lost Odyssey, this is not the case. The characters are shrouded in mystery and although 
 the story is bad, the STORY-TELLING is phenomenal, and amazingly enough, the english voice acting 
 is FANTASTIC, something I dont think I have ever said about a Japanese to English game, or even 
 Anime for that matter. One character: "Jansen" provides all the comic relief for the story and 
 always has something funny to say, which really adds to the enjoyment of the game, its not laughing 
 falling out of your chair funny, but enough for a chuckle, and hell thats rare in most games, but 
 not this one.
  
  Also this game is LOOOONG, in case you were unaware, this is four disks long, don't expect to be 
 done this anytime soon, and even after you have beaten it, there are several other things to experience 
 (no spoilers) .
  
  Now unfortunately, limit breaks and summons do not exist here, but the ability for your immortals 
 (some characters are immortals with lost memories, some are human, immortals may die but will revive 
 in a few turns, sounds easy right? WRONG, it is a wonderfully challenging game) to learn different 
 skills FROM your humans, as humans learn skills by leveling, immortals learn from humans by fighting 
 with them. Skill slots are used to use these various things, so proper customization is vital for 
 your survival.
  
  Grpahics are also impressive and actual cut scenes look amazing.
  
  I could go on and on in depth about this game, but most people don't like to read very long reviews, 
 so needless to say, if you like RPG's pick this up, even if you don't like turn based RPG's, this 
 is still EASILY worth a rent.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a pretty great game. Definitely not the best, but still fun. You are a legendary 
 warrior named Kaim, who has lost his memory after a bloody war. After you waker up, you get thrown 
 into a storyline so deep and saddening, you might even want to cry. Kaim soon realizes as the game 
 goes along, that maybe his memories shouldn't be remembered, as whenever he recovers one they are 
 only of pain and death. Imagine that, have to perform missions and quests for the main council, 
 while slowly retrieving your depressing memories along the way. Anyways, the story of Lost Odyssey 
 is so amazing and rich with detail, that's the main reason why it deserves such a hi rating.
  Now, gameplay and battle system. The battle system is like an original japanese turn based RPG, 
 except they have added a few elements more, like great spells to blow your enemies to bits, and 
 the use of "bands" in which you can, if you land it at the right time, inflict lots more damage 
 to your opponents. But, after all the combat goodness, comes the factor: can it get boring/ repetitive? 
 The answer unfortunately, is yes. The gameplay you'll soon realize in your adventures thru lost 
 odyssey will get repetitive, and a bit boring. It's pretty much, taking turns, whacking enemies, 
 done, taking turns, whack enemies, done, and repeat that order. 
  Aside from the fact this game has INSANE graphics, and the great story, there are some flaws that 
 need to be fixed. For example, soon into the game, as you go to investigate "the grand staff", 
 you come across this boss called Bogimoray, who is waaay too tough for your current level. It's 
 ridiculous, actually, how the put such a tough boss for you to face right in the beginning, as 
 he can totally own you in a matter of minutes with his paralysis. Also, there were a few times 
 where I got quite bored playing Lost Odyssey.
  Either than that, Lost Odyssey does deliver, and, hey, you might not be like me and enjoy turn- 
 based gameplay, it's just not my type of thing. So, try it out, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  *** LOST ODYSSEY ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Excellent story
  -Excellent characters and plot development
  -Excellent visuals (cut scene and in-game)
  -Good 
 music and sound effects
  -Good variety of spells and skills
  -The dream sequences greatly add to the story
  -Cool leveling system
  -Great battle system
 
  -Excellent voice acting
  -Fun side quests and other extras
  -Challenging boss fights
  
  THE BAD
  -Long loading times (especially before battles) 
  
  OVERVIEW
  Lost Odyssey 
 is an epic role playing game. The beginning of the game throws you right into the action as you 
 play as the main character, Kaim. Kaim is the tough silent type but later you find that he is a 
 loving father. Kaim is a mercenary for hire and the kingdom of Uhra has recruited him to fight 
 against the kingdom of Gohtza. Now the battle looks like a stalemate until you see Kaim effortlessly 
 dispatch the Gohtza soldiers. Then, from out of no where, a huge fireball descends on the entire 
 battle field killing everyone instantly except for Kaim. Kaim is the only person that lived because 
 he is an Immortal (meaning he can't be killed) . After this scene, Kaim returns back to Uhra and 
 the main game begins. Kaim teams up with other Immortals along the way like Seth (a pirate) , Ming 
 (queen of the kingdom of Numara) , and Sarah (Kaim's wife) . All the Immortals have one thing in 
 common, they have lost their memories. As you progress through the story each of the Immortals 
 start to regain their memories and you find out that each one of them has lived 1000 years. You 
 also find out that the fifth Immortal, Gongora, is a shady leader in the kingdom of Uhra. He pushes 
 the other leaders of Uhra to continue work on the Grand Staff project which is a magic harvesting 
 place. Here Uhra can gather magic energy to power cities but also use it as a weapon against the 
 other kingdoms. It is sort of like a "magical revolution". Either way there is some shady stuff 
 that goes on around Gongora and his thirst for power. Maybe he is the cause for the other Immortals' 
 memory loss? 
  
  There are three large kingdoms in Lost Odyssey: Uhra, Numara and Gohtza. Each one has a different 
 culture of people. Once you get outside of the larger cities you'll find that the entire world 
 in this game is huge. There are only five Immortals on this planet and three of them fight for 
 the good of the people with Kaim but there are some other heroic mortals that join him. You'll 
 meet Mack and Cooke (Kaim's grandson and granddaughter) , Sed (Pirate and Seth's son) , Tolten (king 
 of Uhra) , and Jansen (the black mage and comic relief for the game) . Now I just have to say one 
 thing about Jansen. You know how some games have a comic relief character that tries way to hard 
 to be funny? Well in Lost Odyssey, Jansen is a lovable guy that is actually very funny. You'll 
 find yourself literally laughing out-loud when he jokes around which is a very nice touch to the 
 game. With this great cast of four Immortals and five mortals, you'll learn a lot about each character 
 and feel like you are a part of the story. The character development and story are exceptional 
 in Lost Odyssey. Not only will you get to explore a huge and exciting world but uncover the mysteries 
 of why Immortals exist, what magic energy is and what Gongora's evil plans are for the world.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Lost Odyssey is a turn based RPG and the leveling system is really well done. Unlike most RPGs, 
 there is a "leveling cap" for each area. This means that your characters can only earn a certain 
 amount of experience in a specific area. This makes the game pretty challenging because most of 
 the time your party isn't over-powering. This sets up for some difficult boss fights right from 
 the start. You gain experience from battles and when each character levels up they receive more 
 HP and MP. This is just like your standard RPG. As far as learning skills and spells, Lost Odyssey 
 has a great way for you to utilize all your characters. Now your Immortals can permanently learn 
 skills and spells from accessories but they can also learn specific ones from mortals. For instance 
 Cooke, the white mage, will learn some white magic that your Immortals can only gain from her. 
 This makes every character useful. Your mortals can only use the spells and skills they learn unless 
 you equip them with a different accessory. Your Immortals have the ability to permanently learn 
 skills and spells which can be equipped and unequipped at any time. You'll gather the item call 
 "Slot Seed" along the way which will give one Immortal another skill slot. So, half of your party 
 is completely customizable and the other is class locked which proves to be a neat combination.
 
  
  The battle system is like any other turn-based RPG with some unique features. In Lost Odyssey, 
 you have a max of five characters that can participate in battle at one time. Before you randomly 
 encounter a battle you can setup your party of five and change whether they are in the front or 
 back rows. As a side note, the long loading times for the game and especially the battles slow 
 the pace of the game down which can make it frustrating at times. Typically you would want your 
 stronger characters with more HP in the front row and your weaker characters, like your spell casters, 
 in the back. The reason for this is because your entire party has a GC which is equal to the total 
 number of HP of your front row. The higher the GC, the more physical and magical defense the back 
 row gets. As your front row characters take damage, the GC will drop. Healing your characters won't 
 increase the GC but there are certain skills that will boost the GC. This is a cool and unique 
 feature to Lost Odyssey along with the ring assembly. The ring assembly feature lets you create 
 rings for your characters to use in battle. When you select any character, wearing a ring, to physically 
 attack an enemy a timer will show up and a large ring around the foe. By pressing and holding down 
 the RT button the large ring will shrink until you reach a smaller ring. If timed correctly you 
 get a perfect rating. There is a good and bad rating too. What this does is increase the effect 
 of your weapon in battle. For instance, if you have a ring that gives you a plus to damage and 
 critical hit, then when you get a perfect rating you'll see an increase in damage and critical 
 hit percentage. You can find items all over the world to create some really powerful rings. So, 
 the battle system in Lost Odyssey is easy to pick up but will provide a good strategic challenge.
 
  
  Along with a great main story Lost Odyssey also offers plenty of extra things to do. One of the 
 main side quests is to find places that "unlock a dream inside Kaim's heart". These dream sequences 
 are all text but each one tells a great story about Kaim's life throughout the past 1000 years. 
 Kaim meets lots of unique people and helps better them with his long life experience. Another great 
 extra is that you get a chance to control multiple sea and air vehicles on the open field. You 
 also get to fight some tough optional bosses, explore difficult places (like the Temple of Enlightenment) , 
 and search for some ultimate weapons and accessories. There is a treasure hunt mini-game and character 
 specific sides quests to complete. This gives a nice break to the main story and will prove to 
 be well worth your time. Another neat extra mini-game is the Backyard. In the Backyard, you get 
 to square off against some tough monsters with hindrances like having your whole party being poisoned 
 or making you use only mortals. This can prove to be challenging even to the experienced RPG gamer. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  Lost Odyssey is a beautiful game. The cut scenes and in-game graphics are crystal clear and very 
 impressive. I have found myself stopping in some places just to take in the view. Overall the visuals 
 are excellent.
  
  SOUND
  Well, when you have a world famous video game composer, Nobuo Uematsu, writing your music your 
 bound to have an exceptional score. This isn't one of Nobuo's best works but is great none the 
 less. The sound effects are really good and the voice acting really enhances the game ten fold.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Lost Odyssey is an epic RPG for the Xbox 360. With its epic story, great cast, and fun gameplay 
 I would recommend this game to anyone. There is a lot of fun to be had in this game for the experienced 
 and non-experienced RPG gamer. So, get ready for one awesome adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulpescry
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Lets say it flat out. Does it beat Final Fantasy X? No. Is it close? Definately.
  I was really hesitant at first because I heard a lot of issue about the fps.
  I finally grew 
 the nerve to buy it and all I have to say is wow. I thoroughly enjoy it. I'm only on disk three 
 but it really has a captivating story and plot.
  
  Pros: Great story, very nice distribution of personalities with characters. Decent graphics, plenty 
 of emotions felt.
  
  Cons: I will admit there are very minor fps issues... but it's nothing to what the critic reviews 
 describe. The exaggeration is probably because they're obese and have a tolerance level lower than 
 a 1st grader. There are a few moments that can get a little frustrating and chop up the pace a 
 little... and when I say little I mean like...15 minutes.... tops....
  
  
  
  All in all this is a game I'm sure you will enjoy. Especially to any FF fan. The load issues are 
 merciful... I still haven't encountered one above 10 seconds tops. So there you have it. The user 
 reviews are much more accurate than the critic review.
  
  
  -Update-
  
  
  Before I had spent close to 17 hours on the game.
  Now I'm on the last disc and confined for 
 2 weeks on a place called the Temple of Enlightenment. Let me tell you now that this place COMPLETELY 
 destroys most of the game. The shear strength of the opponents is unbelievable and completely ruins 
 the pace of the game. Then, when finally fighting the boss I actually killed him and just had to 
 defeat his "pawns" if you will. Well, with only one left to go I thought I had finally defeated 
 the wretched level... but NO. The "pawn" uses a move called "Sacrifice Self". Which brings the boss 
 back to life with full health, and the second "pawn" with full health. I spent over 3 hours total 
 just fighting this boss alone.
  
  With regret, (and anger) I dismiss my rating of 9.0 on the game, and will lower it to an abysmal 
 4 due to this level and a few other problems throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whisker-Dude
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  When this game was first announced I for one couldn't wait. Being a huge fan of RPG's in general 
 this was definitely on my radar. 
  
  As soon as this game starts you can tell that it is setting itself up for something epic. You play 
 as the immortal Kaim Argonar as he starts off as a mercenary for the Uhra army in a battle. Eventually 
 though you find youself surrounded by the uaual abundance of RPG characters who accompany you on 
 your quest. First impressions are usually not lasting, but in this game's case they seem to stay 
 with you. The battle system is where I'd like to hit first (considering that is usually a main 
 aspect of any game like this one) . First thing you notice is that this is a turn based RPG. Following 
 the same suit as most other J-RPG's you take turns selecting your attacks and then based on your 
 character's stats they will act accordingly. You swap this a few times and then the battle is over. 
 However this game adds a little twist into the mix. You can equip characters with rings which can 
 have various effects on the battle depending on which ones you pick. Anyway, when a person with 
 a ring attacks normally a system of rings comes up. If you match the rings perfectly then you get 
 the specified bonus with your attack. These can range from more damage to inflicting sleep depending 
 on which ring you have equiped. There is also the wall system in which characters in the take less 
 damage than characters in the front. however as your front characters take damage the wall gauge 
 goes down leaving your back characters open to more damage. other than that these battles go pretty 
 much the same way as any other turn-based RPG. Battles are of course initiated by random encounters 
 and they do get somewhat annoying, but most of these battles turn out interesting. One problem 
 I did have with the battles in this game is the fact that some of them are pretty challenging. 
 If you don't plan ahead 3 turns in advance then you are handed an easy game over. Even some of 
 the random encounters can give you problems. And some of the bosses in this game (while not entirely 
 plentiful) can be a real pain if you have not matched your stats accordingly. However challenging 
 these boss fights are though, they can be pretty epic. Each battle can give you something you didn't 
 expect which means you had better be prepared for anything. One last thing I forgot to mention... in 
 battle if an immortal is killed he will revive on his own after about 3 turns. So think about that 
 next time you want to waste an Angel Plume.
  
  Storywise this game really excells. I don't think I have seen a character as deep as Kaim and is 
 story is one not to laugh at. At the beginning of the game you know almost nothing about him, but 
 as it unfolds his story come clear in the telling of his memories called dreams. Most of the time 
 they will just come to you, but you can also trigger them by talking to certain people. These dreams 
 are all told in a way which you can't help, but love. It is all text, but each one is emotionally 
 gripping and will definitely hit you in the gut on occasion. Apparently leading the life of an 
 immortal is not fun at all. Without giving too much away, let's just say that death is a common 
 theme throughout this game. Anyway, as Kaim starts on his quest he meets up with Jansen, a mage 
 whose attitude probably matches those of Edgar (FFVI) or any other pervy main character in an RPG, 
 and Seth, an immortal who spent most of her time as a pirate. As you progress through the story 
 you are constantly met by heartfelt moments and insane plot twists that usually can be seen coming, 
 but are presented in a different way. And don't worry about party members as there is plenty of 
 them to chose from to form your party. With 9 people to choose from ranging from mages to gunners 
 you can pretty much have your party in any fashion you need. While the story follows the suit of 
 most RPG's though, the story is told in a way and presented on such a scale that most people will 
 have a hard time not playing this game.
  
  The sound in this game is almost awkwardly familiar. Probably because Nobuo Uematsu did the music 
 in this game which probably explains the resemblance to Final Fantasy. The Voice acting fits on 
 most of the characters, though listening to Tolten and the two kids can get on your nerves on occasion. 
 This is nothing to complain about though because the overall quality of sound is pretty well done.
 
  
  Overall this is a game that fans of J-RPG's should not look over and it is apparent that this is 
 one that will keep you coming for more. With a story line that should take between 30 and 40 hours 
 you also have a few sidequests to take on. While loading times are sort of long, they never present 
 a real problem. Anyone who knows what Sakaguchi is capable of doing will respect this title as 
 a great addition to his RPG legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIC
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey set up was excellent. The pace and combat of the first two disks was superb. I was 
 hooked on the story and was fighting to find more time to play. 
  
  Then the third disk happened and the story came to a screeching halt - I can't say what was wrong 
 with it without spoilers but suffice it to say that it completely destroyed the pacing for me. 
 I was forced to readjust my style of play based on how the game wanted me to play and not my choices. 
 No more dreaming...
  
  The fourth disk gave me an unbalanced party and a complete lack of direction for the game. A bunch 
 of side quests popped up everywhere that were completely unrelated to the main story. And by the 
 way, where did the game story went? Nobody knows... Sections of the world map where closed for 
 no good reason, the third act of the story was nowhere to be found.
  
  Sadly this is where it ends, lots of level grinding and party re-balancing. Weak end of story... 
 
  
  Got a 7 based on the strength of the setup.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Now that we have the scoring out of the way, lets get into the good part: The review.
  
  GRAPHICS
 
  
  Graphically, Lost odyssey is fantastic. I mean seriously. The character models are fantastic, the 
 environments look fantastic and the enemies looks fantastic. Well, most of the time. Lost odyssey 
 uses the Unreal 3 engine, or the Gears Of War engine for the people who don't no the difference. 
 That means photo realistic graphics, but it is clear at times that Mistwalker didn't really get 
 to grips with it because although it looks great most of the time (like Jansens robe detail is 
 amazing for example) there are slow downs, and some areas just don't look as great as others. Overall 
 though the game is rather stunning. And for those who are put off by the slow downs, there barely 
 noticeable, and dont get in the way of the gameplay.
  
  SOUND
  
  The musical sound track is great. Done by the famed musical composer who did the final fantasy 
 sound track (cant remember his name) . The music ALWAYS fits in with whats going on and its been 
 composed in nearly every genre of music you can think of. Voice acting is good and varied. They 
 have managed to get the balance between Serious and Laid back perfect. For every serious character 
 theres another laid back character, and some characters even change from serious to laid back depending 
 on whats going on in the story (Seth is a prime example of this) . 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Lost Odyssey is a Turn Based RPG with a twist. You have a front row and a back row of characters 
 which either increases defense and decreases attack or vice versa depending on where they are. 
 This has been done before, but its still a breathe of fresh air if you've been playing Final Fantasy 
 for a while. Another innovation is the Ring System. You find/craft rings and use them in battles. 
 Every enemy has a weakness and if you use the right ring, you can exploit that weakness and do 
 increased damage. Thats the basics. You can also change rings at will during a battle and not all 
 rings are damage increasing. Others inflict ailments such as poison or reduce the GDC (back row 
 defense basically) and more. Its a in depth system that keeps you on your feet because when using 
 rings in battle you have to time your strikes by holding down RT whilst they charge head first 
 towards the enemy and release at the right time to get damage bonuses etc. Later in the game you 
 can even combine rings to get Lvl 2 fire damage +sleep for example. Which increases damages on 
 Wind monsters and puts them to sleep. 
  
  Another interesting part of combat is the Immortal System. If an Immortal dies in combat, they 
 come back to life with 1/4 or so of there HP in 3 turns time. However Mortals have to be manually 
 revived with items or magic. Also, in general Immortals have better stats than there mortal counter 
 parts. However, Immortals do not learn skills from leveling up, they must skill link with a mortal 
 to gain them. So you can link Kaim with Jansen to learn black magic for example. This allows you 
 to fully customize your party to the way YOU want it to be. Its a bit like Blue dragon in that 
 respect, but refined to perfection. 
  
  The story in pretty generic, with a few twists and turns that keep you guessing, however, i there 
 are dream moments where your characters (mainly kaim) remembers something from his 1000 year past 
 and is a text thing that tells you what happens having great music and weird text effects to keep 
 you immersed and interested. Now these parts are great and really make you feel for the characters, 
 i almost shed a tear during one of Kaims memories which is weird because i never do that for anything. 
 The story is about 40+ hours so you get allot of game for a small price.
  
  Achievement wise, Lost Odyssey will keep you going for a while. Most of the achievements cant be 
 unlocked till disk 4, and others are almost impossible, such as obtaining all 200+ skills and teaching 
 them to all your immortals or finding and killing the bonus monsters such as the Blue Dragon (inside 
 joke) . Fun to do, and rather rewarding when you get them because they are really challenging.
 
  
  Overall Lost Odyssey is a great RPG that i recommend to anyone who is a fan of this sort of thing. 
 It has a few problems, but it more than makes up for them with its great gameplay, and story. 
 
  
  7.5/10 (highest score iv give EVER..... so far) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a surprisingly refreshing breath of air in the gaming world. Sakaguchi's latest 
 game is a pleasant surprise and proof that he and his studio can make truly captivating games. 
 Lost Odyssey is a very mature game, and not mature in the sense that everything is dull and gray 
 with loads of breasts and gore abound (thought the female characters still show plenty of cleavage, 
 some things just don't change) . Lost Odyssey is a mature game based on its themes and how well 
 it handles itself. It doesn't really settle for, "aw, cute" moments, but instead pulls at the heartstrings. 
 Above all else though, Lost Odyssey brings something more to the table, something that most games 
 hint at but never deliver on. Lost Odyssey is an existential masterpiece. It's highly refreshing 
 to play an RPG and realize that the story doesn't just boil down to spiky-haired kid with huge 
 sword defeats oddly effeminate main villain with kind of girly sword that's still big and then 
 kisses big-breasted girl before the credits roll.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a highly traditional game in all rights, even down to its angsty hero. But Kaim 
 isn't some moody teenager; he's had one thousand years to live and more than enough hurtful memories 
 to make him act in this way. But the character development really shines in the game. Kaim doesn't 
 just stay angry for the whole game and change before the very end. His change is gradual, and once 
 he finds happiness, Kaim becomes a character you can care for. Team him up with an ensemble cast 
 of eight other characters, including the lovable Jansen who steals the show in Lost Odyssey and 
 will go down as one of the greatest characters in gaming. He brings a human wit to counteract the 
 immortals' lack of fear of just about anything. But the characters all shine, though some more 
 than others. Seth Balmore, the other of the first three characters you'll start the game with is 
 more of a free spirit, being a former pirate and all, and definitely helps balance out the two 
 others. Watching her and Jansen go at it from the start and then seeing their relationship evolve 
 as friends is an excellent one.
  
  The gameplay is turn-based, and from the moment you start with Kaim, you might find the game to 
 be kind of boring. Lost Odyssey's battle system just doesn't work with one character. Admittedly, 
 this is only for the first few moments of the game, but it works best with three as a minimum and 
 five being the maximum allowed. It's an extremely strategical way to play. If you start just doing 
 random attacks and not having your characters attack in proper ways that suit them, for instance, 
 Jansen is very much a black mage character so using him for magic attacks is highly recommended, 
 then you'll find yourself dieing fairly often. But if you embrace all of the characters for what 
 they can and can't do, you'll reach victory again and again. This isn't like Eternal Sonata where 
 you have five seconds to attack the enemy in it's fast-paced and exciting battles. Lost Odyssey 
 is a different beast, you have an infinite amount of time to decide what you want to do. It's all 
 about planning and strategy and the game is much slower-paced than Eternal Sonata in that regard. 
 If anything, it takes a few hours for the game to even start, you'll just be exploring the first 
 town and encountering the other two characters before even setting out.
  
  Lost Odyssey may be traditional in every sense, but it still tries to spice up the gameplay. The 
 first addition is the ring system. You can find minerals and parts while exploring, and use them 
 to make rings. Though these rings are rarely as good as the insanely powered up ones you'll discover 
 on your journey. They add a bit of depth to the game's battle system by making it more interactive. 
 Instead of merely selecting an option and watching it pan out, you will actually have to select 
 the attack option and then hold on to the right trigger to see your ring match up with another 
 one around the enemy. Based on how you perform the ring can either multiply your damage, add elemental 
 damage, steal items from enemies, heal you, or cause other status effects. It all really depends 
 on what the abilities of the rings are. And with enemies having different weaknesses, you'll find 
 yourself trying to use the right ring for the right situation. It isn't terribly innovative, but 
 the ring system is a welcome addition to Lost Odyssey.
  
  The other unique addition of Lost Odyssey is skill linking. In most RPGs, your character will level 
 up and learn new skills. In Lost Odyssey, that rule only applies to the mortals. The immortals 
 on the other hand don't learn new skills throughout the course of the game. They don't have their 
 own unique abilities. What you'll have to do is skill link with a mortal. Then, the immortal and 
 the mortal who are skill linked must be out on the battlefield. Over time, the immortal will permanently 
 gain the skill. Immortals can also learn new skills from accessories. For instance, should you 
 put an accessory on a mortal they will have that ability only while the accessory is equipped, 
 the immortals will learn it and then can use it at any point in time. Skill linking adds more depth 
 into the character development. You can shape your immortals to learn any skills you want them 
 to, or have them learn everything if you so choose to.
  
  Lost Odyssey's story is a fairly standard one, though a brilliant tale at the same time. The main 
 story is that the world is in a political and magical revolution. Go find the bad guy and beat 
 him silly. But it shines because of its adult themes. This is a story that isn't about changing 
 the world, but rather, loving the world and embracing the people around you. The story is about 
 self-discovery, and each of the game's nine main characters will discover themselves in a new light 
 by the very end of the game, though the change is so gradual and well done that you may not even 
 remember what they were like at the beginning of the game.
  
  Then come the existential themes. These are present in the main plot, of course, though it won't 
 be as easy for most people to truly see them in the main plot as it will be in the Thousand Years 
 of Dreams. The stories focus on one character at a time, making for some of the most heartfelt 
 moments in the game. They are emotionally charged and each one adds that much more depth and understanding 
 about why the immortals act the way they do. The stories in Lost Odyssey are truly amazing and 
 have the same effect as BioShock's audio recording and Halo 3's terminals. They aren't necessary 
 to read, but they help immerse you into the world of the game and help you appreciate the game 
 that much more.
  
  Lost Odyssey is accompanied by some stunning locales. Portside towns, quaint little villages, spooky 
 forests and dark caves are all on the menu as well as some grand, huge cities that will take quite 
 a bit of exploring to properly find everything. However, Lost Odyssey manages to disappoint on 
 the technical aspect of the visuals. The game was made with the Unreal Engine 3, but it just doesn't 
 show. Beautiful artistry covers up the decent graphics. They aren't bad, but when compared to Gears 
 of War and BioShock, two of the heaviest hitters of the Unreal Engine 3, Lost Odyssey pales.
  
  But it isn't just the graphics that disappoint; the game has constant loading times. Going 
 from area to the next? Loading time. Going inside a house while exploring a town? Loading time. 
 Watching a cinematic try and connect with another cinematic? Yup, loading time. The game also masks 
 some loading times throughout, for instance, if you go into battle expect a long little view of 
 everything around you until you're allowed to fight. The loading in Lost Odyssey is just too frequent.
 
  
  The sound in Lost Odyssey on the other hand is definitely above the visuals. For one, the voice 
 acting is superb. The characters nail their performances well. With sharp, well-written, witty 
 dialogue at the helm, it's a pleasure to hear Lost Odyssey's characters speak to one another. The 
 sound effects are good too. They don't break any new ground, but they work. Swords sound like swords 
 when they clang, monsters roar a bit and so on. It's the music however that steals the show in 
 the sound department. Uematsu has put together an amazing soundtrack for Lost Odyssey. It's very 
 befitting for a game as epic as this one.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a fairly long game as well. I personally finished it at about the sixty-two hour 
 mark. Though I did many sidequests. There's so much to see in Lost Odyssey, especially since some 
 locations are secrets and aren't necessary to advance the plot. Most gamers will be looking at 
 anywhere from forty to sixty or so hours to finish Lost Odyssey.
  
  Sakaguchi's latest game is one of the finest RPG experiences on the console market. This isn't 
 an innovative game, but what Lost Odyssey is, is simple: A true-blue, PS1 era RPG with modern trimmings. 
 It's an existential masterpiece to top it all off, with the themes of a man living in a morally 
 uncertain world and doing what's right simply because it is.
  
  Few games are of as high a quality as Lost Odyssey. If this is Sakaguchi's answer to Final Fantasy 
 then he has a bit of work to do, but it is a step in the right direction. If you love RPGs, you'll 
 enjoy Lost Odyssey a traditional and yet, refreshing gem in the Xbox 360's vast library of games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I bought my xbox 360, i've wondered when someone would make an RPG as immersive as the 
 greats like Final Fantasy and Legend of Dragoon. Finally such a game is here, with all the things 
 you love from the classic RPGs and of course, with advancing technology, they have added some new 
 and exciting things. I'm not gonna get into too much detail about this game, because I believe 
 that everyone should try it out for themselves, even if you don't like RPGs you will be absolutely 
 appaled by the incredibly touching storyline. What I will say though, is that if you like to be 
 amazed and enlightened, I would even go as far as to say electrified, then this game is an absolute 
 must buy, trust me. So for the sake of your own enlightenment, go buy this game, it could possibly 
 even change your life in a most extraordinary way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Lets start with the graphics: breath taking visual effects as well as not-so-bad 
 voice acting. The cutscenes are great also. Next, the story line. The story is an emotional tale 
 that keeps you wanting to play. Gamespot says that the story is just another RPG story, but I strongly 
 disagree. Your an immortal man who seems to have lost his memory. He travels across the land in 
 search of his memories as well as the evil man who did this to him. During his travels, Kaim (the 
 main character) meets up with other immortals like himself. They too have lost their memories. 
 As you play and interact with NPCs, you will unlock dreams that tell you more and more about Kaim. 
 One thing that I find to be better than the Final Fantasy series is the combat system. Instead 
 of the usual three party members, you can now use five on the battle field. There are some unique, 
 new types of magics and some new skills too. The formation of your squad is a crucial part of the 
 battle system. you place the magics in the back so as to get them away from real danger. Overall, 
 this game is not your ordinary RPG. My advice is to give this game a try, and once you do you will 
 certainly like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey was created by some of the people behind the Final Fantasy series, and you can tell 
 right away. In fact this is how FF 12 should have been like in stead of the average game that was 
 given to use.
  
  There are many things to like about Lost Odyssey. First the unique premise. A Immortal whose lived 
 a thousand years, but wakes up with no memory, and as the journey continues you slowly remember. 
 The second thing was the difficulty of the game. I haven't played a really hard RPG in years, I 
 enjoyed it even when it frustrated me because I kept dying, it make you enjoy the game even more 
 when you beat the game. Third the dream sequences were good also, and emotional. Finally the music 
 was great, I really enjoyed it.
  
  Now on to the reasons why I only gave it a 8. Some of the reasons are the same as why I liked the 
 game. First the story was good, but takes way to long to get going. Second the dream seqences went 
 on forever, and got tiring. Finally the load times in the game were to long and annoying. This 
 is supposed to be a 360 game right. The load time shouldn't take to long. 
  
  Overall Lost Odyssey is a very good game, though not great. This game isn't for everyone, just 
 RPG fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dai_t75
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played a number of RPG's over the years and this doesn't disappoint. I know its from the 
 creator of final fantasy and everyone makes comparisons to the ff series and its hard not to. So 
 ill jump on the bandwagon and say that if you like the final fantasy series (especially vii) then 
 i think you will not be disappointed with this game!
  
  The story is not ground breaking but it doesn't bore you to death either so you do get compelled 
 to continue on with the game to see where the story goes. The characters however are very good 
 and of course they are what make the story what it is. The voice acting is done to a very good 
 standard and on a few occasions you will probably be laughing out loud at the dialogue - which 
 is rare in video games and a nice change.
  
  The battle system is very old school turn based action, which for me was a good thing, with the 
 ring system a welcome addition; even when you are just attacking you feel as though you are having 
 a direct impact on the battle. Although there are many many skills there are only a few which you 
 are every likely to use but trying to learn them all gives you something to aim for and a reason 
 to use all the characters in battle.
  
  Graphics are done to a good standard and i did not experience any frame rate issues through out 
 the game. The music, as you would expect from a final fantasy esc game, is also very well done 
 and always suits the environments well.
  
  The only criticism i have of the game is the relative ease of the later stages if the game. Initially 
 you may struggle, as i did, with the first few bosses; so defeating them is rewarding. However 
 from this point on if you do not flee from any random encounters its pretty hard to die in battle 
 until you come to the additional/side quest parts of the game.
  
  Overall a very good game which i would highly recommend any RPG fans to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raider4lfe
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is cleary the best of its time. We all know that the xbox 360 is having alot of hard 
 times getting japans approval but damn this game is great. This game has it all; the story line, 
 the characters, an awesome hero, the battle system, I mean damn this game freak'en rocks. These 
 charcters will easily suck you in likewise the story. Great game MUST BUY to any RPG gamer.
  
  dadadsdasd d a dassd s das ds ad asd s ds d sd s d sd s dsd sd s ds ds ad s das d asd as da 
 sd as dasd a sd ad as d sad as das d asa sd sa das da dad sa das d as das d as dsa dasd as d asdas 
 d as das d asd as d as d asd as a d as d asd as d asdasdadasd ad as d a da das da d asd as d asda 
 d a d sa d as d as d das IGNORE ALL OF THIS fasfasfasfsaf df d fd fs h h hyt h th t ht h th t h 
 h ht h t h th t h t h th t h t IGNORE IT ALL fdfafasdfs af asf asfs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a fantastic game, and it is one of the best 360 RPGs. In my opinion, it contends 
 with Oblivion, but the two games are of a different genre of RPG. From the makers of the Final 
 Fantasy series comes a game that might as well be in there. The game starts out in a mixture of 
 CGI/in-game cinemas showing a massive battle between the countries of Uhra and Gohtza. The tides 
 of battle constantly shift, the soldiers of Uhra getting decimated, then siege engines enter. A 
 massive group of soldiers from Uhra die, and you are finally introduced to the protagonist, Kaim. 
 He's standing alone, taking out Gohtza single handedly. Then a meteor falls, and kills everyone. 
 Small spoiler, but doesn't affect the story. Kaim lives, and we soon learn that he is immortal, 
 wandering the earth for all eternity, which is a gift and curse, yada, yada, yada. He looks like 
 an American Eagle pretty boy, and the first companion, the female Seth Balmore looks tougher than 
 Kaim. The only thing redeeming this game from the worst character ever is that Kaim has the deep 
 voice of a BAMF. Enough about complaints though. Lost Odyssey's story quickly evolves, exposing 
 a possible overthrow of Uhra's government, and a journey of a lifetime for Kaim (which has already 
 happened hundreds of times.) Along the way you meet Kaim's family, more immortals, and new friends 
 as you struggle to expose evil in a massive war, all the while restoring Seth and Kaim's memories. 
 All in all, I highly recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vintonvonbayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  
  In my opinion, this is the best RPG we've seen on the 360. 
  With two of the people who have worked on some of the most beloved RPGs in the Final Fantasy series, 
 I knew the game would at least be worth checking out. Turns out I was right.
  
  Initially the four discs will make your jaw drop. Four discs for a 360 game? That seems like a 
 lot of information. Well don't be deceived. It only takes about 10 hours per disc, and thats if 
 your leisurely playing through it. I believe that the reason they had to use four discs was on 
 account of the many language selections you have to choose from. Now, while thats not really a 
 complaint (about a game with four discs being smaller than you would think) , its probably my biggest, 
 if not my only. Forty hours, however is not a small game, especially hen thats just playing straight 
 through the story-line, more dedicated players will be able to pull more out of the game by searching 
 for secrets and doing side quests, and even more dedicated players will find the game is worth 
 playing through more than once.
  
  The game is very reminiscent of the Final Fantasy series, more so Final Fantasy VII-X. With turn 
 based combat, beautiful visuals, plenty to explore I'd say its on the same level as them as well. 
 If your a Final Fantasy fan with a 360, I urge you to get this game, you will enjoy it.
  
  The cutscenes in the game are jaw-droppingly gorgeous, a common element in RPGs, however they also 
 have something most RPG's lack, great dialog and story telling. If this game were a movie I'm sure 
 it would get great ratings, theres not many games you can say that about. The story will keep you 
 intrigued, the kids will tug at your hearts, and Jansen will keep you laughing for hours.
  
  The Gameplay is easy enough to learn, being pretty close to the turn based action most are 
 used to, but theres enough to keep players from getting bored in battle. The menus are easy to 
 navigate, and the time-based attacks aren't to hard to pick up on. One thing I enjoyed about this 
 game is, it takes strategy, not just click attack until you need to heal and then use a potion. 
 You will constantly be trying to figure out what hurts who, where to hit the enemy first, and who 
 should be in your party in the new area you entered.
  
  
  On a personal note, Kaim, the main character of the game is Finally what I have been looking for 
 in a main character, a hero. He is strong, confident and masculine, but he still has a caring heart. 
 This a refreshing change from the main characters in most RPGs being self questioning, weak, feminine 
 men, going through an emotional crisis. But thats a just a my opinion.
  
  Overall, the game is great, if you like RPGs and you own a 360, you must play through this game 
 at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming for me. The chance to play a traditional JRPG on an Xbox system that 
 I felt I would really enjoy. I passed on Blue Dragon because I wasn't impressed with the demo. 
 I heard nothing but mediocre stories about Enchanted Arms. I enjoyed Eternal Sonata, but it was 
 lacking in the area of weapon combinations and class structuring your characters. Then along comes 
 Lost Odyssey to set the record straight on what a traditional JRPG is supposed to do, and it does 
 this beautifully.
  
  Gone is your typical androgynous main character in your standard JPRG. In place of this role we 
 have Kaim Argonar, a thousand year old immortal who has lost his memory. The amnesia part does 
 get a lot of play in regards to the stories in JRPG's but the way that its done in Lost Odyssey 
 really lends wait to Kaim's back story. You see, as you play the game, Kaim will start to experience 
 memory recalls (referred to as dreams in the game) and remember how painful the past was. So Kaim 
 is content to not remember the past as each time he does it reveals something more painful that 
 he doesn't want to remember. This of course leads to our main character being sullen and introverted 
 at first, but eventually welcoming his memories and trying to save the world as more is revealed 
 to him over time.
  
  Most of the party is an interesting cast of characters, and throughout the game I found myself 
 emotionally attached to their plights. With the exception of Mack and Cooke. For some reason including 
 these two adolescent party members was a step back away from the story line that Lost Odyssey was 
 going for. I understand why they were put in, but wish it wasn't done since I felt it kind of took 
 away from the more dark and brooding storyline. The rest of the characters are your standard bit 
 players and actually have pretty interesting stories themselves, but the real Gem is Jansen Friedh. 
 This rogue of a character has some of the funniest slapstick dialog in any game I have played in 
 a long time. In fact, I would have loved to see more his story since he struck me as someone that 
 uses humor to mask his pain. I do wish we had a chance to get to know more of the story behind 
 some of the later characters, Sed and Tolten. Well Tolten is kind of revealed throughout the game 
 as you play, its Sed you don't get to know until the end of the 3rd disk.
  
  The graphics were actually quite pretty and really added wait to the steam punk visual style they 
 were obviously going for in the game. There were some issues with interactions during the free 
 roaming sections since you had to line up and face the section you were attempting to interact 
 with. This was usually not a problem, but sometimes I had to get my character in just the right 
 location to interact with the object I wanted.
  
  The voice acting was superb with some really wonderful performances by all involved (even Cooke 
 and Mack.) And to be honest, if the voice acting had been awful it would have easily taken away 
 from the whole experience in the game since so much is riding on our emotional response to the 
 characters, which relayed through the voices.
  
  Now if you breeze through the game, you can probably finish in 30 hours (I'm sure there are some 
 of you out there that are right now proving me wrong and finishing it in 10 hours or so) . But for 
 myself, it took close to 90+ and I still didn't get the treasure achievement. At this time I have 
 put Lost Odyssey aside until some downloadable content becomes available. I do hope that those 
 that enjoy a good traditional JRPG give this a try as the game is definitely well worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey Review ------------- 8.9
  
  Introduction:
  
  If you're reading this review it probably means that you want to sort out your mixed thoughts on 
 this game. Well, first you shouldn't bother with the technical issues of this game that official 
 reviews have been griping about because the version of the game that they get are different and 
 the official releases run much better than what they got. Now with that intro out of the way, this 
 is the official review.
  
  Story ------- 9.7
  
  Long ago in the world magic began to flow from the earth and fill the world. The people living 
 made use of the abundant magic filling the earth and so it began the Magic-Industrial Revolution. 
 This revolution spurred much technology everywhere and with it came many inventions. However, because 
 of power the nations in the world began to engage in wars and battles to seize the magical powers 
 and gain territory. 
  The story starts out with an immortal named Kaim Argonar who is in the middle of war which ends 
 up being interrupted by a giant meteor in the sky. The meteor falls and everyone else dies with 
 only Kaim left to survive. Kaim is eventually found by Urah Republic which is one of the many nations 
 in the game. The council of Urah speaks to Kaim of how he lived through such a devastating scene 
 but he recalls nothing of his past or memories. Since the council recently had problems with a 
 structure called the Grand Staff, Kaim is set on a journey to see what the problem is resolve it 
 only to find out that the staff is a tiny problem compared to what he has to face.
  The story overall is amazing. Not only does it have a captivating story and amazing characters 
 but the moments where it tugs your heart makes you feel like crying. Lost Odyssey did wonders working 
 on the story I have to give it a 9.7
  
  Sound -------9.5
  
  If anything was wrong with the music in the game then it wouldn't be a very great composition from 
 Nobou Uematsu but it is an amazing mix. The composed music in this game is amazing and is well-written 
 and played. Every piece of work that Uematsu created fits perfectly in the scenes that it comes 
 up in. The music is so amazing that you might find yourself humming some of the tunes. 
  The voice actors I must say are top notch since they do a well job with emotion and volume. Not 
 only do they do they do a good job acting perfectly but the voices that Mistwalker offers are perfect 
 fits for the characters. It's a puzzle piece that matches to an album. Whether it be the deep, 
 depressing, and manly voice of Kaim or the idiotic and sarcastic retard from Jansen you definitely 
 won't be disappointed with the actors in the game.
  
  Gameplay ------ 7.5
  
  The gameplay is a complete derivative from the original RPG style game. If you're not a patient 
 gamer, you might have a hard time handling the battle style of the game. The gameplay is a true 
 JRPG as you have a character that moves around the map and roam the world freely. However, the 
 problem does not lie in the roaming as you can see the lush and beautiful sceneries of Lost Odyssey, 
 but more or less lies in the battle system. The battle system is based as turn-based combat that 
 has one button for attack, items, magic, and abilities. These get really boring and repetitive 
 since the battle style has been around for more than a decade. To sort of mix the battle system 
 up Mistwalker added a battle ring system. By equipping rings to a character, the players can hold 
 the R button and release the trigger when a circle encloses on the enemy during a battle. This 
 is quite amazing at first but also gets repetitive. However, a very helpful and useful system that 
 is implemented during a battle is the GC guard system. A battle formation is set when the player 
 enters the battle. The people standing in the front create a GC wall which is basically an invisible 
 wall that protects the people standing behind the ones in the front. This system can create menial 
 strategies in the game that can get quite deep later on.
  
  In the game you have two types of characters, immortals and mortals. Mortals are characters that 
 have the ability to learn skills; however, immortals cannot learn any skills by leveling. In order 
 for immortals to learn skills they must link up with a mortal to learn a skill. The system is quite 
 engaging and makes you want to decide whether you want to use more immortals or mortals in the 
 game. 
  
  The goods in the gameplay are that it is fun to play epic boss battles with such a basic system 
 but backfires in normal grunt fights. The extra features that boosts your characters like skill 
 linking and rings are amazing additions that make you want to customize your characters to the 
 max. 
  
  Value --------- 8.7
  
  The value for this game is exceptionally high due to its length. Currently priced at 60 dollars, 
 the game comes with 4 discs of gameplay that can last you more than 40 hours even if you try to 
 rush the game. There are tons of sidequests that you can accept to make the game even more worth 
 it. Length, however, is not the only reason why it's worth the game but it's worth it because of 
 an amazing story and sounds. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  The game is the best JRPG out on the Xbox 360 with an amazing story, great graphics, well composed 
 music, and much more. It is an exciting next-gen game that every RPG fan should get. The bads in 
 the game such as derivative play and frequent load times are outweighed by the story, features, 
 and etc. If there is a game you should buy for an amazing experience, Lost Odyssey is one of your 
 best bets. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The Rpg Genre as a whole has been based on concepts over 20yrs old, we've seen countless attempts 
 of wannabes and clones try to mimic Final Fantasy's Grandeur and Elegance, epic story and battle 
 system, and everything in between. But what makes Lost Odyssey different than these other titles? 
 Its not that lost odyssey reinvents the genre, it is as if the game breaths new life into something 
 that was struggling to live on, that genre was the turn -based concept that is unreasonbly labeld 
 "outdated", but its not. Im glad games like Lost Odyssey are still being made because every now 
 and then you will want to relive the good old days, days were running in circles was addicting, 
 and following a story that was basicly linear but was always heart felt and epic, Lost Odyssey 
 doesn't fight the battle between innovation and convention, its a tribute to recollect all those 
 fond memories that we treasure so deeply, it sides with convention entirely but it doesn't hurt 
 to remind you why you loved these rpgs. Blue Dragon was the first attempt in next gen to try this 
 approach, giving gamers a dragon quest feel with a semi-pixar/Serious tale. It was the approach 
 for those that wanted to catch up on rpgs and give newcomers a chance to try it out, but lost odyssey 
 is aimed mostly for those that have been there for the years, the ones that grind it out to level.99 
 and always seek out the games secrets, Lost Odyssey is a "thank you" letter, not a leap into next 
 gen although it harneshes some newer tech.
  
  To begin, I want to banish all the negative talk about this game, and I just want to say that im 
 being 100% honest with this review, the game has its major flaws but if you look past it all Lost 
 Odyssey is a grand experience with a story that every rpg fanatic should see and listen to. But 
 be warned, if you dont like this kind of rpg or you dislike unleashing your softer side, stay far 
 far away.
  
  The game starts out with a pretty epic battle and lush cinematics, but overall the beginning isn't 
 really grade A material, for one thing, it isn't that good, not good at all. Everything you'd hate 
 to see in a rpg is displayed in the game's opening events, and its decently long at that, and is 
 an good example of how not to start a rpg, medicore battles, horrible exposition for the story, 
 and bad voice-acting, also it starts things off took quickly without anytype of epic introduction 
 or something that absorbs you into the game (such as FFX's piano tune, with the characters standing 
 on the hill and so one with fantastic pacing, or kingdom hearts unforgettable beginings) so just 
 work with the game, be patient and you'll be okay, once you get past this horrific part, the game 
 rewards you with a experience that is top notch, filled with many good moments which will melt 
 your heart away and some challenging boss battles. Lost Odyssey's main strengths is these two things, 
 the story (which i will explain later) and its battles with a finely tuned system. It works like 
 any other turn-based rpg and it should all look too familiar, you run around to encounter random 
 battles and have your basic commands of attack, magic etc. But Lost Odyssey does it well, its fast 
 paced and challenging emphasizing some stragetic elements. (water beats fire and son.) It also incorporates 
 a ring type concept mostly seen in Shadow hearts which adds a spin on just generic attacks, the 
 closer you bring the two rings together the better the effect of the attack, and magic comes in 
 varieties using all sorts of bizarre casting, you also get many skills as you level up but the 
 game has its own spin of character development too, mortals learn there skills regularly as they 
 level up, but immortals have to use a feature called skill link to learn the mortals skills, this 
 leads to "personalize" your party to your tastes, although it isnt class based like Blue Dragon 
 the game has something like it, certain mortals can only bear certain perks and spells such as 
 white magic, the great thing about immortals is that they can inherit as many traits as they want. 
 Skills can also be learned from items by attainin SP, and are augmented within them, you can swap 
 the skill for another as you have a limited amount of slots.
  
  As for the game's story, IMO its one the most underappreciated but yet so tastely sweet tales this 
 year, The main attraction is on the interactions between the game's characters rather than its 
 decent plot. These interactions occur quite frequently (much like FFX) but to a much lesser degree, 
 but it still holds up to make the story memorable, The game's main protaginist Kaim, is one of 
 the coolest heroes in recent memory, he is a far-cry from your usualunderdog that has to save 
 the world" but in the end his role has the same impact as other rpg heroes, (though he gets pretty 
 fancy pants towards the end) The games main focus is the tale of immortals, in this world, immortals 
 are claimed as icons to mortals but they seek much more than fame, Immortals do not remember their 
 past, as cool as it is to live for thousands of years, they encounter pain that is far more great 
 than someone with a single life, soon the people you meet become older than you and soon perish, 
 its more emotional with the children that kaim mets, knowing that these precious things would die 
 even before him, one time kaim mets this girl named hanna, (in a his thousand years of dreams, which 
 is a recollection of his fondest memories, they are passages that you read, kind like a short story.) 
 hanna is struck with a terrible sickness which makes her incapable of leaving her hospital bed, 
 banning her from exploring the outside world, kaim as he is a wanderer meets this girl and promises 
 to tell all the things he encounter on his long journey, and he does, years pass and the small 
 little girl blossoms into a teen, one day after kaim returns from a quest hanna is on the brink 
 of death because of the sickness, kaim tells the girl that she is going to a better place, a world 
 where every one you met will see you soon, all the adventurers that told you stories, your parents, 
 your friends, but the girl smiles and asks "will i see you there" kaim really cant cuz he is immortal, 
 and he makes his final lie, he told her that he would see her soon, and he'll come back but in 
 reality he knows he never will. These memories are well written and shows the pain of living a 
 thousand years, although they would have been mind-blowing threw cutscenes, they are emotionly 
 impactful. The main problem in the story is how are the immortals are connected to each other and 
 how did they lose their memories, they are all linked to Gomgora (another immortal, that is the 
 games main villian) and a 3 way conflict between rival kingdoms which isnt really appealing, the 
 quest to find out Gongora's ambitons is also interesting, and the events to stop him are too. Its 
 a long Journey, spanning 4 discs, filled with Adventure and Excitement, but with a few dry moments. 
 There are times where the game tries too hard to be emotional and some cheesy lines, the characters 
 which are very developed, have some balancing issues, some character (such as Kaim and Jansen) 
 are very much likable, while others such as sarah are completely corny. The game has tons of side 
 quest and unlike Blue Dragon you'll see the game over screen more often as the game has a unprecedented 
 difficulty, i mean its hard, real hard. The game just doesnt make you level up, you also have to 
 obtain certain skills and ablities before trying to defeat bosses, which has its ups and downs, 
 for instance i was lv.70 at the final boss but i still was getting owned cuz i didnt have this 
 one immunity. You get an airship but you dont get to fly until later in the game, the sad thing 
 about this world is that it doesnt have a free-roaming map like blue dragon and final fantasy, 
 hell it doesnt even have the interconnecting areas like FFX, here you just pick where you want 
 to go. The game also many sidequest and other hidden goodies that will keep you playing rather 
 than just toppling the main story.
  
  As for the technical aspect of Lost Odyssey it performs slightly well there too, the games graphics 
 are extremely gorgeous at times, in its cutscenes and in game, but some areas are a little bland. 
 Sadly the game falters in so many other technical areas such as lfrequently long load times which 
 take about 10-20 seconds and a choppy framerate, the game also has some robotic animations too 
 making the characters look rather stiff, it also suffers from bad voice-acting/lip synching mostly 
 at the games introduction and horrible pacing. Thank God for Nobuo Uematsu for the fantastic musical 
 score though, it brings you into the game a little blit more and voice acting is decent though 
 across the board.
  
  Thats pretty much sums it up, Lost Odyssey is a true testament to turn-based rpgs, it simply reminds 
 you of why you loved the genre but its sad to see the game have to put up with many major flaws, 
 its not raising the bar, but it keeps it stable enough that the experience isnt ruined, although 
 the games ending isn't really all that satisfying and the battles system doesn't have limit breaks, 
 with some bland moments in the story, Lost Odyssey suceeds and is one great rpg, all fans of the 
 ff series and so on should give it a go, its too bad that the genre is having a down ward trend 
 since its inception.
  
  Final score-8.75
  
  *subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-8.75
  
  Sound-9.0
  
  Control-7.5
  
  Gameplay-8.5
  
  Story-9.0
  
  Fun 
 Factor-8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, that's pretty much the feeling any fans of the classic RPG's will get when they play this 
 game. However, that isn't to say that it's a BAD game, and you might even get some nostalgia from 
 it during the process.
  
  The basic story of the game begins with Kaim, one of the four Immortals that will be a part of 
 your team (there are more than the four immortals, however.) As the game opens, it basically shows 
 a war between two armies, with all kinds of magically-powered gadgets basically mutilating each 
 other's forces. It'll then focus on Kaim, who basically demolishes half the army before your first 
 boss fight, which is still impossible to lose (half to teach the mechanics, half to introduce the 
 concept of Kaim's immortality.) However, his immortality is not widely known, so be prepared to 
 hear some surprised noises when people find out he survived.
  
  The majority of the beginning of the game will revolve around Kaim and his past, as well as the 
 dream sequences (told solely through text, ambient music and background images) , before eventually 
 winding into the real story. I won't go into any detail here, though with the game spanning four 
 discs, be prepared for it to last a while.
  
  The gameplay of Lost Odyssey is what will bring about the most rememberance from fans for other 
 turn-based RPG's. It plays a lot like most other RPG's, in that you'll be able to use both magic 
 and physical attacks, change equipment, and be able to swap your party members around at will. 
 All this is to be expected of an RPG, these days. However, the game has a few special factors to 
 spice it up a bit.
  
  The first is the concept of immortality. As I said, you get four immortals in your party, along 
 with around 4-5 mortal characters. "But how do you get a game over if they're immortal?" Your immortal 
 characters can still be knocked out, but they will only be unconcious. It's usually unwise to use 
 reviving items on them, as they will revive three turns after being knocked out. Mortals will stay 
 down until you use such a reviving item or leave the battle, where they will return with a very 
 small amount of HP. If all mortals are killed, and immortals unconcious, you get a game over.
 
  
  Also, the skill system works a little differently. With the mortals, you get your usual archetypes 
 of fighters, black mages, white mages etc. Immortals are a different story. While their stats and 
 initial skills usually bind them to the usual mage or fighter archetypes, they learn no skills 
 naturally. Instead, they can be linked to the mortal characters to learn a certain skill as you 
 earn points in battle (Say you link Kaim with your healer, Cooke, to learn White Magic 2. After 
 enough points are gained, Kaim can equip the skill to use said white magics up to level 2. However, 
 he will not be as good at using them, while the mage immortals will be able to use them possible 
 better than Cooke.) As the mortals learn skills as they level, it's best to rotate your party often 
 to get the skills you want. The immortals have limited skill slots, but they can be swapped around, 
 and Slot Seeds exist to give more slots. Immortals can also learn skills from certain accessories, 
 with the skill learnt depending on the accessory.
  
  The Aim Ring is another addition. While mage characters get very little from it, your physical 
 fighters will. When you have a ring equipped, the Aim Ring will appear. Hold the right trigger 
 until it lines up with the smaller circle in the middle of the screen to get the best effect that 
 the equipped ring adds. If you miss or don't hti it directly, the effect will be less or non-existant. 
 You can craft rings from item drop from enemies, or you can sometimes find them too. Changing rings 
 in battle may be needed to have the best advantage against the enemy.
  
  Mages can no longer last in this game, either. They can be taken down VERY easily. As such, a Wall 
 system comes into effect. The HP of all your frontline fighters is added together to create the 
 total health of the Wall that protects your backline fighters. If an enemy attacks a backline, 
 they will get significantly reduced damage depending on the level of the Wall. If all frontlines 
 are severely weakened or defeated, the wall will be much weaker, or non existant, meaning the mages 
 will surely die soon after. As such, it's best to keep a healer at all times, as the game can get 
 quite difficult, and may require grinding to beat some bosses. Battles can also get repetitive 
 at times, partly due to the lack of enemies. It's usually just a handful per area, less than Final 
 Fantasy usually has.
  
  Graphics in this game are pretty good for an X360 game. I, for one, am really impressed by them, 
 but if you've played the PS3 or another X360 game with high quality graphics, you might find them 
 a little lackluster. Note that I play it in low def, so I don't see them as well as I could. Just 
 take that into account. However, the little details that stand out in the scenery really make it 
 pretty to look at. The camera can sometimes look like it was done by an amateur cameraman during 
 FMV's or when you use the right analog stick to move the camera slightly, but it adds a unique 
 feel to the game that you don't really get elsewhere. The menus can be sorta grating though, very 
 reminiscent of the earlier RPG's. Just a blunt silver menu, so it's sorta boring to look at, but 
 that's a minor detail. The character outfits can seem sorta outlandish, too. Just look at a screenshot 
 and you'll see what I mean.
  
  Sound can be another rather annoying aspect of the game. Some of the voices are nicely done, but 
 other times, they can come off as sorta either over-the-top, under-the-top, or just plain bored 
 in maybe one or two cases. I don't mind most of the voices, but if you take Cooke, for example, 
 they probably gave her the most annoying voice ever. Rugrats fans might like it (She has the same 
 voice actor as Phil and Lil) , but otherwise, it's just annoying. I won't give any more examples, 
 that should sum that up. The game's music can be good, too. Most of it fits well, and is easy to 
 listen to, which is a plus. The one big problem: The battle theme. it is probably the MOST annoying 
 song I have ever heard in my life. And with the amount of times you're gonna hear it, it might 
 get on your nerves. You might like it, but if not, bring an iPod along. You're gonna need it.
 
  
  Overall, this is a great game for the Xbox 360, which severely lacks RPG's. However, a few niggling 
 problems (namely the repetitive battles and the sometimes horrid sound (SOMETIMES) ) , can bring 
 it down. If you're a real fan of RPG's, I definetely recommend it, as you'll get some enjoyment 
 from it. Otherwise, I still would recommend it, but it's definetely not the best out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greendrg654
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well Lost Odyssey is a truely amazing game overall with a few flaws. The first is the loading time 
 in between travel and battles. Sometimes I feel like I'm sitting there for days waiting for the 
 battle to load which causes me to lose my sense of smoothness in the game. Secondly is the fact 
 that I feel like I have played this game somewhere else. Maybe it's the ring battle system (Legend 
 of Dragoon) or the Travel System (Final Fantasy 10) . However with these few flaws the game makes 
 up for in the story, visuals and addictiveness of the game. The story is truely amazing, this was 
 the first game in a long time in which i truly felt the same emotions the main character (Kaim) 
 probably felt in the cinematics. The visuals are what also keep this game together, the ability 
 to see the emotions on the faces so clearly help with the emotions of the game. The last thing 
 that helps this game is it's addictiveness, i personally got stuck at a certain part but the game 
 kept making me come back and try over and over again till i beat that certain part and now i can't 
 stop. So in closing this game is definitely a game that should be on RPG fans' lists to watch for 
 its price to go down, because it's not fully worth the $60 price tag. Me personally, i'm going 
 to wait till its at least $50-$40 because it's good but not for the basic 360 game starting price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aka_hal
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  I have been playing RPGs for a long time. They have changed again and again. Some times those changes 
 improve things some times they make things worse. Lost Odyssey changes the formula a bit without 
 taking away from what you expect to get in this style of RPG.
  
  The plot is mostly about several immortals who have lost their memories for various reasons. They 
 are trying to regain their memories and ultimately struggle against another immortal who is trying 
 to take over the world (surprised?) . Immortals battling each other seems to lean more towards how 
 much emotional and mental pain can you cause each other. You have to pity your characters and what 
 they go through.
  
  The battles are VERY similar in feel to most Final Fantasy games. It feels probably the most similar 
 to 10 -- it even gives you the nice bar at the bottom to show the order of characters attacking. 
 It's not revolutionary, but if it's not broken why fix it? The ring system in the battle is nice, 
 it give yours fingers something to do as you watch the attacks. It makes the game more enjoyable 
 without changing things up so much that you can't recognize the battles as a turn based RPG.
  
  The characters in this game have depth. They have their strengths and their flaws. All of them 
 have their own motivations. Those motivations even change somewhat as the story progresses. The 
 dream sequences take some getting used, but if you're in the mood to be touched by well planned 
 out short stories they will be good for you. They enlighten you into Kaim's past and show how difficult 
 it would be to be immortal.
  
  Visually it's beautiful to look at. I absolutely love it. The in game graphics are beautiful enough 
 that the developer rarely felt the need to use true cut scenes. When there are cut scenes the quality 
 between them and in game graphics are VERY close. You see a bit of every type of environment in 
 this game. It even rains on you in certain locations.
  
  The music is pretty enough, but disappointing. I find it amusing that so much of it sounds exactly 
 like final fantasy (as it should given who wrote the music) , but it's not the full orchestra accompaniment 
 that really makes games shine today. Aren't we a little beyond computer generated sound now??? 
 I know it's kind of nostalgic, but it's time to move on.
  
  The voice acting is varied. Some are very well done (Gongora) and others are a bit obnoxious (Jansen) .
 
  
  I really am enjoying this game. I'm on disk 3 of 4 so I can't say anything about the ending yet. 
 If you're on the fence about trying this game because of the lower critic scores. I recommend you 
 get it. I was hesitant because of the ratings and I have not regretted it. I find that I keep thinking 
 to myself, "I feel like I'm playing a Final Fantasy game on my Xbox 360. I think I like this concept." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of JRPG or you're looking for a very good JRPG then Lost Odyssey is for you. From 
 the creator Hirnobu Sakagunchi of the company Mistwalker brings a beautiful game with excellent 
 art, deep emotional story, and lovable characters. This is one of the few successful game to hit 
 the 360 and it was very worth the wait. 
  The character your star in is Kaim Argonar who is an immortal who lived through 1000 years of battle, 
 depressions, and lost of loves one. After surviving a devastating battle where a meteor crashes 
 killing everyone your memory vanished and you forgot everything in your pass. As the story progresses 
 Kaim's past slowly reveals itself through the 4 disc long campaign. 
  If you're familiar to JRPG then this is just a refreshing game to play with a fresh coat of paint. 
 The gameplay is turn based and there is nothing you'll see that would shock sense all of it has 
 been done before. It is pretty simple if you've never play a JRPG before, choose the enemy on the 
 screen, click the veriety of attacks you could perform, and watch your character attack the enemy. 
 Despite what I said there the game still holds a lot of depth and strategies that you'll really 
 need to beat certain types of enemies and bosses. The wall system is a system in which the front 
 line enemies on screen have less defense if attacked on but deal much more damage. For the people 
 in the back row they would be higher defense but weaker damage. The more you attack the front row 
 of enemies the more you'll do the next time you attack them. This add a sense of depth to the game 
 because you need to choose wisely who to attack. Another cool thing is the aim ring system. If 
 you release the right trigger at the right time when a rings is in the center of the circle the 
 attack would do more damage. If you release it at the wrong time you'll do less damage. You can 
 have a maximum of 5 people in battle and a overall 9 characters in the party. 
  The graphics in this game is great and the cinematic cutscenes are really well done. There is a 
 couple framerate problems like if you you enter a new area the game will freeze for a couple seconds. 
 Anyways the visual is crisp and the art style of the world is fantastic and really resembles the 
 world of Final Fantasy.
  The audio in this game is superb. The voice actors did a really good job making the characters 
 believable and full of life. Some of the dialog can even make you laugh because there is plenty 
 of humor in the game. The soundtrack is really great and it hits the emotional parts at the right 
 time. 
  The story like I said a thousand times is amazing. There is really some touching moments in this 
 game that would (if you're deep person) actually make you have tears in your eyes. This is one of 
 the saddest game I ever experience for a while. There is many memorable moments in this game that 
 you'll never forget and you'll get very attached to the characters through the 30-40 hours of gameplay. 
 Each characters in the game has their own personality and lovable characteristic about them. One 
 of the many character you meet in the beginning of the game is Jansen who is suppose to be the 
 humorous person and lighten up people. Some of his dialog and funny things he does can make you 
 laugh to yourself.
  Through the game you'll encounter these dream sequences. These dream sequences is pages of text 
 that tells you some moments of the past that your character remember. All I have to say is that 
 it is beautifully written as if it was a novel. Add by the touching music this just a few of many 
 deep emotional moments in the game.
  The only thing that I thought was a little annoyance was the loading time. These loading time can 
 take up to 5-15 seconds long to load up the next area or a cutscene. Beside that the game is a 
 piece of art!
  Overall I highly recommend this game to anybody who is looking for a great JRPG on the 360. This 
 is also a good start for those who never even touch a JRPG in his/her life. This is just a beautiful 
 piece of art that I think most people should experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  The whole hype behind Lost Odyssey was completely and utterly lost on me, I never really even knew 
 this game existed before a friend mentioned the name to me a few weeks before its European release 
 date. 
  
  However, from that day onwards I watched this game like a hawk... from trailers, screenshots, to 
 the point when reviews started to come through. Convinced almost whole heartedly by what i saw, 
 i went out on the day of release and picked it up.
  
  I had been looking for a decent JRPG ever since the dissapointment i felt over Eternal Sonata (which 
 although very good in graphics/story , the combat system and sickeningly cuteness of it all made 
 me take it back to the store) . Mass Effect had certainly wowed me with its story, dialogue and 
 Gears of War-esque combat..... but i still missed that traditional RPG feel.
  
  Lost Odyssey answered the call, in practically everyway. Since the time i played FFX-2, I had become 
 disheartened over the direction that the magnificent JRPG series was going.... ATB (Active Time 
 Battle) was for me the first nail in the coffin, that from what i have heard was further compounded 
 by changes made in FFXII. Lost Odyssey went against the grain, and more or less said...... whats 
 happening to JRPGs right now is wrong, and we have to go back to what really worked.... and thats 
 exactly what they did.
  
  The first time you go into battle, you have this immense feeling of relief wash over you as the 
 familiar turn-based combat system presents itself to you in all its splendor. The nostalgic feelings 
 of the FFVII, VIII and X days come back to you as you plan your next moves. Then you do get that 
 touch of refreshing change with the ring system, which fits in well.
  
  Of course, Lost Odyssey isnt just about its great return to a proper JRPG combat system, the story 
 is just as fantastic. Yes it is very cliche, the whole deciving conspirator rising to topple governments 
 and claiming to rule the whole planet, isnt exactly original. But it is so very well executed, 
 and the voice acting is spot on.... the cut scenes are of the caliber of any other epic RPG, and 
 the great feeling of a triumph over evil is all there. 
  
  A quick mention is also required of the Dream Sequences, which I thought I would skip through more 
 often than not. They actually turned out to be very compelling mini stories that really drove home 
 the concept that being Immortal isnt as "super cool" as we may all think it is. Some stories are 
 actually extremely moving, and may even evoke a moment of 'i have something in my eye'. 
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is a fantastic JRPG that will entertain both veterans and newcomers to the 
 genre. The 360 was really crying out for an RPG that could compete on the lines of Final Fantasy, 
 and this is it. An engrossing story, likeable characters, and that wonderous combat system make 
 this a must buy for anyone who has even the slightest interest in RPGs. Hours and hours of entertainment 
 and emotion awaits..
  
  NB. Ignore ANY review that complains about the initial boss fights and their difficulty, its ridiculous. 
 With the right strategies they fall just as youd expect. In fact the only truly difficult boss 
 is totally optional (Magician Fu) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JEHUTY-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of RPG's then it's definately worth giving it a go. Just don't expect it to be up 
 there with classics like Final Fantasy 7,8 & 9 or Suikoden. 
  
  I really wanted this to breathe some new life into the genre which lately has become some what 
 stale, unfortunately this didn't pull it off. Too much time spent on the graphics results in abit 
 of a wishy washy story with no real substance. It feels slightly linear, you can explore but you 
 don't feel any sort of urge to do so. If you want a game you can really get your teeth stuck into 
 then you may find yourself just picking at this one. 
  
  Still though, if you like it colourful and abit cheesy then definately the game for you. But in 
 my opinion RPG's are going backwards. Good Books aren't judged on the cover, and though obviously 
 some level of graphics is expected on the 360 this should not be the priority when making this 
 type of game!
  
  JEHUTY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickshet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is under-estimated. For sure if you don't like turn based RPG you'll 
 be disapointed by the lack of continuous hack and slash as in diablo-like games.
  But it's a GREAT game for sure, developers have done a serious job, I've seen no bugs, skills and 
 character diversity give the full depth of this strategic game.
  The story is awazing (thanks to the 4 cdroms in the package) and it's a more mature version of 
 Eternal Sonata.
  You can farm components in this game (like in MMORPG) to craft powerfull rings and it's a lot of 
 fun. This game has a good balance of difficulty. I didn't go for now to the end of game after 90 
 hours. Characters can reach level 99 but I've read that when you reach the end you can play it 
 again with a tougher difficulty but starting at level 50 with no items, no skills earned in easy 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long long time since I played anything as good as this, but that's only to be expecting 
 when you look at the CV's of its designers.
  
  It seems to be the world's biggest secret that the Final Fantasy games are amongst the most over 
 rated titles the gaming world has ever seen, it's as if giving one a bad rating will cause the 
 world to stop spinning on its axis or we'll all be hit by plagues of biblical proportions.
  
  Or maybe I'm just being a cynic.
  
  Lost Odyssey takes the old tired format of JRPG's and 
 brings it up to date, it's hard as hell, and it should be we don't want half wits playing games 
 like these, or every RPG will end up as brain numbingly easy as Final Fantasy 10.
  
  The first disk is a slow drawn out affair that could easily put people off but once you get into 
 the meat of the story it's a much better game to experience, the ring system works exceptionally 
 well and you can't just select your attack and then snooze while the characters follow your orders, 
 a well timed PERFECT can make the difference between life and death in some cases, and with all 
 the different combinations of rings it makes it worth your while to change them as you enter different 
 areas of the game.
  
  The story line is as old as the hills but the presentation is excellent, although it can rely on 
 the "picture in picture" styIe a little too often, and surely they could have found one method 
 of displaying the text in the dreams they were happy with rather than seeing how many different 
 ways they could use in each one.
  
  The graphics are top notch, if you feel the need to see something in more detail then just zoom 
 in using one of the trigger finger buttons, if you still doubt the quality of the graphics keep 
 in mind that a vast majority of the cutscenes in the game are all done with the in game engine, 
 need proof, just equip Kaim with earrings as an accessory and watch as they appear in the next 
 cut scene, same goes for glasses or any other silly headwear the game throws in your direction.
 
  
  There's plenty to see and do, completing all the side quests and the main game will keep you occupied 
 for a good 60 hours, but when its as good as this who cares.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm never a fan of jrpg's, final fantasy 8 never sucked me in, actually, none of the final fantasy 
 games sucked me in but lost odyssey changed my mind, spanning across 4 discs, this game is just plain 
 fun, with a good story too.
  and the characters, especially Jansen, are just amazing, you'll get hooked in the first hour or so!
 
  
  gameplay:
  when it comes to combat, then the game uses the "old" turn-based system, the enemies on the battlefield 
 are invisible, so you just randomly run into them, and sometimes this gets very frustrating when 
 you have to run around to search for the exit, coz every 2 friggin seconds you get stopped by some 
 monster, which gets kinda tedious after a while. so you really need some patience to finish the game.
 
  
  graphics:
  the game uses the unreal 3 engine, and it could've done a better job using it, the frame rate constantly 
 drops, I experienced a lot of frame rate drops especially on disc 1. but anyways, the graphics: good, the 
 cutscenes are the best though
  
  how long to finish: quite long, the game, about 40+ hours, maybe.
  
  final word: its a great game, with 
 a awesome story and awesome characters, kaim's memory is really sad, but the "thousand years of dreams" 
 is very well written and really emotional
  
  this game, is truly a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaM55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I was longing for for months. I pre-ordered the game and the guide, and to my amazement, 
 this was final fantasy and more
  
  This is obviously based on the same style of turn-based fighting that final fantasy has now abandoned. 
 The game runs smoothly from start to end, with twists and turns in a storyline you want to know 
 more about.
  
  Starting with the story, you mainly play Kaim, a 1000 year old immortal that has been subject to 
 his mind being wiped, and therefore starts remembering more and more crucial parts of his life, 
 as the story progresses. It begins with an immersive cut scene that sees 2 armies known as the 
 Gohtzans and the Uhrans. You join the fight on the side of the Uhrans, and when your first fight 
 begins, you seamlessly move from cut-scene to fight scene beautifully, however, this is the only 
 time this happens. The graphics however, both in open use, and in the cut-scenes, are as beautiful 
 as there previous game Blue Dragon, and almost match that of Final Fantasy. 
  
  The fighting consists of a team of five fighting in a turn based style, involving characters of 
 different techniques. Kaim for example, is a sword wielder, and therefore you would place him on 
 the front of the two rows you can use. Unlike Sarah, who is a magic user, you would place out of 
 harms way on the back row. 
  However, this is where the differences start occurring between this and the stereotypical RPG. 
 You and the opponents have a GC meter, which starts at the health of you front two fighters and 
 lowers when then get attacked. This means that the lower your GC the more damage your back row 
 players take, but of course it means the higher you GC, the less damage they take, and therefore 
 a high GC is crucial. This cannot be simply done by healing; techniques are required such as Stand 
 Ready and Wall.
  
  Another different aspect is the normal attack in the fight, which will be used a lot by your front 
 attackers. This involves a ring, in which a circle closes into the middle by applying pressure 
 to the right trigger, the harder you pull it, the faster the ring comes into the middle. You need 
 to time it so the outside circle matches the inner circle already in place. This adds a fun aspect 
 to a normally simple and repetitive action. Depending on how good you are, you may either achieve 
 a good, bad or perfect, which increases your damage output. 
  Finally, the other different aspect is your skills for your immortals, which unlike the mortal, 
 are not learned by simply increasing levels with exp. They learn these skills from mortals, or 
 accessories they have equipped. They all require a set amount of SP, something also obtained at 
 the end of a fight. This means you need to keep changing your items frequently, which although 
 somewhat annoying, the repercussions are highly rewarding, such as new attacks or higher level 
 magic skills.
  All these new features add up to a game that in my opinion surpasses that of normal Rpgs.
  
 
  Finally, the achievements, these are not as frequent as many other games, but the story alone 
 will keep you going, and only when you earn an achievement, will you actually realise that you 
 can earn them in this game. Thankfully, a lot of achievements are placed after the end of the game, 
 so although the normal game itself may only last about 40 hours, the extra missions and challenges, 
 as well as going for the odd hard achievement, will keep you going for many more hours on top of 
 that.
  
  A brilliantly immersive game, that draws you in with its human-like graphics and its brilliant 
 new twist on a traditional fighting style. Add to that the amount of time you will want to play 
 on this game, with brilliant boss battles, a challenging experience both in and out of battle, 
 and you have yourself the best RPG to date on the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktaylo60
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is one of the best games ever. First off it is 4 disks long with tons of videos. For 
 some reason many have a problem with this. It is a great way to get a game true story line and 
 they are best quality in game videos out there. Learning curve was a little ruff but well worth 
 it. Every new thing I learn while I play has been like a little Christmas present that makes the 
 game that much more enjoyable. You have to think about formation, what items to wear for battle, 
 who to use, and where to go. The characters can be extremely funny, and just when you think you 
 know what is going to happen next they switch things up. Can't think of to much more one can want 
 from a game. I highly recommend this game for anyone who can read because you will do a lot of 
 it. The only true negative is if you suffer from depression if you read the dreams you might kill 
 your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiayan
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Well after finally getting my hands on this game I was blown away, it's probably the most enjoyable 
 RPG I've played since Final Fantasy 8. The graphics are amazing, the music is pretty good, the 
 story is awesome and the game play mechanics have that great old school feel to it. 
  
  The main problem with the game is the same thing that makes it look good is what also hold it back. 
 While the graphics are impressive you will be seeing several loading screens that last anywhere 
 from 10-20 seconds. 
  
  While the music is top notch in a way, it also brings to many styles of music to the table which 
 equals disliked track that gets overly played. Going from calm vocal or midi style music to classic 
 rpg style to hardcore techno, it's something for everyone to like and also things people will hate.
 
  
  The story and characters stand out the best to me in this game, and kept me wanting more and more. 
 But this great story line is sort of brought to a screeching halt after the first CD and it kinda 
 seems like everything in disc 2 and 3 are basically things to drag the game length, then it picks 
 back up in disc 4. While there is a good story in between the disc it's not as epic and fleshed 
 out like Disc 1 and 4 are. The other problem with the story is the way they do characters past 
 development with constant dream sequences of page after page of information of the past. I would 
 of rather liked them show these back story's as cut scenes or game play segments instead of cramming 
 5-15 minutes of walls of text down your throat.
  
  The game play has a great classic feel to it and the style between immortals and mortal characters 
 bring something sorta new to the table. While the mortals all have seperate ability's and purpose, 
 the Immortales basically sit back and learn moves from the Mortals. The bad part about this is 
 Mortals seem uninnovative besides having the ability to self ressurect themselves, you in the end 
 abusing the mortal characters which are unique for spells/abilitys, then you kick them off of your 
 team until you need to rob another move from them.
  
  Overall the game is a great package and a lot of old school role playing game fans will enjoy the 
 feel of this game, it's very interesting and well polished.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is Mistwalkers second attempt at an xbox 360 RPG. It's first attempt Blue Dragon was 
 rather lukewarmly received among most RPG fans, and for all it's down points, Lost Odyssey is certainly 
 a better title. 
  
  The game starts with an amazing cutscene on a gigantic battlefield where two nations are at war. 
 You play as Kaim Argonar fighting on the side of Uhra. During the battle, a gigantic meteor appears 
 out of nowhere destroying both armies to a man, except for Kaim. He is an immortal, but one with 
 no memories (a gloomy amnesia led hero, boy, we've never seen that before....) . Kaim is then sent 
 with another immortal Seth and a wild cracking ladies man known as Jansen to check out an item 
 in constuction known as the Grand Staff, which due to it's magic energy may have caused the meteor 
 to fall.
  
  I personally found the story to be quite interesting, if cliched in some parts, and full of "magic 
 energy" explanations for everything else. Still enjoyable but it won't set your world on fire in 
 anyway. Along the story you will gather 8 different characters, some of which are immortals. The 
 problem I had is that only 3 of them are actually likeable or have real personalities. Jansen is 
 especially likeable, he's funny, negative and sarcastic, but all in all a good guy. As for Kaim... I 
 could count the amount of words he says in the entire game on my right hand. (Hyperbole, but you 
 can see I found him interesting....)
  
  As for the gameplay, well Lost Odyssey is a standard turn based RPG. There are a few twists of 
 course. When each character attacks they get a target on their foe and another one zooming in on 
 it. Depending on your timing for when you let go, will depend on any extra benefits your character 
 will gain in that attack from the ring they are wearing. Each ring is different and you will gain 
 many throughout the game, as well as the ability to make them yourself from different items found 
 and bought. Some deal extra damage, some give ailment effects, others absorb MP etc. With a maximum 
 of 3 abilities on each ring. This adds for alot of strategic thought keeping the battles involving 
 as the wrong ring on enemies, especially bosses can get your characters killed. I really liked 
 this system, think of it like a mix of Shadow Hearts and Legend of Dragoon.
  
  After each battle your characters gain experience, the difference in this RPG being that each area 
 you are in seems to have a level cap. Yep you will level up fast at first then hit a wall, it's 
 impossible to level grind. This kind of annoyed me at first as I like to power up and plow through. 
 But after a while it was a welcome addition as it means that beating bosses requires more strategy 
 then just overpowering, such as finding their elemental weakness, or equiping the right rings etc.
 
  
  Along with experience gained, your characters also gain SP points, at least the immortals do. Let 
 me explain, the mortal characters you get learn various skills just through leveling up. These 
 skills are specific to them, though they gain others when certain accessorys are equiped, but never 
 permenently. The immortal characters however can learn skills through wearing them, or through 
 skill linking with a mortal character once the amount of SP needed to learn it has been aquired 
 (this varies per skill) . 
  
  This system has a flaw though. For a start once the Immortals have gained a certain amount of skills 
 they over power your mortal characters making them useless outside of learning blocks. It kind 
 of makes the characters completely unbalanced as the immortals can do everything the mortals can 
 only better. By 2/3 of the way through the game one of my party slots was solely used for a mortal 
 to let the others learn from them. This doesn't really get in the way of the game though, but if 
 you want to make the most of your party then you are limited in character selection.
  
  As your party travels through towns, dungeuns and cities, Kaim will see events or people that will 
 remind him of memories of his past. These events play out in the form of text with some music in 
 the background. I have heard praise for this from people, but not from me. It will quite often 
 appear in the most annoying places when you are looking around, go on for 15 minutes and totally 
 breaks up the pace of the game. I also didn't find alot of them relevent and they in no way effected 
 the game other then to slow it down. However there are only about 30, and you can skip them should 
 you wish.
  
  I feel I should mention this. While Lost Odssey has a mini map, and most dungeuns are pretty straightforward 
 and enjoyable. There are several that come accross as being frustrating, confusing and repetitive. 
 The Experimental Staff being the first of which though there are others. These were not good game 
 design in any way and actually put me off playing the game for a while. Seriously nothing but dull 
 frustration. Although nearly all the others are fun to play with some fantastic environments and 
 neat ideas.
  
  Visually this game is excellent. This shows from the very first cutscene, with great character 
 models and detailed backdrops. The menu system has an archaic grey feel to it's design that reminds 
 me alot of FFVIII, however it fits the game perfectly. No complaints on this front.
  
  The music and sound is equally impressive with some great tracks thrown in, especially during the 
 boss fights. It's actually music you would throw on an MP3 player and take with you. The voice 
 acting is well acted all round, even the child parts of Cooke and Mack aren't overdone. However 
 I wouldn't say outside of Jansen, Sed and Seth that any of them standout that much either, but 
 that is down more to the characters written personalities then the va's themselves.
  
  The game is huge, and will take a good 40 hours to play through with plenty of sidequests and extras 
 to find hewre and there like the backyard battle arena and the frustrating Temple of Enlightenment. 
 I gather a new Dungeun is up for DLC at the time of writting this as well. Either way it will keep 
 you busy should you want to. 
  
  My final thoughts on Lost Odssey are that while it's a good game, and one I'm glad I played, it's 
 not a terribly exciting one. Some archaic design and gameplay issues slow it down from the fantastic 
 game it could have been. Still, if you are looking for classic RPG gameplay on the 360 then this 
 is certainly the title for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scubasteve513
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. Lost Odyssey isn't a bad game. It's got some great innovations behind it, like 
 the awesome ring combat system, and the compelling characters. The game's got plenty of great elements. 
 However, like the old saying goes, the devil is in the details. 
  For the game's sake, I'll take a look at the pluses first. The characters themselves are fantastically 
 put together, with compelling motivations and interesting quirks. The only exception to this is 
 Jansen's incredibly annoying manner of speech, which, although I like the idea behind the characterm 
 drove me to dread any long cut-scenes including him. Another great part of this game was the combat 
 system. The ring-enhanced attacks give the player a chance to interact with the battle in a more 
 personal way; instead of just sitting back and waiting for the fight, I had to be paying attention 
 every turn so that I could score the most damage possible. The skill system for the immortals was 
 also an interesting addition, especially when I started adding all of the mortal magic to one of 
 the immortal casters. 
  Good stuff aside, there were just too many tiny flaws for this game to really work for me. The 
 story itself felt tacked together to me, unlike so many of the other RPGs I've played recently. 
 Not that it was horrible, considering how last-minute it seemed, but still. In a great RPG, by 
 the end of the game you should really want to pulverize the villain, or save the damsel in distress, 
 or whatever. The fact that I thought the villain actually had a more compelling background than 
 most of my party was a clear sign that the story was lacking in development. Any dvelopment that 
 did come was sporadic and patchy, and by the end I had little to no motivation to actually finish 
 the game. 
  What really killed this game for me, though, were the tiny little details that the great RPGs really 
 nail. Not so much in Lost Odyssey. I know that an RPG like this is based in a fantastical world, 
 where the impossible can happen, but never in my life have I seen an elevator come to a sudden 
 stop and the passenger (s) stand there as if untouched by the world around them. That was actually 
 the first thing that caught my attention in this game: Newton's laws no longer seem to apply. There 
 is no equal and opposite reaction, no inertia or momentum, nothing. Zip, zero, zilch. I don't know 
 about the rest of you, but that really stuck in my mind as an irritating flaw. 
  What really came as a disappointment to me, though, was the underwater section of the game. When 
 I read in the manual that there was a submarine that you could use to find treasure on the bottom 
 of the ocean, I imagined vast ocean-scapes with caves and reefs and all kinds of freaky critters 
 waiting for a good fight. What I ended up with was something disturbingly similar to an upside-down 
 jello-mold, like the one shaped like the U. S. that everyone seems to have and nobody ever uses. 
 Apparently every continent and island in the game is a giant, sheer-sided pillar of rock, with 
 no upward-facing surfaces beneath the water. What's more, there is absolutely no combat under water! 
 As a matter of fact, with the exception of one rather interesting boss fight above the surface, 
 there's no fighting in the water at all!
  So, as I sit here waiting for a REAL turn-based RPG to hit the Xbox, I have nothing to do but think 
 about all the potential Lost Odyssey had, and squandered, as the possible first great RPG for the 
 Xbox in 2008. Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest would be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassment0127
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I just started playing Lost Odyssey and i am not very far i must admit! but so far this game has 
 blown my mind with amazing graphics, realistic scenery, Strong Bosses, and a sweet in game concept. 
 I may have just started playing but i can tell this game is a classic. The Battle system is understandable 
 for an Rpg so its pretty easy to understand. The games story is pretty sweet so far i mean the 
 idea of Characters being immortal is sweet being forced to walk the earth forever is a fresh breath 
 into the rpg universe. The whole ring concept in battle is suprising as well it reminds me of earlier 
 rpg set-ups like "Legend of Dragoon" in which u could chain attacks when properly timed. Lost Odyssey 
 is a step up for Rpgs on the 360 console and a game that breaths new life into its players i give 
 it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrdogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  With so much hype going into Blue Dragon and Lost Odyssey at the same time, it was hard to not 
 get excited if you are an RPG fan. With the lack-luster performance of Blue Dragon, my expectations 
 were drastically lowered for Lost Odyssey. 
  
  This may have actually been a good thing. Lost Odyssey was everything I was hoping it could be. 
 
  
  Overall, the graphics are amazing. There are some frame-rate issues, but not too bad. One thing 
 missing from many JRPGs is visual change of the characters based on changes in equipment. All accessories 
 and weapons are actually displayed on your characters be it swords, glasses, or flowers. 
  
  Possibly the best aspect of the game in my opinion is the game play. If you are nostalgic for 
 classic JRPGs, you will feel at home with the turn-based game play in this game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  lost odyssey is a very solid, engaging, fun, and tear provoking rpg. as for as stoies go, i think 
 the writers goal was to try and make you try at every turn. some might think it sappy or overdone, 
 but they did it fantastically. as for graphics and visuals, it's right up there with the industry. 
 the turn based battles are well done. the turn list queue could be better, but not anything to 
 complain about. the ring system is well implemented. again, it could be a bit better, but it makes 
 a huge difference if you use it right. i love that you can change equipment and formation during 
 battle, plus. the battles can get very repetitive, but what rpg doesn't after a time. the skills 
 system is great. the difference between the immortals and mortals is nice. it really makes you 
 choose the skills to use. the leveling is different than most games, but works great when you figure 
 it out. the story is the best part of this game. it tugs at your heart, keeps you guessing, and 
 wraps you up so you almost forget you're playing a game. the writing for the dialogue is expertly 
 done. jansen is hilarious and there is much comedy throughtout the game which helps lighten it 
 up from the seriousness of the main story. the writing in the dreams could be better but works 
 as it is supposed to be memories.
  
  in all, one of the most enjoyable rpgs on the market. if you're an rpger, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hershey07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft's Xbox 360 had a couple of miss and hit RPG's over the past year. With the recent releases 
 of Blue Dragon and Eternal Sonata, they didn't exactly live up to our standard expectations of 
 an RPG. Blue Dragon was just an abysmal RPG that had a somewhat good storyline, and Eternal Sonata 
 luckily saved itself with it's gorgeous looking visuals. But both games were not epic in its genre. 
 However, Lost Odyssey is the RPG that we've been all anticipating for, and it fortunately saved 
 its genre from another downfall. 
  
  The basic plot of Lost Odyssey is that you're playing as an immortal, Kaim, who is searching for 
 his lost memories throughout the game along with other immortals. From the beginning, you're immediate 
 intake on Kaim is that he's a quiet and strong character. However, as the story develops, he begins 
 to evolve into this powerful and leader type of character. 
  
  Lost Odyssey does an amazing job with immersing the players into the emotions of the game. As you 
 progress through the story, you unlock one of the strongest features in LO, the dreams. These dreams 
 are told through text, unfortunately. However, the dreams do such an incredible job with making 
 it so emotional and immersing for the readers. And yes, I'll admit it, I did shed a couple of tears 
 in some of the dreams. The dreams alone, make this game one of the best in it's genre. 
  
  The gameplay in Lost Odyssey is something that we haven't seen in awhile. The battles are turn 
 based, but the ring system is somewhat interesting. The objective of the ring system is to match 
 the circle onto your target; if you miss by a certain margin, you will either receive a good or 
 bad. Fortunately, it actually gives us something to do, instead of mashing the confirm button all 
 the time. The ring system takes a little time to get familiar with, but as you advance through 
 the game, it gets much easier. The trick is this, the stronger the ring, the easier it is to receive 
 perfects on your character's turn. 
  
  Saving the best for last - the music. With the amazing composer, Nobuo Uematsu, he definitely brings 
 a different feeling to LO; as he does with his amazing work with FF. What really stands out with 
 his work is how each music matches the mood with the current event happening. I'm sure a lot of 
 other composers consider the relation of the mood and the music, but Nobou Uematsu, like I said, 
 just brings that certain feeling. His music alone makes it feel like his previous FF works he has 
 completed. 
  
  Lost Odyssey is the right formula for a next gen. RPG that we've been all anticipating for since 
 the good ol' FF days. Actually... if you think about it, LO could replace FFXII; LO should've been 
 the real FFXII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brida017
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  The graphics of lost odyssey are amazing, not the best ever seen but still amazing. The effect 
 used to blur objects in the background of the screen adds a feel to the game and all the surroundings 
 you come to pass are always different and look stunning. 
  Gameplay: 9
  Most people would give this a 5 or a 9... Just depends on if you like the "old-school" turn based 
 combat of lost odyssey or not. Being an avid fan of the ff series I have grown to love it but even 
 I have been changed by the new craze of fast passed RPG's to come along. Luckily Lost Odyssey hits 
 these points perfectly! Attacking has changed for the better, instead of just pressing the X button 
 to slice your enemy you can equip rings that add a small timing procedure to all your attacks. 
 This really does make attacking an enemy feel much more satisfying! The game also adds a brand 
 new idea of Immortals and Mortals (Unfortunately the Immortals being Immortal doesn't really help 
 out at boss battles) , this means that your immortals cannot learn stills (e. g. Fire or Cure) without 
 the help of mortals. The mortal is pretty much a walking, talking and most importantly fighting 
 metieria that learns skills as it levels up. There are also many other features like an improved 
 Formation system and puzzle bosses that don't actually kill you! WOW!
  Story: 10
  Even beats ff7 in my view... (Please no mobs at my door) The story not only draws you in but seems 
 to add in so many emotions (which in the game are called a curse?) It might make you cry, defiantly 
 make you laugh and will chuck in some awesome cut-scenes to excite you as well. At some stages 
 of the game you just sit around for 40 minutes without battle just watching cut scenes and reading 
 dialogue to draw you in to the story. Talking about dialogue! One of the best parts of the game 
 which most people properly don't appreciate is the 1000 years of dreams, really adds a feel to 
 the game and gives a nice rest from stabbing monsters.
  Bad Parts:
  This game would make a 10 if it weren't for 1 or 2 small annoying little things that just get in 
 the way... pointless mini-games seem to be in quite a lot of places and one or 2 boss battles that 
 just are easy but annoying (e. g. a boss that has endless reflect when the only party you can have 
 are spell casters)
  Overall this game is a must have for anyone that enjoys turn based RPG's and anyone overall that 
 loves great stories in games.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is just the fourth Japanese RPG for the Xbox 360. Yet while it is generally an entertaining 
 game, it's complete lack of change from other RPGs makes it seem very derrivative. The main character 
 in Lost Odyssey is Kaim a person who is immortal and has been living for thousands of years. Most 
 of the time you are trying to help Kaim remember his past, and his past is revealed through dreams, 
 in which there is no voice acting, but instead just words over pictures. Without question the best 
 part of Lost Odyssey is it's characters and story-line. Each character has a distinct personality 
 and most of the dialoque in the game is done very well. The voices for the characters in the game 
 are done well for the most part except for Cooke and Mack who are constantly annoying. The plot 
 is full of excellent moments and will really make you want to keep playing. On the other hand the 
 gameplay while solid, is nothing special at all. It makes pretty much no changes from your standard 
 turn based RPG. You walk around different places throughout the world get into random battles, 
 and you have certian skills and abilites to use against the different enemies. The game does have 
 a few minor differences with the combat however. The biggest one is the rings. You can customize 
 different rings that have different and special effects, and can be more effective on a certian 
 enemy. In battle in order to get the full bonus of the ring you must get the right timing in order 
 to get a perfect. If you get a perfect your attack will do maximum damage and you will usually 
 get a bonus. If you get a good you will get a slight damage increase, and if you get a bad you 
 get no bonus at all. Also your immortal characters can not learn skills on their own and have to 
 skill link from others to learn skills which is a pretty interesting idea. Another aspect that 
 I have not seen before in other RPGs is that you can have 5 characters in battle at one time, which 
 means that you get a wide variety of skills and spells to use. But while these gameplay additions 
 are nice they aren't anything really special or ground breaking either. The gameplay also has some 
 other flaws. In some cases you will have do annoying little puzzles or stealth mini games, in which 
 you fail you have to start from the very begining. Any scenes you may have seen before you will 
 see again, which becomes really annoying. Also when the game tries to mix in some variety in it's 
 other mini games, it either comes across as pointless or just flat out annoying. Another issue 
 this game has is balance. There are times where you get like an hour of just walking around town, 
 and watching cutscnes, but then there are times when you get an hour of gameplay but no cutscenes. 
 And then you might have to endure multiple mini games back to back, without anything to break them 
 up. Graphically Lost Odyssey looks like a typical 360 game. The graphics are good but nothing to 
 revolutionary for the 360. Overall 8/10 It's a shame that there are so few changes made to this 
 game. It's sad to see on next gen that RPGs haven't really been revolutionized at all since FF7 
 eleven years ago. Had Lost Odyssey made some more changes it could have been a reallly amazing 
 game. Lost Odyssey is still a fairly well made RPG, and despite it's extremlly derrivative design 
 is still a great RPG with a memorable story-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # The graphics are great but you need more than graphics to make a good game.
  
  # Building 
 up your charecters I found in this was very dull its simply a matter of linking skills and learning 
 them so that you can select and use them how you wish. But the charecters that don't learn skills 
 stay the same and keep the moves they natuarlly learn. Not very innovative or clever. 
  
  # The story line is solid nothing wrong there.
  
  # The game in gereral is a little too linear.
 
  
  # You can get rings to put on weapons this adds elements like fire wind etc but you have a timing 
 puzzle every single time you attack you don't have to do it but i hated it personally after the 
 first 562 times.
  
  # Theres generally not much to do but the story.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  I was expecting more for a next gen console RPG game. Its just better grapics really nothing 
 big has happened here. The basic game is ok.
  If your a die hard fan of RPG games you'll like it. But i was dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is set up alot like final fantasy. The music, fighting style, awsome story line, involved 
 characters, only thing that's not like FF is there not japanese ani. Now I've owned a 360 since 
 almost its release, and I had yet to find a good RPG to give my ps2 and final fantasy games their 
 due, and I thought I'd never find something. I was suprised to hear this game was like FF. It really 
 is an amazing game, even if your not a FF fan. The graphics are awsome, not the best we've seen 
 on 360, but still awsome, the voice acting is usualy good to, some people should have had better 
 ones, and some cut scenes (the games mostly a big movie, the game itself uses a few DISKS!) the 
 voices are like a second off from there lips, but its still decent. I must say you don't play alot 
 of this game, you watch and read, its an amazing story, so I think its ok. Some of the gameplay 
 things are a little anoying, like the funeral and having to light the torches. I would recommend 
 this game to classic RPG loving fans, it really is an awsome all around good game. Give it a try 
 sometime, peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  For quite some time there was no decent release of traditional JRPG. On the last genration of games 
 we had to stand with Final Fantasy X, Xenosaga, and a few others. None of those games had a good 
 story and they were also boring. Western RPG however had a powerful surge with games such as Star 
 Wars: Knights of the Old Republic.
  The current generation of videogames seemed to be going pretty bad for JRPG, other than the good-but-not-that-good 
 Eternal Sonata there was nothing really new around. Western RPG, again, managed to rock the grounds 
 with intense innovations in the now-classic Mass Effect, and the promisse of Fallout 3, not to 
 mention Oblivion.
  But then came the childish, but pretty good game (for fans of that genre) , Blue Dragon.
  Mistwalker, 
 the very same producer of Blue Dragon, now brings together the very best of the crew members behind 
 games such as Final Fantasy VII and VIII, and the graphic design of the artist of gorgeous manga 
 such as Vagabond; if that's not good enough, the engine that drives the game is the still unbeatable 
 Unreal Engine! The name of that creation is LOST ODYSSEY.
  Lost Odyssey puts you in the role of Kaim, right in the middle of a battle, during which it becomes 
 evident that you're immortal. On your way back to Gohza (one of many towns to visit) you find another 
 survivor from the war, Seth, another immortal. The story develops from that point, as you're sent 
 into one single mission that goes pretty much "wrong" and starts a chain reaction where you end 
 up meeting even more immortals and, obviously find out a major plot. But the true point is about 
 the meories of those immortal characters, because they have none. For some reason their memories 
 are shattered, making them pretty decadent characters, as the game progresses each find out about 
 their own memories, where they came from, and what they have in common... As well as WHY their 
 memories were taken.
  Sincerely, the story is what you'd expect from most GOOD JRPG, however, there's something called 
 "A 1000 Years of Dreams", it's like a feature: during the game you'll reach certain places/people 
 who will remind your character of past events (little tales) , and then the game prompts you into 
 the option of reading pretty big chapters of "lost" memories, by the end of the game you'll have 
 all the stories compiled to be read whenever you want. Those stories were superbebly well written, 
 some will really shcok you, others might make you cry and still some will give you hope. Somehow 
 those "spin-off" stories are better than the main story per se.
  The graphics are gorgeous, but it's also evident that, in some cases, the Unreal Engine wasn't 
 put to work to its full extent, everything is still gorgeous though. You won't get characters that 
 look like real life people, but they DO look identical to any manga by the artist of Vagabond, 
 it's evident that that was indeed the objective here, for those who never read Vagabond, imagine 
 if western comics and manga managed to work in perfect harmony, it's pretty cool, very "high-standart" 
 actually. As for facial expressions, they are priceless, as perfect as it could be, specially when 
 it comes to the character of Jansen, a mortal in your crew.
  Your party consists of 5 characters chosen out of 8, 4 immortals and 4 mortals, when an immortal 
 falls in battle, he/she comes back to life after a few rounds.
  The battle system is per-turn, like in any JRPG, but it brings the "ring system" where you have 
 to hold the trigger and let it go right when one ring crashes into the other, to cause major damage.
 
  The music is good, but nothing spectacular.
  ANY fan of FF VII and VIII will like this game, the instant you begin playing it you'll realise 
 that it's actually a Final Fantasy game under another title, I call Lost Odyssey the first TRUE 
 Final Fantasy game ever since Final Fantasy VIII. This is amongst the best RPG I've ever played.
 
  UPDATE: the first package available in the USA to expand Lost Odyssey brings three new itens. 
 One is a powerful ring, and the others are "valuables", which consist of an item that will allow 
 you to remember a new dream, and the other item, the most interesting one, is a kind of magic lamp 
 which you can use inside the Nautilus (one of the boats you'll use) in order to review every single 
 cutscene (CGI or not) you have unlocked in the game, so if it's your second playthru, you'll have 
 every video available as soon as you get the Nautilus; this rocks since it enables you to pay much 
 more attention to the story and to view at any times the memorable moments of the game, Also the 
 cost is really low, only 200 MS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Givemspice
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe the people who mark this game down because of techinical problems or that it has 
 nothing new. Well first of all, the loading, at most, can take about 20-25 seconds, at most. Secondly, 
 you barely notice the framerate dropping beacuse it's so infrequent and minor. Third, if you don't 
 like classic turn-based games, go buy Mass Effect or something. 
  
  Lost Odyssey is a pretty long game. It has 4 disks and takes about 10 hours each, although there 
 are a ton of side quests to do.
  
  Lost Odyssey has a great story with great characters and a superb script. The game has a challenging 
 but old-school battle system, memorable music, and great voice acting as well as beautiful graphics. 
 Those who enjoy Final Fantasy games with the classic turn-based system will love Lost Odyssey. 
 It is a legendary experience that's right up there with FF7, FFX, and FF12. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Story: 9.3
  Gameplay: 9.4
  Voice acting: 9.5
  Music: 9.5
  Sound: 9.3
 
  Controls: 8.8
  
  Difficulty: just right
  Length: 40-50+ hours
  Overall: 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nedemis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  With so many JRPG games coming and going, it's no wonder that even an exceptional title such as 
 Lost Odyssey can even get lost in the genre. What seems to be over looked here is the pure genious 
 behind this game. Lost Odyssey's story is simply put as incredible and the ability to have one 
 of five languages for the spoken tracks is quite nice. The voice acting is incredible no matter 
 what language you select and the emotion felt from the characters elevates this game to a whole 
 new level. 
  
  The gameplay is the same tried and true JRPG formula and as far as I'm concerned, I'm glad they 
 went the direction they did. While some reviewers and gamers may complain about the turn based 
 style, many more will see just how fitting it is when you want that classic RPG feel. If what you're 
 looking for is "real time" combat, go and play Oblivion. Lost Odyssey plays like a gem and the 
 ring effect gives it a small but very welcome twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyMatt90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The opening cut scene completely draws you in. A mysterious figure, who you later learn to be Kaim, 
 is seen taking on an entire army of highly-armored magical troops. He and three others hove "lost 
 their memories" and are slowly getting them back. I was simply "wowed", as the majority of the 
 game's 30+ cutscenes will draw the same emotion from you. 
  
  The battle system is turn-based, and to be quite honest, can be hackneyed at points. It takes at 
 least 10-15 seconds from the time the start of the random battle begins, to the point you can actually 
 issue your first command. This gets quite annoying after 1,500+ battles. The bosses were suprisingly 
 original and impressive. The musical score is quite enchanting. 
  
  One semi-major flaw to Lost Odyssey is the underwhelming amount of content. It would have taken 
 me a mere 35 hours to complete the entire 4-disc game if it weren't for the side-quests. There 
 are 20+ hours in side-quest, and possibly more if you have to go through the entire game again 
 for the treasure trove achievment.
  
  In conclusion, it was a memorable experience, but I can garuntee I won't remember this game 5-10 
 years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  I wanted to start off this review saying that if you don't like JRPGs then dont even bother reading 
 on and just skip this review. If you do then read on. 
  Lost Odyssey has to be the finest JRPG Ive played in a long time. Its story, its characters, and 
 even the very world the game exists in are all memorable and epic in scale. Mistwalker skillfully 
 tells the tale of Kaim the immortal and his journey to discover himself and the world he cannot 
 understand despite having lived for over 1000 years. Without giving too much away, he'll encounter 
 a wide range of unique teammates that are all just trying to find their place in the world. I know 
 gamespot said the story is derivative and this is anything but. The villain's goals while keeping 
 in line with the power hungry tyrants of JRPGs, once fleshed out are cut clearly from a different 
 mold. The story too is presented in a very cinematic and plot heavy fashion. Kaim's dreams are 
 especially moving and often heart breaking. Even the music can make the most mundane scene into 
 an especially tragic or breathtaking moment. I cant go into details because even the smallest part 
 of the story snowballs into something much more.
  There is a lot to do in the world of Lost Odyssey. From finding Sed's lost pirate crew to numerous 
 hidden boss battles, this is definitely for the type of person who loves finding every secret and 
 unlocking all there is to see. While the main story can be completed in around 40 hours it took 
 me 70+ to do all the side quests and i know i missed a lot because i dont have all the achievements 
 for the game.
  If i had to say something about the graphics id have to say that while theyre not as good as say 
 AC, but the art style more than carries the game. Magic fills the city streets of Uhra, the sun 
 drenches the coast of Numara, and Iron and steel cover Gotzha and all are beautiful to see. I did 
 have the occasional texture pop up though during battles when a lot was going on.
  Speaking of pop up there are only a few slight complaints i have about this game. Besides the occasional 
 pop up i mentioned, the frame rate can have a hitch in its step sometimes, and a few times i had 
 the game freeze up on me. But i think that was just because my system is getting up there in its 
 age.
  After the final battle is fought and the credits roll, this is one odyssey worth getting lost in 
 and one that i wish would have lived on forever.
  But since the game had to end sometime, I hope they make a sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyc42087
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical about picking up this game after reading the reviews online (including 
 Gamespot's) , however a few player reviews were all it took to convince me, and I'm glad I listened 
 to them. You can tell from the opening scene alone, that LO is going to be quite the adventure... 
 and it is. 
  
  Story- 8/10 - As i'm sure you've heard by now this game has recieved plenty of praise for its story. 
 After completing the game I can honestly say that this is one of the first stories I've actually 
 cared about. Well, its actually the characters that make the story so rich and interesting. I won't 
 go into too much detail, but each character is unique and dialoge is very well presented throughout 
 the game. A lot of the time it feels as if you're watching a movie instead of playing a game. I 
 know the recent trend has been innovative stories where you affect the world and whatnot, but a 
 story written and presented as well as this is just as entertaining. 
  
  Graphics- 9/10 - I'll chose substance and gameplay over graphics anyday, luckily Lost Odyssey has 
 both. The scenery looks gorgeous in this game, whether it be the interior of a submarine or ancient 
 ruins. All the characters are always gorgeous and the facial expressions are right on (although 
 they only show in cutscenes) . As for the battles, attacking is smooth and magic effects are varied 
 and beautiful as well. All around it's hard to find any flaws graphically.
  
  Sound- 7/10 - The voice acting is overall very well done. I never found myself annoyed by a characters 
 voice or found that it didn't suit their persona or character. The sound effects are nice as well, 
 especially in the cutscenes. The music is great, although a little more variety would have been 
 nice, I found myself getting bored with the songs fairly fast. The only problem I have with the 
 sound is at the start of a battle. Each character has several things they say which seems to be 
 random, however thats not too bad since its usually only a word or two. My real problem is with 
 the sound effects that the enemies make. There are several enemies who make very annoying sounds 
 repeatedly as youre planning out your attacks. And since you'll be planning alot and fighting a 
 lot of enemies, this can quickly get on your nerves. Usually I just turned down the volume with 
 the game and just turned on my own music through my 360 (The great thing is that the music will 
 automatically stop playing during important parts of the game, such as cutscenes or spoken dialog, 
 then turn right back on afterwards.)
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 - Ah, the bread and butter of any game. To me, this was the most appealing part 
 of the game. The battles, exploring, sidequests, character development, weapons/armor... everything 
 is done brilliantly. Most battles (they're random encounters btw) take a few minutes to complete, 
 and theyre more complex than just hitting attack attack attack. Also the ring system adds some 
 unique elements to attacking, and creating your own rings can be fun and have a huge affect on 
 the outcome of battles. You'll also be casting spells of all variations as well as using skills 
 to attack, boost your attributes, debuff your enemies etc. I also LOVED the sidequests of this 
 game. You'll find yourself discovering hidden locations and revisiting old ones to discover all 
 the best  Most of the RPG's I've played have been lacking 
 this, and it really reminds me of games like FFX and FFVII where you'd put off the final boss for 
 twenty hours to get everything in the game. The character development is very innovative and engrossing. 
 Without going into too much detail, you have four "immortals" and four "mortals". The mortals gain 
 skills and abilities through gaining levels or through the benefits of accessories. However, the 
 immortals can learn and equip skills that they learn from both the mortal characters and the accessories. 
 Equiping and learning the skills is a great system which I loved, however at the end of the game 
 it can become a little overwhelming and you may find yourself "knee-deep" in skills, and switching 
 them around after everyother battle. It's nothing an experienced RPGer can't handle though.
  
  Final thoughts - I've read about some people saying that this game is too hard. While yes, 
 at first it can be difficult and you may die a few times at the first bosses, it will eventually 
 level out. Through the main story, the enemies and bosses will present adequate challenge, as well 
 as most of the sidequest bosses/dungeons.... at first anyway. After I had done the sidequests and 
 everything, my characters were so ridiculously over-powered that the final dungeon and boss were 
 no problem at all. I don't think I even had a character come close to dieing. Oh well, it was still 
 fun and after everything I think I had a time played of at least 55 hours. There is hardly and 
 replay value here, although I think i'm going to find myself playing through the game again in 
 a year or so. Just like I do with the FF's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evan_thomas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Lost odyssey is living proof that games with real substance and heart just don't cut it in reviewers 
 eyes anymore. These days the markets are flooded with countless genetic shooters, each a carbon 
 copy of the last, leaving gaming to be about how much money the company can pull in rather than 
 the enjoyment and personal attatchment the buyer achieves from the game, such as we felt during 
 such times as the snes rpg craze. This is one of the only games thats come along in a while which 
 has given me that same feeling, except beautifully displayed graphically due to the new gen consoles. 
 The story is an absolute dream, causing an emotional attatchment like no other. I literally became 
 teary during certain dream sequences, and to me, this in an undeniable sign of a beautifully produced 
 game. Sure, it doesn't distinguish itself much gameplay wise from most JRPG's, but why should it? 
 It's a turn based rpg, plain and simple, and this is how they're meant to be played. The characters 
 are loveable and unforgettable, and their subtle personality traits are unmistakable. The music 
 is compelling and masterful, fitting the various moods perfectly. 
  This game is a diamond in the rough, unaprecciated and forgotten as a result of the current trend 
 of FPS'. I give this game my personal reccomendation, and a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  JRPGs are two a penny these days, and while I like the genre and play pretty much everything I 
 can from it, lately things haven't really been impressing me that much. Looking back over the last 
 few years there have been JRPGs I have enjoyed, but none of these were truly great. The rest simply 
 fit in as mediocre. Fortunately this jinx of average games being produced is at an end for me as 
 Lost Odyssey is simply fantastic. Not only is this a great RPG, but it's also my favourite 360 
 game so far in the console's lifespan. Lost Odyssey manages to be so good not by using some fantastical 
 new form of gameplay but going to back to the older school of JRPGs (like the PS1 Final Fantasy 
 games) and giving them some next-gen shine. What are the things it does that makes it so good though 
 I hear you cry? Well read on to find out.
  
  In LO you take the role of Kaim, an immortal who has lived for 1000 years but unfortunately has 
 suffered from memory loss. Kaim sets off on a quest to recover his past on the way meeting other 
 immortals with oddly lost memories too and some mortals who join him on his journey. What starts 
 off as a journey of searching for the past for one, becomes a quest to save the world for many. 
 This neatly brings us to the characters one of the first things that makes LO such a good game. 
 I don't know about some of you, but I'm sick to death of playing whiney, bratty, adolescent teenagers 
 or adults who act in a similar way in my RPG's. "Yes "insert generic JRPG hero name here" we can 
 tell you have minutely small genitalia as your evidently trying to compensate with that sword, 
 frankly I don't want to hear you angst about it. O. K?". Lost Odyssey has a mature, adult cast (with 
 the exception of Cooke and Mack, but seeing as they are little kids I'll let them off) brimming 
 with life and personality. Kaim our brooding hero has much more depth to him than meets the eye, 
 Seth (by far the best character) may seem happy-go-lucky at first but she has a tragic past locked 
 away in her mind. All the cast members act like real people and do things befitting their age and 
 their human faults. You wouldn't see Jazz from Eternal Sonata getting hammered and picking up some 
 prostitutes would you? Jansen from Lost Odyssey does. The game uses adult characters, deep emotions 
 and amazing cutscenes to paint a world and story that sucks you in and truly moves you a feat few 
 games have managed recently.
  
  Now as with most games in it's genre, LO will see you fighting lots and lots of enemies throughout 
 the game, levelling up and learning skills so how does this square up? In Lost Odyssey there are 
 a few new additions to the RPG formula one of which is the much publicized ring system. When a 
 character melee attacks, you have to hold down the right trigger and aim to release it when two 
 rings on the screen collide. The better you do, the more likely the ring your characters wearing 
 will unleash a magic effect on your opponent increasing your attack. These rings are creatable 
 from items you find in the game so there are lots of effects to be found and used on your foes. 
 I thought this was a grea little feature and added to keeping me interested in combat, instead 
 of watching characters do things I was more involved.
  
  Another addition to the usual is the unique skill system. Immortals in the game can't learn new 
 skills by levelling up but mortals can, so you must skill link the immortals with a mortal in the 
 party and battle enemies to gain skill points. Once enough skill points are obtained the skill 
 you have linked from your mortal to your immortal is learned by the immortal party member. This 
 system may sound complicated but it works well and eventually lets you turn your immortals into 
 godlike characters who can handle every situation through their abilities while mortals can't do 
 so. Accessories in the game also have skills attributed to them and when a immortal learns the 
 requisite number of skill points they can use that accessory effect without wearing it. As you 
 can tell there is a lot of depth to LO's combat and the amazing amount of things to do in terms 
 of gaining abilities is a real strong point to the game.
  
  Visually LO is very impressive, you'll be treated to superbly directed rich movie sequences and 
 lush environments to explore. The characters look amazing and the world they live in truly comes 
 to life with every little detail. The sound is fantastic too (a relief after the music on Blue 
 Dragon caused me to want to staple my ears shut) and combined with the best voice acting I have 
 heard outside of a Bioware game it only adds to the immersion factor.
  
  So a fantastic story (I've avoided spoiling in the review) , an amazing cast, the same old classic 
 combat system with a few tweaks to make things a bit different and interesting and some of the 
 best visuals in sound in a game? Whats not to like? There isn't really any way I could have scored 
 this game lower than I did as in the 55 hours I played I had more fun than any other JRPG has provided 
 me in a LONG time. It's a fantastic and must own title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Couth_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't own an Xbox 360 but I had to borrow my friends to play this game, because I am such a huge 
 fan of Hironobu Sakaguchi's games, mainly the Final Fantasy series. Lost Odyssey is very reminiscent 
 of a Final Fantasy game. I will try to give the gist of the game in my review without revealing 
 anything major.
  
  It has a classic turn based fighting style which has a cool strategy involved in how you set up 
 your formation, to maximize your defense. Battles however do feel slower paced compared to any 
 turn based game I have played recently. 
  
  Battles will probably last a little longer as you are generally evenly matched with all foe's, 
 because each area has a level cap. It takes 100 experience to level up to any level, and characters 
 will generally level up pretty fast until you hit the level cap. This makes keeping all characters 
 up to a good level pretty simple, but it eliminates "grinding" to make your parties or certain 
 characters powerhouses to take out enemies easily. The idea is to make it more difficult, so you 
 need to be more careful and pay attention to your strategy, especially when fighting bosses.
  
  Other than the battle system you can expect a good story, characters, and great CGI cutscenes 
 to help move the story along. The game does have it's glitches though, the frame rate isn't very 
 solid, and there is a lot of loading. But if you can look past the minor things Lost Odyssey is 
 a great experience. Most of the characteristics on Lost Odyssey are pretty old school but have 
 not been done in a while, and in my opinion it's a breath of fresh air compared to what is out 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2531bel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is a game that you enjoy at the beginning, but start to hate as you progress. Although tagged 
 as an RPG, the game is fairly linear from CD 1 to 3. Although the player is presented with side 
 missions there are many you cannot complete until into CD 4. Big problem without a journal (present 
 in all other RPGs I played) to remind you what quests you have begun and are not completed.
  
  CD 4 is when the true RPG aspect of the game presents itself. Frankl; y without a journal you 
 find yourself going to someones (thank god) walkthrough to figure out where you should be going 
 next. This is very important; you cannot "win" the game without ranking up to beyond level 52 for 
 all characters; you really need those side quests. Guess what one of the last quests in the last 
 temple ruin cannot be completed unless you have the double cast ability (level 52) .
  
  I stopped playing here. My cahacters were at level 50, and knowing that I had to go back to some 
 previous areas to level up frustrated me too much.
  
  Other aspects of the game:
  1 - Basic story is good
  2 - Long winded cut scenes that never ended put you to sleep at times.
 
  3 - Reading throgh every dream to much for me.
  4 - Graphics good
  5 - Lack of a journal unacceptable for a game as vast as this.
  - Picking up objects that have 
 no meaning without a a journal
  - Game characters give you tasks you cannot track
  
  I could go on, hopefully you get it - Too long, long winded, and complicated. I commend the courage 
 and patience for the folks that wrote the first walkthroughs of this game, and thank them for their 
 help.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I am new to JRPGs, having only played Eternal Sonata right before this so I really can't compare 
 this to the "great" JRPGs of the past. All I can say is that I played this game and enjoyed it. 
 I enjoyed it more then Eternal Sonata and would happily play a game like this again. 
  
  Graphics: Great. I like the style, the environments and the fight animations. Some scenes were 
 stunningly beautiful, but there were others that did not look so great. I didn't really dig the 
 main gear of most of your characters but it was nice that the peripheral showed up in gameplay. 
 I wish we could have quipped armor. There was one section where slow down was present in the battle 
 screen near the end, but it didn't distract from the game.
  
  Sound environmentals: Good. I didn't really notice these so much until the music cut out on me 
 in black cave. They were fine, nothing special but not bad
  
  Sound music: Good. I can get the music stuck in my head and not be upset, but then its not something 
 that took my attention as especially good either. But then I was expecting bad and it wasn't. 
 well except for the one part where a character sings a bit, but that's very short so I will let 
 it go.
  
  Sound voice: Mixed. I thought some of the characters were done well and others were over the top 
 cheesy. Perhaps they played it that way on purpose (at least I hope so) . The main bad guy has about 
 the best parody evil genius laugh I have heard in a while. Also I wish there were more VO and less 
 reading, especially on the mini cut scenes.
  
  Story: Good. I LOVED the thousand years of dreams, never thought I would love reading that much 
 in a game but they were Very well done. The main story made enough sense to me that I am ok with 
 it, even if the evil guy was way too cheesy and the end was a bit anti-climatic (but maybe it was 
 because I was uber powered and the bad guy posed no threat) . I am not a big "shipper" in games 
 or TV so I could have done without the little Jansen side story. I didn't find the kids as annoying 
 as I thought I would and I really liked the Seth, Sed story and wish they would have done more 
 with the Aneria storyline. I also liked Sarah attitude and would have liked more background on 
 her.
  
  Game play: Mixed. It's a pure turn based game. I didn't think I would like that and thought I would 
 prefer the hybrid in Eternal Sonata but I think I prefer this one. I like being able to use 5 characters 
 and I liked being able to equip them with LOTS of different stuff and then planning out my strategy 
 in the fights. I did NOT like the pure random encounters, especially in a puzzle dungeon. I mean 
 if they only happened every once in a while I would have been fine with that but a few parts just 
 got annoying for me. More so because the only way to skip the fight still requires for you to load 
 the fight and this slowed things down.
  
  Overall I liked this game it didn't leave me with the tingly, that was awesome feeling of some 
 games but that may have been due to the length and the fact I was uber-powered when I faced the 
 enemy at the end (kind of like oblivion in that way) . I played it over 100 hours on my play through 
 (though maybe I am just slow) . I don't think I will replay it again anytime soon, but have thought 
 about going back for all the seeds. I think I got my moneys worth and would recommend a buy at 
 full price. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Its really difficult to describe this game. this game is worth to have it if still go and get it. 
 before i bought this game i was played Persona 3 so, after i saw L. O. from the all directions the 
 story, the game manner, the song, the game clearness & the most important thing is that this game 
 becoming like FF series i stopped playing persona 3 and started for rocking ... The graphics are 
 good, even if framerate during cutscenes suffers sometimes.
  The music is very well done imo, even if the tunes are not the usual 20 seconds loop that stick 
 into your head.
  The combat system is interesting, if not groundbreaking.
  Enemies seem to use a threat-level system. If a character deals more damage than the others for 
 more than one turn, enemies will have a greater chance to target that one.
  So, its like FF style worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllHal0sADdiCt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a fun game. if you do not like games that take turns to fight, avoid this game, 
 but if you like a game with great graphics, an awesome story, and that will take you more than 
 one day to beat ,BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! This game has great character roles and is a lot of fun 
 playing. it mixes action with comedy. if you love to see good graphics in games you will be blown 
 away. the graphics are as good as HALO 3, but i didn't see any bad glitches for once. if you are 
 sick of HALO (then your weird) and want a game that will take a long time, this is the game 4  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't start my reviews this way, but I just can't sugarcoat this so I'll get this out 
 of the way to begin: I had high hopes for Lost Odyssey, along with Blue Dragon and Mass Effect. 
 Mass Effect delivered, I didn't keep at Blue Dragon to find out if it did or not (I'm thinking 
 not based on reviews and the way I easily let it sit to play Eternal Sonata) , and having finished 
 Lost Odyssey, I hate to say Lost Odyssey didn't really deliver either. It was still a pretty solid 
 RPG, but some design choices, and especially some technical issues, hurt to keep Lost Odyssey from 
 delivering on that promise; it feels too much like other RPGs and didn't quite set itself apart 
 with anything truly unique. Still, what's here is solid and I would still recommend Lost Odyssey 
 to anyone interested in a traditional old school original Final Fantasy kind of RPG.
  
  The basis for Lost Odyssey's story is about Kaim. He's a mercenary hired to fight for the nation 
 of Uhra against the nation of Khent. During the battle, a meteor crashes onto the battlefield, 
 killing everyone except for Kaim, who just so happens to be an immortal. When Kaim returns to Uhra, 
 he finds out that he was not the only person to survive the battle, as another immortal, former 
 pirate Seth, also survived. Together, along with womanizer (and black mage) Jansen, are tasked 
 with a mission to investigate the construction of a magic engine called Grand Staff. This is where 
 the story begins. Along the way we meet up with 4 other mortal characters and 2 other immortal 
 characters to form your 9 person party. You are introduced, and get to know, each new party member 
 before they officially join the group. Each of the 5 mortal characters fit a specific RPG mold 
 (black mage, white mage, physical damage, melee attacker, green mage) , while the 4 immortal characters 
 are more of a blank slate, although two of them are better suited for physical damage while the 
 other two are better casters. The mortals learn their abilities and spells as they level up (100 
 xp per level, same for all characters) , but the immortals have to learn their skills from either 
 accessories or by linking a skill from one of the mortal characters (like FF9 or Paper Mario) .
 
  
  The battle system is pure old school, give commands to all characters at start of turn, then the 
 actions take place. Now the system is still functional, I liked it in Dragon Quest VIII, but in 
 Lost Odyssey it just feels antiquated. LO is trying for that Final Fantasy feel, but the battle 
 system does not. So what ends up happening is your party can get damaged for large amounts of HP, 
 but it takes two turns to cast a heal spell that replenishes most of that HP. In terms of numbers, 
 party gets damaged for, say, 400, your all party heal is for at most 150-175. Or in the case of 
 the first boss fight of the game, the party can get damaged for 200+ and you have no way to heal 
 that much that early in the game. Now this is just some ranting. Like I said, the system is still 
 functional for the most part. Most of the battles you encounter are handled without too much trouble. 
 You have your standard turn based battle commands (Attack, Skill, Spell, Item, Defend) . You also 
 gain access to the standard white, black, and spirit magic, not to mention eventually composite 
 magic (like all-regen, or all-no petrify) . The battles play out a little slower than, party due 
 to how long magic can take to cast for the majority of the game, but also because of physical attacks. 
 Each character can equip a ring which can deal more damage in general, or to specific enemies, 
 or element damage, steal items, etc. To get this effect to take place, you hold down the right 
 trigger as a ring shrinks on screen, when it is perfectly on top of another ring, you left go of 
 the trigger, if its perfect, the ring's effect is full. If its only good, the ring's effect is 
 lessened. Its an interesting system, but I felt it got old as the game wore on.
  
  A bigger reason battles take long is because of the technical reasons I mentioned earlier. There 
 is a lot of loading in LO. Most of it isn't that long, but there's enough of it to get really annoying, 
 especially for battles. Battles are random encounters, so when one triggers, you get about a 15-20 
 second intro for each battle (3-4 shots of the battlefield, 1 shot of a character, shot of the 
 party which pans to the enemies) before you finally get control of the party. Add in the slower 
 turn based battle system and you have battles that even if you defeat the enemy quickly, still 
 take longer than they should. Most of the other loading screens aren't that bad, but at the same 
 time there are a lot of cutscenes, which leads me to my next point. The story is not paced very 
 well, nor did I find it very good. It starts out promising, but as the game proceeds, not much 
 character development occurs, and the story never really had an urgent feel to it particularly 
 at the end. The best part about the game's story are the dreams that Kaim has when he encounters 
 a situation eerily similar to one he had during his 1000 years journeying. These dream sequences 
 are well written, but I noticed that in the grand scheme of the story, they don't mean much. They 
 do help to give Kaim some needed personality, but you don't really get to know who he is or why 
 he's here or where he came from. Speaking of that, there is a big plot point that was never fully 
 addressed that really annoyed me, but I will not spoil that here in a review. Suffice to say, that 
 plot point was not fully addressed.
  
  As far as the other technical aspects of the game, the graphics were pretty good. In places they 
 looked very nice, the character models are good, though they all have that Final Fantasy-ish look 
 to them. They may not define the system, but they are fine nonetheless. The music is fantastic. 
 The tracks have that Final Fantasy feel to them, but there is nothing wrong with Final Fantasy 
 music. Its good. I had no issues with the voice acting. It was fine throughout.
  
  There is quite a bit to LO. Near the end I was just tired of playing it, so I skipped doing a number 
 of the side quests and hidden bosses, and I still logged over 50 hours in the game. Easily there 
 is enough here to keep you busy for quite a while, especially when you take into account there's 
 a new game plus feature.
  
  Overall, I would say Lost Odyssey was disappointing. It had a lot of promise, but it didn't feel 
 very original at all, and the story didn't live up to the early promise. Also the best part of 
 the story, the dreams, don't have much impact on the story at all. So, Lost Odyssey was a pretty 
 good RPG, easily taking the spot as recommended JRPG if you need one, but it could've been so much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdhdhdhasajkalk
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  {FOREWORD} : Firstly I have never played a JRPG before: I have owned a xbox, xbox 360 and a pc. 
 I have not played a lot of JRPG's before not because I have a "Western" prejudice; on the contray 
 I consider myslef open minded: I do watch anime and read manga. I also plan to play final fantasy 
 when i get the time as it and a ps2 are very cheap nowadays. However I have not owned a Playstation. 
 Therefore the target audience is those who wish to play the game as an INTRODUCTION to the genre, 
 not veterans who will buy it anyway. I have played many, MANY western RPG's however.} 
  
  GAMEPLAY: First off this game is slow paced: therefore do not expect to play it for short bursts. 
 This is not a bad thing if you have a lot of free time: unfortunately most of us don't. Why does 
 this matter?   Essentially the slow pace breaks up the excellent story and means a 40 hour game 
 takes a matter of weeks to complete.
  
  The loading and map screen is necessary therefore fine. The battle introductions and endings
 
  
  (where 2-3 phrases are repeated over and over again {like "Oh no, this does NOT look good lololol!!11} 
 ,with a lame animation like waving a sword) 
  
  and the city sections 
  
  (where the plot goes next to nowhere and generally concerns you pressing a button to open many, 
 MANY urns and completing sidequests lke go to B from A, get item, return to A) 
  
  are really, really not. Well the first problem is minorly annoying but still takes around 30 seconds 
 for each battle, of which there are a lot. The latter is a big problem as if you're in any way 
 completionist you can spend a matter of hours in cities doing the awful side quests and searching 
 boxes. Furthermore leveling is rarely needed yet when it is can be a terrible grind. Its all randomn 
 battles so run in circles for 30 seconds, wait 30 seconds, fight, repeat etc. If you want an action 
 RPG like the Witcher or Diablo don't look here.
  
  So the pace is needlessly slow... I can put up with that. Well actually if you enjoy RPG's then 
 yes, you can. But its a chore. What you actually play for is the story and cutscenes as these are 
 absolutely excellent. But am I playing a game now or watching a movie?
  
  COMBAT: Well the combat is pretty poor. I happened to play pokemon (i was young) a few years ago: 
 whatever hardcore JRPG players so its not much evolved from that.. Disable an enemy by sleep, fear, 
 etc or much eaisier attack the enemy, or defend to take less damage and all the while counter elemental 
 weaknesses (eg: take fire on with water spells) . Furthermore the customisation in terms of items 
 is limited to a new weapon and 2 trinkets. Great. 
  
  The skill combination is better: essentially mortals learn new skills with new levels, but immortals 
 don't. I guess mortal: immortal ratio in your team is 1:1 so just select link skill under the immortal 
 character screen and select which one you want: after around 6 battles you'll have learnt it and 
 can learn another skill. The only slight problem is that due to the fact once you learn a skill 
 you never forget it, its perfectly possilbe to learn a lot of different skills meaning immortal 
 A is similar to immortal B and you never specialise (ie: the amount of shills you learn creates 
 overpowered hybrid classe)
  
  In terms of attacking, for magic just press A when you work out what works well (believe me its 
 not hard: if its made of mud use wind, covered in fire use water...) and for combat line a ring 
 in a hoop while watching your character run up to the enemy. And getting attacked is poor: your 
 character stands still soaking up damage while a dog claws him, or gun shoots him. (boss battles 
 admittedly are exceptions) . Thrilling.
  
  STORY: Now the important part: the dreams. These are triggered by deja vu: for example you'll see 
 a dockworker and remember a story about your dockworker friend who married another friend a LONG 
 TIME AGO. These are actually really really great: a lot of emotion, sometimes philosphy, usually 
 moral points: i won't spoil any but believe me if you like RPG's for story (most of us then) then 
 these are what keep you playing. If everything else matched the quality of dreams I would review 
 this WELL into the 9's.
  
  The actual story is pretty good. I mean its essentially nothing new, but there is a lot of politics, 
 emotion, characterisation behind them and they are pretty much all excellent: some are very very 
 moving, others thought provoking. 
  
  One grip however with the overall story is the fact you start out as a cold, battle scarred mercenary 
 fighting zombie soldiers with a pirate and promiscous mage as sidekicks, and end up a grandpa with 
 two kids tagging along and with a buxom, scantily clad young girl in a skirt (yes i know her identity: just 
 leaving out spoilers) who wears glasses and looks like she just jumped straight out of pretty much 
 any anime you care to think of (ok: generilisation and i said I wasn't overly "Western" minded 
 but hopefully you see my point) . You also start out climbing mountain passes, exploring coastal 
 regions yet pretty soon you're single handedly taken on an entire capital city or a militray airship 
 that has tanks and armed men and you have, erm, 5 people with swords and magic. I certainly haven't 
 downrated it for this: however this game is a 16+ yet sometimes feels like a 3+: a little more 
 adult themes and characters would be nice: I mean wasn't Blue Dragon for a younger age group???
 
  
  
  ATMOSPHERE: The graphics are what you'd expect of from a next gen title, and the soundtrack is 
 what you'd expect from any RPG: excellent. Absolutely no problem here. 
  
  SUMMARAY:
  
  + Its got great graphics, great sound, a brilliant if typically Japanese and unoriginal plot with 
 good length (40-50hours) and some adult themes especially wihtin the "Thousand Years of Dreams".
 
  
  - Slow paced, childish at times. Yet thats nothing compared to the dull, repetitive and unoriginal 
 gameplay: its pretty poor. A whole point taken of for this.
  
  CONCLUSION: Therefore you have to ask yourself: do i mind playing a game for its plot and atmosphere 
 at the expense of essentially what makes a videogame a game and NOT AN INTERACTIVE MOVIE. 
  
  If you do give Lost Odyssey a miss, or if the gameplay is too dull for you, then thats absolutely 
 fine. However an excellent story cannot be overlooked, and when compared to Eternal Sonata, Blue 
 Dragon and Enchanted Arms, this may be a good introduction to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Got it, this isn't my genre of games and quality import RPG's always have long cut scenes, dialogue 
 you don't control and really odd (to my American ears) writing... if you are a major fan of this 
 genre, love going to cosplay, etc., I apologize now.
  
  That out of the way; I can see that this is a GREAT product... polished and professional with multiple 
 CD's full of interactive excitement.... the problem for me is that it just wasn't that fun.
  
  Graphics and sound are impressive and I never ran into a bug while playing the game; I think 
 the real problem is that I am in my mid-30's and grew up playing video games in America... I need 
 a game that stresses my reaction time and rewards me with a little blood every once in a while... and 
 for whatever reason, God help me, but I can't STAND little kids in the Japanese RPG games... they 
 are soooo goofy and cornball that you know in real life you would have to shut them up... The two 
 kids in this game are fully fleshed out characters that contribute to the story, but drive me up 
 the wall with their "cute" antics.
  
  Why do they make all the dudes so feminine in these games as well; is there an unwritten rule that 
 all men in RPGs have to be quasi-transvestites?
  
  The game is well made, but obviously not targeted for me.... Since its such a long endeavor, I wouldn't 
 rent this game, I would purchase it, but only if you are into Japanese RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  
  Perhaps the non-stop RPG factory that was the PS2 spoiled me a little bit. Last generation 90% 
 of my JRPG needs were filled by Playstation. As we transitioned into this generation and Sony seemed 
 to lose interest in the genre I tolerated games like Blue Dragon and Eternal Sonata that were worthwhile 
 gaming experiences but not on the same level or scope of some of the games that came before them.
 
  
  I will admit when Lost Odyssey received a rather lukewarm score on many of the gaming sites I trust 
 I was a little disappointed. Although as I read reviews they kept making references to being "old 
 school" and "loading times" and not doing much to move the genre forward. 
  
  Let me make this VERY clear, JRPG's that muck up a working formula (I am looking at you Eternal 
 Sonata) take away from why I play RPG's which is the storyline. 
  
  When I started playing Lost Odyssey the first thing that struck me was the steady progression of 
 learning about the main character Kaim. With the game being upwards of 50 hours in length they 
 can take their time in developing him, but he comes off as a cold mercenary in the first few hours, 
 and what they do with his character over the length of the game is nothing short of amazing. 
 
  
  Your early travel party which consists of Kaim, Seth (A former Pirate) and Jensen (A witty magic 
 user) is a wonderful combination that leads to a strong story development with a lot of humour 
 tossed in (thanks to Jansen) . 
  
  With that in mind the balance of the characters that come along all seem to offer something to 
 the story which makes for a very interesting experience. There is nothing worse then playing a 
 lengthy game with a dull storyline or one that takes far to long to unfold, or even one that unfolds 
 to sporadically. The interpersonal stories of the characters coupled with the main story plot keep 
 you interested all the way though, the acid test for a great RPG. 
  
  The battle system is pretty straight forward, if you have played a JRPG in the past you should 
 be able to feel you way through. 
  
  There is a wide variety of skills, spells and other items which your immortal characters can learn 
 with a neat "Skill Link" ability, which is very similar to the Espers concept on Final Fantasy 
 III. 
  
  There is also a "Ring System" which allows the user to time an attack perfectly to inflect bonus 
 damage, or gain MP, or something of the sort which depends on the ring which is pretty novel. 
 
  
  Its nothing flashy, but it works there is no having to worry about grids or attack time or any 
 of that stuff, its old school and as such I love it. 
  
  Graphically, Perhaps I am bias but this was the first RPG I played on a 61" 1080p TV, so it was 
 stunning. I have gone back to re-visit games like Mass Effect, Enchanted Arms, Eternal Sonata and 
 Blue Dragon and I still think Lost Odyssey looks the best.
  
  The Cities look amazing, right down to the small details on the roads or the cracks on the buildings. 
 They each have a unique look and a unique type of people walking around which really does add to 
 the experience. 
  
  Your characters look great, as you equip different weapons they all seem to have a unique look, 
 which adds to the great look of your character. 
  
  The Bosses look good, but nothing overwhelming. All the enemies in the game look pretty good and 
 as such the bosses are no better or worse then what you will find during a random encounter. 
 
  
  The score in the game is nothing short of masterful, its well done and its an interesting blend 
 of everything from classical to hip 80's sounding guitar riffs, and as odd as that sounds it all 
 works and it all flows together. Without a doubt the best original video game score released this 
 generation by miles. 
  
  The voice acting is again top notch, too many English JRPG's sound like recently out of work actors 
 having no idea what is happening around their character in the game as they read their lines (Enchanted 
 Arms I am looking at you) . In Lost Odyssey the voice acting is once again top notch, they just 
 nailed the sound aspect in every way they could. 
  
  From Kaim, to Jansen, to Mack, to the average bartender in small town X its spot on which again 
 makes the story all the better. 
  
  How about Value? The answer is easy.
  
  Best purchase I have made so far in 2008, no question. There are four discs coupled with a great 
 story and a ton of side quests (if that is your thing) and allow for upwards of easily 40  60 
 hours of gameplay. 
  
  Will I pick it up again and play it through a second time?
  
  Like many JRPG's there is very little that you can do to effect the story, it is what it is and 
 while it's a great story its one that would play out nearly identical the second time around, but 
 with the length and quality of the gameplay that is hardly even a blip when you are considering 
 buying this game. 
  
  If you like RPG's and you own a 360 I am not sure why you are still reading this review, just buy 
 it. It will be the best RPG experience you have had so far this gen. 
  
  Hands Down. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorasheart32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When i First got this game, the first thing that popped into my mind was, cool another final fantasy. 
 When i got home I started it up, The Start Screen was even yelling Final Fantasy. I knew i wasnt 
 going to be let down. When you play this game, its Turn based, just like any other final fantasy, 
 but they threw in an extra little zing, they made it possible for you to create rings, to enhance 
 your damage on certain types of monsters, and get this its interactive with you, you dont just 
 get the boost, you have to time the ring out to get the boost, its pretty cool, and you can create 
 your own ring and stuff, and you get to choose depending on the enemy. Other than that its final 
 fantasy, elixers, potions, everything. The graphics are outstanding, and the voices are soo real. 
 The charectors cling to you. Jensen is soo funny. Kaim soo serious. And its not one of those voices 
 where your like wow, are you sure HE can make THAT sound? Its a perfect match, the time inbetween 
 attacks while your running around is great, gives yoou just enough time to explore before you get 
 frustrated, the battles are easy yet challenging, and trust me your going to die on the boss fights, 
 but you will figure it out, what would be the point to a game if you just flew through it anyways. 
 I would say this game is a must get for all those final fantasy lovers out there, or anyone that 
 loves turn based genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamrls57
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Having finished playing Lost Odyssey, here's my opinion. The graphics and music are very beautifully 
 done, and the voice acting (based on the English version) is very good overall.
  
  The story is pretty traditional, but the way is is orchestrated with the cuts scenes and music, 
 makes for some very emotional and memorable moments. The ending cinema was one of my all-time favorites.
 
  
  One very unique part of the game is the Thousand Years of Memories. These stories, which represent 
 Kaim's memories, are not only great stories in themselves, but also round out his character and 
 the main story.
  
  The battle system is traditional turned-based, but it adds the ring target system, which is an 
 interesting variation. The weapons in the game are plentiful. The best and most unique ones take 
 a little effort to find, of course. The backyard battle arena is one of my favorite parts of the 
 game and also has some very challenging and rewarding battles (there are some great items and a 
 unique weapon to be earned) .
  
  Overall, I would say Lost Odyssey is well worth a play and is a definite buy for traditional RPG 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to try to keep this as short as I can. 
  
  After playing Blue Dragon, which was a BIT of a dissapointment due to the extreme cute factor and 
 boring factor. It was an alright game, but not something that I would expect from Sakaguchi and 
 friends. But I had high hopes for this game. And this game is a major leap forward for Mistwalker. 
 
  
  This story revolves around Kaim who is an immortal who has lived 1000 years, yet he now has amnesia. 
 Other immortals and mortals will join him on a pretty epic tale. I really don't want to give a 
 thing away about the story line. I will say however that the story line doesn't really pick up 
 and get serious until the 3rd disc. Up until that point it is a little slow moving, but very enjoyable 
 none the less. 
  The characters are what make this game so good in my opinion (story wise) . Kaim the main character 
 is extremely quiet, you've got Seth who is a 1000 pirate who by the way has a son called Sed who 
 happens to have a ship. Final Fantasy fans will notice that Sed is the Sid in this game. And there 
 are two other characters that FF fans might notice.... Cooke and Mack. Once you play the game you 
 will know what I'm talking about. 
  And of course there is Jansen. I had heard he was the comic relief in this game and was a little 
 on the worried side because characters like that can be very annoying. And he is annoying, but 
 in a fantastic way. He actually is funny and keeps you laughing throughout the game.
  
  This brings me to the subject of the voice acting. I was really surprised by how great the voice 
 acting was after hearing the voice acting in Blue Dragon, which was akward to say the least. But 
 the voice acting in this game is near perfect in my opinion. I actually looked forward to the cutscenes 
 because of the voice acting. 
  
  As for graphics, it some how reminds me a bit of Final Fantasy X. It's a very beautiful game but 
 like Final Fantasy X, it has flaws. The hair doesn't move quite right and sometimes the clothes 
 seem to be the same way. Very much like FFX. It's not bad by ANY means though. 
  
  Now for the gameplay. The gameplay is actually very fun and will consume most of your time. 
 
  There are 4 discs and many great side bosses that are to be found, treasure, and other side things 
 to collect such as Kaims Dreams which are his memories from his lifetime of 1000 years. But these 
 dreams aren't cutscenes but actually novelas. They are very well written and I did enjoy the stories 
 which were actually very touching. 
  As for battle, it plays very much like Final Fantasy. There is a ring system though to change things 
 up a bit. 
  It works like this. You equip your character with a ring that will have a certain effect on either 
 your characters weapon or on the enemy. When you go to pyshically attack an enemy a ring will appear 
 and will close in on another ring. When the 2 rings meet up you press the right shoulder button. 
 This causes the effect to occur if you hit it well or perfect. It's actually really fun because 
 it isn't necessary but is a great addition to combat. 
  
  There are also skills. Mortals learn skills by leveling up, but for a immortal to learn skills 
 you have to learn them from the mortals. It's a really interesting system that works well and is 
 pretty fun. 
  
  As for people who are wondering how close this is to the Final Fantasy world, I can tell you it 
 is a lot like Final Fantasy. But it was created by the same people who created FF and the music 
 is done by the same man who made all that great music for FF. So what? Why is there a problem with 
 that? Final Fantasy is great and just because this doesn't have the Final Fantasy name doesn't 
 make it any less great. 
  So if you are an RPG fan or Final Fantasy fan, you owe it to yourself to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey plays much like your standard turn based rpgs. Combat is waged through menus, as you 
 decide wha attacks, items, skill you want to use or spell you want to cast. You've seen it all 
 before. Elements that are good to use against other and such, status ailemts such as poison. I 
 mean, if you've played a final Fantasy then you pretty much know exactly what your getting yourself 
 into for the most part. The combat is fortuantly spiced a bit with aim rings. You can forge these 
 by combining loot you gain from battle. These rings when equiped can upgrade your character's physical 
 attacks, with any number of effects, some can be used to make your attacks more effective on certain 
 enemies. Some can cause status ailments. When equiped, when your character is running to attack 
 an enemy a large ring will and appear with a smaller one in front of an enemy. By holding the right 
 trigger your suppose to get the larger ring to shrink and match the smaller one. The more closely 
 they match after letting go of the right trigger, the more damage your attack will do. Theres also 
 formation to be taken into acount. the front row of your formation raises the defence for the back 
 row, so it's best to keep attackers at the front and your spell casters in the back. Leveling up 
 also isn't quite as straight forward. While the mortals of your party automatically learn their 
 skills and abilities from leveling up, the immortals aren't quite as linear. The immortals can 
 learn abilies from mortals by skill linking. The mortal the imortal is linked with must participate 
 in battle in order to learn the skill. Imortals can also learn skill from items they have equiped.
 
  
  The music in this game is composed by Nobuo Uematsu of Final Fantasy fame and it should become 
 quite obvious as soon as you pop in the disc. That said, the sound track is amamzing. The voice 
 acting is excelent as well. And the game give you five language options which is pretty nice. It's 
 rare that games provide more than one, let alone five. Especialy rpgs.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a beautiful game. The enviroments, the characters and monster designs are all top 
 notch. And facials animations in this game are the most impressive I've seen since Half-Life. The 
 game also sports a good amount of cg cut scenes. Unfortunatly, there are sometimes visual glitches 
 and some times the frame rate will lagg a little, even during some cut scenes. It's not really 
 a show stopper, but it may annoy some people.
  
  The game largest stregnth comes from it's cast of character. This game has more soul in it than 
 any other I've ever seen. This game jush have more emotion to it than anything else. There are 
 alot of tear jerking moments. No doubt, fans of the Final Fantasy series will love this. The game 
 also tells some short stories in the form of One thousand years of dreams. Their short stories 
 of Kaim's past. Perhaps some of the most well writen short stoories I've ever read. The gmae's 
 antagonist and the main story itself isn't really new stuff, but just the way it's all done and 
 the characters and emotions just really gives Lost Odyssey an idenity among all the rpgs out there. 
 It's really hard to describe it all, but in short, the game's story is just spectacular.
  
  Lost Odyssey really lives up to the price. The game on it's own with out the optional stuff will 
 take you around fourty or fifty hours to complete. Besides the main quest though the are many, 
 many, many hour that can be spent on the games good amount of optional bosses, looking for special 
 items, weapons, equipment, the back yard (a challenge mode of sorts, where you must defeat difficult 
 enemies under certain contions) , finding pirates (see for yeorself) , and just trying to learn all 
 the skills for those delicious achievements (alot harder than it sounds) . The hours really add up. 
 And once you beat the game, if you wish to start a new game on the file you'll get to play the 
 game with all the imortals already a level 50 when you get them.
  
  Lost Odyssey over all is a pretty good RPG, and I'd reccomend it above all for it's story. Those 
 who miss the old days of Final Fanasy VII, VIII, IX and X will eat this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way early doors... this game is as flexible as an iron sword, it welcomes 
 beginners as warmly as the Jlan would welcome a visit from Martin Luther King... if you're not 
 prepared to put in a hell of a lot of effort then walk away now.
  
  My usual approach to an RPG is to grind my way through the game, if I get stuck on a battle I'll 
 backtrack, grind up a few levels, and go back... Lost Odyssey doesn't want you to do that and makes 
 it exceptionally hard... you can grind, but you'll have to kill 100 creatures to gain just 1 level.
 
  
  There are places you can grind, but they appear much later in the game, and you'll need to learn 
 a certain spell to have any real chance of getting anywhere fast.
  
  Lost Odyssey is an old fashioned RPG, a long winded story with very few twists and a lot of cliche's, 
 everything you associate with Japanese RPG's is here, the random battle, the pre and post battle 
 poses, the post battle jingle, annoying little kids and comedic characters... all present, in spades.
 
  
  The ring system adds a nice touch to the battles, at least it stops them from being just a pyrotechnical 
 extravaganza full of uber moves and massive swords (although they are of course both present in 
 abundance) .
  
  Its very cutscene heavy, even more so than other RPG's in a similar vain, and the dreams you can 
 unlock as you play are a real exercise in patience, usually 20+ screens of text that can't decide 
 how it wants to appear on screen... opting instead for showing a massive variety of different methods 
 that looks like a student with a PowerPoint presentation who is desperate to show off all the different 
 ways he can put text on screen... and having sat through all of them and read over 600 screens 
 of text... you get rewarded with a measley 10 gamerpoints.
  
  The graphics are top notch, if you need to see something closer just pull the right trigger to 
 get a closer look, and the level of detail is even more in evidence during the cut scenes, most 
 of which are done with the in game engine, so if you've equiped your character with a stupid little 
 crown to learn an ability... they'll be wearing it in the cut scene.
  
  The music is a delight and everything you'd expect, gaining speed and gravitas as needed reching 
 a crescendo during the boss battles.
  
  Having been hard as nails thoughout though, if you take it on yourself to search every single area, 
 and complete every side quest, chances are by the time you get to the end battles you'll be so 
 bloody tough the last battle can be over in minutes... unlike a couple of 15 minute battles to 
 win the final two Backyard battles to gain a couple of rare accessories.
  
  Some games you almost feel embarrased to have on your gamer card, Avatar especially, but having 
 anything close to the full thousand points on offer here is the gaming equivalent of the Purple 
 Heart or Victoria Cross.
  
  Its a decent enough game, but there are too many niggles to make it a great game, and certainly 
 not one you'll want to play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  The truth is that if you want to really see every cinematic and read every dream you are going 
 to spend half of your time doing so more than actually playing, and that's if your are a fast reader, 
 otherwise, don't even mention it.
  
  The game has a spectacular story. The story is so grate that you want to see every cinematic and 
 some times it touches your heart. It won't make you cry but it will warm up your hart. If it make 
 you cry, you are way too sensitive.
  
  As you may know the game is turn based, which I love since I can play it laying down without too 
 much stress. It has very good graphics and very nice enemies. It gives you the options of creating 
 rings that you can use to enhance your power and stuff and it has a system where the immortals 
 learn their skills from the mortals when you link the skill and fight along side them. Of course 
 the mortals learn their skills from leveling up and you find some magic in treasures or you can 
 buy them too. With this system it makes you use the mortals to get the skills and then teach them 
 to the immortals.
  
  Something that realy bothers me is the fact that you can't rotate your view. You are stuck in an 
 almos two dimesional view. I know that it would take more memory but man, we are in next generation 
 consoles. If you could have an 360 view the game would be almost perfect
  
  The only thing that I don't like is the incredibly way too long dreams that you need to read. You 
 can just skip them if you want, but since the story is so nice you don't want to miss one that 
 could be important to the plot. Some of them are not important at all to the understanding of what's 
 going on, but I don't want to take the chance of skipping an important one. So you spend a great 
 deal of time reading I would make them a lot shorter. They are very poetic and stuff but sometimes 
 they are just going around the point and sometimes you don't know what it is. Most of them are 
 way to sad. So if you are sensitive I recommend you to have a box of kleenex nearby, kidding...
 
  
  In conclusion, I recommend this game to those you know how to enjoy a work of art. If you want 
 a lot of action, you would be probably very bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey has, arguably, some of the best cut scenes I have ever seen in a video game. Some 
 are so pretty, you'll be wondering fi you put a DVD in.
  
  Lost Odyssey follow Kaim, an immortal ma, on his path to get his memories back. He meets up with 
 many other immortals along the way, some that will help him, and some that won't. He also meets 
 other mortals who he learns skills from ( more on that later) .
  Lost Odyssey is not likely to wow you with its gameplay. You walk around, open chests, solve puzzles 
 and more. Then there are the random monster encounters.
  
  Fights occur in the same way as almost all RPGs. You select your actions, who your attacking, and 
 watch. That's it. Lost Odyssey does, however, try to change things up a little bit. Introduced 
 was the ring system. You equip a ring to a character, and it has a special effect on their physical 
 attacks. These effects range from status effects, elemental effects and extra damage on certain 
 types of foes. It can become strategic by equipping the right ring. When attacking a foe, two rings 
 appear. One closes in on the other as you hold down the right trigger. You then let go as it gets 
 within the inner ring and you get a rating ( Bad, Good, Perfect) and more damage is awarded for 
 a better rank. 
  
  Also new is Skill Linking, and Guard Condition. For a immortal to learn skills (magic, fighting 
 skills etc.) he/she must link that skill with a mortal in the battle party. You earn SP at the 
 ed of a battle, and a certain amount of SP is needed to master a skill so that character can use 
 it. It is confusing at first, but you can learn it quickly.
  
  Guard Condition is basically saying: "The higher you guard condition, the less damage the back 
 row recieves". Although that can change. Once your guard condition is down, it can not be raised 
 unless certain skills are used. So if your guard condition is 400 and an enemy does 310 damage 
 to a unit in the front row, the GC is now 190. Even if you heal, the GC stays the same. It's innovative, 
 improving on the rowing system.
  
  Length? Lost Odyssesy is a whopping FOUR (!!!!) discs long. The first disc is mainly story, and 
 isn't as interesting as the second, where you get many more characters, and you can finally start 
 the games side quests.
  
  Overall, Lost Odyssey is a great game with great graphics. New innovation make it fresh, but if 
 you're not a fan of RPGs, this game won't help you change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I haven't spent a lot of time playing this game so far but from what I've seen and experienced 
 it's absolutely breath-taking. The graphics are unbelievable and cut scenes make me wanna bust 
 a nut on the screen : ) P After playing FF XII for the PS2 and enduring the new battle system (as 
 good as it may be) I'm glad to come back to the turn-based system of fighting. It adds a certain 
 amount of strategy to the battles that makes it interesting. I do wish that you had a full 360 
 view with the camera and it would be nice if you didn't have to read through the dreams (sorry 
 if I've spoiled anything) . Seeing as this game is 4 discs (another return to how RPG's used to 
 be) I would have thought that there wouldn't be much reading involved but I guess it's good to 
 keep those Gen Y's and whatever this new generation is called on their spoiled toes. But seriously, 
 if I wanted to read I'd pick up a book. This being said, I don't see too many issues with this 
 game. The story seems very immersing and I'm afraid that it may become way to addicting to the 
 point where I become a sloth. Great game and kudos to the developers : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is definitely the best JRPG out for the 360. The main storyline is 40hours long, and 
 included with side quests, it could take up to 90 hours for the average gamer.
  
  Gameplay: It's a turn based RPG, so just think Final Fantasy style. The battles consist in random 
 encounters, luckily, they're not frequent. There is a Ring System, which allows you to equip rings 
 to a character, giving them special abilities, to use rings, you must correctly time your attack 
 in battle. Customization is highly available in the game, though there won't be much options on 
 the first disk. 
  The game also includes puzzles at times, some which are brain teasers at times, but fun. Now, the 
 boss battles. Most of the battles require strategy, and high levels. The first boss battle is based 
 on luck, so, you might clear it in your first time, or in 10 tries if you're unlucky. Leveling 
 up is not a problem, you can have the appropriate level anywhere, or level up (with decent amount 
 of EXP, anywhere) when you're not supposed to level up any further, the enemies will start giving 
 away little EXP.
  
  Visuals: The game in general may look like an advanced ps2 RPG in SD tvs, but the backgrounds, 
 and cut-scenes are gorgeous. In HD TVs it's a whole other story, completely beautiful in every 
 aspect. The facial expressions, the bodies, the backgrounds, beautiful. 
  
  Sound: Amazingly well. The voice acting is solid, and the music scores... astounding, they fit 
 perfectly well with their scenes.
  
  Controls: It's a turn-based RPG, you scroll down to choose what you want to do in battle. When 
 the ring system is available in battle, you just time the counter right, to increase power.
  
  Overral: Lost Odyssey is a must have if you like JRPGs. Its story is amazing and touching, 
 the gameplay is simple and fun, and you can easily get from 40-80 hours of time out of it. Lost 
 Odyssey, won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coder62
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  I will start off by commenting on the review that Lost Odyssey got from websits such as this one 
 amoung others, it was what I believe to be an unjust score that was rated on slow loading times 
 which simply do not exist in the retail version.
  
  Graphics:
  
  To start Lost Odyssey's grahpics are some of the best I have yet seen on xbox 360, it rivals those 
 of Mass effect and are simply out standing, mix this with the FMV's and what you get is a game 
 which I rate 10/10 on graphics.
  
  Music:
  
  Lost Odyssey boasts music from the famed artist Nobuo Uematsu, the genious behind the fantasic 
 Final Fantasy games.
  The music is soulfull and truely you can sit in one area of the game simply enjoying the music 
 before moving on, its a mix of fast paced battle music to slow enjoyable tunes for softer moments, 
 are true work of art to say the least.
  
  Playability:
  
  Lost Odyssey plays like an old school JRPG should, smoothly from start to finish, always making 
 it clear exactly what should be done in the next step of the game, sometimes indicating mistakes 
 you might have made by a cut screen where a fellow character might set you right.
  
  Play length:
  
  A question which people often ask but dont get a good answer for is how long 
 it takes to complete, well I will set this out easy:
  
  Quick gamers: People who just want to whip through the game asap: 40 - 50 Hours
  
  Casual gamers: 
 People who enjoy walking around and leveling up most of their characters, doing side quests: 55-70 
 Hours
  
  Hardcore gamers: People who love everything about a game and wish to get everything they can out 
 of it, walking places and taking in the sites and truely finishing the game: 75-90 Hours
  
  The ONLY downside to this game it sometimes it can take a 5-10 seconds for a battle to start, which 
 for some people might be abit to long and for others it might not bother them.
  
  I hope this review helps you decide if Lost Odyssey is the game for you, if so then thanks for 
 reading and I hope you enjoy the epic journey you will be embarking apon!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey could easily have been the next Final Fantasty game. In fact, I think it would definitely 
 have made a better FFXII game. The story in Lost odyssey is probably it's strongest point. As cliche 
 as it is, you'll still find yourself loving every moment it has to offer. Kaim Argonar, the main 
 badass dude, is probably my new all-time favorite hero after playing this game intensely. In fact, 
 all the ally characters are pretty darn decent, with Jansen being my favorite. He's got some pretty 
 funny lines that are sure to make you laugh at some point. The voice acting is amazing. SURPRISINGLY 
 amazing might I add, since JRPG rarely have decent english voice acting. And to top off the main 
 story, you'll get some sweet short stories in the "1000 years dream" sequences that you find trough 
 out the game as you explore the world.
  
  The gameplay is nothing new as far as JRPGs are concerned, which is a good thing if you ask me. 
 You'll get into random encounters, level up your dudes and equip them with weapons. They did however 
 tweak a few things like the ability to fully customise your immortal's skills and whatnots. Also 
 the "ring" attack is a pretty neat add-in feature for a turn-based battle system. But for the most 
 part it stays true to it's roots, and I for one am quite happy with that. The game will last you 
 anywhere from 30 to 70 hours. All depending on what kind of gamer you are. If you love to explore 
 and search for the hidden goodies, this game will keep you happy through out. The visuals in this 
 game are quite nice. Good character models and nice scenery add to the pleasure of playing this 
 game. The music is a good enough reason to buy this game alone. Never have I heard such an amazing 
 original score.
  
  All and all this game is perfect. The only issue It could have used a little work on would have 
 to be the load times. They are quite frequent, but not too long (thank god) . If you're a die hard 
 JRPG fan or a noob to the whole thing, Lost Odyssey will satisfy you in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aureatus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  I am in my 30's and I have played every FF that has been out. This game made me realize I have 
 out grown JRPG's. This is not an RPG it is an adventure story that would have served better as 
 an anime. I would have rather to watch this and not play it at all. The story is good the graphics 
 are fair, and the gameplay is too old-school. There needs to be a new genre for these type of games 
 this is not an RPG anymore. In 1989 the game play would be awesome but in 2008 we should be playing 
 Mass Effect or Oblivion style RPG's. The game is not that hard, it is beatable, and it takes a 
 lot of time to kill the bosses. But there is something to having random encounters every step. 
 I got bored and stop playing it. Because of this game I am no longer a fan of J"RPG?"s. I will 
 wait for Mass Effect 2 and Fallout 3 and Age Of Conan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey contains some of the most tender writing ever committed to a videogame. Kaim, the 
 game's protagonist, is cursed with immortality. Cursed because, for all of life's joys and triumphs, 
 there is inevitable and equal sadness and loss. It is these burdens  wives and children departed, 
 homes razed by natural disaster, the unforgettable death masks of 10,000 enemy soldiers  which, 
 when multiplied over eternity, become a weight too heavy for any man to bear.
  
  Despite Kaim's amnesia, that scourge of so many an RPG hero, these far-flung memories break into 
 his consciousness by way of dreams, triggered by people, places or events encountered through the 
 game. Each of the 31 dreams is presented by text that reveals as you read it, sound tracked by 
 music boxes and melancholy tinkling pianos, touching and sparse vignettes of narrative that examine 
 the human condition with keen eloquence. 
  
  Penned by Japanese novelist Kiyoshi Shigematsu and translated by Jay Rubin, a Harvard professor 
 best known for his translations of Haruki Murakami's novels, each brims with sentiment but remains 
 shy of sentimentality. These segments of the game are special, beautiful even, but they are shining 
 jewels set in a surround of more contentious material.
  
  This, the second Xbox 360 RPG from Hironobu Sakaguchi's Mist walker, is almost as traditional as 
 the first. The genre's most recent journeys into innovation are all forgotten here in favour of 
 a framework reminiscent of the nine-year-old Final Fantasy VIII. The game's flow is predictable 
 and orthodox: explore a corridored environment while fighting random battles, face off against 
 a boss, and finally trigger the next narrative interlude. Save for the fact that the protagonist 
 is past his petulant teenage years (although making him 1,000 years old was perhaps overkill in 
 answering complaints) the game conforms to all the genre's strengths and weaknesses, yet more evidence 
 that it's Sakaguchi's departure from Square Enix that has freed the rival company to explore the 
 interactive story's modern potential.
  
  Principal among the game's achievements is the storyline, which, even outside of Shigematsu's exemplary 
 work, is compelling, only occasionally slipping into the sentimentality the dream interludes so 
 deftly avoid. Told via long and frequent cut scenes, the narrative is well-directed, utilizing 
 frame-in-frame film techniques and enhanced by Nobuo Uematsu's thoughtful score. Similarly, the 
 motion-captured and Japanese-voiced characters bring humour and believability to every scene. Thanks 
 largely to the flashbacks, Kaim emerges as a deep and interesting lead character, lending additional 
 weight and sincerity to some of the game's standout moments, which include what is surely the most 
 affecting death yet seen in an RPG.
  
  Lost Odyssey displays considerable visual flair, too. A sprawling and awesome battlefield cut scene 
 slips smoothly into an interactive fight in the game's early stages; Kaim leans into the heavy 
 rain as you traverse a mountain top; a flock of crows disperse into the menacing sky as you cross 
 the threshold of an aged haunted mansion. These memorable visual moments modernize the musty internal 
 mechanics in such a way as to make them more palatable, even if the Unreal Engine 3 tech sitting 
 beneath sometimes hudders under the burden.
  
  However, so much attention has been lavished on the story and its presentation that, when interactivity 
 rears its head, it's done almost begrudgingly. Occasionally a tedious minigame is crowbarred into 
 the middle of a serious story scene as some desperate means to involve the viewer as a player. 
 Often it's ineffective, breaking the spell created by the filmic direction and reminding you that 
 you're in an antiquated videogame after all, with all the clicking on dustbins to find coins, banal 
 and incessant NPC conversations and unimaginative find and fetch side-quests of old.
  
  The turn-based battle system, however, offers enough idiosyncrasies and ideas to maintain interest 
 over the game's four discs. The formation of your team (created from up to five of the story characters) 
 is of special importance, those members positioned in the front row acting as a shield (complete 
 with its own separate HP) to protect those in the rear. Additionally, a complex skill system in 
 which team members can study and acquire each other's moves adds much-needed flexibility. The ring 
 system, which adds rhythm-action timing to increase the effectiveness of physical hits, works well, 
 and enemy design demands the use of the full range of attacks and techniques as well as attentive 
 strategizing to overcome.
  
  Despite its length, Lost Odyssey is essentially a celebration of finite things. Its lasting message, 
 a message punched home at every opportunity, is a warning to those who wish for immortality. Everything 
 has its day, says the game, and nothing should last forever. An apt lesson, perhaps, for the game 
 itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  The endless flow of time is a harsh master to us all. Its relentless nature makes every second 
 of life precious because, ultimately, every second that goes by takes us closer to death. So imagine 
 if you weren't constrained by this eternal force. Imagine if you were blessed with a life that 
 never ends. Free you may be from the limits of mortality, but truly, is the gift of eternal life 
 a blessing or a curse? Lost Odyssey tells the tale of such a man, the tale of Kaim Argonar and 
 his quest to regain his lost memories of the last thousand years.
  
  It's clear from the beginning that Lost Odyssey is an emotionally-charged and heavily story-driven 
 experience. A lot of factors contribute to this, but none more so than the marvellous cast of characters. 
 At first glance Kaim appears to be the stereotypical angst-ridden protagonist, but this myth is 
 quickly debunked with some deep character development. Segments of Kaim's memory will return as 
 you progress which reveal a lot about his past. It becomes clear that there's a kind and gentle 
 side to him, although he has witnessed many tragedies and harbours a heart full of sorrow. The 
 memories recover themselves slowly, and you'll find yourself eagerly demanding to know all about 
 the experiences Kaim has endured. The rest of the cast serve as effective contrasts to the tormented 
 protagonist; the happy-go-lucky pirate (and fellow immortal) Seth, mischievous brother-sister combo 
 Mack & Cooke, and ladies man Jansen (definitely one of the most refreshing and hilarious RPG characters 
 of recent times) are but a few of the colourful characters that make the game so memorable.
  
  Seeing as developers Mistwalker were formed by ex-Square-Enix employees, you'll be right at 
 home if you've ever played a Final Fantasy game. Arguably the best manifestation of such a claim 
 is in the excellent soundtrack, headed up by long-time Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu. Character 
 development and script-writing is nothing if not accompanied by a worthy soundtrack, so it's a 
 good thing that this is some of Uematsu-san's best work. The intensity of a fierce battle, the 
 joy of reuniting with acquaintances of the past, or the sorrow of losing a loved one the music 
 is spot on in every situation and gives you the extra capacity to immerse yourself in the story 
 and care about its characters. The voice-acting, however, is more of a mixed bag. While Jansen's 
 voice captures the spirit of the charming, cowardly, and ultimately sincere man he is, Mack's whining 
 young tone will start to grate on you.
  
  Parallel to the story-telling side of the game, Lost Odyssey's game system is based on old-skool 
 RPGs with some twists. Random encounters play out in a turn-based battle format; you select an 
 action (attack, spell, item, etc.) for each of your characters and the battle unfolds. Every RPG 
 deals in its own way with the monotony that will inevitably develop from turn-based battling, and 
 Lost Odyssey uses the ring system and the guard wall.
  
  Each character can equip a ring infused with one or many different effects, such as increasing 
 damage output or adding an element to the attack. But in order to activate these effects you need 
 to score a good or perfect rating in the ring mini-game. When you initiate an attack a small target 
 ring appears over the enemy; holding the right trigger will cause a second ring to appear around 
 the target ring, the goal being to release the trigger when the two overlap. The timing for perfect 
 ratings is tricky at first, but practise and good ring selection are rewarded by increased effectiveness 
 in battle.
  
  When you're on the defensive, you'll be more concerned with the guard wall. Each of your five active 
 characters can be placed into either the front or back row; being in the front contributes to the 
 guard wall and being in the back means you'll be defended by it. The sum of every front row character's 
 health points determines your guard condition; at full condition, anyone in the back row will take 
 minimal damage from even the most fearsome attacks. This works for your enemies too, so you need 
 to take down front row foes first before inflicting any meaningful damage on the back row. It's 
 a simple concept but plays a huge part in strategic planning; how many do you want to put in the 
 front row? Can you use any skills to bypass the enemy wall? You'll need to find the right balance 
 to succeed against the tougher bosses.
  
  Outfitting your characters with the right skills is the key to having them play roles such as the 
 attacker, the healer, or the support unit. In this regard, there is a distinction between how the 
 mortal and immortal characters learn new skills. As mortals level up, they'll naturally learn skills 
 that can be used at any time. In addition to this, they can benefit from the skill associated with 
 the accessory they have equipped. Immortals don't learn skills by themselves but can learn skills 
 from accessories permanently over time. They can also skill link with mortals; if the linked mortal 
 and immortal fight in the same battles, the immortal will eventually learn the skill. It's an interesting 
 concept, but towards the end game, the immortal characters can become so powerful that the mortals 
 are only there for skill linking purposes.
  
  Any RPG worth its salt is packed full of side-quests, and you'll find plenty in this gargantuan 
 four-disc adventure. Although the majority of the larger side-quests can't be undertaken until 
 the latter stages, you'll be quickly introduced to the Thousand Years of Dreams quest. As you trek 
 between towns and dungeons, certain events will trigger Kaim's mind to recall a memory. If you 
 choose to view the dream there and then (you can also view them when you rest at an inn) , you'll 
 be treated to a short story from Kaim's long life. Although there are no actual cut-scenes to depict 
 what's going on, these stories are extremely well written and a joy to read. The minimalist design 
 of these dreams mean the text is accompanied only by music and a slide show of still images, but 
 still, they have a profound effect. These memories aren't related to the main story of Lost Odyssey, 
 rather they act as anecdotes with strong moral themes behind them, but they still provide a fascinating 
 glimpse into Kaim's history and personality. Not everyone is going to enjoy reading a short story 
 for a couple of minutes, but they're undoubtedly a fantastic (and unique) way to enhance the story 
 and character development.
  
  Part of the reason for the four-discs is an abundance of beautifully rendered CG cut-scenes. The 
 intro sequence depicting a fierce battle between two warring nations is particularly breath-taking, 
 and really sets the bar across the system. You might be worried about being bogged down by sequence 
 after sequence, but you're rarely bombarded with them. Outside of extravagant CG, Lost Odyssey's 
 visuals are inconsistent. Environments are well crafted and diverse, but some of the character 
 modelling looks unimpressive and low-res (this is more an issue with NPCs rather than your party) . 
 It's particularly noticeable during in-engine cut-scenes where the camera gets in close; jaggy 
 edges and poor textures are noticeable at times. The other side of the coin is the great use of 
 camera tricks. Those same in-engine sequences that can have some technical deficiencies are given 
 an extra sense of tension with subtle camera choreography; it serves to add more tension or emotion 
 to a scene where relevant, and even during battles, the dynamic camera work can make a dungeon 
 full of battles a lot more exciting. 
  
  For all its merits, Lost Odyssey has relatively few flaws. Frame-rate stuttering is the main culprit, 
 and it's often at its worst in the pre-battle stages and in particularly busy environments. Although 
 the encounter rate is steady, the relatively long load times for battles is frustrating and can 
 bog you down. This is worse in the few dungeons that have frustrating and context-less puzzles, 
 but on the whole the dungeon design is impressive.
  
  After the few disappointing games that promised to be the solution to the 360's RPG problem, we 
 finally have the answer in Lost Odyssey. Well crafted in every-which way with only a series of 
 minor faults, this is an epic and charged adventure that any RPG fan is going to want to play. 
 The box may not be adorned with the famous name of Final Fantasy, but it shares those impressive 
 production values whilst managing to escape stand outside the shadow of its illustrious counterpart. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Mistwalker are back. But can they give the X360 the JRPG it deserves?
  
  As the second high profile release of fledgling studio Mistwalker, Lost Odyssey has a lot riding 
 on its pedigree. As the brainchild of Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi and with music from 
 longtime Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu, you'd be forgiven for wanting to compare this to 
 the series with which Sakaguchi earned his reputation.
  
  You'd also be right to do so. Name aside, Lost Odyssey is, in many ways, a Final Fantasy game. 
 The hallmarks are all there: quasi-industrial fantasy setting, enigmatic main character, a world 
 overflowing with magic and monsters and political turmoil, and a storyline that sees the setting 
 through to the brink of destruction. Sure, there are no moogles, no Chocobos and no Summons on 
 offer here, but LO has its own tricks to add to the mix.
  
  As with any Japanese RPG, it could be argued that the appeal of the game is equal parts story and 
 game mechanic. Wheras many Western RPG's focus primarily on story, with the JRPG the emphasis is 
 often squarely on the gameplay, with the story a mechanic to guide you along from one battle to 
 the next. Its pleasing, then, that the system in LO is every bit as competent and refined as anything 
 you'd find in a Final Fantasy game, with a deep skill system and some interesting twists that serve 
 to liven up the combat considerably.
  For the most part, LO is a strictly turn-based affair. Every action takes a certain amount of time 
 to complete, dependent upon the character and the action itself- attacking an enemy with a sword 
 might occur pretty quickly, but not as quickly as quaffing a health potion, whereas casting a powerful, 
 area-affecting spell will take longer than casting a basic spell against one enemy. Once you've 
 set actions for each member of your party, they act them out in sequence, although some actions 
 can affect others- for instance, a character casting a spell that gets hit by an enemy will take 
 longer to cast the spell. Then there comes the Ring system. Characters equipped with a Ring will 
 find two circles, one growing, one shrinking, and by releasing the right trigger as the two overlap, 
 you can inflict extra damage. It's a simple mechanic, to be sure, and one that has been tried before 
 (Legend of Dragoon has a similar timed battle system) but it serves well to break up the flow of 
 combat.
  
  Coupled with this is the interesting skill system. Certain characters in the game are Immortals, 
 and whilst the immortals are generally far more powerful than the mortal characters, they have 
 no innate skills of their own. Rather, the immortals must learn their skills from mortal characters 
 or from equipped items, giving you a dilemma- do you keep the weaker, specialised mortal characters 
 with you just so Kaim can learn that great new skill, or do you switch to the immortals and use 
 their more potent and customisable abilities? Also of note is the fact that immortal characters 
 will automatically revive themselves after a couple of turns of being unconscious, although if 
 your party gets wiped out its game over as normal. Thankfully the game is fairly kind with frequent 
 save points (normally at the beginning and just before the boss of each dangerous area) and checkpoints 
 before bosses, although don't let that fool you into thinking LO is easy- in fact, it's one of 
 the most finely balanced RPG's of recent years. Every enemy has its weakness, but if you don't 
 exploit that right the game can be quite punishing.
  
  So that's the system. But fortunately, LO doesn't skimp on the storyline, either. In fact, LO offers 
 one of the more memorable and emotionally involving plots yet seen from a JRPG. 
  
  The game casts you as Kaim Argonar, an immortal who has lived a thousand years but can remember 
 very little, just odd flashes of memory. It's not long before you come across other immortals, 
 like the ex-pirate Seth, who, like Kaim, can remember little of her former life. It turns out that 
 most immortals have lost their memories for some reason- except one, who might well be responsible 
 for the memory loss, and who just happens to want to control the world, as well. But hey, someone 
 was bound to, right?
  
  Granted, the premise isn't incredible. But it's the execution which LO excels with, and in its 
 daring to veer away from the JRPG norm. Kaim might be the moody hero, but having lived a thousand 
 years, he's seen it all, done it all, and is pretty fed up with his lot. Memories that you unlock 
 throughout the game- penned by famous Japanes author Kiyoshi Shigematsu and remarkably well translated- 
 reveal insights into his former life. These insights are invariably emotionally charged, powerfully 
 presented, and add a real sense of meaning to the concept of immortality for our hero. Likewise, 
 the story isn't afraid to deal with issues of morality and indeed mortality, and the long lived 
 characters have back stories worthy of their thousand year history, including some characters having 
 children and even grandchildren. Such ideas seem truly fresh in this setting, and are oddly reminiscent 
 of widely respected PC RPG Planescape: Torment.
  
  What really sets LO apart, though, is the way everything is brought together and the way the story 
 is told. Truly incredible cutscenes highlight the most important parts of the action, and the beautiful 
 visuals are filled with loving detail and great artistic design. Characters move fluidly and convincingly, 
 and surprisingly, the in-game character models are capable of conveying depths of emotion previously 
 undreamed of in CG.
  
  Furthermore, Uematsu's sweeping score adds a great deal to the game, with all the quality of composition 
 you would expect from an acclaimed composer yet also spiced with catchy tunes that you'll find 
 yourself humming along with very quickly. The boss music and theme song (by Sheena Easton, no less) 
 bear special mention for their significance. All of this goes hand-in-hand with the voice acting 
 as well, which is available in a multitude of languages (including original Japanese) but to be 
 honest, the English dub is just fine. Most characters are acted convincingly, with notable performances 
 for Seth and Jansen, who together form something of a comedy duo for the group.
  
  Overall, there is a lot to like about LO. The great production and direction is marred only by 
 a couple of poorly paced sections and dull side-quests, but these aren't bad enough to impact the 
 whole. Yes, the game is spread over 4 discs and packed with FMVs, but theres plenty of content 
 here- enough to last you 50+ hours on a first playthrough, more if you're going for all the achievements. 
 Speaking of which, don't expect anything as sadistic as Blue Dragon's achievements here- there 
 are the obligatory ones for learning every skill and unlocking every dream, but at least there's 
 a healthy amount just for getting through each disc.
  LO is a traditional game in its execution, but not in its concept. The deep, character driven stories 
 are far more central to the game than the overarching plot, but even the political intrigue and 
 warmongering that the central storyline only scratches the surface of is far more involving and 
 engrossing than the lacklustre presentation of FFXII's storyline. LO might not be Final Fantasy, 
 but it comes more than close, and equals  if not exceeds- the level of the respected series at 
 its peak. In short, Lost Odyssey is easily the finest Final Fantasy game never made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a great game. It has very strong gameplay and a very long, emotional, and extremely 
 great story. The combat is turn based but it isn't boring at all. You have to press the RT at the 
 right moment so you can do more damage as you strike so its not like your sitting there watching 
 a scene. The story is amazing and orignial. Although I never get sad in games some scenes actually 
 made me feel sad and I am not an emotional guy at all. The game is very long and took me about 
 86 hours total to complete it with 1000 achievement points for it. I usally hate games Chinesse 
 games or Japanese games because of how the characters look and the pictures on the walls look like 
 anime which I hate but this game isn't like that at all. The game though can get really anoying. 
 In the game you level up and since it turn based combat when you face bosses it can be a huge pain. 
 But you end up beating them eventually so its not to bad but can get really annoying. I strongly 
 recomend this game to everyone. Wether you like Asian games or people this game is definitely a 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-obiwan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey its an awesome game for all the old school jrpg players. you gonna love this game 
 its really adictive , the gameplay its so nice the story its so deep, and the dreams are really 
 awesome, they got deeply inspired when they made this game its hard to describe it. i highly recommend 
 this game i have been enjoying this game for long!. this is was we all were expecting from a jrpg 
 you wont get dissapointed of it. the music its so lovely expected no less from nobuo Uematsu and 
 seriously Hironobu sakagushi made an awesome job with this game!. the graphical art its so nice 
 you gonna love it. the loading times its a joke there is no such thing!, so all the ppl that made 
 complainings about that are just bashers.. in any case im not agree with the score either its really 
 low for this game, in my opinion this game deserve a 10. so go get it if you still dont have it 
 you gonna enjoy this game trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrueda1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This was the first J-RPG I played. Before, I had enjoyed some western Role Playing Games (Vampire 
 series, for example) . Since the first video I saw I decided to buy it. And it worth the wait and 
 the money spent!.
  
  The game-play is as usual in that kind of games: travel over lands and fight monster when needed. 
 And between battles, reach the highest level of the characters as possible. Any innovation.
  
  The new characteristic of the game is the emotion. And it comes with two kinds: cinematic and 
 the text novel (I think it is the real great innovation of the game) . Many players try to skip 
 this "dreams". I think they are wrong because it adds the deep it is needed in the history. It 
 makes cry. Yes.
  
  Graphics are good. But not as good as Gears of War (although using the same game engine) . But sometimes 
 there are stop motion scenes (mainly when starting a fight) .
  
  Music is dramatically good.
  
  Load times are not long (around 5 seconds) , but I think some 
 of them should have been avoidable, but not a problem to me.
  
  My final score is a little low because the version I own (Spanish one) allows the player to choose 
 between some languages except Spanish. Anyway, all other items are in Spanish. So my experience 
 with the game was not frustrating as I speak English too, but I hear the Japanese voices, although 
 no lip-sync has been provided to the game in this language, but English lip-sync. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Where do we begin? I can say that this game has surpassed all of my expectations and has placed 
 itself in my all-time favorite RPGs along with FF7 and Chrono Trigger. Is it as engaging as those 
 two games? Maybe not. Does it deserve recognition for being it's own game? Yeah. Although it was 
 made by the guy who made Final Fantasy, and it feels FFish, it's not, and it does a good job of 
 establishing that.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 - Beautiful. The game has a perfect way of blending in many colors to make gorgeous 
 vistas, cool looking spells and enemies, and great looking characters. With such beauty, also comes 
 a price. Yes the game's graphics are top-notch, but it does ONCE-IN-A-WHILE slow down, but it's 
 rare. 
  
  Sound - 7/10 - Average. The tracks in this game aren't the BEST I've heard, but their certainly 
 not the worst. I just feel it could've been better. There are a couple nice tunes in there, but 
 none that are worth remembering. 
  The Voice Acting also isn't the worst I've heard, but some of the voices tend to get on your nerves, 
 or are lacking in emotion (this is only a problem for those characters that have MINOR roles, all 
 the major characters' voices are pretty good.)
  
  Gameplay - 8/10 - This is how a traditional turn based JRPG should be. I love the pace of the game, 
 it doesn't force you to complete the story, but it also doesn't let you forget what you're supposed 
 to do. The Ring system is also a nice touch to the turn base system. Your character equips a ring 
 that has different effects to it (you can make your own rings by the way) and you have to attack 
 the enemy, and a ring gauge will show up, you'll need to hold down the right trigger and let go 
 once the ring shrinks to the size of the smallest ring to land a Perfect, hit the white rings for 
 a Good, and don't hit any of the rings for a Poor. Is it impressive? No, but it does add a certain 
 strategy to the already stale formula (I love it, others say it's old) .
  
  Story - 7/10 - Surprise surprise, you have to save the world again... Sure it's got different characters, 
 but it's pretty much the same damn story of "Ok so this guy is evil, he's going to destroy the 
 world, let's level up throughout the game so we can encounter him at the end of the game to kill 
 him and live happily ever after". Nothing new. Although the character development in this game 
 is surprisingly deep. You'll take control of a cool guy whose name is Kaim Argonar, and see, he's 
 lost his memories, so you set out on a journey to basically find your memories and see what the 
 truth really is, once Kaim finds out the truth, the game gets pretty interesting, I won't spoil 
 anything, but the game does get emotional at times, not OMG I'M CRYING emotional, but where you'll 
 be like "Oh snap... I feel bad for him/her".
  
  
  
  
  Best JRPG on the 360 to date? Most definitely (JRPG meaning Japanese RPG by the way) . The game 
 deserves to be rented at the very list, to pass this up would be a crime. Although I really can't 
 promise you'll finish the ENTIRE game in a rental period because of the crap load of content this 
 game has to offer. Buy it if you love Final Fantasy, buy it if you love the Chrono series, buy 
 it if you love any turn based JRPG series, you won't be dissapointed, you won't regret it.
  
  
  Oh one more thing, everything you've heard about the load times is a COMPLETE LIE. The 
 most I've ever had to wait in the 40 hours of playing it is about 20 seconds, but that was because 
 it was loading a huge cutscene/me thinks my disc was dirty... bleh.
  
  Try it, buy it, enjoy it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benzdoc
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game take everything good about an RPG and destroys it, you don't get to choose how to level 
 your character, there is way and I mean why to much reading in this game, character to character 
 dialog is stupid, boring, and pointless. it is a dressed up 2d game. combat is not intuitive or 
 is it fun. Very disappointed in a game that got a 7.5 review. How bad does a game have to be to 
 get a poor review or is a 7.5 mean a bad game? Trying to move from a pc world to and xbox world 
 but other than a few game that are also available on the pc and frankly they look better on a pc. 
 i have yet to see a well done rpg for the xbox, Mass effect was alright but suffers from some of 
 the same problems. to much dialog, piss poor vehicle, dull and boring missions. Game designers 
 give me a great rpg for the xbox... please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarric3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  + Story is excellent, with compelling characters and all the twists and turns you would expect 
 from a great game
  
  + Graphics are truly next gen, brilliant looking characters and landscapes
  
  + The soundtrack 
 is wonderful, so good in fact I got a copy of the soundtrack
  
  + Skill learning system is innovative and different
  
  + Voice Acting is A+
  
  The Bad
 
  
  - Long battle intro scene that will start to give you a headache after a while
  
  
  Although the story takes a little while to really get going, when it does it is truly a masterpiece 
 of story telling. Kaim the protagonist, the immortal man is our hero in this game, at least at 
 first till he is joined by the other equally well written and endearing characters. I wont go too 
 much into Kaim's party mates as not to give away the story. The characters are so real, they react 
 just like real people, to real situations. Unlike so many other games they are all 3 dimensional 
 characters, with real problems, constantly fighting their own personal demons and overcoming overwhelming 
 odds to survive and in turn prosper. The game tackles all that comes from being immortal in "Dreams" 
 little short stories that come up on the screen for you to read, you dont have to read them but 
 if you do read them you gain a much greater appreciation for the immortal characters and how difficult 
 living such a life would. There are many heartwarming moments and other moments that will have 
 you in tears, it really is that well written. I wouldnt at all be suprised if Lost Odyssey ended 
 up a feature film.
  
  The graphics are excellent especially for a RPG game, the people look almost real even outside 
 the cutscenes. The landscapes are equally impressive the cities and forests all look great naturally 
 they cant be completely realistic due to the limitations on todays consoles but they certainly 
 look as good as they could.
  
  The soundtrack is at the pinnacle of success as far as game soundtracks go, it adds so much to 
 the game, to those emotional moments. The voice acting is just wonderful, the casting director 
 definetly picked the right people for the right jobs, they all sound exactly the way you think 
 they should, some are funny, some are serious, some are sad. But they all fit together so well 
 as a cast and you will really enjoy the banter amongst the characters and their little internal 
 squabbles they have can be quite amusing. 
  
  The skill linking system so the Immortal characters can learn skills from the mortal ones is definetly 
 an innovative one and is a big plus for the game so now fighters can learn magic attacks which 
 can make life alot easier if your mage is occupied with other tasks. It works by going into the 
 immortals skill menu then selecting skill link you then have the choice of all the skills you have 
 not yet learned from your mortal companions. It adds a little bit of realism to the games I have 
 wondered for years ever since I started playing RPG games why cant they teach each other skills, 
 they've got plenty of time. Well thankfully now they can the immortal ones anyway, I really hope 
 that the skill link system catches on and is part of RPG games of the future.
  
  I cant say enough good things about Lost Odyssey, the battle intro can be annoying but it doesnt 
 detract from the experience that much to truly be a real problem in the grand scheme of the game. 
 I highly reccomend this game to any one who is a fan of RPG games or even to gamers outside the 
 RPG sphere who just want to enjoy a compelling, heartwarming story. So no matter who you are, if 
 you own a 360 you should get to know Kaim and his friends, even if its only a rental, it will leave 
 you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoRiNi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  this game is GREAT , it's hard to describe something almost perfect like this.
  First I'll talk about the story which is something you don't see in most RPG's . Tis story is gorgeous 
 and there will be scenes where you would say thing like ( OMG) or ( WTF) and you may even hold 
 your head, believe me I did that .
  Second is the Dreams or the memories .. MAN there is stories in it that's even better than Dan 
 Brown's writings .. I became an addict of this game.
  Third the characters.. which is divided inti two groups , immortals and mortals and what a bunch 
 of great comrades.
  Finally I want to talk about the fighting system , it really surprises me that Gamespot didn't 
 like it .. I suppose if the game's name was Final Fantasy it would be something else.. this is 
 really sad.
  any gamer MUST have a Lost Odyssey in his/her collection .. this is an epic adventure .. this is 
 the best RPG I've played in years and it's the best RPG in the XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snozzeltoff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Ok i bought the asia version of this game, for a start the game case has better storage for the 
 4 disc of the game, thats right FOUR DISCS!
  This is a next gen game that uses four discs, quite impressive.
  
  Anyway...
  
  The game 
 starts off with nice fancy FMV sequences like any good RPG but these blend in almost without notice 
 with the in game sequences. You start straight in with the action, fighting in a war, this doesnt 
 last too long for reasons i wont go into.
  The combat is turn based, pretty much like FFX on the PS2, in the bottom right will be a list of 
 character pictures representing each characters turn. There are a few things they've worked on 
 to improve and expand on this system, like casting spells. If your attacked before you've cast, 
 your turn gets delayed and knocked back behind the next character. There is also a way you can 
 organise your party into formations, front and back. The stronger the front row's HP the stronger 
 there protection over the rear row making it hard to damage them without attacking the front row 
 first. There is also a ring system in which when you attack you hold the trigger down to match 
 the two rings on screen, the better the rating the more damage you do. It takes a while at first 
 but you soon get the hang of it.
  
  The story is the biggest part of this game, i wont go into it but the characters are well written 
 & scripted, voice cast is good and some of the moments you go through together are really quite 
 powerful.
  As you play you also unlock dreams, these are my favourite part, they way there presented and made 
 is fantastic, the writing of these short stories are really compelling.
  
  The game does have plenty of downers, this isnt really anything to do with the story, well it ties 
 in with the story but its game play in some areas that are not great.
  You'll find you'll be forced to do silly little mini games in some areas as well as going through 
 some stupid puzzles to get to the other side. These are, to be fair, just boring and very frustrating, 
 they feel like a bit of an after thought.
  
  If your into your RPG's and J-RPG's then this is definately for you, is has the story, the customisation, 
 the combat and the videos. It also has its down points, if you can get over these then you'll find 
 a deep and involving story that will have you gripped.
  Well worth the money and time to play this. Im about 23 hours in and mid way through Disc 2 so 
 theres plenty more to come.
  
  Hope this was helpful to some people. 
  Enjoi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I am not usually a big jrpg fan, having only ever played blue dragon before, but i must admit to 
 being totally immersed in this gripping story. maybe the first few hours or so are quite dull but 
 after the the amazing story has had me dragged in and now i just cant stop laying, the cutscenes 
 are of exceptional quality and the story is actually quite emotional, something i dont usually 
 find in a video game. a special mention also to the fantastic soundtrack. i even have started to 
 enjoy the turn based battles, tho some of the random battles can get annoying, but that is one 
 of the few complaints about this great game. And you certainly cant fault the value of the game 
 with four discs and around 40-50 hours playtime. i myself am around 16 hours into the game so i 
 have over half of it to play, and i have already enjoyed so much of this wonderful wonderful game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autobotron
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Well its about time somone put out a story based rpg with all kinds of things to do and traditional 
 yet fun and immersing action. I cant believe its taken this long, not that it was worht the wiat 
 cause belive i wish there were more games like this already but it sure gives me a some hope for 
 the future, icant believe the reviewers reted it at 7.5 phbbbbblllt! I think theres a conspiracy 
 here somewhere, now just where to find it. Im one of the gamers that has been dissenfranchised 
 like a floridian as of late, oh yeah and by the way can i just say syonara final fantasy, theres 
 a bunch of #$#$ ( that left all us traditional rpgers in the dust, i dont think ive enjoyed an FF 
 game since 7, maybe someday theyll come back but i aint holding my breath, especially now that 
 Lost Odyssey has replaced em, yeah thats right i said it, Lost Odyssey is everything the FF series 
 shoulda been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onimusho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Lost odessy is a textbook example of an rpg game and sticks rigidly to the genre formula perhaps 
 even a litte too rigidly ,if your hoping innovationitve take then look else where but if an old 
 school romp across and endless field of never ending random battles tickles your fancy then by 
 all means grab a copy now
  
  
  After an explosive start the decidely high point you being on slowly desends into monotomy, the 
 plot which had so much potnetial to be an apocalyptic boom never really takes off ,although the 
 character development of kaim glosses over the lackluster plot and is sure to keep you hooked
 
  
  
  Graphically the game is average, as is with many of its aspects, there may be times when a scene 
 may impress but on closer inspection it plain to see that this are nothing more than camera tricks.
 
  
  The musical score is a kind off japenese rock mashed with classical music which at times can add 
 greatly to the feel of the game but its lack of variety will ensure that upon completationt the 
 tunes will start to grate and thanks to the unjustified jumps in diffculty your certain to be facing 
 the same bosses over and over
  
  Gameplay is standard turn based rpg with the gimmick of the rings hoping to mix things up but it 
 never really adds anything gameplay wise
  
  
  4 discs gurantee you 'll get some good hours out of this (70+) but its a case of quantity over quality 
 and your attention will run dry well before the game does 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker_Jay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy game, I have played it 60 hours to be exact so far and I am really into it. 
 The minor little specs I didn't like was the 3 or 4 HARDCORE cheesy themes in this game. Sure it 
 goes really well with the game and it makes sense, but those certain parts just made me be like, 
 "oh my god... wtf?" you know? I'm sure I have a different opinion than all of you.
  
  This game is the best turn-based rpg I have ever played and I have played a lot. I beat most of 
 the final fantasy's such as 7,8,9,10, and almost 12. This game deserves my score because it's just 
 awesome. The graphics are really amazing like the backgrounds and the landscape view. I also liked 
 the world map traveling system it is awesome. Music is really great and that is another point of 
 opinion between players.
  
  Though the cheesy parts may make you giggle or aww, I thought it was embarasing haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redfoot123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This review will not explain all the game mechanics. This is just my observations from beating 
 the game. 
  
  Graphics: Pretty Good
  The visuals aren't a problem at all. It puts the Unreal 3 engine to good use. Camera work is fantastic 
 and the character designs are great and very detailed. Characters can equip accessories which will 
 actually show up on the models. Environments are well designed and nicely textured. The 3 major 
 cities are superb. In addition, the drawn backgrounds in the dreams add a nice touch that enhances 
 the stories you read.
  
  The major setback, however, is the loading times. There is approx. 13-15 seconds of downtime whenever 
 you trigger a random encounter before the actual battle begins. After combat you wait another 6 
 seconds or so for the world to load. Early in the game, this really isn't an issue. After you've 
 done about 350+ battles like I did, you will begin cursing at the loading screens or you'll find 
 yourself putting the controller down and taking a stroll. 
  There's also minor framerate issues, which for the most part, do not affect the game play. There 
 was only one point in the game where the framerate really dropped during a battle, making it almost 
 impossible to get a 'Perfect' from the ring system. 
  
  Sound: Near Perfect
  Fantastic musical score by Nobuo Uematsu. Captures all the emotion in the game at the right time. 
 Not much more to be said. I found myself looking for the soundtrack after I beat the game. Only 
 downside is that some tracks were only played a couple times throughout the game while others were 
 used too often. 
  I played this game with the English voices and I must say it was more than satisfactory. You won't 
 get any corny or annoying voices. 
  
  Game play: Very solid
  Battle System: You get the typical turn based system we've seen so many times before. The ring 
 system adds some interaction to physical combat. Two rings show up on the screen and the outer 
 ring gets smaller until it disappears. Your goal is to hold onto the R-trigger and release when 
 the outer ring aligns with a certain layer of the inner ring. While fighting monsters, you have 
 to pay attention to their element. For example, if they're fire you would use water spells to deal 
 extra damage. 
  There's really nothing innovative in LO's game play. Pretty standard level up, find treasures, 
 fight monsters, talk to NPC's, progress in the story game. There are several "minigames" but nothing 
 really special about them. 
  
  Storytelling: Fantastic
  As you already know, this story is about an immortal who has lost all his memories. As far as the 
 main story goes, it's a pretty typical good vs bad scenario. The main thing that will draw you 
 in is the dreams and character development. As the game progresses, Kaim will unveil his memories 
 in the form of dreams. For example, Kaim will see a suffering kid and dream about a time when he 
 was working in a hospital. The stories from these dreams are probably the best writing I've seen 
 in a game and it's the most appropriate way for the immortals to recall their past.
  
  Pros:
  - Great storytelling through the dreams.
  - Music sets the mood appropriately.
  - 
 Interesting characters.
  - Some strategy involved fighting certain bosses.
  - Lengthy: approximately 60-65 hours if you complete side-quests. 40-45 hours if you choose to 
 skip most of them.
  
  Cons:
  - Loading time = slow paced combat [-0.7 pts]
  - Couple things in the story that could be explained better (without spoiling anything, I'll just 
 say that they've paved it nicely for sequels) [ -0.1 pts ] 
  - Completely unbalanced after you do all the side-quests. Immortals become... immortal. The last 
 two main areas in the game were a joke and any random battle became pointless. [ -0.2 pts]
  
  Bottom-Line:
  If you can put up with the downtime from combat loading, then this is probably 
 one of the best JRPG's you'll have played in a long time. I spent at least a good 3 hours out of 
 the total 70 hours I played waiting for loading between areas and random battles. JRPG fans have 
 to buy this, borrow, or rent it a couple times. 
  
  9.0 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leostar873
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  What really pisses me off is that Lost Odyssey is a beautiful game with beautiful story telling 
 and basic gameplay without all of the complications that we have seen RPG's try to invent. If it 
 ain't broke don't try to fix it. For God sakes one of the creators was one of the people who made 
 the Final Fantasy franchise. I don't mind the basic gameplay. Why would these so called critics 
 of the gaming world give this game a 7.5 when the users give it a much higher rating? Sorry that 
 the Mistwalker Corporation who made the game didn't pass out there bribery checks to the gaming 
 world. The loading time is not that long. By the time you finish taking a sip of water, the game 
 is ready to play. Giving this game a 7.5 is just plain insulting to the creator. Why don't you 
 just take a copy of his four disc creation, lay it out on the floor, and piss on it. This time 
 the critics really got it wrong. My personal feeling is that this game deserves an 8.5 at best.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I'll skip the story, because it's a LONG story and break down the aspects of the game.
  
  Graphics. Beautiful looking game. The real-time and CGI cutscenes brings me back to the days of 
 FF7 and FFX. This is one of the best looking Xbox 360 games out. Character models are top notch 
 and environments like the cities are superb. Animations are amazing. One thing that stood out the 
 most were the enemies. Artistically well done. Animations were fluid and vivid. Well polished, 
 and what next-gen should be. Again, beautiful looking game. 
  
  Gameplay. Turn-based RPG, taking turns attacking. Sound boring? It may to some because it's an 
 outdated gameplay style. Most RPGS nowadays are real-time action. I think Lost Odyssey does the 
 turn-based RPG justice and revives once was a dying breed of games. There's the ring system which 
 allows you to land a perfect, good, or bad hit whether you were able to match the rings on the 
 correct spot of the circle. It keeps the battles fresh and fun. Unlike other JRPGs, LO's difficult 
 is pretty hard. The dungeons can get really confusing at times, because you dont really know which 
 way you're going. The boss fights can seem impossible to easy. This game is about strategy. Know 
 your enemy's weaknesses and strengths. You need to come prepared to battles. Again, it's your classic 
 JRPG, save the world from this villain, meet several allies along the way. Now to the storyline!
 
  
  Storyline. Emotionally driven storyline. There were scenes where I almost teared up. Great ensemble 
 of cast. Lovable characters, great voiceovers, badass villains. There are readible thousand year 
 dreams that you can collect through the game. They're hidden so look carefully. They are like backstories 
 to each character, but dont have any real connection with the main story. But they are great reads, 
 nonetheless. I really enjoyed reading through some of them. Extremely well written. Awesome story, 
 blew my mind. I'm even excited for people who will be buying and playing this game!
  
  Sound. Oh wow, great soundtrack. Some of the songs were heartfelt orchestrated masterpieces. My 
 heart skipped a beat when the song cued in time and time again. Again, great voiceovers, Jansen 
 was such a comedian. They all balance each other out really well. They are a perfect band of characters. 
 I have nothing but good things to say about them.
  
  Presentation. Menus are outdated, old. They looked as old as the ones in FF7. In a way it's good 
 so you dont get blindsided by too much presentation that you get lost surfing the menu. In this 
 case, simple is good. It did its job. But CGI and realtime cutscenes were absolutely gorgeous, 
 amazing job. Standing ovation. 
  
  Overall, I rate Lost Odyssey a 9.5. When you complete this game, you'll know why. It's one of the 
 most underated games in history. Dont be fooled by reviews. This game is a must-own title. There 
 are plenty of sidequests to do so there is plenty of replay value. And the majority of these sidequests 
 have boss fights at the end which keeps things fresh and fun. Not like some boring fetch it quests, 
 which this game does have, but they're completely optional. There are also ultimate weapons in 
 this game, which are so cool. You'll love them. You'll clock in about 40-50 hours for the mission 
 alone. It took me about 56 hours but I quite a few sidequests. So stop reading this and go get 
 the game now and starting playing. Thanks for reading and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F3l1P3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a really SLOW starting game.. anyway it has a good res in chars.
  The other thing is that sometimes the enemies are to hard for the level and you'll have to reach 
 that place about 2 or 4+ times.
  Oh yes something else, there are.. well, as far as i've played, some unnesessary escenes or maybe 
 to long that makes me overwait (maybe i'm not so patience) .
  Reading, ooooooh i hate reading, maybe the creators wanted us to read more but geez, this makes 
 me think that I only play cause I want to avoid books.. The dreams are from the most tedious, they 
 are long and you just know abit more from the character.
  
  And well a little detail that i didn't realy like at all, when you are in the real world, when 
 you want try to pick up something (ej examinate a pot) you have to be exacly infront, exposing 
 you to get in duel with any monster of the area (I have been throught this..)
  
  This is a good game only if you have a good patience, you are a book eater (or maybe you just want 
 to read) and to really like RPG Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riverspirit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey does not disappoint those that know it to be a RPG. It has a classic taste to it, 
 and small but constantly occurring changes that help keep the gamer back to play more. But it is 
 not these little changes that will strike the player the most, but rather the amazingly, and rather 
 unexpectedly, complex storyline and detailed emotion to the character that helps draw the player 
 into the story. Such emotions as anger, sadness, and rage, will be brought and displayed one a 
 beautifully arranged platter as the player becomes enveloped in the story. 
  To put it in a nutshell, Lost Odyssey is about a rather depressed and lonesome character named 
 Kaim, who can pass off as a 21 year old. He is immortal, not being able to die, he constantly wanders 
 around the planet, fighting countless battles. But there is one draw back, Kaim has lost all of 
 his memories. The main point to the story, is that as the journey continues, he will regain these 
 memories. He will meet new people, more immortals, evil villains will be discovered, and new lands 
 will be explored.
  But another small, but ever-so-present change, is the Ring Battle System. It brings a new light 
 to the simple turns that are taken in classic RPG's. It allows the characters to increase, or decrease 
 how much damage is done, what elements can be given to an attack, etc. But during a battle, if 
 a physical attack is commanded, a close-up behind the character is initiated as the character goes 
 into attack the enemy. But while the character is running to attack, a large ring will appear around 
 a smaller ring. As the larger ring gets smaller, the player must hold down the attack button, until 
 the large ring is aligned with the smaller ring. The better the timing with getting the rings aligned, 
 the more damage is done. 
  Another small, but incredibly present change, is the fact that there are "immortals" and "mortals." 
 Kaim is immortal, while a majority are mortals, but so what? Well, immortals cannot learn things 
 on their own, they must be "taught" new skills and magic and all that jazz, from mortals. But the 
 specific skill or whatever you want to be taught, has to be linked from the mortal to the immortal, 
 and then it has to be learned as the immortal and the mortal battle alongside each other for a 
 specific amount of battles. Then the immortal will learn that skill, and you can link that immortal 
 again. This little tweak helps to give the gamer a completely different view on the game, creating 
 a new sense of choosing who to fight and who to stay out.
  Besides the incredibly complex and beautiful storyline and the new battle system, Lost Odyssey 
 doesn't do much to change the genre. It, as expected from a 360 RPG by MistWalker, has amazing 
 graphics and detailed characters. But this is to be expected from any of their RPG's. But these 
 little details, is what makes it such an amazing game, as these little details become huge changes 
 as the game progresses. Gamers will get a different vibe from this game, as it shows its uniqueness 
 from other RPG's through how it's storyline is presented, and how the different battle system is 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cccarrer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Visuals: 9.5 (outstanding animation and effects)
  Sound: 8 (pretty common fare here)
  Voice and Acting: 9.5 (excellent characterization by these guys)
  Level Design: 7 (boilerplate 
 at times, beautiful, or schizophrenic)
  Difficulty: ?!? (mix and match: fighting flies or being eaten by lions)
  
  
  
  Lost Odyssey 
 is a difficult game to describe at times. The artistic storytelling is top notch and features animation 
 akin to "Heavy Rain" the PS3 tech demo from the makers of Indigo Prophecy.
  
  The voice acting and character development are definite trend setters. If we could get actors like 
 this in every game then your eyes would stop rolling at weak translation. 
  
  The down side to the whole experience is that quests, and their difficulty, are as schizophrenic 
 as Charles Manson. 
  
  Some encounters require no real skill to complete, even some boss fights are hardly strategic. 
 Others are like fighting chainsaw wielding mixed martial artists while you are armed with only 
 a spoon. 
  
  For example: your team fights two giant, fire breathing caterpillars (which are tough and are supposed 
 to be) at the edge of a giant reactor. They are monsters. They are the result of a giant force 
 of magic. Difficulty here seems understandable. The fight is not impossible if you take your time 
 to use appropriate attacks.
  
  Soon after, you try to help two kids stop soldiers from picking flowers. That's right . . . Soldiers 
 start a battle over some flowers.
  
  Five guys in a regular army dumb enough to pick fights with kids versus two "immortals" and a sorcerer. 
 
  
  This should not be difficult.
  
  Yet, as you take massive amounts of damage from a horse running into you, you have to scratch your 
 head and wonder what the hell the army is feeding these guys. A simple brawl turns quickly into 
 a "use every health item you can" marathon. 
  
  The side quests are no different. Some are rewarding and make you think of the importance of your 
 actions. Such as performing a funeral ritual that feels like a real ritual.
  
  Others send you running trough buildings trying to locate a small item that has only one use and 
 is not helpful at all. That or trying to "stealthily" bypass guards. I understand developers trying 
 to break up the grind of RPGs but poorly executed timing puzzles are the RPG equivalent to Quick 
 Time Events in action games. Unnecessary. 
  
  Overall gripping, but frustrating at times due to the feeling that this was worked on at different 
 times by different people then stapled together. No real learning curve, more like a seismometer 
 needle in the movie Tremors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headbanger1186
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Well here I am again with another review that prolly many hate and many love here goes....
  
  
  With the mass of reviews you read about this game besides mine, I would say about 85-90% 
 of them will fall between a 5-7.5 at best but i am going to go out on a limb here and say 9.0. 
 Well with that added lets hit the bricks and open this lab cat up to see why exactly I would give 
 it such a deserving score...
  
  
  For starters, not that I am biased or anything but the game was developed by Hironobu Sakaguchi, 
 Aka Mistwalker if you will. Now that doesn't mean anything if you look at Blue Dragon, because 
 just in my opinion, it was overrated... but when a game does something so right such as this it 
 makes me feel good inside. Easily said, LO is a combination with refreshing battle tweaks like 
 Legend Of Dragoon, and The same beauty I experienced when I first played Final Fantasy 10.. 
  
  The main character does look really bad in my opinion, but i really do think that turn based 
 RPGs are a fading trend and genre, it's almost as if the world's attention span is getting so small 
 that we would rather hack and slash, than earn our reward via the way we have come to love in FF7 
 and so forth..
  
  I bought this game and I am satisfied because I got exactly what I wanted when I was running out 
 of hope in my 360... A good, gripping RPG that will pull you in and finally make you use tactics 
 and strategy instead on mindless button mashing.. thank you Mistwalker and give these other fellas 
 out there something to build on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvengerLE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I've been hoping for a FF style game on the xbos 360 for a while, and Lost Odyssey seems like the 
 answer to my hopes. 
  
  Going in, I didn't have too high of an expectation due to the reviews I read. I got to say that 
 the reviews were dead on.
  
  The game starts off with promise. A bunch of immortals, countries at war, and a few mysteries to 
 uncover.
  
  Now here is where the game goes downhill. In the recent FF games I've played, the elements I mentioned 
 above are just the beginning of what would eventually become a great fantasy plot, with bigger 
 mysteries revealing themselves as u solve the simple ones at the start, with people not as they 
 seem and twists and turns in the plot that would draw you into the story. And with game elements 
 and challenges that keep you going back for more and playing 'just one more hour' so you can get 
 that special power/weapon/item that would really help you.
  
  There is none of that in this game. The mysteries are what they are. There are not any new added 
 (or none that you'd care about) . The game elements and mini-games have very little appeal and seemed 
 like a chore rather than a pleasure. You don't feel compelled to go any extra distance to get anything 
 because you just don't care that much.
  
  The main plot of the game is also a let down. You can basically guess from a few hours in the whole 
 story of the game.
  
  [Mild spoiler alert]
  
  
  
  And to me, another annoying part of the game are the kids that join your party. I hate kids in 
 these kind of games, unless you can design the game really well. But alas, Lost Odyssey is far 
 from a well designed game. Not only do the kids bring about no real purpose with their presence, 
 but they are the focal point of several plot elements, which makes the whole story even more uninspiring. 
 Why? because on the one hand, you are supposed to save the world. On the ohter hand, you got little 
 annoying kids acting childish, silly, and wholesomely ruins any 'save the world' mental state you 
 can have with the already weak gameplay.
  
  Sure, the graphics are gorgeous (load times are tolerable) . And the voice acting is actually quite 
 ok (though the voice clips seems rather sporadic) . But if you like these kind of games, chance 
 are you are not playing them for the visuals. Overall, a predictable and uninspired effort.
  
  PS: the dream sequences are really over the top in terms of sappiness. It is purely text reads 
 with some drawings in the background, and mostly irrelevant and of no consequence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game is one of the best RPGs since Final Fantasy 7. I would have 
 to start by saying that when FFXII came out i was extremely excited, but it was a major disappointment, 
 and i would say a waste of $50. However, paying a full $60 for this game was well worth it, the 
 cut scenes are extremely nice and the battle system is just as nice, though it may get repetitve 
 the story keeps you going. Its just a well thoughtout game, the graphics are excellent, and in 
 comparison with Enchanted Arms and Eternal Sonata... there really isnt any competition, I must say 
 go get this game, because if you rent it first... you'll be disappointed at the fact you dont own 
 it. I would say that the only downfall is the characters voices do not look like they would match 
 the character... I mean Kiem doesn't look like he would have this deep voice, and Seth would probably 
 have this bad ass voice. Those are really the only things that really bothered me... i do love the 
 skill linking and i love the fact that you can change the weapons and they actually change... cause 
 we are at that point where it should be down in todays technology... haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meimi
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey isn't a bad game, but by that same token it's not exceptionally good either. The turn-based 
 system is solid, and a point in its favor. It's been awhile since we've had a decent one of those 
 that isn't a rehash of an older game. The graphics were topnotch, even if the character designs 
 were generally ridiculous (Kaim wears armor, and yet leaves his lower back exposed... Why?) . The 
 voice acting is generally pretty decent as well, though there were a few wince worthy scenes. The 
 game itself is not challenging, not even close. About the only real challenges come from two sidequest 
 type deals (the Temple of Enlightenment, which is a test in patience, and the Backyard fights, 
 a few of them had some oddball requirements and the last guy is just cheap) . I really only had 
 problems with the plot. It's not really a bad story, per se, but when one actually reads the "dreams" 
 that pop up on occasion the disparity between them and the main story is impossible to ignore. 
 The characters really don't display any of the depth or sophistication that they exhibit in the 
 dreams. This could have been written off to the amnesia factor, except even after they start regaining 
 their memories they still exhibit little growth from them. And that's not even taking the villains 
 into account. One is an absolute joke and the other not only looks like a linebacker, but acts 
 like one as well. For all his years and the experiences one would suppose goes hand in hand with 
 those years, Gongora was one of the lamest villains I've seen in awhile. And unfortunately that 
 brought the game down a lot for me. There are also quite a few logic roadblocks, but they're generally 
 ignored. In fact, a lot of the plot points that would have been interesting if they had been fleshed 
 out more were ignored. I really can't countenance such a lack in this particular generation. This 
 is not the era of the Super Nintendo, and I expect better.
  
  Still, it's not a bad game, and if one can get past the stumbling blocks, it's easy enough to enjoy 
 the game for what it is: a solid turn-based RPG that may strike your nostalgia button more than 
 you'd think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Playing a guy who is immortal and has lived for one thousand years is certainly an interesting 
 story when it comes to an RPG. There's plenty of stuff I'd love to do in life and with time like 
 that I would probably be able to do them all. I'd be able to have all the time I wanted to play 
 any game, watch any program or film. Hell I'd be able to take everything slowly, no need to rush 
 around if I'm going to live for eternity. Man that would be pretty awesome. Maybe some would worship 
 me as a god just maybe. Sometimes I wish game stories were true.
  
  Lost Odyssey is the next game from legendary Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi and his studio 
 Mistwalker. It's more of a mature game than Blue Dragon, which might please some people who couldn't 
 stand playing as little kids with shadow powers. The game is also very heavy on text, so if you 
 don't like reading a lot then the game might not show its full potential to you in terms of how 
 deep the characters are. While Lost Odyssey might not do much in terms of innovating the genre, 
 it does however supply a good cast of characters, solid gameplay and a story that spans four discs 
 and while takes time to get going, is interesting and more adult themed than Mistwalker's last 
 entry.
  
  The game kicks you off as playing Kaim Argonar, an immortal who has lived for one thousand years. 
 Right from the start you are chucked into the battlefield with a war occurring between two cities. 
 A massive meteor crash ends up finishing the battle and only Kaim, the immortal, lives to tell 
 the tale. Kaim isn't in best of shapes as he seems to have been struck with a serious case of amnesia, 
 he can't seem to remember what he's actually done in the past one thousand years. Kaim sets on 
 a journey to find out as much as he can, he's not alone though as some other immortals seem to 
 be roaming the world, them too with a case of this mysterious amnesia. Will Kaim ever gain his 
 memories back and what will he discover? That's your job to find out. 
  
  Some aspects of the story are straight forward stereotypical RPG clichs that you've seen time 
 and time again. Don't let this put you off though as the game is still a joy to play through. The 
 story does start off a little slow paced, it doesn't really kick off until you are good way through 
 the second disc. The first disc is a lot of wondering around, getting to know Kaim and the other 
 characters. Well it's more to do with Kaim discovering memories, he's done a lot in the one thousand 
 years he's been alive. As you progress through the game, dreams are unlocked, which are short stories 
 about stuff Kaim has experienced in his lifetime.
  
  The One Thousand Year dreams are a major part of the game. Written by award winning Japanese novelist 
 Kiyoshi Shigematsu, they tell stories of Kaim's actions in the past. These stories are extremely 
 well written. It's probably easy to say that these stories are some of the most well written material 
 to be featured in a video game. The stories are about emotions, and they certainly come across 
 well, some of them gripped me so much that I actually felt touched for some of the characters spoken 
 about. It's the way it is written, and with the subtle music in the background, it just adds that 
 little passion to the context. They're not voiced over or done in any flashy way. You get background 
 pictures and text flows across displaying what to read. So if you aren't into reading you'd best 
 get ready to, or miss a lot of history for the character Kaim. I'd say the dreams are what make 
 this game what it is, so if you don't want to read then you aren't going to enjoy Lost Odyssey 
 as much.
  
  Some RPGs have spiced up the genre by implanting different kinds of battle systems. We've seen 
 the Hex battle system from Wild Arms 4/5 and The Judgement system from Shadow Hearts. Lost Odyssey's 
 battle system at first glance is virtually as traditional as you can get. It features the conventional 
 Attack, Magic, Item, Defend and Flee along with its turn based gameplay. It's only after cracking 
 its shell that you notice the game tries to add more depth to the system. There are a small number 
 of key factors that affect the battle system and the characters.
  
  The thing you will be using all the time when doing standard attacks is the Aim Ring. The Aim Ring 
 system is used for your characters to add extra damage to the enemy. After you attack you hold 
 down the R trigger to make the circular ring zoom down into the centre of the smaller ring. If 
 you manage to get them to overlap perfectly, you'll do more damage. There are ratings of Perfect, 
 Good and Bad. It's kind of a remixed version of the Judgement Ring from Shadow Hearts (actually 
 the studio that made Shadow Hearts also helped Mistwalker make this game) . The Aim Ring system 
 is also customizable with the rings you attach to your characters. These ring accessories that 
 are found or created act as attack modifiers, for example adding elemental damage, turning them 
 to stone or introducing poison, so getting that perfect helps if you are to maximise the potential 
 from the rings.
  
  Wall system is the other major feature included for battles. Characters can be put into formations 
 on either the front or back line. The backline are protected by a barrier known as Guard Condition 
 (GC) while the front line act as a defensive wall, reducing the damage that the party members in 
 the back row take. This is what the GC Wall is made up; it's a total of all the HP of the front 
 line characters. The total is split into four levels, with four been the highest. It gains mostly 
 by having your tank characters on the front line, as when they get hit, the GC level reduces by 
 the amount of damage that character was hit for, so more HP means more GC. It's a good system to 
 get around the problem you sometimes have when magic casters have such bad defence, they always 
 seem to die in a few hits. It's also good for those under levelled characters you have sitting 
 on the bench.
  
  On the subject of levelling up, Lost Odyssey has a level cap system going on in the background. 
 When you reach a new area in the game, you'll notice that you get experience quite easily and you'll 
 level up at a decent speed. When you hit that areas level cap though, you'll notice that you get 
 bugger all experience. On one hand it's great for getting characters up to your level fast, and 
 also makes the bosses in the area not too tough, as you don't have to worry about grinding to level 
 up, yet at the same time it annoyed me that I wasn't allowed to super charge my characters when 
 I wanted to. Some of the bosses you just wish you could have had that extra level or two to make 
 a difference. When you get to the fourth disc though, when everywhere is explorable, there's a 
 good location to go to level up extremely fast.
  
  Your journey through Lost Odyssey brings both immortal and mortal characters together. Being immortal 
 is pretty cool; they have the ability to respawn after two turns in battle if they die. There must 
 be at least one character alive though if they are to come back after the turns are up. Immortals 
 for some reason can't seem to learn their own skills or magic, god knows why, so to help them they 
 have to skill link. This is important because if you don't, your immortals won't have any skills 
 or magic and will also be wasting the gained SP (Skill Points) from battle if you leave on a skill 
 that has been learnt with the skill points. Immortals can also learn moves from items that are 
 equipped to them. Immortals can practically learn every move in the game, so you can customize 
 them to the way you want once they've learnt things. Normal humans learn more skills/magic as they 
 level up.
  
  There are a lot of first person shooters on the market nowadays using the Unreal Engine 3 (UE3.) 
 It's nice to see the graphically stunning engine finally used for something else and Lost Odyssey 
 uses the Unreal Engine 3 artistically. It doesn't look like the countless clones of shooters that 
 all share that same dark, shiny UE3 look. The locations are rendered incredibly well, with lots 
 of details featured throughout the world of Lost Odyssey. Models are great to look at, both characters 
 and monsters. The ones that really shine are the huge cities and places with fancy architectural 
 designs. Not everything is well though - like a lot of games on the Xbox 360 that use the Unreal 
 Engine 3, the game suffers from some frame rate problems from time to time. It's mainly noticeable 
 at the start of a battle sequence or during cut-scenes when it will randomly choke under the pressure.
 
  
  They use to say you can't have Final Fantasy without Nobuo Uematsu, well that's no longer the case 
 since he left Square-Enix. He's joined up with the father of Final Fantasy again, Hironobu Sakaguchi, 
 to produce the soundtrack for Lost Odyssey. The soundtrack is great and feels like it has been 
 ripped out from part of the legendary Final Fantasy series. It has an epic feel to it with the 
 orchestral soundtrack booming out of your speakers. I wasn't too keen on the battle music at first, 
 but after a while I seem to automatically start humming it as it is rather captivating. The tune 
 isn't as adrenaline pumped as some of the memorable Final Fantasy battle music, but it has a heroic 
 feel to it. The game includes both Japanese and English voice over audio. The English dub is pretty 
 passable; with people like Keith Ferguson (Basch from Final Fantasy XII) , Katherine Soucie (Twins 
 in Rugrats) just to name a few who add their talent to the mix. It's certainly nothing really wrong 
 with it. A special mention goes out to Jansen, he's an awesome character, acted and voiced so well 
 that he'll probably end up as one of your faves in the game.
  
  All this audio and high definition comes at a price. Lost Odyssey is the Xbox 360's biggest game 
 to date in terms of discs. The game comes on a whopping four DVDs, yes FOUR. This may make it seem 
 like it's a long game, but it's actually just your standard RPG length affair. You can get through 
 the game in around 40 hours if you don't bother with any side quests. Side quests do net you some 
 achievement points with the optional bosses. The game comes with 1000 points to unlock. A few of 
 them are easy to get while others are insane. There's one which is to find every item in the game, 
 which means opening every chest you come across, CRAZY! Another extreme one is making your immortal 
 characters learn all 165 skills; some of the achievements really are for the patient ones.
  
  It's probably easy to recommend this game to Final Fantasy fans because really that is what 
 this is. Lost Odyssey feels like a Final Fantasy that never happened, or like a B-side to a Final 
 Fantasy game. That's not knocking Lost Odyssey in anyway. The game is a good RPG and has that blockbuster 
 feel in some aspects that makes it ooze with the Final Fantasy flavour. It seems to have inspiration 
 from a lot of the 3D Final Fantasies, yet again not a bad thing. But at the same time the game 
 suffers from problems such as inconsistent story pacing and battle difficulty decreasing throughout. 
 It is thankfully saved because of the fantastic Thousand Year Story dreams and characters that 
 are interesting and well represented on the screen. Fans of the genre should check the game out 
 as they will no doubt have an enjoyable romp through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leefx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  After the fiasco that was 'Enchanted Arms' and the not brilliant (although entertaining) 'Blue 
 Dragon' this next attempt is a massive hit, yes the frame rate is sometimes a little sketchy although 
 I dont feel the problem is as bad as the official review makes out, the cutscenes and visuals are 
 second to none for this genre, the story is deep and immersive, the characters are likeable too, 
 you need to give this game a chance to get you emotionally attached to its epic storyline and cast 
 so give it at least until the end of disc 1 before passing judgement and I guarantee you that by 
 then you will not be able to turn it off if this type of game is your cup of tea. Yes the dreams 
 can be a bit of a drag to read but they are all well written and tie in nicely with the plot, this 
 game will take you on a rollercoaster of twists and turns, this is the best game of this genre 
 so far and dare i say it, even better than Final Fantasy or at least the ones so far, I cant wait 
 to see what Square Enix come up with for next gen..... BRING IT ON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey was released in Japan and received great praise. So it was no surprise when it hit 
 the states. According to Gamespot. com, it wasn't really impressive but I am countering their opinion. 
 In truth, I have found Lost Odyssey to be one of the best Xbox 360 rpg games since Final Fantasy 
 VII for PS One. It had everything a solid RPG requires. It has a great storyline, it has a great 
 turn-based RPG engine and it has great if not the best graphics out there. If there is anything 
 I would knit pick on, it would be that some portions of this game are difficult and long. 
  
  Anyway, the bottom line is that this game receives high praise by the game master and if any 
 of you are interested, I say give it a shot. Especially, if you are a Final Fantasy VII fan. Now, 
 the only thing left to do is pray that Square-Enix can give Final Fantasy VII an High Definition 
 upgrade for the PS3. If they can do that than Square-Enix will have it made again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiga05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey follows the most lovable FF/RPG format down to the adjective-followed-by-a-noun title. 
 The totally awesome angsty main character with a large sword, trademark of many, goes by the name 
 of Kaim. Which is awfully similar to a main character by the name of Caim who makes his presence 
 known in the Drakengard series. 
  Similarities- Shoulder length brown hair, socially unacceptable attitude, large double bladed sword, 
 physical debility in exchange for 
  awesome-ness~ 
  Caim= Exchanges voice for a pact with a dragon. 
  Kaim= Exchanges memories for immortality. 
 
  Differences- A consonant. 
  Anyway, we all know Lost Odyssey is not a groundbreaking epic but it's awfully pretty isn't it? 
 The beautiful images and the ULTIMATE end-all of video game music composers, Nobou Uematsu, add 
 a seductive appeal. All the dream sequences add elements that of an eroge graphic novel which really 
 lets you imagine your characters' pasts. So far I am basing my opinions off of first impressions 
 since I have only played 4 hours into the game, but like all other RPGs, I will find my self wondering 
 how long ago the game play timer stopped at 99:59:59. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubliy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I put a lot of time into video games but I do not have a huge selection of games under my belt, 
 so i am sure there are many more aggravating games out there though this is the worst one i have 
 played so far. I still gave it a decent score mainly because of the graphics, implementing formation 
 into the battle system, Kaim's memories, and i guess the average storyline. But i have never felt 
 so annoyed from having to repeat boss battles that had multiple phases without being able to prepare 
 at all. As well as the little timing puzzles they expect you to do with the rpg camera angles and 
 horribly clumsy controls. I just did not have any fun playing this game. I admit that i have not 
 finished it (and i do not believe i will) , so the ending could be amazing enough to make it worth 
 trudging through the rest but at the moment i just do not care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sSleepy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Lost odessey is a magical RPG. One of the best ive played. The game has great depth and even better 
 character design. Each character fits nicely into the plot. The attack system in the game is very 
 imaginative and new. This game is a thrill ride from high excitement to almost crying. I didnt 
 have any problems with the frame rate, the game ran pretty smooth. The game does have quite a few 
 load times, but they are extremely short. The enemies in lost oddessy are very creative, especially 
 the bosses who at times are quite hard. Lost odyssey had the feel of a good book with the memories 
 in the game. My favorite part and im sure it will be your to is the cut scenes. These cut scenes 
 are unbelievable, some of the best i have ever seen. I recommend lost oddessey to everyone and 
 anyone who loves RPG's and who does not mind spending at least 30 hours to finish this one. It 
 is well worth it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I going to tell you this off the bat, I love this game's in-depth character story and the relationships 
 that they bond to. You start off right in the midst of a battle in a dark area, where it thrust 
 you in as one of the fighters (Kiam) . Then out of nowhere a battle altering situation happens, 
 (not going to spoil) and bam!! you are in the game.... I would have to say the start of this game 
 is a little slow but, when you get going its a fricken roller coaster ride that is filled with 
 comedy, deceit, magic, and relationships.... The games story is very moving and very engulfing, 
 to the point i hate playing this game cause the story sucks me into it so much that i want to play 
 COD4 but i cant help but want to keep going to find out the next part of the plot and what is going 
 on and why they are immortals, and why did Gongora had their memories wiped. All in all if you 
 like the style of Final Fantasy along with a gripping story i would definitely pick this title 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTH_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm not an avid jrpg player but I've always loved games with a deep story and solid gameplay elements. 
 Mistwalker has created just that with Lost Odyssey. The game doesn't do anything particularly exciting 
 in terms of new gameplay innovation but what they do is done so well it hardly matters. First off 
 Kaim is one of the most interesting protagonists I've ever encountered in a video game and he's 
 surrounded with a well balanced cast including Gongora who is easily one of the sleaziest villains 
 in video game history. The stellar writing and voice acting creates one of the most epic stories 
 in video gaming. And the dream sequences, for the most part, are very dramatic and engaging even 
 though they most likely will be boring or too long for many gamers. I've never played a game before 
 that actually tugged at my heart strings in the way this game does. Lost Odyssey's story in short 
 is an emotionally charged epic tale with a great protagonist, villain, supporting cast, and voice 
 talent.
  
  Visually the game is often stunning for it's style. Many games technical graphic power might be 
 much greater but this games visual style is astounding in it's genre. While I would have liked 
 to have seen the frame stutter smoothed out much more this problem does little to detract from 
 the experience.
  
  When it comes to gameplay Lost Odyssey is pretty much old school turn based jrpg fare. The addition 
 of the ring targeting system does however add a nice element to the action and the ring assembly 
 gives some nice weight to the desire to search the levels a little harder trying to come up with 
 some harder to find elements. Some levels also include a little more in the way of random battles 
 than I would like but it's no deal breaker by any means.
  
  All in all Lost Odyssey provides an experience, in my opinion, that is not only the best jrpg on 
 the Xbox 360 but quite possibly the best of the genre this gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDIguy103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a really strong JRPG whose story folds out over time. I will agree with the Gamespot 
 review that the story is what keeps drawing you back to the game. Typical of FF-style games, the 
 gameplay elements also get better as you progress through the main story. By no means are they 
 new to the genre but these tried and true mechanics are very solid. The side quests aren't as pointless 
 as they seem - a lot of them are optional and make the final set of battles easier, and they add 
 some character development to some of the supporting members of your party. Veterans of JRPGs won't 
 have a problem with this.
  
  Visuals are impressive, though they really stand out in some areas compared to others. A good thing 
 is that the game doesn't involve a lot of backtracking through areas already seen and that there 
 are plenty of areas to explore, so new areas are still interesting.
  
  There are a few bugs and quirks in the game. First that comes to mind is the horrible object interaction 
 where you have to try repeatedly to grab an object such as a statue or a box. There are also some 
 hidden corners that get your avatar stuck for several seconds, but I've seen those bugs in other 
 RPGS too. Loading times are probably the loudest complaint I've heard with the game - they range 
 from 6-10 seconds between scenes, but I got accustomed to them later on.
  
  To sum it up, It's the story that pulls you back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_CH3F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey, has been one of the few JRPG's released on Xbox 360! It has been highly anticipated 
 by most RPG fans! It doesn't offer much new to the JRPG scene however it does offer an amazing 
 storyline which has bought to near tears at some parts! 
  
  The graphics of the cut-scene is one of the main feature of a JRPG currently, and LO doesn't let 
 you down in those departments! With stunning graphic that I woudl say rival Final Fantasy 13 graphics 
 of what we have seen! The graphics are beautifully crisp and colourful in 1080p! The graphics in-game 
 are alrite, they obviosuly are a big improvement on current 6th gen JRPG's but not astounding, 
 but good enough!
  
  The story line is probably its biggest selling point, with the storyline being totally beleiveable, 
 interesting and emotional! With the use of 4 DVD9 discs its definatly fits enough hours of gameplay 
 into it!
  
  The combat system is tradition JRPG, turn based! However it does offer a twist with the 'RING SYSTEM' 
 this system has been seen in other 6th gen RPG's on PS2, however it works extremly well, for peopel 
 that beleive that JRPG's involve no skill and just involve tiem and leveling up, as levels do not 
 matter if you can time your attacks just right! The combat system also allows for you to have 5 
 characters in battle at once! and face up to 10 enemys at 1 time! The combat system also brings 
 in a new way of damage dealing depending on the formation you choose, with members at the back 
 doing equal damage to peopel at the front! The formations determine how much damage is dealt to 
 you back row depending how much damage your front row has received, a very nice touch!
  
  Overall it doesn't bring much new to the JRPG genre, however the storyline and tweaks on the combat 
 system make it a good and enjoyable play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1einhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Lost odyssey is one of the BEST thats right!!!!!!!!
  
  The game is really good.. if you like a nice story, old school JRPG game-style and nice music.. Lost 
 odyssey is a must own for all JRPG fans...
  and 60 for 4cds is really amazing.
  After 12hours gameplay i can say.. lost odyssey is a great game.. Loading times are never longer 
 than 6sec!!!!!!!!!
  The graphic is really nice even with a 40inc SDTV... you can really feel the Unreal engine3 power!!!
 
  
  Ignore the Gamespot review... the full game is really better than the testet demo!!
  
  I really enjoy the game and my brother too.. he was not a JRPG fan.. but after playing Lost Odyssey 
 he cant put the controller away!
  so if you like JRPGs like final fantasy you ll definitely enjoy this game.
  But if you like 
 only shooters... i dont know you have to think twice.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey's story centers around an immortal who embarks on a journey to discover why he lost 
 his memory. As you progress the story more immortals and characters will join your journey. You'll 
 have a good base of mages and attackers to choose from. The story is well written and interesting 
 enough to keep you wanting to play. The Graphics and presentation are solid. The voice talent is 
 good and the dialogues are well written. 
  
  Lost Odyssey contains all the elements you would expect it an RPG. You'll work your way through 
 several towns and dungeons have the option to do several side quests until you reach the end. 
 
  
  Throughout the story you'll encounter people who trigger your immortals memories. These are well 
 written segments called dreams that offer insight into the character that are presented in text. 
 They are very long to read and some are white text on white background. I think there are better 
 ways to present these, say a short cutscene or they could have been left out. 
  
  The battle system and combat which is the meat of any RPG is where lost odyssey falls short. This 
 game contains random encounters and they are slow paced. Each battle takes 5-15 seconds to load. 
 You then select the action for each party member to take. Characters and enemies then move based 
 on their speed attribute. You have no idea who will act first until you see it on screen. This 
 can get frustrating until you learn how to play. Certain actions are faster than others. For instance 
 using an item is faster than casting a spell. Many of the advanced spells take several turns to 
 cast. 
  
  The slow pace of the battles requires planning, as many battles can drag on for 5 minutes or more. 
 The good thing is that you aren't forced into battle every 3 steps you can explore more freely. 
 That bad news is that some of the dungeons later in the game are long and confusing to navigate. 
 The game has a battle ring feature which is adds a custom effects to your attacks. Its not a great 
 add on since it's difficult to master the timing to get a perfect score. Most of the time you won't 
 benefit fully from custom rings. Leveling up is interesting as you'll gain a level until you are 
 where the game thinks you should be then it slows to a crawl. Your characters can also copy skills 
 from items or other characters. This is a neat feature but you will spend a lot of time in menus 
 maintaining the skills you are learning. 
  
  You can get through the game in about 50 hours if you skip the side quests. It will take 80-100 
 hours to get all the achievements. The side quests for this game are rewarding and there are some 
 challenging special bosses. You'll find items making your immortals almost invincible. Unfortunately 
 many of them send you back to prior areas. This is where the random battles, load times and level 
 capping come into play. You can't stop the battles and once you have your full party battles will 
 be slow to load. The game provides a skill to let you escape though this takes as much time to 
 use as it does to kill weaker enemies. With all the backtracking a null encounter skill would have 
 helped. There are some quests that have you wondering why you are doing them as the backtracking 
 gets slow.
  
  In Summary this is good RPG that doesn't break any new ground. Despite the quirks its still fun 
 to play and will occupy 50-100 hours. I don't find replay value unless you want to see the same 
 story again. You start at level 50 and can easily bash your way through enemies. 
  
  Good:
  Graphics 
  Story
  Interesting characters
  No need to grind and level up
  High 
 quality voice acting 
  
  Bad:
  Battles are slow
  Load times are long
  Lots of backtracking and redundant aspects slow game play
  Skill learning system requires constant 
 maintenance
  Battle ring ad on isn't helpful due to difficulty to master 
  Random encounters can't be turned off 
  Dreams require too much reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesp
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The two games Mistwalker have produced so far have been JPRG gold in my opinion. If you like turn 
 based, immersing RPGs then this the game for you. Blue Dragon was a return for the RPGs of old, 
 and Lost Odyssey is much better. You know that if an RPG have more than the boring old single disc 
 it will be full of highly detailed cut scenes like for example my favourite Final Fantasy - IX. 
 Lost Odyssey does have slightly long loading times but I don't think it stops your immersion in 
 any way. Its still got the best RPG story in years, according to the GS official review thats because 
 its a copy of old JPRG storylines. I don't think that stops it from being fantastic and the best 
 JPRG in years, and longest game this year with around 50 hours of gameplay. Buy this game and you 
 won't be disappointed. So far I'm on disc 3 of 4 and played 24 hours out of the 7 I've owned it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtxero28
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  First off don't get me wrong here, Lost Odyssey was fun as hell and it will suck you right in.. 
 With that said, the story in this game was pretty much your average run of the mill Japanese RPG 
 story. Right there including the sad amnesic main character, the drunken womanizing sidekick, the 
 annoying kids, the woman who is as strong as a man, the bad-guy-turned-good-guy, the take over 
 the world plot... it honestly seemed like the creators where trying very hard to put as many cliches 
 as they could into one game. Anyways on to the review:
  
  Lost Odyssey is about an immortal named Kaim who is struggling to reclaim his past memories after 
 having his memory locked away. Kaim learns that he is not the only immortal but in fact there are 
 a few others who join him on his journey to reclaim their memories also. Throughout their 'memory 
 reclaiming' journey you'll learn that there is a conflict between the nations of the world in which 
 they are fighting over MAGIC ENERGY (ooh mysterious!) . Eventually you'll be lead to help save the 
 world as one of the nations tries to claim complete domination over the world using their abundance 
 of magic energy. Thats pretty much the jyst of the story. Amnesia, immortals, magic energy, and 
 an evil villain with a plot to take over the world. Pretty standard stuff. 
  
  One big thing I must say about the story is it is INCREDIBLY sad. There are these side-story bits 
 called that Kaim recalls everyone in awhile called Lost Memories. In this memories Kaim remembers 
 extremely sad parts of his life and honestly, some will have you near tears. The author of these 
 is extremely talented and even more so is the person who translated them capturing the exact feeling 
 the original author was intending. However, you will most likely avoid reading them after a few 
 because they just become TOO sad. At first I was really excited to read them, as I thought they 
 cant all be this sad... well they are with the exception of maybe two or three. Don't take this 
 as a bad note, its not really, they are extremely good pieces of literature but honestly they feel 
 a little out of place in a modern day video game.
  
  The battle system is where this game really shines. Its pretty much everything that FFX had to 
 offer with a rather addicting 'ring system'. You're allowed to equip rings that will display 2 
 rings on the screen whenever your character attacks that get smaller as you hold in the right trigger 
 button. You're goal is to allign these rings to create 'Good' and 'Perfect' results. At first the 
 system seems somewhat awkward as the rings look rather textured and its hard to tell how to actually 
 get a 'Perfect', but over time you just sorta seem to get the swing of it and it becomes a rather 
 fun addition to the game. Getting a Perfect increases your chances of scoring a critical hit, and 
 a Good applies the rings added bonus effect.
  
  Spell casting is the same stuff you're used to in RPGs. Besides lacking a few spells like Reflect, 
 this game has your standard RPG spell-cast inventory. Unfortunately there is no ring system for 
 spell casting, which means you really only get to use the ring system for 3 characters while the 
 rest are automated. Spells pretty much become your bread and butter damage source towards the end 
 of the game, with spells like Forceus and Divide. You'll even find yourself favoring spell casting 
 on your melee characters as they can inflict 9999 damage with Divide, and unfortunately its rather 
 difficult to get that type of damage with attacking and skills. 
  
  Micro managing is a rather HUGE thing in this game. You have tons of things you'll have to manage 
 throughout the game, especially if you're trying to go for all the skill achievements. It gets 
 rather annoying at some points in the game needing to switch items and skill links after every 
 few battles, and sometimes even confusing. 
  
  The voice acting in this game is pretty bad. At least the English voice actors are, I'm not really 
 sure about the Japanese ones, as I gave up listening to them due to bad syncing and subtitles. 
 The dialogue in this game is also equally bad and sometimes down-right embarrassing to listen to. 
 Although it does improve later on in the game, it seemed almost to late to redeem itself. There 
 is even an extremely horrible vocal song that is played in the middle of the game that will cause 
 you to mute the game until its over. I honestly don't know what they where thinking putting that 
 monstrosity into the game, but please game designers, never do it again. 
  
  You're probably thinking "hey if the English voices are bad I'll just listen to the Japanese lolcake!", 
 well I can tell you this, the English subtitles aren't even close to being accurate to whats being 
 said in the Japanese dialogue and you're still stuck reading whats said in the English version, 
 except with a Japanese voice over. Its honestly kinda like watching one of those imported karate 
 movies where they dubbed it into English, except this time its reversed. Its pretty funny to see 
 someone do one of those Japanese 'grunts' and their mouth still be moving like they're saying a 
 full sentence. 
  
  The music is absolutely beautiful in this game. I just wish there was more of it. In the 80+ hours 
 it took to complete this game fully, I heard probably the same 4 jingles over and over again... and 
 the ones that where really good only got played maybe once or twice in the whole game! What a waste! 
 
  
  Overall, I'd defiantly recommend this game to people who have played JRPGs in the past and have 
 been waiting for the next Final Fantasy game. This one will fill that gap in your gaming heart 
 for another rpg. Just don't except anything new, or revolutionary --- in story or gameplay. Its 
 the same formula you've known and loved since the 90's with small additions. If you've never been 
 a fan of JRPGs then this one wont convert you, it may even leave you with more distaste for the 
 genre. If you loved Final Fantasy X, this is a must buy, as this game as FFX written all over it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud1985
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game but WOW! I thought my days of wondering through gorgeous locations, 
 slaying awesome beasts with fantastic magic, and very big swords was over when I left the world 
 of Sony behind and moved to the greener pastures of Microsoft and there X box's but Lost Odyssey 
 has brought us that magic all over again, and not with a below par copy but with a truly original 
 visual style, cast, and story, it just makes me feel like a young kid again bunking off school so 
 i can sit in a dark room running around Midgar as Cloud and loving just being in another world 
 full of fantasy and magic. As for the musical score well you'd be hard pushed to find anything 
 that can beat this , this time they really have brought the magic of Japanese role playing to the 
 360 It really does fly up there with some of the best RPG's I've ever played (and I've played a 
 lot) .
  
  The opening sequence says it all really so if your not sure if you want to buy this game then rent 
 it out play the opening sequence, and then run as fast as you can to your nearest game store and 
 BUY THIS GAME.
  
  my last words for lost odyssey are = Gorgeous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a snowball going down a hill. It starts of very slowly but soon picks up loads 
 of momentum. I love JRPGs or I should say that I used to love them! I have been disillusioned with 
 this syle of game. When playing a game I think you should always be at the right level to beat 
 the part of the game you are at. I don't believe that you should have to spend hours "grinding" 
 your level just so you can move the story along (and so that developers can drag out the game play) ; 
 we are looking at you Final Fantasy!
  That is why this game, a game created from the original Final Fantasy series has bucked this trend. 
 Not only does the game look, sound, and play like a dream. It also employs a subtle leveling up 
 mechanic that seems to always make sure that you are at the right level for the part of the game 
 you are at. This does not make things like boss battle easy; it just means that with a little bit 
 of though you can beat them. The game does still use random encounters (something I personally 
 am not a fan of) . However, they seem to be very well balanced. Gone are the days of taking three 
 steps and having to fight another random encounter.
  
  Special mention must be made of the story line It's fab! Yes, it does start slow as I have already 
 mentioned. However, you are in for quite a ride once it gets going. I will freely admit to having 
 moist eyes at some parts and sitting at the edge of my seat at yet other parts.
  
  This is a mammoth game. A game that must be played by anyone who loves adventure games with great 
 stories. So go tread yourself and enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynemeichsner
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I approached Lost Odyssey very cautiously. I have been burned in the past by other Japanese RPG's 
 like Enchanted Arms and Eternal Sonata, which COMPLETELY SUCKED!!! These other games were full 
 of annoying characters and pointless game play. You have to like sympathize with your characters 
 and, well like them in order to finish a game. I was surprised to find Lost Odyssey so very well 
 put together. The difficulty level was just right, the voice acting was very good, and the comic 
 relief was actually funny every once in a while. I think Mist Walker was going for a more adult 
 audience here. The art direction is incredible, the journey you undertake (4 DVD's) is epic, and 
 the game is very well balanced. Some of the boss fights are a little tough, but not too hard, and 
 the cut scenes can drag on a little too bit, but for the most part It deserves an "8.0" Well worth 
 the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kordoch911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  The characters are well developed, and they fell real. The combat system is semi-original; its 
 still turn based but uses a "ring system" to spice things up a bit and keep you active in the combat 
 instead of just watching the characters fight. Its also a very long game, I am about 18 hours and 
 about halfway through the second disc (there is 4) . I do talk to most of the people in the towns 
 though.
  
  Perhaps the one downside to this game is the overly frequent loading times. They are not long, 
 less than 15 seconds, but the happen all the time. When you walk into a building, when you get 
 into a random battle, and between those also frequent cut scenes. It does get annoying, and is 
 perhaps the games most glaring flaw. It really bothered me at first, but after a while I got so 
 drawn into the game I didn't care.
  
  This game is worth playing if you like the JRPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PenguinMyers
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  this game is just flat out amazing the visuals are the best i've ever seen, the gameplay you can 
 just pick up and play, the characters you actually learn their backgrounds which gets you even 
 more involved in the game than any other, even though the loading screens are longer to load a 
 cutscene than any other loading screen it is well worth it, everything in this game is very well 
 planned out and it flows all the way through the entire game. Also when you have 4 discs you know 
 you got some gaming to do before you have beaten the game. All the discs get better as you advance 
 through the whole game. the dreams are a little long but they tell you a whole story while you 
 read it, they make the game a lot better because you understand what has happened to the immortals. 
 If you don't own this game go out and get it, it will grow on you and you'll always want to play 
 it for hours on end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crashandburn123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's exactly what I expected from this RPG! I really enjoy the turn-based style 
 of fighting. The graphics are pleasing to the eye and I like the story so far. At first, I was 
 apprehensive about this game because the title screen was very plain and there was no intro movie 
 when I started the game. I thought it would be a huge disappointment. But now that I have been 
 playing it for a while I thoroughly enjoy it and am totally addicted to it! When I started playing 
 the game, I was instantly hooked. The beginning battlefield scene was jaw-dropping. And come on 
 people, 4 discs for the price of one game? That's good bang for your buck if you ask me!! I hope 
 other people are enjoying this as much as me! I would recommend this to anyone who is a serious 
 gamer and loves RPGs as much as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomi1233
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a classic RPG for quite some time now... Lost Odyssey is more than I could 
 have ever hoped for. Not only does it bring together an incredible story with comedy and despair, 
 it also incorporates something that many modern RPG's try to change; simplicity. The beauty of 
 many classic RPGs is that they are essentially a story with mild player interaction (turn-based) . 
 Of course, this mild interaction is expanded by the variety of combinations of skills and spells 
 that one can use, but in general one does not need to put much thought into the fighting. This 
 game is a fantastic representation of what I mean. The combat can be as simple as one wants it 
 to be; however, there is more that the player can do if it is desired. The loading times in this 
 game are far from outrageous, the glitches are minimal to none (I have had some freezes, but that 
 is because my 360 is older. Once I cleaned the laser I have not had any freezes) . I honestly can 
 not fathom why the reviewers gave the review that they did. If I did not have a 360 I would buy 
 one for this game (I did this for the playstation when final fantasy VII came out) . I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who enjoyed final fantasy VII and likes to read (this game is not for children 
 or those with short attention spans) . This game requires a certain intellect to fully appreciate, 
 and I am sure many of the bad reviews stem from the lack of interest in story and reading than 
 from actual problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  First I have to say I was very skeptical about this game since we have had several attempts to 
 bring a JRPG to the 360. Thankfully Mistwalker succeeded. They already gained my love with Blue 
 Dragon though BD doesn't hold a candle to Lost Odyssey. This is not a game for everyone however. 
 When going to buy a RPG you need to be aware that there are two types of RPGs. The "Modern" type 
 (Morrowind, Obivion, Mass Effect) and traditional RPGs called JRPG's or Japanese Role Playing Game. 
 Lost Odyssey falls into the second category and if you prefer the more modern RPG then most likely 
 this isn't for you. I happen to like both and hadn't really found one I have liked since Final 
 Fantasy VIII and X. Thankfully I have now. This game does it right on all cylinders. The graphics 
 are absolutely stunning, the music is breath taking, the diologue is campy but hey that's what 
 makes a good JRPG , excellent story, and near perfect combat system. This is defiantly not a game 
 you want to rush through nor should you but the combat system can take a bit getting used to. The 
 ring combat system is a very cool feature but very hard to perfect. Combat can be easy or hard 
 depending on what you are fighting and if you are ready to fight that particular enemy. If this 
 is the kind of game you are looking for I highly recommend but please be aware of what kind of 
 RPG it is before you buy it and then complain because it's not Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eternal15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is one of those games you want more of and faster. To say that it has the potential 
 to be one of the best rpgs of this year is an understatement. I have been immersed in this game 
 for some time now, the story is amazing and the graphics do the xbox 360 justice. Being 4 disks 
 long it has a lot to offer and a cast of characters that you grow to love.
  
  This game had the potential to be a 10 but the only gripe I have in my book is the loading times. 
 They can get somewhat annoying but are bearable especially considering what the game has to offer. 
 I am throughly enjoying this game and would defiantly recommend it to any rpg lover out there. 
 The xbox 360 needed some good rpgs added to it's game library and this is defiantely the perfect 
 addition.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the sound is amazing and the voice overs are good compared to many other 
 games. It's good to see them actually trying with English voice overs. Of course you can always 
 switch to the Japanese voice overs, or one of the other 5+ languages supported. I'd have to say 
 this game does everything right as far as actual game play goes. To get a good idea of what the 
 game plays like think Final Fantasy X with Final Fantasy IX's skill system. A perfect combination 
 in my book.
  
  It is very easy to get immersed in the game and lose track of time, that is one of the hallmarks 
 of a good game. The little memories that come back to the main character add a good amount of immersion 
 as well. These stories don't necessarily add to the main story but they are a nice side note that 
 helps bring life to the game.
  
  Overall I would recommend that everyone from rpg lovers to those interested in the genre should 
 pick this up and give it a try. If your not hooked in the first hour check for a pulse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud7Weapon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey starts out like the classics do; you are sent on a missoin and then the story begins 
 to unfold (after the war in the highlands) . The playables all have their own persanlitis which 
 really add some sparks to the story. Jensen, is your typical womenizer who like to complain and 
 brings in some comedy to the game. Kaim is self-kept, and emotional closed. But most people would 
 be if they lived in his shoes. The battles as critics will say are classical, just what fans have 
 been waiting for: turn-based. The story is one of the best I'v seen and I'v play a great deal of 
 RPG's. If you do not like the game by the time the first disc is over, than just stop playing because 
 it's really not for you. But the story really pickes up on the third disc which is great for both 
 fans and ADD's like. Most of the time when I would try to play 2 hours it bacame 6, easy. I just 
 got on the 4th disc and their is still alot to the story that needs to be answered. So after I'm 
 done with my four more major events, I have a feeling that the ending is going to be the best that 
 any gamer has seen in a long, long, (10 years) time. The graphics are good, the game play is the 
 stuff we grew up on and have wanted to revive for a long time, the story is the most addictive 
 feture of the game, playables are touching, and the Feather of Final Fantasy and RPG's has proven 
 that he still has it. If you like at least a couple RPG's consider buying the LOST ODYSSEY, if 
 you liked at least one RPG playing LOST ODYSSEY will do you justice. If you like a good story then 
 consider the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  If you love RPG's, awesome characters, and a solid storyline then you must check this game out. 
 The main characters in this game are very well developed and keep you interested in there growth 
 and relationships with the other characters. I've always loved RPG's so when I heard the creator 
 of Final Fantasy was putting out this new game, I knew I had to check it out. It is FOUR DISCS 
 long, but worth every second I've spent on it. The graphics are descent the frame rate is a little 
 slow but every thing else more than makes up for it. I've been engrossed in finding the immortals 
 lost memories and as you get to know the characters you begin to see why they react to certain 
 situations the way they do. The game is loaded with cut scenes which makes it like being part of 
 an interactive movie. This game is worth every penny spent and minute spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  All in all this isn't a bad game and considering that the 360 doesn't have that many rpg's to boast 
 about it will have to be the top 1 so far.
  Lets get the good points out of the way, its a nice graphical game and the scenery is beautifully 
 done, the story is good and the script is well written (non of this every character is nice crap) .
 
  the bad thing is the beginning of the game, it's to much story and needless walking around just 
 so i don't miss anything, some of the characters also have the cliche of i'm clearly gonna be the 
 bad guy at some point because there actions are more then questionable and they might aswell wear 
 a T-shirt sayin i'm gonna f**k you over later on. I did find myself falling asleep at points as 
 I was waiting to long for something to happen and the fact that I have to check everywhere and 
 every person just incase I miss one of those dreams became quite frustrating.
  
  I'll cut it short and basically say it's trying to be to much like final fantasy, and yes i'm aware 
 who the creators are but try something a little new, I would say buy this game unless your in the 
 UK because out of everything the main thing that upset me with this game was the way they randomly 
 put the 4th disc is a crappy sleeve instead of making a case that actually fits them all in.
  
  It's still a good game and is worth the money considering it will take alot of time to finish 
 unlike most games where you pay the same amount for 10 hours of gameplay (no names..... Halo 3) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Ever since Hironobu Sakaguchi broke away from Square Enix (Squenix) some time just before Final 
 Fantasy 12 was released (yes, he did not fully contribute to it) , his Microsoft oriented company 
 of Mistwalker studios has begun to make their individual mark on the video game industry. With 
 Final Fantasy under his belt, he went on to produce a prior installent for the 360, Blue Dragon. 
 Blue Dragon was a very tradtional JRPG, average with cliche characters, but still a fair attempt 
 at his first non Squenix driven game. And now, his second project has finally released, which is 
 Lost Odyssey for the XBOX360. And I assure from personal experience, this second attempt delivers.
 
  
  The story follows Kaim, a man who supposedly cannot die and has lived a thousand years worth of 
 his life. During a spectacular introduction of two warring factions, with one clearly facing defeat, 
 Kaim erupts onto the scene and decimates enemy troops with a brilliant manuever of swordplay and 
 movement. This battle ends rather abruptly due to a supernatural incident, supposedly killing soldiers 
 on both sides of the battle. But with Kaim surviving it, it brings to the attention of the Nation 
 of Uhra, who he was hired to fight for, that he can be applied for more beneficial use.
  
  The storyline offers an intriguing blend of drama, action, some comedy, and a context that would 
 seem worthy of any novel. The drama lies true to the fact that there are other Immortals in this 
 world. Also, other mortals come into play in your party later, and each have their own part to 
 play.
  
  The battle system is fairly straightforward. One innovative function in attacking is the use of 
 the Ring system. Whenever a person has a ring equipped, by holding down the Right trigger when 
 their attack is executed, a ring shrinks within the screen toward a targeting apparatus, also a 
 ring. If the two Rings line up close to each other, a Good rating applies average damage. A Perfect, 
 on the other hand, increases the damage done slightly and also implements various effects, depending 
 on the Ring equipped. This system is the only unique feature to the battle system, however. With 
 a standard party of 5 characters, with optional placement on the Front row or Back row to customize 
 defensive and offensive placement, this game gives a better meaning to the term "strength in numbers". 
 Oh, and did I mention that if an Immortal is killed in battle, they will automatically revive within 
 one or two turns, easily extending your supply of reviving items?
  
  The graphics and music are also astounding for the game, with every character portrayed brilliantly 
 even in standard definition. And the game is spread across 4 (yes, 4) game discs. As much as it 
 spells out a true lengthy game, the game spans anywhere from 30-50 hours, depending on how much 
 of the game you play. The reason for this is due to tremendous amounts of CG and data, which also 
 gives a rise to another slight flaw: loading. Those 360 owners with the original units may end 
 up waiting an average of 7-15 seconds for a screen to load (depending on battle or area transition) . 
 Despite these minor flaws, the game is overall very good.
  
  With minor flaws, a great storyline, a casual battle system, gorgeous graphics and well produced 
 music, Lost Odyssey guarantees a unique JRPG experience that will come rarely on the XBOX360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is not one to miss if you are a fan of RPGs or JRPGS. It is totally stunning and engaging. 
 You can definetly see it's Final Fantasy roots throughout the game, which only help to enhance 
 a stellar experience.
  
  The game will start out slow, very slow. But trust me, by the end of disk 1 (6-10 hours) you will 
 be hooked. The graphics are fantastic, the gameplay is solid, and there's not a better RPG experience 
 on the xbox.
  
  The story and characters are where it's at for this game. I normally disagree 100% with the dude 
 who did the review for gamespot, but on the characters part - he got it right.
  
  You will love every character and be drawn to keep playing to find out more about them. The story 
 itself is also superb, learning more about kaim is just the beggining.
  
  This is a must have game for any RPG fan and comes highly recommended. You will learn the combat 
 and customization very quickly and be glued to your xbox for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great, crisp visuals; a solid combat system; Jansen Friedh....
  
  The Bad: The puzzles are boring and destroy the pace; terrible frame rate; certain aspects of combat 
 are poorly implemented....
  
  If you like a good, traditional RPG, Lost Odyssey will gladly take up a good deal of your time. 
 
  
  You follow the role of a man named Kaim, an immortal with a dark and poignant past. However, he 
 cannot recall his 1000 years of life, and that throws a great deal of twists into this game's excellent 
 plot. Kaim will be joined by a fellow immortal named Seth, who is an ex-pirate with a big heart. 
 Bringing up the rear will be Jansen. Jansen Friedh is a mortal, and I'll tell you right now, he 
 is the definition of a good comic relief. You will be awaiting the next cutscene to see some of 
 his crazy antics. 
  
  However, Jansen plays a lighthearted role in a much darker story. Kaim will regain his memories, 
 and will become significantly more 'human' as he does so. These memories are triggered through 
 mandatory cutscenes and sidequests, and if you have the patience to read ALOT of text, you can 
 view Kaim's past endeavors through storybook format. This doesn't sound exciting, but you will 
 miss out on a lot of the game's most heart-tearing moments if you don't read them. Also, doing 
 this will earn an extra achievement, which is always good for gamerscore junkies. 
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag. The combat brings back memories of Final Fantasy 10, but some things 
 just don't work right. Sure, tactical timing elements are thrown into the bag, but they pale in 
 comparison with the power that magic provides. Unfortunately, magic is costly and limited, which 
 can make combat needlessly frustrating. Also, the game has a turn-based face meter which allows 
 you to see who can attack first. Although this sounds great, it's actually pretty useless, because 
 you can't see it until you've already entered your commands. To make matters worse, characters 
 have the ability to delay enemies through attacking, and the turn based fighting meter has no way 
 of helping you do that. 
  
  Exploration can be a mess. You'll do large scale world travel through a map system, which will 
 pinpoint the direction that you're going in, and when at sea, you'll navigate a boat. However, 
 the boat controls horribly, and you'll find the beef of travel in the actual areas, ala FF10.
 
  
  These areas can be incredibly tedious. You'll run into a puzzle here and there, and it completely 
 wrecks the pace. Also, you'll honestly feel like the encounters are reading and taking advantage 
 of your desires. When you want to get into a battle, the encounters just won't come. If you don't, 
 they'll seem to attack you every 3 steps. 
  
  Item collecting is done all right, but it could have been better. You'll sift through every kind 
 of object imaginable for that extra healing potion, but this means that the options are so diverse 
 that you'll be drawing yourself off track to check out an area that might not hold an item at all. 
 You'll wish that the game just stuck to treasure chests, or marked them on the map. 
  
  The traveling map is also a mess, because of the multi-floor system. You'll never get a signal 
 that tells you where the stairs to another 'floor' are, and you might find yourself scouring a 
 map in the silhouetted in your search for the next path to follow. All the while, battles will 
 attack you left, right and center. It's frustrating. 
  
  Icon detection sucks. If you want to enter a door or examine something, it will feel like brain 
 surgery for Kaim while you try to line yourself up with an object for examination. The button recognition 
 is too slow, so mashing as you travel won't help, either. If you don't get it perfect, you won't 
 be able to check things out.
  
  The graphics are great. You'll get some of the best visuals for a long time. The style is like 
 a mix between FF10's characters, and Baten Kaitos' environments. The camera obediently follows 
 as you move, and everything comes together nicely. 
  
  The framerate is a different story. Some of it is so bad that you'll think that the game has frozen 
 (even worse, seeing as it will likely freeze at least once before you finish it) . It will pop up 
 as battles begin, during cutscenes, as you travel, and just in every intruding area imaginable. 
 It's a pain. 
  
  The music is a poignant as the story. You'll get your upbeat themes and nice orchastration for 
 boss battles and encounters, and the solemn moments are perfectly matched with some sad tunes. 
 The voice acting is incredibly effective, if not a bit over the top and annoying where Cooke is 
 involved. 
  
  Despite the many flaws, you'll find this game very easy to like. It's that rare gem with a lot 
 of problems, but will still come off as something you'll play with a smile on your face. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellsmye1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I came away from the Gamespot review of this game feeling a liitle dissapointed. A lot of the game 
 was under fire and I thought the game would score well, but, regardless of the score I went and 
 bought the game. I mildly enjoyed the start of the game, with its impressive opening sequence and 
 lovely graphics. About an hour in, I got my first dream. I was impressed by what power and emotion 
 Mistwalker generates with these little written stories, so I continued playing. I met my first 
 characters and went out and set about completing the game. I found myself laughing at Jansens witty 
 quips and love for women. I found myself impressed by Kaims utter coolness. The character cast 
 of this game is stunning. The music is lovely and (my highest praise) I found myself with a lump 
 in my throat watching some of the cutscenes. Do yourself a favour. Show your support for Mistwalkers 
 stunning ability and buy this game. You wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalchubbs45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  
  Lost Odyssey is an awesome RPG that offers a very compelling story good gameplay and great sound. 
 the only problems with this game are number 1, there are no weapon shops until disc two which takes 
 amywhere from 4-7 hours to complete. Numbe 2 is that the game is very hard the enemies are challeging 
 but the boss battles are sometimes impossible especiall the two giant energy worms on grand staff. 
 You have to get every one with imunnity to paralisys or your dead. Number 3 the magic characters 
 are a little to much stronger then melee characters. Ok now that i have said the bad once you reach 
 the 2nd disc you can find better weapons or buy them at shops, you can have up to 8 characters 
 in battle making it much easier to defeat those tough bosses. And once you are getting new weapons 
 your will see much higher damage in your melee charactes damage. Overall this game has a lot of 
 good things to offer it might not be as good as final fantasy 10 but its close it takes some patiets 
 but once you get farthere into the game you will get hooked on it and it only gets better so have 
 a little patience its worth the 59.99 buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vathone1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The one thing I find Ironic about how so many reviewers go about reviewing current turn based JRPGs, 
 is that they continue to say "It is the same old thing" or "been there done that" when referring 
 to the play style. The reason I find this ironic is that both of those things could be easily said 
 about almost every FPS ever created. Now, take the Halo games for example (all of which I own and 
 enjoy) Halo was great, combine vehicles into the single player arena as well as some other interesting 
 aspects, an unmatched multiplayer for a consol and a great story and you have a game worthy of 
 mid 90s scores. Then we look at Halo 2 and 3 which are nearly exact clones of Halo with suped up 
 graphics a few different guns and a new vehicle or 2 yet I see no reviewers saying "oh gee Halo 
 2/3, same as the first one, grab a gun and shoot stuff". Personally, I have created what I like 
 to call the "Halo bias" in which I add about 10-15% to whatever the game was given to account for 
 the fact that many reviewers look at games now and say "If it isn't a FPS then it must suck".
 
  
  Anyway on to the review
  
  This game is truely a well made game, It might be the a turn based formula but the addition of 
 the skill linking and the "wall" aspect between the front and back row really adds a nice strategic 
 element to a tryed and true style of gameing.
  
  The sound crisp and clear with no reused sound effects while the music truely shines through (as 
 expected of the composer of many Final Fantasy games, Nobuo Uematsu) as being extremly emotional 
 and well adapted for the situation at hand.
  
  While the the graphics are quite stunning, the emotions portrayed by the characters faces could 
 have been a bit better. The combat animations and spell effects are top notch and the cutscenes 
 are breathtaking.
  
  If you are a fan of classic JRPGs and not afraid of a bit of a twist in the combat then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  For fans of the Final Fantasy series, I have noticed most peoples first are their favorite. FFVII 
 and FFVIII brought the series to the mainstream, so that was a lot of peoples first in the series, 
 and consequently their favorite. Final Fantasies IX X and XII, while quality games enjoyed by many, 
 probably don't quite stack up to VII and VIII in terms of the gaming experience. I believe Lost 
 Odyssey is the closest thing to that. And there is pretty good meaning behind that. The head of 
 Mistwalker studios, Hironobu Sakaguchi, was the "creator of Final Fantasy" when he was with Squaresoft, 
 and ironically he split when Square merged with Enix, to form Square-Enix. So it makes sense his 
 games will greatly resemble Final Fantasy.
  
  Bottom line, if your a fan of the Final Fantasy series, you will be a fan of Lost Odyssey. While 
 it does nothing innovative, it has the old school battle system, great chracters, and classic story. 
 To fans that alone is all it need in my humble opinion. It has a cool ring system, and characters 
 specialize in a class, such as mage or melee attackers. Formation is a battle is also important, 
 that is a nice touch as well.
  
  Minus the technical glitches, poor framerate, frequent load times, and visual bugs every now and 
 then it's a great game for any JRPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NGC17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is going to be short and sweet because all you really need to know will only take a few sentences. 
 The game has gone straight back to old school JRPG (which everybody loves) so thing Final Fantasy 
 7,8.
  You hit me i hit you turn base genius works to great effect bringing you close to the action. 
 
  Character's rock with amazing back ground information wanting the player to gobble up as much 
 as possible. 
  Leveling up system interesting i'll leave it at that?
  Graphics looking incredible on the 360, game play and cut scenes.
  Story line intense to say 
 the least it can make a grown man cry.
  Music flows peacefully along as you wonder around the vast land and open seas.
  Loading times 
 has been picked up upon with gamespot and i have to agree with them. They average from 4 to 10 
 seconds and to be honest it sometimes grates on you which is a shame as it is the only thing holding 
 back a otherwise beautiful game.
  
  All in all i would recommend this game to any JRPG fan and newcomers to the genre as you will be 
 happily surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  OK now Gamespot has once again messed up another review grats gamespot your actually making a habit 
 of this.
  Lost Odessey is simply brilliant its a great RPG that feels and plays great.
  It has an innevative battle system that works really well.
  The story is absolutely amazing and 
 is extremely well written. One thing that you should ignore the review about "been there done that" 
 or "nothing new" because people need to stop looking for brand new things and start looking for 
 WELL MADE games it is so irratating watching people give games a bad review just because its going 
 with a great formula.
  This game has great Gameplay Great Music and Brilliant Storyline. I dont wonna go into it that 
 much because i dont believe you should have this experienced ruined. 
  
  This is BY FAR the best RPG on the 360 and probably the best one out at the moment its a MUST GET 
 for any rpg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  It may not completely reinvent the often looked-down upon wheel that is the Japanese RPG genre, 
 but Lost Odyssey does enough and does it so well to warrant a truly great adventure.
  
  Your quest begins as the immortal Kaim and immediately you'll see that this is a much more mature 
 game than typical RPG's. Instead of a bunch of teenagers with flamboyant, gravity-defying hair, 
 you take control of a character surrounded by death and drunk with emotion. You are again off to 
 rid the world of evil, but the characters maintain your interest throughout the game and are the 
 real meat of the story, from the hilarious, ladies' man Kaiden, to the apparent strong-minded, 
 ex-pirate Seth. The character development is some of the best in recent memory and will keep you 
 guessing at what they will do next, making you care for the characters and keep you wanting to 
 play.
  
  Most of the story telling consists of high-quality HD cut-scenes but also, quite uniquely, Kaim 
 and other immortals unlock memories throughout the game. These are very well written accounts of 
 their previous adventures but, although not necessary to read, offer usually touching stories which 
 give real background and depth to the characters. These give you a real reason to continue your 
 quest.
  
  As a JRPG, you won't be surprised to hear the combat is turn-based. It is very well crafted and 
 even offers some new gameplay elements. Apart from the typical attack, magic and item commands, 
 the aim ring system adds to the flow of battles. This involves pulling and holding the right trigger 
 when using physical attacks to create a circle which quickly decreases in size and then releasing 
 it when it overlaps with a second circle on the enemy. If done correctly, a 'perfect' will occur, 
 causing attacks to increase in fire-power. Among others, the formation system is the other significant 
 addition which sees characters placed on the front row add to the defence of the back row. Although 
 fairly simple, this adds a welcome strategic element to the combat.
  
  There is another addition to the turn-based battles worth mentioning. Your party is made up of 
 both humans and immortals and, as the mortals gain skills, immortals can link with them to gain 
 these also. You gain skill points at the end of combat which contribute to these skills. This allows 
 for a tactical choice of who you decide to battle with as do you choose immortals, because they 
 will revive themselves after a number of turns, or do you use humans to learn desirable skills? 
 The choice is yours.
  
  The enemies you face are very varied and beautifully created. This is the same can be said with 
 the environments, from the quaint, seaside villages to the dark, dingy forests laden with treacherous 
 creatures. The battle effects are very impressive along with the character design and cut-scenes. 
 In other words, Lost Odyssey is a visual treat.
  
  The same is true with the audio. Coming from the original Final Fantasy composer, the score is 
 unsurprisingly extraordinary. While exploring the world, the soundtrack perfectly captivates the 
 surroundings and likewise while viewing the memories. Although some of the sound effects are clichd 
 and some of the voice acting isn't terrific, the audio is one of the highlights of the game.
  
  Apart from battling, the exploration sees many varied environments, from icy mountains to haunted 
 mansions. Although many of the dungeon designs are typical of the genre, they are often diverse 
 enough and offer different gameplay elements to make them feel fresh. However, there are some annoying 
 elements featured. These include a stealth section which involves sneaking past security posts 
 as well as trying to find and collect certain items. Although boring, they certainly don't hinder 
 the rest of the excellent gameplay.
  
  Bosses feature at the end of dungeons. They are very well designed and usually require different 
 strategies in order to be defeated. However, they sometimes do manage to break up the pacing of 
 the game by being fairly difficult compared to the rest of the game. Grinding (levelling up your 
 character by continuous battling) has been significantly restricted, which is a good addition as 
 it keeps players challenged rather than being able to level up and breezing through the game.
 
  
  Lost Odyssey spans an impressive four discs, primarily due to large amount of hd cut-scenes featured 
 within the adventure. The game will typically last around 40 hours and more if you wish to do the 
 many side-quests, so you're getting a lot of bangs for your buck. Although there is not much replay 
 value after completion, what you will play is of top-class gameplay.
  
  Although Lost Odyssey doesn't bring much new gameplay to the table, what it does do is create a 
 quality role playing game where you'll experience an emotional, rich, heartfelt story with a fantastically 
 fun combat system. LO offers a lot of content and is something special for both RPG fans old and 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOnlyValius
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a masterpiece. While the gameplay isn't anything revolutionary the storytelling 
 is. Lost Odyssey really puts forth incredible effort in bringing its characters to life. Every 
 character's personality and story is wove intricately into the games text. Through the script that 
 is presented in Lost Odyssey you really start to feel an emotional understanding of the characters. 
 The most brilliant part of the story and develoment isn't the script though, its the main characters 
 dreams. The dreams have no pictures or movies to watch and no voice acting or music to be entertained 
 by, but each one of these dreams is a deep short story that is written extremely well. No joke, 
 if all these stories were put into a book I might actually be forced to buy them. So the storytelling 
 is great, but hows the gameplay? This is the only facet of lost odyssey that stops it from getting 
 a ten in my book. While it isnt bad, Whats New? Nothing. Everything Lost Odyssey does in its combat 
 and leveling system has been done before. The Ring system reminds of the a dumbed down version 
 of Legend of Dragoons addition system. For leveling and skill purposes the Immortal/Mortal link 
 system reminds me of Final Fantasy VI's summon link system. 
  
  Overall, while nothing about the gameplay is new it is certaintly functional and doesn't hold the 
 game back too much. Companies should learn from Lost Odyssey in terms of character development 
 though. The storytelling facet in Lost Odyssey is so great that its outshines every flaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Great Intresting Casts/ Jansen Is So Funny / The ring system adds tactics / Spams across 
 4 CD's with 40hrs of gameplay / Intresting story/ Great graphics
  
  BAD- Nothing new / short considering theres 4 CD's /
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  The gameplay is like somthing 
 from the oroginal Final Fantasy Series, you take it in turns attacking your enemie till they die, 
 when you use your attack theres somthing call Ring's that if you press the RT button at the right 
 moment you'll do extra damage or other effects like obsorb MP or put your enemie to sleep, depending 
 what Rings you equipped from the ring assembly. The world is huge to exsplore when some amazing 
 fun dungeons to go through. In LO you can possition your party, have people like Jansen at the 
 back of the party and someone like Kaim at the front, the front party will create a wall that'll 
 reduce the damage taken from the foe that attacks the back row, so this adds stratagy, your foe 
 also does the same. The bosses in the game are all taken down differetly and are very hard to take 
 down.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  Fantastic visuals, the enviroments are amzaming to look at on HD which this game is realy desgined 
 for, The dungeons all look realy good and not repetative, the blur is taken from Blue Dragon but 
 not used as much cos Blue Dragon did over do it with the blur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lloyd35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I just got the game, popped it in, and just played....
  Best game ive played in awhile... it got me back into buying xbox 360 games and looking out for 
 diamond's in the rough, why gamespot rated this game a 7.5 shocks me, its up there in the ratings 
 with Halo 1-3 and COD-3 & 4 ect...
  i was really gambling with this game, but once i got into it, i knew i made a good choice
  Any 
 one who loved the final fantasy's this game is a must buy.
  i picked this game over mass effect, and had a better time because this game had length and a great 
 story line, graphics where phenominal, fight scene's openings slowed overall gameplay, but fight's 
 were all worth it...
  ( I got use to it quickly if you ever played baten katos for GC and tales of synphonia ect.. you 
 get used to it)
  after ff7, ffX ffX2, ffXII and such, this game is a good grab for the people who are switching 
 from playstation to xbox and are looking for the same sexyness that attracted you to playstation.
 
  overall im proud of my decision with buying this game : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambit1016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a Fantastic and enjoyable RPG that anyone who enjoyed SNES/PS era RPG's would love. 
 It may not be ground breaking and innovative,
  but I don't see that as a bad thing.
  
  I don't know why every game has to introduce some new gameplay element
  to be considered good. 
 I loved the old turned based rpg's of the snes and PS era. Lost odyssey to me embodies those games 
 wonderfully.
  
  The main characters are quite good. The storyline is your typical bad guy trying to take over the 
 world, but it keeps your intrested. Which is what matters. The combat is well done as is the skill 
 system. The graphics are amazing, which great backgrounds and character models.
  
  It has its flaws of course. The loading time of the game aren't long, but you do find yourself 
 seeing the screen quite often. As I said before the core storyline is a bit typical. And save points 
 can sometimes be placed a little to far from one other then I like. The game has refresh points 
 ( which restore hp an mp) , but most of the time. There scarce and often in places where you really 
 don't need them. One of the major problems I have is that characters that aren't in your party 
 don't gain any XP. Which can be annoying for various reasons.
  
  In closing if your looking for an RPG that is a throw back to the one's of years back. You should 
 give this game a try. If not you may want to look else 
  where. I still urge everyone to give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigan_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, I think 7.5 by GS is underrated, it is at least a 9.0 in my mind. The game 
 gives you a great 40-50 hours (average) of great story driven gameplay. Yes this game does play 
 and feel like FF in many ways, but what is wrong with that? FF 1-10 are all great games, so this 
 is not a problem for me.
  
  The story is based around Kaim usually, who is a warrior who is one of the immortals found in the 
 game. Seth, jansen, cooke, mach and ming are also main characters found in the game. The story 
 is well written with the added depth in the dreams, these for me make the story one of the best 
 I have played
  
  The gameplay in this is nice, generally works well with the added ring system and skill linking 
 needed to progress in the game. The guard system is also a nice touch which is appreciated. The 
 combat is generally well balanced with the exeption of certain spells which can be quite overpowered. 
 However this does not affect the gameplay too much, it is just noticable at worsed. New gamers 
 to RPG's may find the difficulty a little hard in the begining of the game, however experienced 
 fans will find it just right, if anything too easy ^^
  
  The graphics in this game are well presented, there is a wide variety of scenery in this game, 
 ranging from huge industrial cities, to enchanted forests, to beautiful beaches. The graphics are 
 not the best around but they are certainly very good.
  
  The music in the game is immense, I love the soundtracks and sound effects. The voice acting is 
 also very well done, this will not dissapoint. The dreams are also featuring soundtracks and sound 
 effects. The score is a masterpiece and I suggest you turn your TV up :)
  
  Now gaming websites and critics have complained about framerate issues, I have experienced no such 
 problems. Also the load times are not as bad as the reviewers make out, sure they are moderately 
 long, but by no means are they too long that it interupts the gameplay.
  
  Overall this game is a brilliant and deep RPG that will satisfy the fans of FF X and earlier. I 
 would recommend this game to any RPG fan instantly. 
  
  The reason I didn't give LO a full 10 is because although it is a brilliant game, it is not perfect, 
 but at the moment it is the closest linear RPG game to be released since FFIX that is near perfect. 
 This is just my opinion of course, so buy the game and get your own opinion and don't just take 
 my word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SanSui
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't normally write reviews, but the fact that so many review sites have unfairly nuked this 
 game's score for being a "JRPG" is maddening. This is the best RPG I've played since the 1990's, 
 and to see it get mediocre reviews for being a 'traditional' RPG is criminal when you have derivative 
 sequels like the Halo franchise and MGS getting top billing.
  
  Bottom line, Lost Odyssey has a great story, beautiful artwork and game settings, top of the line 
 soundtrack, and a lot of gameplay to burn through over 4 discs.
  
  Jansen's one liners will have you rolling on the floor, and if you actually dig into the dream 
 sequences you will be rewarded with some excellent backstory.
  
  Load times are fine. If you're like me, and you feel like you haven't REALLY played a Final Fantasy 
 since the PS1 days, this game will make you feel at home. I hope Mistwalker keeps putting out titles 
 of this quality, but I'm worried many people may never play them thanks to the review sites that 
 give games like Halo 3 a 95 and LO a 50. 
  
  Buy this game. 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance5555
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a poor attempt at trying to incorporate pretty graphics into a role playing game, 
 that is you can call it that. This game plays far more like a puzzle game. The RPG part seems no 
 existent. The games pushes you to do certain things at certain time with completely ridiculous 
 puzzle type levels. Where are the Oblivion like games, the continual release of games that are 
 all the same is getting old. Save your money on this one and rent it. Once you get to the move 
 here, step here, kick this levels you will know not to buy it.
  
  
  The game also seems to have no real or clear picture on how to get level increases to build your 
 characters, even when your characters go up levels it still seems to take the same amount of attacks 
 to kill an enemy. Customization of characters is weak with no real equipment . The game is very 
 slow and just no fun after playing for a time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrett
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  If you can give puzzlequest such a high rating you can definately give this a ten, because its 
 around 60-100 hours worth of non-stop cutscenes and a pretty darn interesting story with graphics 
 way better than any sports game and even a lot of the shooters. Its fun to level up and gain new 
 spells, and I have missed a lot of classes in college cause I ended up staying up till the sun 
 rise and had to sleep! I'm only on the 3rd disk so my review is only up to this part. And the time 
 was conducting from a series of other responses. One of the few drawbacks is the annoying random 
 battls. Its such an inconvenience to have to use trun-tail all the time or have to withsatnd some 
 of the repetitive battles. I feel guilty playing this game because of the characters, due to the 
 fact I'm not about all the lovey dovey bullspit. Wow I feel gay. Worth buying definately, cause 
 I'm on my third renewal and already have a ten dollar late fee! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is the RPG that the 360 has so dearly needed. I think that any RPG fan can enjoy this game, 
 weither they preffer western or Japanese RPGS. It also really brings back memories of FF7 for me, 
 so thats definatly a good thing.
  
  The gameplay is fun and adds a few new things to the turn based RPG genre.
  Fantastic characters 
 and music are also in the game and done very well. But the thing that blew me away about this game 
 was the characters and there background. Its rare that a game can pull you in and really have you 
 feeling for the characters in the game. The Dreams are a very nice addition and really add to the 
 atmosphere and the characters in general (so please dont skip the dreams!) .
  
  The graphics are also very nice for an rpg, not ground breaking but still very nice. As far as 
 length goes its a fairly long RPG game, that will last you anywhere from 30-80 hours.
  
  Lost Odyssey joins Mass Effect and Eternal Sonata as my fav RPGS on the 360. I think everyone needs 
 to go out and buy this game so we can have more games like this in the future. I sure hope we get 
 LO #2 and #3 in the future as well! This game really is a true RPG masterpeice, i have no idea 
 how gamespot could have given the game such a low review, but its nearly perfect IMO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybomb3691
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best rpg i have played in while some of the only down falls 
 of the game which are very little actually are. that fact that once you get to a sertin point in 
 the game you have got to change discs seeing as how that game is a four disc game. which is actually 
 pretty suprising because i haven't seen four disc games except on the playstion counsels. but as 
 far as game play it is flawless masterpiece that i just keep playing and playing. i will problably 
 never get tired of this game seeing as there is so much you can do so much you can see in this 
 game that is what make it a very great game. so for every one out there that has there collection 
 of 360 games this is one game i really recomend for your system. And if you don't like rpg's i 
 am sorry you are really missing out on all of the fun and excitment that comes with playing this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I've played a game like this. Lost Odyssey is a masterpiece, the type 
 of game that doesn't come along very often. It has great characters, a great story, very challenging 
 turn-based gameplay and offers an epic adventure that spans more than 70 hours on 4 DVDs.
  
  I really like how they portayed the characters.... very mature and unlike other JRPGs out there 
 which usually have a teenage protagonist. There are child characters in your party but I also found 
 their portrayal believable and they had a lot of good personality that doesn't deter from the story.
 
  
  There's a whole lot of emotion too in this game.... characters laugh, cry, and overall, you can 
 see that they can feel emotions with the events and things that happen around them. In most RPGs 
 nowadays the characters are overtly serious or just plain angry.... Lost Odyssey shows some unbelievable 
 range for their characters' acting; arguably far better than the recently released Mass Effect 
 (where the characters were really only just either angry or serious all the time) .
  
  The story and the way it is told via cutscenes (real-time and CG) combined with the thousand years 
 of dreams stories make for an entertaining ride. Focusing on subjects that normally aren't seen 
 in games (death and the tragedy of loss) , again, there's a tone of maturity and wisdom to this 
 game.
  
  Lastly, there's a ton of sidequests to be had on disc 4; compared to most JRPGs which are a usually 
 a linear affair, there's a lot of things to do when the whole map opens up.... making this a game 
 that lasts over 70 hours. At this time I'm still trying to get all the items and treasures in the 
 world and I'm at 80 hours already. I have beaten the game earlier.... and by the way, this game 
 has the best ending I've ever witnessed. In my mind it has beaten the epic 20 minute ending for 
 Final Fantasy 6!
  
  Great job Mistwalker. I'm glad that the users around the 'web are rallying behind this title. I'd 
 love to see more of the Lost Odyssey universe in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blewan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  just wanted to put in here that the review on this site had me worried to death about very long 
 load times, and while they aren't FAST, they are bearable, and nothing about them ever made me 
 get frustrated with them, they simply aren't that long, or i'm more patient than i was when i played 
 ES3: Morrowind and got annoyed at the load times on that...
  
  the graphics are stunning
  the story is very good, albeit fairly predictable, it's not like i dont watch a movie and get mad 
 when i put the pieces together before they're supposed to...
  
  the skill tree is immense, i dont think i'll have time to finish them up in all honesty, i was 
 hoping for 50-60 hours and i'm in the 65 range now and not even close...
  
  the combat is old school but has shortcut options like saving the last command for the characters 
 which is nice... and the ring system does enough to keep you focused when u need to be... although 
 i find it a little tiresome collecting the required materials to make some of the rings...
  
  the music is great, can't get it out of my head sometimes.
  
  the voice acting is well 
 above par, the cast are all very good, but can at times seem ordinary when compared to the job 
 of the Jansen character, who would win an award if they gave them out for voice acting in games.
 
  he really does carry the show for most of the game.
  
  Difficulty is 50/50, it can be very challenging at times, and awfully easy others, plus u can find 
 ways to level up if you are clever enough.
  
  the mini games are the same way.
  
  all in all -- 9.2 
  graphics - 9.4
  gameplay - 9.2
  story - 8.4
  music - 10
  voices/difficulty 
 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FartSlash
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Let me first say that this game has a really strong start. They through you right into an intense 
 battle and manage to meld cut scenes and game play in a way I've never seen before. Immediately 
 after the battle, the tedium begins to set in.
  
  I have always been a fan of traditional turn based rpg's and I think this game could have really 
 been something special if it had spent more time in the oven. The load times really are ridiculous. 
 You'll get used to them eventually but it still sucks that this is an issue in "the next generation 
 rpg." Like the reviews you've probably already looked at, I noticed considerable frame rate chuggage 
 that took away a lot from the game's mediocre at best story.
  
  From a strictly graphical stand point, this game looks pretty good. The character models and environments 
 have some really impressive detail. It's too bad that all these technical issues combined with 
 the shockingly drab citizens of town you'll visit that keep it from really being anything special.
 
  
  The characters are really just not likeable. If you're like me, you like your rpg characters to 
 have good dialog and well-delivered personas. At first, it appears this game will accomplish those 
 things, but soon after the beginning you'll find that every single one of your party members falls 
 into some insanely generic role (the kid that wants to be strong when he grows up, the spunky little 
 girl, the pirate with a heart of gold, the lady's man/coward, and the benevolent queen all make 
 an appearance here.) Kaim looks kind of cool, but once he starts opening his mouth often you'll 
 wish he would have stuck with the quiet bad ass routine instead of hugging his lullaby singing 
 grandchildren who join your party. wow.
  
  The music is passable and has some interesting scores, but it never really contributes all that 
 much to the experience.
  
  The gameplay is traditional turn-based JRPG. You and your party takes turns wacking unruly sludges 
 and hovering books that cast spells in the random battle style. As if that wasn't innovative enough, 
 they included a FFVIII style of attack that relies on timing. If they would have explored this 
 aspect a little further than simply a press of t he right trigger it might have added some entertainment. 
 Magic is as boring as ever and your enemies will kick your ass unless you power level. booooooooriiiiing.
 
  
  OVERALL: This game is boring. This game has terrible characters, terrible game play, no innovation, 
 and absolutely ridiculous technical issues. If you are a masochist, youy should buy this game. 
 Otherwise just do what I do and wish bad things at the guys who strapped their names on this piece 
 of crap in hopes of making a buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  like this is just plain retarded. For everyone who looks at the review for this game, dont pay 
 attention to it. This game deserves more credit than it is given. This game is a great old school 
 RpG with enhanced graphics and gameplay. U actually will get sucked in the storyline bc it is tht 
 good. Even kno tht it has turn-based combat doesnt mean the game should hve a 7.5. Sum of the best 
 games up to date r turn-based RpG's and they kick ass. When i first played this game and started 
 at the very beginnig of the game i was amazed. I like how there r cutscenes in between battles 
 which makes the batles more appealin to the player. This is prolly one of the best RpG's i hve 
 ever played bc it has a good sense of justice in it. So if some of u ppl r planning to buy this 
 game than make no hesitations and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mratch19
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I have played rpg's since the beginning. this game reminds me a lot of lunar, not a similar story 
 wut so ever but its very very in depth and intense. This game is hugely underated by gamespot. 
 The story of the game alone is worth the money to buy this game. anyone who has always loved rpgs 
 or any type of game for that matter should seriously buy this. Since the first time i turned it 
 on I was instantly hooked. I havent finished the game but so far its just spectacular. I dont understand 
 why a game is called bad for taking it back to the basics for good reason. wake up gamespot u guys 
 need a reality check. take final fantasy 12 for example, they get a huge score, sure its a great 
 game but wut the hell is up with the story. its all over the place. maybe im biased cause ive always 
 loved the classic turn based rpgs, Final fantasy 4 and 6 and lunar silver star (sega cd) are among 
 my favorites. This game will make you feel like your one of the characters, i really believe this 
 is what final fantasy should have stuck to, games focusing directly on the story and character 
 development. i could go on for days but ill wait until i finish the game to see if its the masterpeice 
 its started as. :)
  
  yeah sorry for rambling on just thought id throw my opinion out there, gamespot is all over the 
 place with there rankings anyway so i dont think i should take there score to heart lol. tony hawk 
 3 = 10. thats enough to turn me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  So, I had an extra sixty bucks left over from christmas so I decided to get a game and it came 
 to Lost Odyssey or Devil May Cry 4, both are games that don't usually attract me. I decided to 
 get Lost Odyssey because the graphics looked great and since I never played any of the Devil May 
 Cry games. I was a little worried that the game would bore me but it didn't and the story is really 
 appealing with plany of twists and turns. The characters were clearly well thought out and the 
 sound in the game is unsurpassable. Some of the annoying things are the failure to lable Inns, 
 shops, etc. It's not a big problem but it is convenient to have these things labeled. The load 
 times can be annoying especially when you wait and then realize you are in the wrong area and then 
 you have to wait longer for it to load once again. Those flaws aside it is an amazing game. The 
 story is long but it is not too drawn out it is just that there is so much to tell that it takes 
 a while. The combat is pretty fun but it can be frusturating. The voice-acting is great and the 
 game really gives a classic rpg vibe. All in all, this is a great game that may not be the most 
 original but it is very fun and the lack of originality is made up for in numerous ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRJOKER
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely love this game so far only got 16hours in it but so far it's be worth the wait of a 
 year and 3 months since i got my 360:) From the first time u start play Lost Odyssey you can tell 
 that character development is key to the story as a whole. Sure its a turn base RPG but after you 
 set the commands u still have to use the R trigger the get the most out of the attack if not it 
 will only get a bad and min damage. Also the back row is protected from most of the attack, but 
 as the battle goes on and more damage the front row get that protection gets weaking. So u can 
 not just have weak characters back there and think there safe from attack. Anouther cool feature 
 of this game, and there are many, is u can equip rings which gives upgrades to your charactor any 
 time on you turn with no turn loss. Some what like FFX with the weapon change. The only thing that 
 i don't like about this game and not in the game but the case is the poor way they stack 3 game 
 dvds on top of each other and on in a slip cover. Its going to be hard keeping them from getting 
 scratched. but all and all the game is great and worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yumex85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is a game that it feels like "if you love the Final Fantasy series, you must play Lost Odyssey". 
 Its exactly the same FF series style, which is no coincidence, since the game is made by the FF 
 creator guy. Thats why i say, its nothing new, Its a classic turn based J-RPG, with a rich story 
 and characters that you actualy care about! You want to know what happened in their past, why, 
 how, and it just gets better as you go on playing the game. New characters are added, in the right 
 time, new skills, and nice sidequests.
  The gameplay is very nice, since you actually need all those skills and spells acquired, you cant 
 simply go blindly pushing the action button to make every one attack to win. Party formation also 
 matters, and the bosses thru the game is just right. I wouldnt say they r hard, but its not "attack-button-fights".
 
  To be honest, there were sooo many things in this game that reminded me of past FF games (for 
 those who played FF series and plays LO, you guy will understand me) , but still, I love FF, so 
 I kinda faced this game as another FF!! lol
  The music is also very remarkable, but again, the composer is Nobuo Uematsu from FF....
  The 
 bad points were the bad frame rate, even for those players who can tolerate a lot of graphic factors, 
 sometimes it freezes a bit cutting voices. Another point is that there were too many unnecessary 
 loadings, I mean, there is a cutscene, then it loads to put u back to play, only to make u walk 
 3 steps for another loading and cutscene.
  But in general, I loved this game. My final score is 8.5 for the bad sides i remaked just above, 
 and because the expectation was about a new J-RPG play style, but after the game play u realize 
 its a traditional J-RPG with HD graphics.
  Thanks for taking your time to read my review. I hope it helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayosky
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  This is a role-playing game quite similar to the saga of the final fantasy viii ix since mixing 
 such objects that you can create, mount accessories your character, and depending on the closeness 
 that has the purpose or the ability linked will be stronger or more weak character. 
  In this game include the great music created by these fabulous artists. In the scene where they 
 show the world map plays a song that is beautiful to my taste, is a very similar to the Andean 
 music Chilean Andean closely resembles a theme of "Jaivas", but in any form is a great topic. The 
 system battles shift I liked the movement of cameras and all such attacks, skills, magic etc. .. 
 You have to resort to know at the time is accurate and timely exquisite really feel a sensation 
 when played much like final fantasy viii for the first time. The environment in which you move 
 your, I find that there are more secrets of your so you can imagine that we must be vigilant and 
 go on stage every corner with a character in search of any object or secret skill. The graphics 
 are beautiful, these characters who created the game are true artists, I recognise that there is 
 much work behind this game and a great effort by those who managed to do something different from 
 the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeen
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It had been quite some time since I have played a JRPG. In fact FFX was the last one I played and 
 that was many, many years ago. Since then I have played many Western RPG (Morrowind, Oblivion, 
 KOTOR, Mass Effect) so needless to say when the game stared, with one one the best battle scenes 
 in history of video games (not Return of the King or Helms deep, but darn close) , and I was only 
 able to look around maybe 10 degrees side to side and was basically put on a rail to the next location 
 it was a bit jarring. All I wanted to do at first was look around at the sky, the hills the environment, 
 but this being a Japanese RPG that option was not given to me. And the first random battle I encountered 
 was a little startling at first (even though I know it would be coming) . But once I got past all 
 the glaring "This is a JRPG not a Western free for all" differences it was like putting on a old 
 pair of comfortable sneakers. The huge sweeping CGI (like I said the battle scene in the beginning 
 is breathtaking) , the imaginative characters and the "This guy is part of a bigger picture" character 
 development, the in depth, slow paced battles and the striking beauty of many of the areas in which 
 you travel all reminded me why I loved the FF games so many years ago. So while I still think I 
 enjoy WRPG more because of the amount of choices you get and about how you develop you're character 
 and you're experience while playing the game, deep in my heart I will always have a soft spot for 
 a good, old fashion Japanese style yarn. Again, if you are coming into this game looking for a 
 shooter hybrid like Mass Effect, or a free rooming RPG like Oblivion you will be a very sad little 
 boy / girl. But if you have a appreciation for a old Fasion JRPG and were raised playing games 
 like FFVII or X or Dragon Warrior then you will enjoy this greatly. But just don't expect anything 
 new or revolutionary, this is a throwback to the olden days and does nothing to move the genre 
 to new heights, other than the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me start with the graphics, they are superb, best on the Xbox 360 by far. The game 
 starts off strong and stays strong throughout the entire game, some people say the begenning after 
 the first battle when your in the first city, its slow, but it want like that for me, i loved every 
 minute i played of it and infact, im still playing it now. The characters are amazing, Jansen is 
 by far the funniest character in the game, while Kiam is the quiet badass who normally just stays 
 in the shadow's unless spoken to, when facing the main villian, or when something happens to someone 
 he loves. The game is 4 discs long, and is stacked like how the Blue Dragon discs were (we'll Blue 
 Dragon is only 3 discs but the first 3 discs are like that, 3 stacked with the 4th in a paper sleeve) 
 so when you buy the game, you might want to check it in store to make sure none of the discs are 
 scratched. The plot is real good, id say its up there with Final Fantasy VII (7) and thats my favoriate 
 game of all time, Lost Odyssey is tied up there with it for me, great cutscene's which are all 
 mostly in game, and by that i mean there isnt really much of a difference between the cutscene's 
 and the regualr game, the main way you know its a cutscene is when the grey box with the text isnt 
 there and its just the text on the bottom of the cutscene, which is the only way i was able to 
 tell that i was watching a cutscene. This is a very old-school RPG, it is turn-based and has random 
 enounters, both of which I like, the random encounters arent over done, its actually pretty low, 
 Enchanted Arms had a pretty high encounter rate, so if you played that and are worrying you'll 
 be forced into battle after battle then dont worry, that hardly ever happens in Lost Odyssey. there 
 characters are very likeable and any RPG fan is sure to love them, superb story, and superb graphics. 
 If you love RPG's, espically games like Final Fantasy, and Blue Dragon, then you must buy this 
 game. Its done by the original creator of Final Fantasy, and alot of people say this is the Final 
 Fantasy 12 that never was, its that good of a game. This game to me is an old-school Masterpiece, 
 but since i can only choose one thing for the classification of this game, i decided to choose 
 Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJPrez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to really question who Game-Spot decides to review particular games, as 
 I think that no RPG loving individual would have complained about the loading times that I have 
 been experiencing. As someone as already mentioned, mass effect's loading times are much worse 
 and that game glitches a lot as you can often see the last of the graphics kick in. I think the 
 action 3rd person elements and the fact that you can be an ass on the evil side helped amuse the 
 reviewers to add some extra points. (Still didn't bother me enough not to play it and enjoy it) .
 
  
  Now back to Lost Odyssey. When I first heard about the dreams and how they were written I was very 
 skeptical. After such steps were made to have individuals talk for some RPG's, to sit and read 
 for an extended period of time and not just a talk bubble scared me...... well I was absolutely 
 wrong.
  
  The dreams thus far have been the most endearing and well written pieces in the game. Never before 
 have I read such well written passages that actually succeed in inspiring and attempting to teach 
 people about life, as well as allow the player to become close with the protagonist, Kaim. I have 
 found myself now scouring areas looking for the potential thing that might trigger a memory. Just 
 to have the ability to read one of these wonderful passages.
  
  Following from this, this game has been the first time in a while that I have actually experienced 
 a story that makes me think of things outside in the world and not in a bad way, much like in FFVII. 
 The correllation between the the danger of using something not quite understood that comes from 
 the earth to the effects we have on the environment in that game is present here to a certain extent, 
 but it is the commentary on what makes life important from the view of so many other people. Of 
 course you don't have to read the dreams, to still enjoy the game but you would be doing yourself 
 a disservice.
  
  The characters are genuinely funny. I know this may come as a shock to people, but the humor hit 
 home with me. Very sarcastic and dripping with innuendos. If your a fan of either you will enjoy 
 the interactions thanks to Jansen.
  
  In terms of game play, the action is very much nostalgic to simple and straightforward games of 
 old that we all used to love to play on the NES like Dragon Quest and the first FF's. Why the reviewer 
 talks as if this is some weakness that brings it down.... I do not know. Most RPG fans I have ever 
 talked to actually have desired something that is similar to games back in the day, and the few 
 new ideas they added (the ring system, skill link system, and immortals) IMO are excellently integrated 
 into the tried and true system. Fun enough to learn, but not so foreign as to take a whole play 
 through to finally "get" it. 
  
  In reference to these claims that certain battles in the game are too hard. I debate whether or 
 not that person is truly a fan of RPGs. I have grown tired of a lot of these games where walking 
 around and getting into a fight is just an annoyance, and it takes a person 2 seconds to defeat 
 some weak pitiful minions and only care when the boss comes around to put in some effort.
  
  This game makes every battle a fight for your life.
  
  You will not be able to just press 
 A and take down the enemies.
  
  YOU... MUST... FIGHT... AND FIGHT WELL.
  
  I have never been so happy to defeat some cookie cutter soldier in my life. Rather than some tedious 
 annoyance, which ends up being like a 1 min exercise in looking up the scores of the BBall game 
 while you press A, or appease your significant other to make them think you are listening to them. 
 The game forces you to take battles seriously. Now granted, every battle is not difficult, and 
 certain bosses might leave you saying "Is that it", but for the most part you will be challenged 
 through and through.
  
  If you are a fan of RPGs, which is probably the only reason you might be looking up fan written 
 reviews. GO GET THIS GAME. You may find yourself cheering like its Sunday night football, after 
 every battle but playing a game has never been as satisfying in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I keep seeing all these reader reviews that basically say the same thing; "It's nothing new, but 
 still a great game." Guess what people, we're into the NEXT GEN of gaming. Over and over I read 
 mediocre descriptions of the game and then a stunning 9+ rating. This is not a BAD game, but it's 
 also nothing that you spend sixty dollars for. I kept thinking PS2 while I played this. The graphics 
 are definately not up to par with what the 360 is capable of, but it's an RPG and it should all 
 be about the story, right? Well, the story is predictable and over-used, so don't expect any surprises. 
 The characters are the strong point of this game, and one that makes it worth PLAYING, not buying. 
 The combat is predictable and boring, the ring system feels like something added to force you to 
 pay attention to re-hashed combat tedium. Rent it, or wait for it to drop at least thirty dollars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawlu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  I know we are not supposed to like turn-based RPG's as the critics scores of lost odyssey seem 
 to suggest?, but the REAL reviewers, THE GAMERS, seem to suggest otherwise by all the much higher 
 scores including mine. its sad to me that reviewers always seem to demand change? even tho so many 
 including themselves have loved a certain form of gameplay for many years, they automatically look 
 down on anything that looks remotely familiar to anything done b4. if it aint broke then dont fix 
 it!, thats my motto. why is that such a taboo?, why do things always have to be changed?, even tho 
 IT WORKS. iv always loved turn-based RPG's just like lost odyssey & untill playing it id forgot 
 just how much id missed it. THANK YOU MISTWALKER! :-) the end no yes no yes no yes no yes no yes 
 no yes no yes no yes no go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polish_Dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  You really only have to play this game for an hour or two before it completely sucks you in. A 
 true gem in the art or storytelling. Truly tho, there are very few games out that that make you 
 want to shed a tear, and LO happens to be one of the best.
  
  The only reason that this game did not get a 10 in my book is because the difficulty throws you 
 off guard at the beginning of the game. The first boss took me at least two attempts to clear, 
 but eventually you learn to play the game more liberally and it starts to get easier.
  
  Also there are slight frame rate issues but nothing that really hampers the game or the game play.
 
  
  I also did get stuck in a wall early on in the game, but fortunately I did manage to save it a 
 bit earlier, so a small word of advice would be don't run along walls... lol
  
  Overall great game that you will be remembering and waiting for the sequel to come soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camarowu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  great game !!! some people dont like it because the gameplay is not cutting edge but i dont think 
 they meant it to be. i love the nostalgia of it. beautiful graphics and a touching story you rarely 
 see in games today. beautiful cutscenes aplenty its like a movie inside a game. english voice acting 
 not the greatest but passable but i prefer japanese and subtitles anyway. the music score is supurb 
 and would fit in with any ffvii soundtrack. the all text dreams of the main character kaim are 
 fused with sound and music are pretty cool and some are downright sad. some people are complaining 
 about load times but i didnt think they were that bad. you dont trash a ferrari because it has 
 a scratch on it. overall a must for any serious rpg fan. everything old is new again and if your 
 looking for some newgen oldschool pick up lost odyssey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonoranreptile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I can't remember the last time that a storyline in a game has me more interested in it than the 
 game play, but it's hard not to with Lost Odyssey. I am a sucker for great stories and deep character 
 development and this game has both. The graphics are beautiful, the music is awesome and the battle 
 system reminds me of the Final Fantasy series in its heyday! This is the best RPG's on the Xbox 
 360 so far and will end up being one of the best games of 2008 on any console. This game will appeal 
 to any gamer, not just role playing fans. It is also nice to see a hero in an RPG that isn't a 
 "pretty boy" or some 14 year old whiny kid. Kaim is a great hero becasue you can relate to him 
 on a human level and the other cast members are very well fleshed out. Play this game now! You 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Lost odyssey is the story of an immortal man named Kaim Argonar. YOU WILL EITHER LOVE THIS GAME 
 OR HATE IT!!!
  Kaim and his allies are on a quest to defeat the man thats caused them so much pain in life. Although 
 i'm only on disc 2 I can say what i've seen is good and detailed. Cutscenes do rain down upon you, 
 but, these cutscenes are very well created and seem natural after a while. You can skip them though 
 but the storyline is such a key element that the game would then flop on its side. Each character 
 has a story and you want to figure them out. Political intruige also plays a key role.
  The battles system is a re-vamped version on the old "you attack me, i'll attack you" system. Basically 
 this game is modeled on Final fantasy. I say re-vamped because it is a little more strategic. The 
 limit to characters in a battle is 5, you cant switch out characters in the middle of a battle 
 either. Characters go either into the front or back rows. The front is your "shield." The more 
 HP your characters up front have when a battle starts, the less damage your characters in the back 
 will take. A strong frontline is necessary then if you want to defeat some challenging bosses. 
 your characters also vary and seem to have there own personalites. All your characters are good 
 at something, but are also weak at another. For example the main character Kaim is an excellent 
 melee character, but falls short on the terms of magic. Also theres a major diffrence between Mortal 
 and Immortal characters. Mortal characters learn new skills as they level up, making them all unique 
 in a sense. Immortal characters on the other hand learn there skills by linking with mortals and/or 
 from multiple accesories that can either be found or bought. Another unique addition to the battle 
 system is the ring system. Rings can be crafted from loot obtained from creatures or bought in 
 certain stores. Rings add various effects to your attacks such as draining HP to causing petrification 
 or both. The fun part is that there only added to physical attacks, when you attack two rings will 
 pop up on the screen, one shrinks the other stays still. You try to nail the shrining ring right 
 onto the still ring. This adds some diffrence and the rewards for hitting it just right are very 
 beneficial. Anyone who has played the first two paper marios should already have some experience 
 in this field.
  Music and graphics are really detailed. Music can get old though so some music on your hard drive 
 or a CD player can really help. The graphics are really detailed on characters and the environments 
 and this in turn doesnt really make the environment seem bland. Facial emotions really seem real (most 
 of the time) .
  NEGATIVE COMMENTS
  *There is some slowdown when you enter battles or some cutscenes causing framerate to be jittery, 
 but it is sorta easy to adapt to.
  *This is a complicated game so dont expect it to be a pick-up and done sort of game. It requires 
 patience and an adult mind.
  **This isnt really negative so much as m personal thoughts. The game can be childish at times and 
 can be a sort of turn off for hardcore fans. Though you may of heard of Jansen. Jansen truly is 
 the comic relief.
  *There is a lot to this game so I say again THIS GAME ISNT FOR EVERYBODY!!! YOU WILL LOVE IT OR 
 HATE IT!!!
  
  Lost odyssey is a great and deserving game and so I give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey as you may have read does nothing new but what it does do is create a depth of gameplay 
 hugely addictive and keeps you holding the controller for just one more fight.
  
  I have over 60 hrs logged into the game and have completed most the achievements (with the strategy 
 guides help) . I didnt start using the strategy guide until I was confused as what to do next once 
 I reached disk 4. Since then I decided why not get all the other cool stuff in the game before 
 continuing with the story. 
  
  From the beginning Lost Odyssey had me hooked. From the excellent opening fights to the 10 to 20 
 minutes of cutscenes this game has all the eye candy anyone could ask for. Plus when a game comes 
 on four dvd's then there is evidence enough a lot of time and effort was put into it.
  
  You will spend a lot of time running around, fighting and tweeking your characters skills and equipement. 
 Tweeking may be a turn off to a lot of people but when you see the benefits of equiping your character 
 with a new ring that can steal a rare item from your eneny then you will understand how addictive 
 the game can be. The fight scenes are random encounters with some tough bosses thrown in for stress. 
 Your team can have five party members active at a time with a front and back row formation. Note 
 the front rows armor protects the back row so you spend time knocking your enemies armor down to 
 get to their soft but powerful baddies in the back row. Likewise your will want to protect your 
 paper thin casters with some heavy tanks in your lineup. The playable characters consist of casters, 
 damage dealers, specialist and a combo of each. If memory serves me you will have about ten characters 
 to choose from although as I mentioned only five can be active at any time.
  
  Along with the fighting there is a huge world and I mean big. There is land exploration, ocean 
 exploration and even under water exploration. The world is vibrant with color and each area is 
 distinctly different from the other. I found the cave fighting to be a lot of fun because it reminds 
 me of classic dungeon looting. 
  
  Rings for your fingers are an area of particular interest as what ever ring you equip will indicate 
 what bonus is implemented when you use your weapon such as fire damage, steal, paralize or a combination 
 of may different impacts. You can upgrade weapons and where accessories that have impacts also 
 although not typically offensive like the rings. Accessories typically protect you from something 
 like paralysis or increase hit points, give you double experience or double gold. The rings must 
 also me found or assembled from the loot you get. The ring assemble is quite intimidating because 
 there are literally hundreds of rings.
  
  Overall I would rate the game as a MUST HAVE! I have sat through some long sessions and just smiled 
 thinking to myself "Now that is a GAME!".
  
  I hope you get it and have the patience to work your way through the game as the experience is 
 very rewarding. On a final note if you like the Final Fantasy games then you will absolutely love 
 Lost Odyssey.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbrogs001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  "Lost Odyssey delivers in every way that counts. A classic is born."
  
  I've been a long-time RPG fan ever since I was ten years old playing Chrono Trigger on the Super 
 NES. I have always read up on every game I've bought, and very rarely make blind purchases. I try 
 to save my time for great titles, so doing research on things I buy is something I pride myself 
 on. This game caught my interest as well as many others when it was first announced. It has finally 
 arrived in North America! Picked it up release day and haven't been able to put it down since. 
 This has been one of the first RPGs to keep me glued to my Television until the wee hours of the 
 morning. I just want to say thank you to Mistwalker for doing such a great job. On to the review!
 
  
  When Lost Odyssey was first announced, it got a lot of hype here on GameFAQs and on many other 
 sites. Everyone was wondering if Mistwalker could really pull it off, since Microsoft has never 
 had much support from Japanese RPG developers. Thankfully they pulled it off, Lost Odyssey is a 
 masterpiece of a game that should not be missed. 
  
  Story - 9/10
  The story revolves around Kaim Argona, a solider who has lost his memory. He is an immortal, who 
 has lived for a -long time- but doesn't figure all of this out until later in the story. Throughout 
 the story, he meets other people similar to himself, and slowly pieces together his past. With 
 the help of his fiends, Kaim ends up going on a journey to put things right. The story revolves 
 around the "Magic-Industrial Revolution" in which humans discovered how to manipulate and use "magic 
 energy" thirty years ago. Kaim and his crew end up going on quite an epic journey, which is quite 
 the emotional roller coaster. The story is not your typical rehashed JRPG one. Mistwalker has managed 
 to really spice it up, something which many JRPGs have seemed to lack in the past years
  
  Of course like all JRPGs it has its ups and downs, but at the end of this adventure you will really 
 be put through some pretty "Wow!" moments. Definitely one you will remember for quite some time. 
 This is one of the only games I have actually got a little emotional playing. Simply amazing.
 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  LO really shows off what the "Unreal Engine" and the Xbox 360 are capable of. While it's simple 
 in design, the level of detail in the characters and scenery is simply jaw dropping. I have not 
 seen an RPG look this good on any system. The details in the characters faces is really phenomenal. 
 There are very few flaws overall with the graphics in LO aside from the occasional frame rate drops. 
 The FMVs are well done, and the battle animations are solid. Another successfully aspect of the 
 game.
  
  As I said above, the game does suffer from frame rate issues. They really pushed the 360, but it 
 shows. 
  
  Sound - 10/10
  Wow! Is the only word I can use for this. Nobuo Uematsu, the man behind much of the Final Fantasy 
 series has hoped on board with Mistwalker (As most know from his OST in Blue Dragon) . I hate to 
 keep saying how great everything is, but this is really one of the shining points of LO. The music 
 is inspiring, and they will stick in your head. I really don't know how Nobuo keeps putting out 
 such amazing work, I guess the man is a musical genius what can I say? All I will say is, this 
 soundtrack is fantastic. Thank you Nobuo, thank you very much.
  
  I wish I could put into words how much I enjoy the music, but I will let you see for yourselves.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Mistwalker brings the "If it ain't bbroke, don't fix it" philosophy to the table for this one. 
 This game brings nothing new to the table in terms of game breaking gameplay, but I don't see this 
 as a con. It plays out like many traditional role-playing games. You control Kaim, and run around 
 fields battling monsters, finding treasure, speaking to villagers, and learning new spells and 
 magic. Nothing you haven't seen before if you've been playing RPGs since the Super Nintendo days.
 
  
  The battle system has very simplistic, yet effective commands. Attack, Magic, etc. Mistwalker decided 
 to add in a "timed hit" system to add something different to the battles, similar to that in Super 
 Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars (SNES) . If you time it right (Good/Perfect) you will take 
 full effect of your strike. 
  
  The most interesting thing about the gameplay is the Ring/Element system they put in place. You 
 can use rings to add status/elemental components to your strikes. This plays a big role in many 
 Boss Battles. There is a "Ring Assembly" system in which you can combine all the rings you find 
 to make more and more powerful ones. Knowing which elemental attacks to do when is the key to success, 
 and LO's Boss battles are no cakewalk. 
  
  The last and final thing I want to touch on the is "Anti-Grinding" system they put in place, which 
 I love. They scale EXP earned from monsters based on your parties current level. This allows for 
 hardcore gamers to still grind, yet lets the more casual gamer know when it's time to move on without 
 over leveling to keep the challenge there. I really like that they make it known what the recommend 
 level for each area is. That way the game is still a challenge for those who dislike over powering.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  While it brings nothing new to JRPGs, it makes sure that it does everything right you'd come to 
 expect from one. A Solid battle system, good graphics, an amazing sound track, and characters you 
 will fall in love with.
  
  Do no skip past this game! You will be missing out on an amazing experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  As time goes on, I find myself disagreeing with critic's scores of games. Here is another example. 
 After hearing nothing but negative writings about Lost Odyssey, I decided to wait for reviews to 
 come out before I bought it. Well, typically, most reviews for this game are 7, 7.5. An above average 
 score, but an indication that the game is nothing special. Are you kidding me? After watching video 
 clips of this game in action, I bought the game.
  I mean, I don't get it. The only legitimate criticism is that this is a standard RPG, with few 
 additions to the classic RPG formula. But that's it!!
  Graphically, this is the best looking game (not RPG, Game!) for the xbox 360. The character models 
 are gorgeous. The opening cutscene is absolutely stunning, and every location in the game is artistically 
 beautiful.
  The music is classic Final Fantasy stuff. The voice acting is very good. The main character is 
 mysterious and interesting. There is comic relief to go along with the serious story. 
  Gameplay is straightforward, but there is nothing wrong with that. If you want to hold it against 
 Lost Odyssey for not being innovative, you can. But you will miss out on a great game. 
  The bottom line for me is everything about this game screams quality. Time and effort went into 
 this game, and it shows. It completely baffles me why a game this great and this next-gen isn't 
 praised properly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacatash
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  
  1. Voice acting: 9.5 
  -If Final Fantasy 12 has Balthier then Lost Odyssey has Jensen. Jensen is a scene stealer just 
 like Balthier.
  
  2. Translation and storytelling: 10.00
  -Dialogue is amazing with 5 different languages to choose from.
  -The built-in literature for 
 the 1000 Dreams is an amazine 'ebook' by itself. Whoever wrote that has to be commended for his 
 story telling. The presentation just blew me away.
  
  3. Graphics and Visualization: 9.5
  -Amazing attention to detail best viewed on an HDTV. The hues and the shading is a sight to behold 
 and the monsters and enemies are really INTIMIDATING and FORMIDABLE to look at. The special effects 
 gets kudos. A good job by the artists and animators who created this game.
  
  4. Experience and characters:10.0
  -You will really care about each characters in this game. 
 The maker of the game wanted to create in anyone to play the game empathize and make an attachment 
 to their struggles in their journey.
  
  CONS:
  
  1. Story: 7.0
  -Not that much deep as FFantasy 7 or Xenogears, Chronotrigger or Xenosaga. More like a step lower 
 than FF X-2
  
  2. Load times: 7.5
  -Lots of it during the beginning of battles and when going from one room or dungeon to the next. 
 HOWEVER, this does not distract you from playing the game. The loading time is less than 5-7 seconds. 
 Again this is hardly annoying. Persona 3 has more annoying load times than this game.
  
  3. Frame rate issues in some areas: 7.5
  -There are choppiness during some scenes but again this 
 is minor
  
  4. LOUD XBOX 360: 1.0
  -When playing an RPG, you should be able to enjoy and listen to the orchestrated music during gameplay. 
 The loud fan of the XBOX 360 just ruined the experience. If there is a time to use the Hard drive, 
 this should be the game to do it. 
  
  5. Packaging: 0.00
  - It has 4 DVD discs and they crammed (literally) all the discs inside with the 4th CD on a separate 
 PAPER SLEEVE! Talk about poor presentation. There is a great chance that your precious dvd will 
 be scratched and damage when storing them even before you finish the game. Shame on you Microsoft!
 
  
  Conclusion: 8.5
  As JRPG fan, I would recommend this a must buy. You will get your money's worth compared to buying 
 the same old FPS, Sports or RAcing game for your Xbox 360. I just hope that they could port this 
 game on a PS3 so I can enjoy the games ambience and great storytelling without being annoyed by 
 the Xbox 360's 'vacuum' sound effects. 
  
  
  
  UPDATE (Nov 2008) : After installing the game on the HDD, made possible by the NXE, the game now 
 is much more enjoyable to play. You can now hear and enjoy the soundtrack, dialog and sound effects. 
 The loading times IMPROVES dramatically and corrected some framerate issues!! Definitely the BEST 
 JRPG on the system. The only thing that preventing me to elevate the score above 9.0 would be to 
 allow gamers to just use 1 single DVD for authentication when playing different parts of the game. 
 Its tedious to reload a cutscene for disc1 while you are on disc4. Only a minor thing but hopefully 
 it will be done. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesbound14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Kaim is a very compelling charcter who shapes the game along with all his other party members. 
 The fighting system has a few twists but mostly standard RPG play. There are some annoying parts 
 of the game such as sneaking past security robots or lighting torches that have no real impact. 
 There is a memory function where Kaim unlocks memories for you to read and most are very stunning 
 and have good music to aid them. Story is fantastic. As for the difficulty i think at times it 
 can get pretty dificult. you have to know what charcters to use and what rings to use to win certain 
 battles. The ring system is also pretty interesting. It allows you to make certain rings that have 
 impact on certain enemies. For instance you can make it magic ring that does extra damage to magic 
 based enemies. This creates another aspect to the game. Also when these rings are equipped it gives 
 you an acurracy ring when you do a standard attack. If you match the two rings together the ring 
 equiped will have a better effect. But if you do not mach them up the ring will have no effect 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosternicholas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is like going to a High-School Reunion. You recognize everything, yet there have been 
 subtle changes that are either for the better, or worse. 
  
  The Good: 
  
  Aiming Ring System adds a fun and enjoyable element to the traditional turn based JRPG. 
  
 
  Jensen is by far one of the funniest characters to appear in an RPG. His dry witty humor had me 
 laughing all the time.
  
  1000 Year Dream Sequences are some of the best writing in video games.
  
  Skill system is fun 
 and addicting.
  
  Great Story with political intruige.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Loading times are attrocious on disk 4. 
  
  While I am not sure if it is an Xbox360 issue, 
 or a game issue, but frame rates during battles on disk 4 bropped to single digits.
  
  Story was confusing at times. It seems that there were missing pieces to the story.
  
  Singing 
 scenes are horrible. 
  
  Jensen, while incredibly funny, is overshadowed by the annoyingness of Mack and Cooke.
  
  The 
 first three disks go by incredibly fast, and make the player wonder why it took up so much space.
 
  
  So while Lost Odyssey is like going back to a High-School Reunion, it is a blast of a reunion. 
 And while there are some minor technical issues here and there, it doesn't keep the gamer from 
 having a fun and engaging time with a great JRPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureCyanide
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. Its the best Rpg I've ever played. Great characters, great story, 
 great everything. I name anyone to say something this game doesn't do well. You should buy it if 
 you love rpgs. Oh and even if you don't, you'd still love it. If you have ever played the first 
 rpg from mistwalker, blue dragon, you're guarenteed to love this one since they basically one up'd 
 themselves. Better than all of the final fantasy games in my opinion, a must have. It may not be 
 innovative anywhere yet the story and gameplay make up for it. There is also a side story called 
 "dreams of a thousand years" That show you the past of the immortal characters. All of these are 
 well written and quite entertaining if you like that sort of thing. Overall I rated this game a 
 9.5 and I really believe it earns that rating. Only thing that knocked it away from a ten for me 
 was the fact that your party gets divided in one of the disks and it really adds some painful difficulty 
 in parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko1o3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I honestly wasn't expecting too much from this game after Blue Dragon but wow... This game is amazing 
 start to finish. I've been waiting for a game old school like this, it really brings you back to 
 the good days. For the first time I'm glad I have a 360 over a ps3. I never had any frame rate 
 or loading issues, I'm not sure what that's all about... The load times in FF games are just as 
 long. 
  
  The only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because I wish their were a bit more customization in 
 the characters, items, rings etc... I suppose that'd make the game a little too easy if you could 
 make the ring exactly what you want though. More mini games like cards to collect or a sport like 
 FF10 did would have been nice as well.
  
  This is the best game I've played in years without question. I only wish there was more games to 
 look forward to like this on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osxgp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I believe if this were a Final Fantasy title, it would get a higher rating from critics. Square-Enix 
 has made some great games in the past, but the name alone (Final Fantasy) carries their games to 
 higher ratings in some cases. This game's story completely pulls you in. It makes you think about 
 what life would be like if you were immortal. I enjoy how the characters memories unfold as the 
 story progresses. The settings are epic in the lush world that the game takes place in. The characters 
 are very like-able. The score is spectacular. The graphics are excellent, but the frame rate drops 
 here and there. This doesn't take away from the overall experience at all. I am very pleased with 
 the overall game and think anyone who pics this title up will not regret it. It rivals any Final 
 Fantasy game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themana
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  If it ain't broke don't fix it, many of the reviews complain of the old school battle system in 
 this game and say it lack innovation. How many role playing games were released before this that 
 used this exact system and were praised? All I am saying is if you liked Final Fantasy previous 
 to FF12 then you will like Lost Odyssey. It is beautifully done with a excellent storyline, the 
 combat system while familiar is still new with the ring system. The dream sequences really allow 
 you to feel what it would be like to live forever and know you couldn't die. If I could complain 
 about anything is my disdain over the character Jansen, I just don't like him. The music in the 
 game is also amazing takes you right back to the glory days of role playing games but gives enough 
 emotion to make you feel for what is currently happening in the game. I would highly recommend 
 this game to everyone who is a fan of Final Fantasy, Legend of Dragoon, Wild Arms and classic role 
 playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakmanX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why this game has been reviewed as it has, bit I firmly disagree. It kind of makes 
 me wonder why I read reviews at all, and also why I subscribe to this site. This game is absolutely 
 the best JRPG since around 2000 or so. If you like JRPGS, do not hesitate, but immediately buy 
 this game. Go, right now. Get it.
  
  This game is absolutely amazing in everyway, and gave me the same feeling that Final Fantasy VII 
 did when I played it so many years ago. If you like any of the Final Fantasy games, you really 
 owe it to yourself to enjoy this game as well.
  
  After being let down by so many other RPGs and games lately, it is surprising that one that is 
 actually all that get slammed so horribly by GameSpot. Apparently, if the game isn't first person 
 and involve shooting then it is not worth any kind of positive praise. 
  
  I understand that the popularity of JRPGS is not what it once was, but that doesn't mean that all 
 JRPGS, platformers, and any other classic genre shouldn't get a rave review when done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  If you were to sum this game up in one sentence, you would have to say something about its amazing 
 story that is rarely matched in any other game. Sure it's like Final Fantasy in terms of game play 
 and sure it's like a classic JRPG in terms of its style and its characters. But this is easily 
 overlooked if you are one who appreciates a good story and if you are someone who plays a game 
 and can't wait to get into another cut scene that further explains the mysteries of a world we 
 know nothing about.
  
  You are basically cast in the role of Kaim who knows as much about himself as we do in the beginning. 
 You follow him and his companions on a journey that brings him to places where he slowly regains 
 his thoughts and memories of his past and where his goals slowly become more evident. This may 
 all still seem like a regular good guy challenges bad guy sort of thing, but when you get to know 
 the characters more and more, you see that they have more personality then most games care to create. 
 
  
  In short, don't get this game if you are looking for amazing game play or something new in terms 
 of an RPG because that's not what its about. If you are looking for one of the best stories to 
 come around in game form in a while though, this is something you must check out. It includes more 
 storyline then any RPG I've played and it will really get you saying to yourself, "just one more 
 cut scene." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbie24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought it was going to be great from the start and I wasn't disappointed. The graphics are incredible 
 to say the least but... I only wish they would have made it more of a "free roaming" style game, 
 not one where you are limited to where you can walk. I like getting to my next destination on foot, 
 by boat or by air, not by having the game send me there. That part really sucks for me. It's all 
 about the journey!
  
  The battle scenes are awesome - the characters are beautifully rendered down to their weapons. 
 The spell casting sorta bites because some spells can take 2-4 turns before they are ever cast. 
 I like the ring assembly - that makes collecting stuff fun. Linking magic is new. Your immortal 
 characters can link and learn different types of magic with a mortal. It's pretty easy to achieve 
 though.
  
  Overall, I'm totally impressed with the game. The only reason I'm not giving it a 10 is because 
 of the non ability to "roam" freely from place to place. I'm already waiting patiently for Lost 
 Odyssey 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexim
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey doesn't break any new grounds but it's an example that shows games don't need to break 
 new grounds to make it good.
  
  The storyline is great and better than most JRPGs you see these days, very dramatic, and the dreams/memories 
 are just touching and adds a lot to the story so if you are playing the game or plan on playing, 
 don't skip the dreams cause you'll miss a lot. 
  
  Graphics, music, and sounds are grand. Graphics are not Gears of War but I don't expect anything 
 more from an RPG game of this quality and content. What can I say about the music? It's Uematsu's 
 work so I guess I can't really say much other than beautiful. And the voice over cast did a great 
 job in bringing the characteristics out of each character. 
  
  The gameplay is not as bad as GameSpot says it is. The framerates are not an issue. While playing 
 through the game I haven't noticed any bad framerates that a normal gamer would cry over. It's 
 not an FPS so framerates are tolerable. Loading times, trust me, are a great addition. Although, 
 I don't mind playing through the game without them, load times just gives you that short break 
 and anticipation for whats coming next. The battle system is pretty straight forward but the battles 
 itself can be pretty challenging.
  
  Overall it's not just a 'solid' JRPG, considering the amount of content put in, character design 
 and development, great voice acting, awesome music score, I'm not quite sure why GameSpot gave 
 this game a 7.5 rating. I might be wrong but GameSpot is probably rating this game with every other 
 genre in mind and not just RPG's in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viryn_Sane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey... a game that I have been waiting months to play. From it's initial conception, to 
 seeing it previewed on the Mass Effect pre-order disc, to finally being playable on my XBOX. While 
 it took quite some time to pick up my game (Best Buy didn't get their shipment, Target got it late, 
 and I didn't pre order at EB Games) , my girlfriend finally came through and found it at a lonely 
 Gamestop in Dundalk, MD. Based on my first impressions though, it was well worth the wait and troublesome 
 purchase.
  
  Let me be the first to say that this game is NOT FOR EVERYONE! If you hated Final Fantasy or hated 
 other games like it, you will hate this game. IGN hit it right on the head when they called this 
 game a "blast from the past." This game mimicks many of the things that the FF series did. Many 
 people cannot stand these types of games. I, on the other hand, love them!
  
  The premise of the game, as you probably already know, is that Kaim, a 1000+ year old immortal, 
 loses his memories after a really cool and visually stunning cinematic war. Kaim finds that other 
 immortals have also lost their memories and so begins his journey to not only recall past memories, 
 but to save an empire. Yep, we've heard it before... but never read it like this. Throughout the 
 game, Kaim "remembers" dreams or memories that he experienced. While these aren't shown on screen 
 with characters, but rather displayed as text. In the background, noises play based on the type 
 of story. I thought that I would be skipping through these like crazy to get to the action, but 
 I find that I read them more than ever. They are extremely well written and really pain a nice 
 picture in your head of what is going on. The first couple are brutal (especially the one with 
 the little girl and her "journey") , but not all of them are sad. These stories really give Kaim 
 a more sensitive side that you definitely cannot determine from his cool and stoic demeanor.
  
  The difficulty isn't bad until you read the first boss. Don't even attempt to take him on until 
 you are level 14 (at least...15 helps!) . You will find yourself visiting past played through levels 
 to grind on enemies for XP just to stay ahead of the curve. Don't worry though, it's not too bad.
 
  
  Another cool feature in LO is their use of rings. As you progress through the game, you will either 
 find or make a number of rings that give you certain special abilities in battle. One for example, 
 is a ring that imbues your weapon with flames. During battle, you have to hold in the RT and try 
 to match it 2 circles together. It's hard to explain, but pretty easy to get the hang of. If you 
 get a good rating, you do additional damage, perfect rating nets you some more additional damage. 
 Typical RP element we see in a bunch of games. This is a necessity in RP games of this nature since 
 everything is strictly turn bases. Hitting A a bunch of times just won't cut it anymore.
  
  I'm only a couple hours into a game that is over 50 hours long. These are just my first impressions 
 of a game that I have been anticipating for months. Like I said before, if you didn't like the 
 Final Fantasy games, you will not like this game. It is extremely similar. If you are like me and 
 beat the FF games into the ground, then you may have found the perfect game to hold you over for 
 the next month or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Hippie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  I'll qualify "objective" a bit more by stating that I love all genres of games with the exception 
 of Sports games. That said, I do have a bit of positive bias towards JRPGs (and RPGs in general) . 
 What can I say? I guess I'm just not a game-snob.
  
  So, I realize there has been much controversy around this game and its reviews from the various 
 review-publishing sites. Most notably, the relatively low score it was given because of the technical 
 issues that were supposedly littered through the game. Since the reviews have been published, there 
 has been much back-lash from the gaming community, stating the comments in regard to the load times 
 and frame rate loss were completely unjustified. Microsoft did release a statement a few days after 
 the game's release stating the reviewers were given "developer" copies of the game to play on their 
 developer consoles, and those copies of the game did not accurately reflect the performance of 
 the retail version of the game. Anyone who has played the retail version of this game knows this 
 to be true.
  
  I have, however, seen many people make topics stating they have not seen ANY load times or frame 
 rate issues. Sorry, but this is not true. I have noticed several places where the frame-rate drops 
 or load times appear. Let me reemphasize: Neither the reviewers nor the fanboys are correct.
  
  That said, I can tell you without bias what you can actually expect out of the game. First, 
 I will tell you my 360 is in a well ventilated area and I have not had ANY issues with the console 
 since I pulled it out of the box. It is well taken care of, just like any other $400 investment 
 of mine. So the following observation is not because of any technical issues with the hardware, 
 like the published reviewers experienced.
  
  The game starts out in a clean, beautiful cut-scene on a vast terrain with much activity filling 
 the screen. Due to the sheer massiveness of the activity on screen, I was surprised to see not 
 one issue with frame rates. That is, however, only until you gain control of your character and 
 are engaged into your first battle. That is when I saw it -- the frame rate dropped and simultaneously, 
 so did my heart. Now, I will say that the loss was minimal and probably not even noticeable to 
 those who weren't looking for it. Unfortunately for me, I read all the reviews and couldn't help 
 but be aware. Even though the spots weren't terrible by any means, I still hoped this would not 
 be a prelude to things to come. I'm happy to say, after I cleaned out the wave of enemies, the 
 frame rate restored and it was long into the game before I saw even the slightest slow down again, 
 and those events were so small that it may have just been me blinking.
  
  So, in regard to the frame rate issues, they are so minute that even mentioning them in a review 
 is just plain insulting to the game and the readers. I can tell you that it is FAR less noticeable 
 and annoying than the "texture popping" many 9+ rated games are plagued and riddled with.
  
  Now, let's talk about load times. The game is full of them... some worse than others. Having 
 a background in software engineering and simulation programming, I know exactly why they happen, 
 and to be honest, they are unavoidable. In fact, so unavoidable that MistWalker deserves a bit 
 of praise for the way they designed the system to have such a minimal impact on the user. That 
 said, don't expect to have seemless transitions to every map on the screen, but also don't expect 
 to be waiting anywhere from 15 to 60 seconds like the reviewers state, either. Most load times 
 are in the 3-5 second range and the longest I've experience is ~12 seconds. Pretty darn good when 
 you compare it to Heavenly Sword on the PS3 which is LOADED ONTO THE HDD.
  
  Those two hot items out of the way, I must say this game has surpassed my expectations. The graphics 
 are amazing, the music is beautiful and epic, and the story is so wonderfully told I can honestly 
 say it's the best I've read in this medium in a decade (and possibly ever) . The turn based combat 
 system is a blast from the past and delivers a feeling of nostalgia and never even touches the 
 feelings of repetition or monotony. The voice acting is surprisingly good, although, the lip-sync 
 crew could have done a much better job "Americanizing" it. If it bothers you, you can always just 
 change the voices back to Japanese, who are equally as good voice actors.
  
  In summary, Lost Odyssey is a wonderful game that doesn't disappoint. If you're a fan of RPGs or 
 even just a fan of good old-fashioned story-telling, this game is a must-buy. If I was to give 
 this game a numbered rating out of ten, this game would easy get a 9.5/10 from me. I am very happy 
 with this game and the standards it has set for the genre. I now am starting to look forward to 
 JRPGs again after being burned so many times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a JRPG from Famed game developer and father of the Final Fantasy series, Hironobu 
 Sakaguchi. Being as such, expectations couldn't be higher and fortunately for both you and me, 
 Lost Odyssey not only delivers on those expectations but manages to surpass them in almost everyway.
 
  
  The game starts off in a epic battlefield known as the "Highlands of Wohl" where two opposing nations, 
 Uhra and Ghotza, are fighting for supremacy over the world. You are Kaim, an immortal lieutenant 
 of Uhra who seems to have come down with a case of amnesia. The games opening cinematic is easily 
 one of the best opening cinematic to a game ever. After the cinematic the game flawlessly transitions 
 from cinematic to real-time gameplay as you are thrust into battle with soldiers of Ghotza. 
  
  As you may or may not be aware, the combat is turn based. You choose an option for attack and 
 then your enemy chooses an attack. While its nothing new, Lost odyssey manages to make it fresh 
 again with fantastic presentation and new touches to the system such as the "Aim Ring system" in 
 which after a player equips a magic ring such as a "fire ring" or a "aqua ring" and aptly receive 
 the bonus' of that ring. In combat when the player chooses a standard attack, a ring appears over 
 the enemy and its your job to hold down the right trigger and time the attack to receive a damage 
 bonus of either "good" or "perfect". However, if you don't time your attack correctly you don't 
 receive the bonus of the ring that you have equipped. The system brings a great strategic element 
 to the game as well as helps games battle system to not feel quite as dated as some may assume 
 it to be. There is also a wall system in which the casters of the party are in the back and the 
 main attackers are in the front. If a monster attacks the backrow the front row protects them and 
 the back row receives less damage. However, if the front rows party members are low on HP the back 
 row is left vulnerable and will be hit with the full blow of a monsters attack. 
  
  Moving on to the graphics and overall presentation of the game, Lost odyssey provides some of the 
 best eye candy on the 360 yet. The character models are top-notch and look absolutely fantastic. 
 The artwork for each of these characters is also rather nice as well. Finally we have a JRPG hero 
 who doesn't have spikey hair. The environments and enemies are also very nice too look at and will 
 truly help immerse you into the overall experience of the game. 
  
  The music is composed by Nobou uematsu. Famed composer of the Final Fantasy series. Im not gonna 
 lie I honestly wasn't expecting this games music to be anywhere near that of FFVI or FFX however 
 Nobou truly delivers and almost exceeds some of his original works. All the music in this game 
 is fun to listen too and honestly, if the soundtrack where available id go out and buy it right 
 now. Its that good. The battle theme especially is top notch.
  
  
  
  Overall if you're looking for an RPG like the ones you used to play when you where younger this 
 is it. If you have any slight interest at all in this game, do yourself a favor and go out and 
 get it. I promise as soon as you start playing, you wont want to put the controller down. Atleast, 
 I know I didn't. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uttersilence89
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  I have been majorly disappointed in the world of RPGs ever since 2001. Final Fantasy X was the 
 high point in RPGs. FFVII was probably the most solid game in history, but X delivered the most 
 complete package in a game I have ever experience. Absolutely amazing, likable, relatable characters 
 that you get to know and love. A stunning, original world; complete with an original religion and 
 language. Amazing visuals. Perfect gameplay. The most amazing video game soundtrack to date.
  
  After that, everything changed. FFXI came out and we waited patiently for another actual REAL 
 installment. Square merged with Enix and suddenly everybody decided that to be a good RPG you had 
 to change everything. You suddenly ad to move around in battle. Years went by and we played through 
 FFVII through X over and over. Then came FFXII. It wasn't a FF game. The world and environments 
 felt like they were created for you to run through and kill monsters in. There was no emotion, 
 no motivation. There was nothing left that made a Final Fantasy game a Final Fantasy game. This 
 change in regime I believe is what caused Hironobuo Sakaguchi to leave and start Mistwalker with 
 Nobuo Uematsu.
  
  AND NOW ON TO LOST ODYSSEY
  
  You have Sakaguchi and Uematsu. Two of the four masterminds at square. Both Blue Dragon and Lost 
 Odyssey prove that two out of four doesn't quite cut it. You have a decent RPG plot that immerses 
 you and good music. Though the music doesn't come close to his FF scores. But without the artistic 
 inspiration of Yoshitaka Amano and the character designs of tetsuya Nomura there is not a lot of 
 emotion left.
  
  LO has just about the ugliest characters I have ever seen in a game. Visually, anyway. They are 
 very deep characters, though. Jansen is hilarious. They grow on you. And the art direction is decent. 
 The world just doesn't have a very grand scale, though. It's more like an alter-earth than a completely 
 new world. Nothing new here.
  
  The battle system is highly annoying. Choosing every character's command before the turn cycle 
 even starts just doesn't work for me. And the whole element thing? I'm used to fire being strong 
 against ice, not against wind. And the battles just weren't fun at all. No limit breaks/overdrives, 
 no summons. Just attacking and magic. Boring.
  
  The story's concept is very intriguing. A man who has been alive for 1000 years. He can't die. 
 He had a wife, had kids, then they died while he kept on living. This happened countless times. 
 No matter how much he longs for release, he must remain. He has lost his memories and they gradually 
 come back to him in the form of short stories which you must read. This is by far the best part 
 about LO. Picture a short film in the form of a novel. Words appear on the screen in very creative 
 ways, including animated backgrounds, sound effects, and emotion music. They each last about 10 
 minutes in length. There are about 30 of them throughout the game.
  
  The WORST part about this game, or any game from Mistwalker, for that matter, is the technical 
 performance. If you're going to make a game for the Xbox 360, then make it capable of running on 
 the Xbox 360! The frame rate is abysmal. Every time you enter a battle, you have about 20 seconds 
 of choppy animation while the rest loads. And everywhere you go the frame rate jerks around randomly. 
 It never ends. LO would be so much more enjoyable without this.
  
  I may seem like I'm tearing it apart, but I really did enjoy it. I miss traditional RPGs and this 
 definitely gave me a little bit of what I was craving. But the entire time I was playing it, I 
 just kept thinking t myself, "I wish i was playing FFX right now..."
  
  All in all, an immersive turn-based RPG with a clever plot premise, which plays out much less epic 
 than it seems like it should have. Definitely worth playing. It's addictive. I got though a 45 
 hr RPG in five days, so that definitely says something. Play Lost Odyssey. But then play Final 
 Fantasy X as soon as you're done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rioss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I regret to say I almost neglected to purchase this game due to the reviews I read, including the 
 one here at Gamespot. They are quite misleading as most reviews are. Instead of going on and on 
 about features, quirks, props, and so forth, I'll merely say that if you ever liked Final Fantasy 
 and I mean any of them, then you would be doing yourself a great dis-service not picking this up. 
 It is no doubt the best RPG available on any of the "next gen" consoles and will keep you glued 
 to the screen for hours and hours at a time.
  
  The primary driving force of this game, as should be with any RPG is the story. But Lost Odyssey 
 doesn't stop there. It brings you some of the most well thought out characters I've ever seen in 
 a game. Each one is highly detailed, very very very well voice acted, and each and every one extremely 
 interesting. You'll love the quirky somewhat annoying Jansen.
  
  It's simply full of moments you'll never forget, like a good book. I'm frankly surprised to see 
 it get some of the scores it did.. Especially considering most of the complaints with it are hallmarks 
 of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystic_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a story that keeps you interested the whole way through. its one of the games that focus 
 more on story than gameplay. kaim argonar, the hero of the game is a person who lost a thousand 
 years of memories, and his story unravels as he and his fellow crew set on an adventure to find 
 the cause of the disaster that annihalated hundreds of thousands of people. This game is reminiscent 
 of the final fantasy series. The game is 4 discs long and keeps you wanting to know more from the 
 beginning till the end.
  The fighting style is a typical japanese RPG style with random encounters, but has diverted its 
 style with the use of target rings. There are three levels of attack with the target rings, perfect, 
 good and bad. when a perfect is attained the attribute the acquired ring has will be utilised with 
 the attack. For example bio ring will inflict more damage on plant enemies. The on problem i found 
 is that the difficulty level of some bosses arent set to a fair level. Besides that flaw, the graphics 
 are photorealistic and the story is one of the best you will find. i believe gamespot marked harshly 
 as it was comparing it to final fantasy rather than a stand alone game. this game gets a 9.5/10 
 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelegacy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off, I really like this game. To me it fulfills what the 360 needs for a turn based 
 RPG. It fills the void in the game selection. Now to the review, in the game the videos are great, 
 They add so much to the story, but you must also have the patience to go through them. The battle 
 system takes much from the Final Fantasy's, but adds its own unique aspect too. The ring system 
 introduced allows a stronger hit as long as a 'good' or 'perfect' are achieved. This to me is easy 
 to get, and get much easier when the utlra rings are aquired. The characters each have their own 
 thing, just like many other RPG's, except this throws a new aspect, Immortals. The immortals in 
 battle cannot die, but if they do get to 0 for health, wait simply 2 turns and look at that, there 
 they are. Since the other characters that are not immortal, they all have a certain role like white 
 mage, black mage, ect...
  
  So in conclusion, I feel that if you are to truely enjoy, you should be able to handle a dungeon 
 were you keep falling through to the beginning, Just stick with it, great games take time to seem 
 great, but once it is over you realize that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime215
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  As far as the good, I completely agree that the fine elements of the game are brought forth, however 
 the stated bad elements of the game are over exaggerated. The pace is not by any means something 
 that takes away from the game itself. Yes you wait a moment or so to hear a quick word or two from 
 one of the characters taunting the incoming enemy. However, what turnbases role playing game outside 
 of those from the finalfantasy VII days did not contain a quick speach mid battle. Overall I do 
 not find the battle intros to be a pace breaker. I am currently 12 hours into the game and the 
 story line is truely compelling. Perhaps due to any time restrictions given you may find the battle 
 intro a pace breaker, however there is no such thing as a pace breaker to those who have played 
 70hr long rpg's or even 41 days played world of warcraft fans.
  
 No, the game breaks no new ground, but if you stick with it, you'll find a compelling emotional 
 drama, delicate adjustments to an age-old formula, and a unique and balanced skill-development 
 system. Kaim's journey is a memorable one, and if you like turn-based RPGs, you'll want to experience 
 it for yourself.- Kevin VanOrd, GameSpot 
  
  I agree with this statement. Yes they are smal minor adjustments to the turnbased formula but they 
 work well to make the game more fun to toy wit. Exchanging rings mid battle to face specific monter 
 types as a chracter with little spell casting abilty and more melee abilty. The skill development 
 system is one of the better parts of the "delicate adjustments." I find what i like about most 
 Role playing games is the new mechanics to advance my characters and this is something fun to play 
 with and keep in time with.
  
  If you are looking for an RPG that has a wonderful story and a close relation to FF VII in it's 
 content as if they revived the story lines from those days, then take my word for it but that is 
 what i have found in Lost Odyssey. Not nessicarily the same game but most certainly, a modern day 
 glimpse back at RPG's like Xenogears, Legend of Dragoon, and FF VII. If revivals of titles similar 
 to those is what you are after, or trying out Turnbased RPG's knowing the pace difference from 
 reglar RPG's, then this is a wonderful game to get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanloco
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Right from the get go I fell in love with this game! I had that feeling that I had when I played 
 final fantasy 7 10 years ago. I have 37 hours in to the game and I still can not put it down I 
 am on the 3rd disk and it makes me sad because I only have one disc left and its coming to an end. 
 The characters are great and very easily to get attached to them. Now I did get attached more to 
 the ff7 and ff8 characters but thats no big deal. The game will grab you and not let you go no 
 matter how hard you try to put it down you won't be able to. Great graphics and story telling, 
 the graphics could be better but I feel that mistwalker rushed a little in that department. The 
 slow down that is talked about by the reviewers is bs there is some but I was expecting a lot more. 
 The game is great and if you like jrpg's then you have to pick this one up. Best experience I have 
 had with a game in the last yr. This is a must have title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceJakk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical about this game considering all of the hype that it's marketing campaign 
 had spun leading up to a slough of less-than-stellar reviews. After completing "Persona 3", however, 
 I had been waiting for a solid RPG to be released. "Lost Odyssey", I am happy to report, is that 
 game and more.
  
  The battle system is a throwback to when the term "Final Fantasy" meant something. That's right, 
 I went there. "Lost Odyssey" is the modern RPG for the people who liked how Role Playing Games 
 used to be: methodical, deep combat wherein you take your time developing and fine-tuning your 
 characters and constructing a sound strategy with which to claim victory. Turn-based combat may 
 not be for everyone, and that's fine, more power to you, "Lost Odyssey" probably won't be your 
 cup of tea.
  
  Graphics aren't the best that we've come to expect out of the 360, especially utilizing the Unreal 
 Engine. This is not to say that the graphics are bad, they're quite good. The character models 
 are emotive and express themselves with a much wider range of facial expressions than your typical 
 fare (i. e. a character whose eyes narrow and brow furrows coupled with a slight down-turning of 
 the corners of the mouth in order to communicate distaste) .
  
  The character's are very likable, partially because of the aforementioned body language, but mostly 
 because of the stellar writing and above average voice acting on display throughout the game. 
 
  
  Not even a decade ago, this game would've trumped every other offering in the genre. Titles like 
 "Mass Effect" and "Oblivion" have purloined the nomenclature of RPG for themselves, when they're 
 truly slash/rpg's or action/rpg's. If you're looking for a true role playing experience, complete 
 with good, old-fashioned turn-based combat, deep, empathetic and likable characters, then go out 
 and buy "Lost Odyssey", it's an adventure on the 360 that you're not likely to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I recently rented the latest JRPG game, Lost Odyssey, for the Xbox 360. Now, I've currently put 
 about eleven and a half hours into this game, and I would give it a solid 9. The cutscenes in this 
 game are the most amazing I have ever seen, and seeing as how I don't even have a high-def TV, 
 that's saying something.
  
  The gameplay: Sure, it's not the greatest, as some of the normal enemies seem to be able to do 
 enough damage to almost kill you (on that part, seriously, what gives) , but the turn-based fighting 
 is something I haven't seen integrated in a long time, and Lost Odyssey presents it brilliantly. 
 While the boss fights can get annoying, once you try 'em a few times, you form a strategy, and 
 you manage to take it down. With all this and more, surely this is a reason to get a high rating?
 
  
  The graphics: As I stated earlier, simply stunning. Between the cutscenes and simply in-game visuals, 
 these are some of the best graphics I've ever seen on the Xbox 360. Top notch, bar none, 'nuff 
 said.
  
  The storyline: Built on forgotten memories, backstabbing-traitors, wars, and lots of violence, 
 the storyline in LO is extremely thrilling. As you go about and build you party up, you unlock 
 more information about your storyline (which just happens to be so big, it takes up four discs, 
 and, apparently, 35-40 hours of your time, depending on skill and thoroughness) . Seeing as how 
 I doubt I'll be able to beat this game before my 5-day rental period is up, I can only hope it's 
 as good at the end of the game (or better) as it is at the beginning of the game.
  
  The miscellaneous: First and foremost, I LOVE THIS GAME'S FREAKING MUSIC! From the slow-paced, 
 tranquility of the travelling part of the game, to the up-beat, fast and exciting music of the 
 combat, this game's music is reason alone to make you try this game. Lastly, the humour of the 
 game, especially Jansen's lightens the mood considerably and makes the most serious of moments 
 hilarious. I find myself actually laughing aloud at some parts, something a video game has seldom 
 (if ever) caused for me.
  
  Gameplay: 8.8
  
  Graphics: 9.7
  
  Storyline: 9.5
  
  Miscellaneous: 9.0
  
  
  Overall: 9.2
  
  
  Now that is the type of rating this game 
 deserves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dryker
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  I've held off writing a review for Lost Odyssey after the initial nostalgic impact it has had on 
 my psyche. I've only completed the first disc so far, but am compelled to write a review before 
 this gem of a game passes gamers by. It would seem the traditional RPG no longer has the space 
 it once did in the market, but we are fortunate enough to have one of its greatest visionaries 
 provide us with yet another great work. But I've only finished one disc you may say. Indeed, but 
 in that one disc I've enjoyed more RPG splendor than in the copy of Mass Effect that sits collecting 
 dust on my shelf. Lost Odyssey takes everything that made traditional RPG's great and goes further. 
 The environments are fuller and more immersive. The music and effects surround and transport you. 
 The battles stir memories of the first summons you feasted your eyes upon, demands your keen attention, 
 and will destroy you if you dare just tap attack. The characters are engaging, albeit a little 
 too japanese in need of some better localization, but all together charming. This is the RPG I've 
 been waiting for and hope its not the last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I want to get something out of the way real quick...
  
  I really liked this game!
  
  If you're a blindsighted JRPG fan, you can stop right there, and just go buy it. It's worth the 
 money. However, there are some faults in the game that are hard to ignore, and demand attention 
 since they affected my enjoyment of the game. I just wanted to get my overall feeling of the game 
 off my chest, so people know I like it before I start raking over the coals, so to speak.
  
  First, the story. Honestly, it's a pretty pedestrain tale. Bad guy manipulating government 
 for blah blah blah so he can rise to power and blah blah blah. Nothing new here, and honestly, 
 fairly predictable. Even the plot twists to the major story arc, a resonably intelligent person 
 could see coming from a mile away. If nothing else, the story serves to give you an excuse to start 
 a journey.
  
  It is the journey, however, that is truly magical! And, I mean really wonderful! As the character, 
 Kaim, starts his journey, he is a man of few words. Which, would make things boring, except for 
 two things. The solid cast around him, most notably the wise cracking Jensen, who had me laughing 
 out loud many times, and the memories Kaim remembers along the way, which are presented in the 
 form of prose with a soundtrack. And the stories are wonderful! Not only do they serve to give 
 Kaim the depth needed to understand Kaim's melancholy demeaner, they also happen to be exceptionally 
 moving, and genuinely beautiful. And, I don't mean 'for a video game', I mean some of the most 
 emotionally lovely stories I have ever read, that are beautiful even when they're heartbreaking.
 
  
  I mentioned that Kaim remembers these. You see, Kaim has no memory. Which is odd, because he's 
 lived for a thousand years, and has no memory of his life. He meets other immortals, who feel a 
 mutual connection to eachother, and share the same dilemma.
  
  The journey in this game serves as the vessel to explore the characters, which is where this game 
 finds it's greatest strength. There are moments, either in memories, or along the main story, where 
 something is revealed about a character, and it moved me to tears. And, I don't mean mushy 'disney 
 tears,' I mean tears that come from truly connecting emotionally to an identifiable emotion. Through 
 the story, the game does not pull punches when it comes to life, love, and loss. Quite the contrary, 
 when this game finds it's most beautiful moments, they are often mixed with a great sadness or 
 an irreconcilable loss, yet blends them together to reflect something most people experience in 
 life.
  
  It's on that journey of discovery, that this game shows flashes of true greatness.
  
  Sadly, 
 where the game finds it's greatest faults, are in the gameplay.
  
  The combat, is solid. Nothing groundbreaking, but it does have some interesting twists that keep 
 it both entertaining and thoughtful. The ring attack system does well to keep players engaged in 
 combat, and the immortal's skill slot system keeps the player thinking of the best skills to fill 
 those slots with for a particular fight.
  
  Fights, also, are done very well. They're not so much 'hard' or 'easy', but rather, there is definitely 
 a 'right' and a 'wrong' way to fight certain enemies. And, if you fight highly armored or magic 
 resistant enemies incorrectly, you will find yourself rediscovering your last save point only to 
 get it right the second, or thrid, time around. Boss fights, often, don't feel much harder that 
 stardard fights, they just last longer and have certain twists you pick up as you fight. This isn't 
 a game where you're going to be thrashing through random enounters. They require thought, and proper 
 stradegy, to get through in one piece.
  
  The gameplay, however, shows some flaws. Load times, both in combat, and in map exploration, are 
 long, but worse, slow down the pace of the game noticably. This becomes most evident when exploring 
 a map leading to a boss. For completionists, like myself, maps can take a sometimes unbearable 
 amount of time to explore, because combat feels like it takes forever to load, and each new map 
 panel takes just as long, and like any other random spawn battle system, it happens alot. It just 
 feels a lot longer in this game, than most.
  
  Honestly, that wasn't game breaking for me, but the overall pace in the game feels uneven. At times, 
 it feels like alot happens very fast, and alot of relevant information is revealed. Then, at others, 
 it feels like forever and a day goes by before you see any significant headway made in the major 
 plot. It is in these slower points of pacing, where the faults of gameplay become most evident. 
 Don't let anyone tell you different, this game sometimes just feels slow.
  
  What really saves this game, is the journey of the characters, and the revelations and memories 
 they uncover along the way. If the gameplay matched the greatness of the character development, 
 this game would be a perfect 10. Also, the contrary is true, that if the characters weren't so 
 wonderful, I don't feel the faults in the pacing would be as evident, simply because I wouldn't 
 feel so eager to find out more about them.
  
  I also understand that many people, mostly JRPG fans, have taken offense to KVO's score of this 
 game in his review (odd, because being deemed a 'good' game is hardly a trashing in my book) . Honestly, 
 I read his review, both before and after I played the game, and while the final score is a thing 
 always up for debate, his review, at least for me, pretty accurately matches my feeling about this 
 game. There are faults, and it requires patience, but I truly feel that at it's best, Lost Odyssey 
 has some emotional moments that are so pwoerful, that I am hard pressed to think of a game that 
 made me feel so strongly about the characters I was playing with, and the stories they had to tell.
 
  
  I said it early on, and I'll say it again here. I really liked this game. I didn't like it enough 
 to overlook it's faults, and sometimes, I feel it was because of how much I liked it that made 
 these faults so apparent. But, what I loved about it was strong enough to get me to keep playing 
 to the very end, and enjoy it immensely along the way.
  
  This game really is about 'the journey.' And, along that journey, this game shows levels of emotional 
 maturity, and poetic beauty that are, at times, without par in gaming today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakenjoi14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow that's a cheesy line. I thought of it pretty quick though, and I am proud of myself for that.
 
  
  Anyway, onto the review!
  
  First of all this is the best RPG I have played in a while. Tons of substance inside this plastic 
 case. I am tired of games that boast free roaming when I find myself just trying to find out where 
 I am supposed to go.
  
  Free roaming RPG's are fun, but they suck in the sense that they often build most of their game 
 around your creativity. 
  
  Now I am creative, but if I want a free roaming game, I will do just that, roam around my nieghborhood, 
 chucking rocks at cars, talking to people with no sense of direction, jumping up and down and getting 
 to the highest part of the neighborhood.
  
  See what I am saying? I am paying for you to make a good story and tell it to me, and Lost Odyssey 
 does just that. They fill the game with compelling characters and more substance than a novel. 
 Its unbelievable how beautiful it all flows together.
  
  If you appreciate music at all then you will likely reach a sexual climax just sitting at the menu 
 screens. And by appreciate music I don't mean own every Now! CD and have all the ringtones from 
 Jamster.
  
  To say that this game is for smarter gamers would be a lie. You don't actually have to be smart 
 to enjoy this game, you just have to be able to read and comprehend. So most likely if you are 
 reading this far you are smart enough to play this game.
  
  Best RPG I have played since Final Fantasy X... Mass Effect was good, but it was MUCH more repetetive 
 than this game. Every planet mission was just the same with a different skin.
  
  Spend your lunch money on this one, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beesond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  First off the game looks amazing, I have been waiting to get a great RPG for a next gen system 
 so that I could get my socks rocked in the graphics department, and this game did it. Not only 
 do they look great but because of the quality of the animations, the characters come off as really 
 believable, backed by some Nobuo Uematsu music (spelling is probabley wrong, wow I am such a big 
 fan lol) , and a really great story this game hits and hits hard.
  
  And the comic relief character (there is always one in a JRPG) isnt actually beyond annoying, he 
 is pretty funny. One of the worst things in a JRPG is the god-awful child like-cutesy-garabage 
 anime style attempts at comedy. This game doesnt carry any of that garbage.
  
  The game does have to classic old turn based JRPG fighting, which isnt awful. Backed by a cool 
 ability/skill learning system, the game stays really fun why giving you a bit of a challenge. The 
 game as a cool way of keeping you on your toes when in battle with a ring-attack system that while 
 easy to learn demands your attention to use in battle, kinda like the old Legend of dragoon system 
 but a lot better. Through in a lot of cool camera angles, like the Gears of War running cam, and 
 some pretty graphics and the battles are pretty damn fun. Then again they are random encounters 
 and they wear on you but they arent that awful.
  
  And again the graphics are fantastic I dont even have a HDTV either, cant wait to get one. Been 
 waiting for a real RPG with great graphics, and this blows all the others away, especially Eternal 
 Sonata which was preoccuping my time until LO came out, then I chucked it to the side, and threw 
 LO in.
  
  GO BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphically it's a beautiful game and while combat is turn based, it's not too bad. Story wise, 
 it's not so bad. And that's about where I end off the good things about the game.
  
  Where to start with the bad stuff? That is most definitely the question. Among the more annoying 
 issues that i've so far come across is the fact that, as stated in other reviews, load times just 
 blow. There's too much waiting around for cut scenes to load. Speaking of cut scenes, a lot of 
 the game so far seems to be cut scenes that seem a little too drawn out & while they are the story 
 line, added to other faults in the game, make the game way too long. There doesn't seem to be a 
 whole lot to do between combat which in the beginning is quite sparse. You would think that given 
 the fact that combat is turn based, & because of that slow, the designers would have tried to do 
 soemthing to speed things up between combat sequences. But they didn't and you're left with something 
 of a game that feels boring.
  
  To be honest I'm a fan of action/adventure & shooting games. What RPGs that I've played, Oblivion, 
 Mass Effect, Marvel Ultimate Alliance, & others, have a faster pace. While I can handle turn based 
 combat, as opposed to real time combat, or even the almost turn based combat of Star Wars Knights 
 of the Old Republic (I & II) , the lack of something between combat is annoying. Whether that something 
 is puzzle solving, more combat, or even exploration, the game needs it desperately. As for the 
 linking of abilities for the immortal characters is something new.
  
  My final words about this game is for anyone considering buying this game, rent it to see if you 
 like it. If you're a fan of this type of game, you may be more inclined to buy after renting. But 
 if you're iffy or prefer faster paced games, I don't think you'll like it enough to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilenes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game that will suck you in for hours. If you read about the rings system and 
 how immortals learn skills from mortals you might get turned off at first. But its really easy 
 to pick up and starts getting addictive as you go on. it changes quickly from "whats this for?" 
 to "I need just two more Insect Inards to make that Bio Ring." 
  The ring system keeps you involved in combat. Nothing like trying to get that perfect every time. 
 its not the normal just sit and watch type turn based after you give the orders.
  Graphics are top notch. Very good attention to detail. Voice acting is believable. Good humor. 
 if the cut scenes are to long you can just skip by them. That goes for all those dreams too. For 
 those people that keep complaining about sitting through all that dialog, just skip it. No body 
 is forcing you to watch it.
  It is a really well thought out game that flows well.
  If you like turn based RPG's this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Centra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to write a 10 page review of how good or bad Lost Odyssey is. You can read that all 
 over the internet. I'm going to focus on tech problems. Just about everyone is chirping about long 
 load times, a mixed bag of graphical issues, and so-on. First of all, the load times are really 
 not that bad. There is a transition from area to battle, and back to area, but I find them no worse 
 than any other JRPG. Second of all, while the outdoor areas can go from good to ok, they still 
 look far better than anything else before it. There is a little bit of choppiness in a few areas, 
 but it hardly makes a great game into a poor one.
  
  I'll also set the record straight on battle loading areas. On my 360 it takes 10.5seconds before 
 you can start pressing buttons. It takes 5 seconds for the area to load, and 5.5 seconds for the 
 camera to sweep the battle field, showing you the baddies, etc. While I wish you could inturupt 
 the camera sweep, its still pretty quick. I can't comment on everyone's experience with load times, 
 but I suspect that some 360 DVD players are either a little dirty, or the laser itself is a bit 
 out of focus causing extra read times. If your waiting longer than 15seconds for battle then try 
 a lens cleaner.
  
  I gave the game a 9.5 only because I found the story a little lame at times. But thats a personal 
 opinion. It's a wonderful game, a great time waster, and worthy of your hard earned $$ if you have 
 any interest in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  We had Enchanted Arms, with solid game play and a great cast of characters, but a horrid combat 
 system. And we had Blue Dragon, which had an excellent combat system and sharp visuals but faltered 
 on the story. And then there was Eternal Sonata, with its beautiful graphics, was so-so in all 
 other respects. These were the so-called next-gen Japanese RPGs, but they weren't really worthy 
 of our attention.
  
  Now we have Lost Odyssey, which is a gorgeous Japanese RPG that has it all: A gripping story that 
 is beautifully told; a wonderful combat system that isn't too complex but has plenty of options 
 and a great pace; easy to use but deep character development; stunning visuals that are consistently 
 sharp and appealing; and finally, unlike Blue Dragon, also by Mistwalker, the performance and load 
 times are on par with other Xbox 360 games.
  
  If you are thinking of NOT buying this game because of what you've read on Gamespot or in other 
 reviews about the load times and frame rate of Lost Odyssey, please ignore their warnings. Load 
 times are totally reasonable. Framerate issues? None that I can say would affect game play or even 
 the visual presentation of the game. Long battle introduction or exit animations? Nothing that 
 you could consider lavish or excessive. 
  
  This game is lean and mean, with a slick user interface, generally top-notch voice overs, and game 
 play that is true to the same formula that made games like Final Fantasy and Xenosaga amazing and 
 fun to play. And this game really dazzles you with excellent combat animations, interesting enemies, 
 and compelling puzzles.
  
  Is Lost Odyssey perfect? Absolutely not, and regardless of what anyone says about any other game, 
 no game is perfect. Some of the mini-games are not so fun, but they rarely get in the way of overall 
 game play. And some of them, like the torch lighting mini-game, allow you to participate in the 
 culture the game is exposing you too, which involves you in the story in more ways then just showing 
 you cut-scenes.
  
  The cut-scenes, dream sequences, and other non-interactive aspects of the game draw you into the 
 world of Lost Odyssey. And while they provide plenty of welcome humor, they also have a tremendous 
 emotional impact, which lets you feel for the hero and the other party members. The only other 
 game I can think of that has done anywhere close to as good of a job is the PC RPG Planescape: 
 Torment, which also used words to great effect.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a must-play RPG. Along with Mass Effect, this 1st party RPG is truly next-gen, 
 and sets the bar extremely high for the platform. One can only hope that future RPGs on this, or 
 any other platform, are as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmac4330
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  This will be a shorter review since everything has been talked to death. I have no idea how this 
 game was rated so low. The User average score is pretty accurate. I say that because not everyone 
 is going to really love this game, and thats expected. I myself gave it a 9 instead of a ten because 
 of a few reasons. A couple were loading time and frame rate, which really is not bad. The thing 
 I hated the most, though, was the way the vehicles moved in the cut sceens. Other than that, everything 
 was fantastic, including the characters, story, and plot. People complain that the characters and 
 story are typical, but whats funny is game tells a fantastic typical story that will get your attention. 
 The thousand your memories are interesting, especially if you like to read and the music that goes 
 with it makes the stories an intense roller coaster. This game was definitely underrated and the 
 people who rated the games low should be fired. Well maybe not that extreme, but they should hire 
 some better ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaldisco
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I'm halfway through the third disc right now. I can say without a doubt, that the long load times 
 every review has been quoting do NOT exist in the retail build. Each battle takes a total of 5-8 
 seconds to load not 20-30. I have NEVER experienced the long load screen shown in the opening of 
 GameSpot's video review. I do not know if the review copies were earlier versions (I assume) , but 
 after 22 hours of play the technical issues' discussed haven't raised their heads.
  
  The game is a traditional JRPG so if that doesn't appeal to you stay away from Lost Odyssey. Also, 
 it plays more like a film with player stats than a game for the first 3 discs, but I hear it opens 
 up on the 4th. If you are looking for this classic style do not let the review nay-sayers drive 
 you away. It's a fun and slightly more mature RPG, with a great story.
  
  Think of it as the pinnacle of the classic JRPG style in terms of story, graphics, magic and characters 
 and you'll be happy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xions-Fursy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I'm going to break this down into the simple categories you would expect from any review, graphics, 
 sound, game play, and story.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very well done, the games uses the Unreal Engine which many games have 
 been starting to do, and shares some of the problems that many games using the unreal engine have 
 had. The technical problems are very minor though at least in my experience. The combat looks great, 
 and environments look lifelike. The textures of the game are great, even if at times they slow 
 the frame rate down it's never too much, and it always picks back up after a second or two.
  
  Sound: Possibly the best soundtrack I've heard from a game in years, maybe just the best ever. 
 The music is beautiful, and the voice acting at least in English is really well done. Mistwalker 
 obviously put forth a lot of effort in this game and the world certainly sounds great.
  
  Game Play: This to me is where this game scored. It's a JRPG at it's finest. You run around on 
 the screen using one character for most of the game that is Kaim, your main character. You run 
 where NPC's tell you to doing either side quests, the main story or just finding new memories for 
 your character who has lost his for the most part and during the game is trying to figure out his 
 past, which has been over 1000 years. The dreams are amazingly well written, and I found my self 
 at times logging hours on my file for no other reason then to read them over. All the encounters 
 in this game are random, which I didn't like I very much more enjoy games where you can see the 
 enemies your fighting on the map allowing you to ignore them when needed or to easily 'grind' when 
 necessary. The fighting is somewhat typical for anyone who has played a turn based RPG before, 
 the only notable features are the ring system and the Guard condition you can get by placing your 
 characters in the front row of battle. Throughout the game you will find what seems to be an endless 
 amount of rings you can easily assemble as long as you have the parts to do so, these parts either 
 come from random treasures on the map, from enemies, or side quests you do along the way. Equipping 
 these rings will give your weapons a buff, (which looks pretty awesome depending on the ring) . 
 For example equipping an aqua ring will allow your character's melee attack to do water damage 
 to an enemy. The guard condition, known as GC in the game is a total of your front line's hit points, 
 and when it's closer to max they will guard damage from being taken by your backline party members. 
 It's a very good system for keeping casters alive.
  
  Story: Wow, I don't know what else to say but the story for this game is the most well written 
 story I've played probably in my life. You play as Kaim, an immortal who has lost his memories, 
 much of the start of the game is figuring out who he is, and why he lost his memories. Not going 
 to give any spoilers here. The jist is there are other immortals one you meet at the start who 
 travels with you, the others you find along the way.. Where the game becomes somewhat 'clich' 
 is of course those immortals and the mortals with them embark on a journey to destroy someone who 
 wants rule the world. Although the overall story feels somewhat like it has been done before, the 
 characters are so well written, and so alive they make this game more then original. The story 
 is superb, mainly because the characters are done extremely well. 
  
  I give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedricxx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I don't know what game Gamespot got but a lot of their negatives seem to be about loading times 
 and choppy frame rates. I have played about 20 hours into the game and I have not seen one area 
 where frame rates declined and the loading times are trivial. Most load times are in the 2 to 4 
 second range and I think the longest one was for a long cut scene that was about a 10 second load 
 time. I hardly notice them at all and they certainly do not take away from the game.
  
  If you like a good strong story, (although it is a bit depressing) , and enjoy just your run of 
 the mill Japanese rpgs you will enjoy this game. If anything, the game's only flaw is that is doesn't 
 do anything new. Still it has a strong story and it sticks to what works so that isn't automatically 
 a bad thing.
  
  One of my favorite parts of the game are the lost dreams you discover. They flesh out the backstory 
 of your immortal character and are just amazingly done and are really very emotional. Anyone who 
 skips the dreams (which you can do) is really missing out on a lot of great story for the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: septa_r1dah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  and played it for 15+ hours! I woke up at 10am, fired up my system for the first time in months 
 and listened to it purr. Before long I was immersed in the opening cinematics, the LOTR style battle 
 was awesome! I was quickly introduced to the game's great sense of humor when a solider quipped 
 to a friend (about Kaim surviving a ridiculously catastrophic event) that "he can't believe that 
 guy survived, especially in the outfit!" LOL. The dialog is very well written, it had me laughing 
 out loud a lot over my first day of playing, and not because of corny video game dialog that you 
 laugh at just because of how lame it is. I finished the first disc and got a little ways into the 
 second. There are some annoying mini game type sequences (as gs mentions) but nothing that will 
 make you crazy or anything. So with this being said, this is a truly great jrpg, if you like FF 
 then grab this one as soon as you can, you know you want to! You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFan1990
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  If you played this game, for less than 20 hours, and aren't a good way into the 3rd disk, don't 
 review it, especially negatively.
  
  If you haven't beaten the entire game, don't call the story "just another JRPG story" because a 
 good 90% (if not more) of games have you out to stop some evil villain, or group of, from destroying 
 the world/universe or conquering it.
  
  And this story is much more than that. The character development is amazing, and actually has you 
 guessing, a lot, about what the characters will decide to do in the end.
  
  
  
  
  ACTUAL REVIEW:
  
  The game will start out slow, easing you into the combat, the rings system, 
 and even the characters themselves. Much like in FFVII or FFVIII (or about 20 other games) the 
 lead character starts out very 2d, and comes full bloom when you play through the game, and unveil 
 large events in his past. (Specifically Disk 1 near the end, Disk 2, and Disk 4)
  
  For once, the main love story of the game, does not involve the main character. *shocked*, but 
 two of the side characters. 
  
  The game has a very nice system, preventing grind-a-holics from making the game easy by grinding 
 to level 99 on the first disk. It's not possible. You get a set amount of exp, from 1-100, based 
 on your level, vs the area you are in. Once you reach a level cap for that area, you will stop 
 getting any noticeable amount of exp, where prior, you would level up almost every single fight.
 
  
  The random encounters are great in this game, in the sense that they don't happen every time you 
 move. Which is something many people hate, if your lucky, you can traverse several screen's worth 
 of content before hitting an encounter. But it's not too sparse to keep you at a low level.
  
  Arguably the best, and worst part of this game, is the insane difficulty of the bosses. Ever 
 play FFVII? Remember the Weapons? Imagine every fight you go into (boss) having the potential of 
 being equally hard as one. The first boss will probably kill you first attempt, many people get 
 stuck on it. Basically, if you can't take a second, to think about what do to, before pressing 
 that "Attack" button, or that "Magic" button, then you should turn away from this game, it FORCES 
 you to use strategy on bosses. You can't powerlevel, and get uber characters to mow down bosses 
 by spamming attack. You will die if you do so, and you will look like an idiot when you post on 
 the forums of some site saying "I hate this game because this boss wtfpwned me 10 times".
  
  People beat the bosses all the time. Right now, as you're reading this someone is beating the 
 boss you have/will get stuck on. First try. Without a guide.
  
  There are TONS of sidequests on the 4th disks. Ultimate Weapons for each character, hidden bosses 
 with achievements, overpowered but awesome equipment. Not to mention you get an airship, THAT YOU 
 ACTUALLY GET TO PILOT! Which was a huge disappointment with me in FFX and FFXII... Ohh... 2d world 
 map with locations... amaaaaaazing... What if I want to see the world eh? Too bad huh? Not in this 
 game :P
  
  The combat is great, people like to point out that it's just like every (good) JRPG ever... So? 
 Many people were turned off by FFXII and didn't finish or even play it, because it lacked turn-based. 
 We're JRPG fans, and the developers know what we like, so stop telling us it sucks. Over-all it's 
 a very decent turn-based system, using a delay on high-powered magical abilities to make you use 
 more strategy than usual in a JRPG. The ring system can either be meaningless or incredible, depending 
 on if you pay attention to it. Later on in the game, with the right rings, Kaim and Seth will be 
 the best damage you have. 
  
  The character balance is something that I found odd. Early in the game, Melee (Kaim and Seth) characters 
 are your prized-hitters. Later changing to Magic users, especially if the enemy has a weakness. 
 Then around disk 4 it switches back to Melee (mainly Kaim and Seth again) . Maybe it's just my play-style 
 effecting the game, I don't know, but anyways, it's not BAD, nor does it make the game harder, 
 just thought I'd mention it.
  
  
  -
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a solid, well-balanced, fun, and overall amazing JRPG, and own a 
 360, this is a must buy.
  
  If you're a fan of JRPG's of the past, or any kinda RPG, or are even remotely interested in this 
 game, then you really should buy it, or at least find a place to rent it.
  
  If you have absolutely no interest in this game whatsoever, then why the f**k are you reading this? 
 Dumbass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I have played many an Role-Playing Game (RPG) over the years all dating back to that first moment 
 at a gaming store trying out the new "Final Fantasy VII" on Playstation. Basically the first few 
 moments had me hooked and I never looked back.
  
  In a world that is now over-saturated with First-Person-Shooters (FPS) everywhere you look I am 
 thankful to the Spirit of the Earth that every now and again a new RPG comes out I can really sink 
 my teeth into. I am generally picky about games these days, researching before the big purchase 
 because of the fact there are countless lemons out there underfoot ruining my purchasing experience. 
 Especially since the price rises with each new technology.
  
  I have been playing Lost Odyssey for a few days now, and I am eager to boast I have not been disappointed 
 in any way. I can put my feet up, drink my coffee and enjoy the excellent visuals, sound and story. 
 The game is about depth, and I am in that rabbit hole just to see how deep it goes. 
  
  Visually it is sometimes breathtaking and obviously took a lot of imagination and hard work to 
 create. If only more people took a moment to really look at each area, to see all the little details 
 that make yourself lost in this odyssey. The sound is top notch all the way. Every footstep on 
 any terrain is truthfully heard and the battles sound very realistic with every clash of steel 
 and spell that collides with explosive force. 
  
  The dialogue is perfect for each character and I have never rolled my eyes at any time in embarrassment 
 for the voice actors reading the script. They talk and act "normal", and that is a rare thing these 
 days in a game.
  
  Finally the learning curve of Lost Odyssey is pretty smooth and is easy to grasp. It really describes 
 all the aspects of the character leveling system without rambling or forgetting to mention how 
 each change affects the tactics and battle system. Basically, if you take the time to look at the 
 menu's and items and set up your characters for the battles that lay ahead, you will definitely 
 have more fun. Guaranteed!
  
  I remember, when I was 8, my first computer was a Commodore 64 with a tape drive. It took at least 
 10 to 15 minutes to just load one level of a game. I would stare at that computer screen for ages, 
 ready to play. Therefore, how can I possible be a judge today on how long loading time should take? 
 When gaming is in my blood I could sit staring at a load screen for ages. But an opinion I shall 
 fairly try to give ... you see, barely a few measly seconds pass before I am on the move again. 
 Any complaints about load times I have heard about seem pointless. That's about all I can really 
 say. I think some gamers need to take a "chill-pill". Relax people, you're gaming! Enjoy!
  
  If you're looking to enjoy a great RPG game you can take your time with and explore thoroughly 
 with it's beautiful levels and interesting characters with a tried-and-true battle system, then 
 I absolutely insist you get this game!
  
  Level up and game on ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonbattousai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey isn't a breakthrough in any way with the game mechanics, but in my opinion, that isn't 
 what a RPG is about. A RPG is about strategy, story and characters and this game delivers. 
  
  The game's characters have really interesting backgrounds. I don't want to go into great detail 
 as there is spoilers for people that have not yet played withen each character's bio. The voice 
 acting, is okay, sometimes there are cheesy lines, but then there are times when there are unique 
 and humorous ones. 
  
  The story is basically simple. It opens up during the progress through Disc 1, but you are still 
 filled with questions that later get revealed on the other discs. The story doesn't disappoint 
 and will keep you playing for more. 
  
  The strategy, or the game mechanic, is that of a simple turn-based RPG, but with a few interesting 
 tweaks, such as selecting everyone's commands at the very beginning and the trigger button to add 
 some extra damage when you time the circle within the other circle. This was a mechanic that was 
 planned in Final Fantasy VIII, but was later changed. 
  
  The bosses are no push overs this time around. The game makes you think more on your moves than 
 just healing and hitting. The bosses will surprise you on what they can do and it will make you 
 either get frustrated or make you intrigued. 
  
  The graphics are really nice and nostalgic. When I look at all the areas, the landscapes bring 
 you back to previous RPGs you might have played. From futuristic towns, to dark forests and castles, 
 this game delivers some really breathtaking landscapes. 
  
  As for some technical issues, it doesn't really bother me. There is some load times here and there, 
 but they aren't long enough to make you get up and get a drink or go to the bathroom as Sonic the 
 Hedgehog for PS3/360 gives you that amount of time to do so. They are pretty much up to par with 
 Blue Dragon and as for frame rate, I have heard Mass Effect has it bad than this game. Not my opinion 
 as I have not played through Mass Effect to notice or experience these issues, but there isn't 
 really a big deal. 
  
  In all, Lost Odyssey is fun and amazing for any RPG fan. I would not pass up on this game of adventure 
 and fun. It's a game that would probably be remembered for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidof422
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I saw a review earlier where the guy stated that this game sux because the boss battles are too 
 tough. I almost peed myself. Some people do not know what a RPG game is really like. (maybe since 
 there has not been a good one in a long while) If you are a fan of RPG games then you should know 
 that they are supposed to be hard (if you do not level up) . This same poster stated that this game 
 is just like all the others before and he wants something besides the NORMAL turn based RPG. Now 
 this same poster also gave MASS EFFECT a 10. I personally fell asleep playing that game. Now mass 
 effect is nothing new either, it is based off of the THE KNIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC star wars game. 
 This game has stunning visuals, the story is good and it looks to have a lot of depth which is 
 good ( I still play Final Fantasy 11 because it it takes so darn long to get a 75 character lol) 
 You only need to look at the first 10 min and if you are a true RPG fan you will be very much satisfied. 
 YES load times can suck, but again its an RPG so there is no rush... Games nowadays are all about 
 look at me I am a lvl 50 WHO CARES.. I play games for me not you.... I am a little upset that this 
 game has 5 disks but again I can learn to live with that.
  
  
  
  
  Now I am going to go back to playing a great game.
  
  If I was you guys... ( I mean kids since 
 most of you were in diapers when Final Fantasy 1 came out I would stick to Call of Duty or Halo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Chyld_X
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game takes me back to the original Phantasy Star games for the Sega Master System and the 
 Sega Genesis. This is the game I've been waiting for since I beat Phantasy Star 4 about 12 years 
 back, that's right! I've been waiting 12 years for a game like this. I'm gonna use this statement 
 as part of a review for a reason. Whenever you wait a long time for something, your expectations 
 usually rise. I expected A LOT out of this game and to my surprise, I actually got more. The gameplay 
 is the strong point of Lost Odyssey. The battle system is perfect IMHO. The enemies are incredible, 
 they work together as a team (great A. I.) as should you. Fans of action RPG's only will probably 
 not like this game, it is a classic style turn-based.
  
  Pros: 
  No-Limit Leveling - level up however much you want at any point in the game.
  Random Enemies 
 - enemies appears out of the wild instead of waiting for you. Bosses aside.
  Turn Based Battle - plan out your attacks
  High-Level Early On - skip to areas to advanced for 
 you for a real challenge
  Flee - ability to run from a fight (it's just nice to know you can)
  Likable Characters - Mysterious, 
 Interesting, and Funny, no one got on my nerves.
  Very Long Game - this game is under-priced, but I won't complain.
  Enjoyable Cut Scenes - nice 
 flow of camera movements and visuals
  Graphics - the graphics are very good considering how much there is to the game itself.
  Great 
 Music - stays consistent with whats going on.
  Incredible Story Line - one of the best in any game I've ever played.
  There are many other pros, 
 but a lot of them you may not take advantage of, but I love the fact that they are their; for instance 
 I mentioned the flee ability, I only flee if I'm in a high-level area or get into a battle to test 
 a new skill or spell, I rarely use it, but it's nice to know I can (makes for a better experience 
 overall) .
  
  Cons:
  At some points you are forced to do something before doing anything else, but these points are 
 few and pretty brief.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockfart07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply this is an awesome game... I don't care what people are saying... maybe they don't 
 like rpg's or maybe they just aren't good at the game.... it is a classic game with new ideas (The 
 rings and the dreams) with an awesome story and the classic rpg game play. If people are saying 
 its too hard to get perfect, don't worry its not I already got the 300 achievement and I have only 
 played for 5 hours. The bosses aren't that hard if you know how to play rpg's. You have to lvl 
 up to defeat them, one can't just run in every time and win. If you want a game like that go play 
 the thousands of fps's for the 360. Point being, there are not a lot of rpg's for the 360 and only 
 like 3 classic rpg's for the 360, enchanted arms, blue dragon and lost odyssey. Pretty much enchanted 
 arms sucked major, blue dragon was only fun if I was five and then you have lost odyssey. Its everything 
 an rpg lover would want. Long a$$ game, good characters, great story, and hard boss fights.... 
 what more could one want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyghiorzi
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I really tried to like this game, but some how I couldn't get into it. Some of it had to do with 
 boss fights. The two that I had were pretty hard, the first of which the Griffin (or whatever it 
 was supposed to be) , kicked my butt several times, before I figured that I had to level and try 
 again, and than barely escaped. The two Giant Worms, were a little easier, once I changed out my 
 equipment to the correct elemental type. Than with nary a save point you get into another mini-boss 
 fight with several soldiers, and archers thrown in for good measure. Some of the puzzles are just 
 painful because they employ a lot of sneaking around type stuff, and if you get caught start at 
 the beginning, never a hit with me. I am glad I rented the game because even though it has 4 dvd's 
 I am not about to waste money on purchasing the game. On the loading issue, I never really had 
 long loading times, just lots of times where it would say loading, minor issue really. Music seemed 
 ok, Sound pretty good, Cut scenes were ok, background ok, but I really don't see why so many are 
 calling this game pretty, I think its ok. I did like the fact that it had a number of different 
 monster type (s) no wolf with different color to set apart problems in this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: migg
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  When reading several reviews for Lost Odyssey, I was worried about the downsides. However, I was 
 surprised to see how uninvasive the problems many reviewers claimed destroyed this game really 
 were. Loading times were in fact there, but not once did I feel like the load time was excessively 
 long nor did it interrupt my enjoyment of the game once! Framerate drops were the more noticeable 
 problem, but this kind of thing does not ruin a game in my opinion. Other than these two slight 
 problems I can whole heartedly recommend Lost Odyssey for any JRPG fan. If you haven't liked these 
 games before than you should not buy this one. On a second note, reviewers tend to score harder 
 on JRPGs because of their formulaic design. However, plenty of us love that design and do not wish 
 to see it changed. We play these games for story and character building; not for the action found 
 in your typical FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiriyama1084
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Alrighty people. Lets get our preconceived notions out of the way. This game got a 7.5 by the big 
 guys due to being oldschool and bringing nothing new to the table. Or something of the sort like 
 that. Now, i don't know about anyone else, but honestly, there have not been any groundbreaking 
 games in a while, and sometimes, you just wanna sit down and play some old school goodness in pretty 
 next gen graphics. Feeling comfy where your at but enjoying every minute like it was the best thing 
 ever. If you like the feeling of home, wrapped in a snug blanket and watching tv on a sunday afternoon 
 and never being happier, then by god, play this damned game!! New may be good, but sometimes bringing 
 back the old ways and doing it right, is just as great.
  
  Now, on too the game itself. This game is the best rpg out for xbox at this moment. Now, i know, 
 some of you are like what about oblivion? Or Mass Effect!? Well, those are not TRADITIONAL rpgs. 
 I'm talking random battles, turn based fighting, and having multiple characters on your team. THATS 
 a traditional rpg. Eternal Sonata, is almost there, but has more of a realtime battle system so 
 it doesnt count. And neither does Enchanted arms. More strategy turnbased t. What i'm talking about 
 is Final Fantasy. up to X. And how ironic, cuz this game was made by the creator of Final Fantasy. 
 So he knows his turn based RPGs. By the by, he also did Blue Dragon, but dropped the ball. Bad 
 mist walker studios. Bad. For their second attempt at a game though, this one certanly makes up 
 for Blue Dragon.
  
  Graphics: Hot Damn. One of the best parts. Completely amazing. Especially when a character cries. 
 Gotta be top notch for that effect. The environments are great. The towns look amazing. The dungeons 
 have really good detail. Now, yes, there is a slight drop in frame rate at the beginning of some 
 battles, but otherwise, they are not as horrendous as everyone is making them out to be.
  
  Sound: Well, considering Nobuo Uematsu did it, what do you think? Guys a genius. Sound effects 
 are good, english voice acting is very well done. Well, except for Cooke and Mack, a bit grating 
 on the ears, but they are kids, so i can let it slide. Jansen, is the guy that really keeps the 
 game from getting to ya though. He provides all the comic relief in a great way, always throwing 
 it around right when you need it most. Thats a good thing, cuz damn. This game will make you wanna 
 cry. The first disc alone is a gut wrenching experience, what with kaim's dream sequences and one 
 extremely well done funeral near the end. Ranks up there with the aeris funeral of FF7. I myself 
 got teary eyed three times on disc 1 alone.
  
  Story: Pretty damn good. Keeps me playing for the pure desire of finding out more about the characters 
 history and how things will unfold. Keeps enough stuff a mystery to keep you playing to find out 
 what the heck is happening. Worth every hour you can put in, and considering this game is 4 discs, 
 thats a nice chunk of time. Also, kaims dream sequences do a wonderful job of fleshing out his 
 past with well written stories put to amazing music and almost sureal visuals. Yes, you do have 
 to do a bit of reading, but its really worth it so you can cry along with kaim, or smile when his 
 life is actually worth living.
  
  Controls: Smooth as butter. Especially in battle. Typical turn based, but the ring system changes 
 it up. You hold the R trigger to bring up a ring around your enemy. As your character runs in to 
 attack the ring gets smaller. The goal is to let the trigger go when the outer ring matches the 
 inner ring. If you do is right you get a perfect and do extra damage. You can do elemental damage, 
 or extra physichal damage, or even inflict staus ailments such as blind or sleep. All depending 
 on the ring you have equiped of course. Its a nice breeze of fresh air to make the battle a bit 
 more strategic.
  
  Now, to tackle the topic of load time. Dear god people, stop over reacting and deal witht he 5 
 second load times. Now, i do admit, sometimes, very rarely, i have hit a 20 second load time right 
 before a big cinema scene, but all in all, it loads pretty damn fast for what it has to show you. 
 Oblivion and Mass Effect take longer. Seriously though, this game loads decently. 
  
  All in all, i cant do anything BUT praise this game. The characters mesh so wonderfully with each 
 other, you actually care what happens to them and thats a rare thing in games. I missed getting 
 lost in the world of the game and wanting to press on regardless of time to find out whats gonna 
 happen to whom and react along with them as the scenes unfold. Everything in this game builds to 
 the ultimate experience. If nothing else though, the game waves a wonderful story of life, love, 
 friendship and living. That in of itself is what makes this game so enthralling. If your a fan 
 of rpgs, this game is worth every cent ( (60bucks worth) ) and minute put in. If you just want a 
 game to enjoy and sink your teeth into for a while, then this game is also worth it. Everyone should 
 play this atleast once. Let Mistwalker show you what their made of and that they care about the 
 RPG classics. KEEP EM COMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plthedarkone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Since Final Fantasy VII-VIII J-RPGs never been this good. All the RPG masters are returned for 
 this instant classic. And did splendid job to ressurect the genre. Its not only the best RPG on 
 the xbox 360, its clearly one of the best to date! Finnaly all the Final Fantasy fans can feel 
 like home. Must buy for every final fantasy fans, plus must buy for every quality lovin hard core 
 gamer. Musical scores are fantastic! OST is one of the best in Nobuo Uematsu's incredible musical 
 talent. Graphicialy game is sure an eye candy. Unreal Engine, and Mistwalkers artistically talented 
 designers made the game real good loking. There is some slowdowns time to time though. But nothing 
 so disturbing. Dont trust any reviews for this masterpiece before seeing your own eyes. Beautiful 
 city designs, realistic and impressive character designs are good too. Surprisingly English voice 
 acting is strong too. In other words if you miss this, you will miss the most important RPG in 
 these years... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm, 7.5, I would say your way off. Personnaly I give it a 9.0, but since, once again they messed 
 up the rating on a rpg I'll have to top it up. 
  
  Everything about the game is great so far. From the great story to the controls are awsome. I haven't 
 had this much fun playing an rpg in a long time Blue dragon was a great game, but I needed something 
 just a little bit more for us adults. FFXII was a good game, but I wasn't really into the new control 
 setup. Lost Odyssey takes element from old and makes them feel all new. This is what I have been 
 waiting for from RPGs for new consoles. 
  
  This game is very story driven and makes you want to see whats going on. If your looking for straight 
 action with weak story line (Halo) , like one person said, go play a FPS. If you want a great story 
 and good strategy game play, buy Lost Odyssey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentpro36_3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Game play: 9.0 only a few new tweaks to an already good formula
  Graphics: 8.5 mostly very good and sometimes slacking
  Difficulty: 10 hard sometimes but not 
 fustrating
  Sound: 9.5 music usually fitting the scenes with good background
  Replayablitiy:?
  
  --------The Good: -----------
  *Graphics aren't the best I've seen but 
 draw you into the story
  *Story in the game makes you feel like you're watching an action movie with humor and love mixed 
 in
  *Sound & music
  *Menus
  ----------The Bad: -----------
  *The "dreams" become boring
  *Non-adjustable camera angle can become frustrating or hindering
 
  *Pre-battle intro cut scenes become annoying
  *Lack of info on city maps
  --------- ------------------ ------------------ --------------------- --------------- --------------
 
  First off I haven't beat the game and actually I am only a few hours into the third disc. But 
 the overall the game is impressive, and as for the bad frame rate and slow loading times. Only 
 one time did the frame rate pull me back to reality. The rumoured slow load times I never expirenced. 
 The load times in LO are much faster then the ones found in Mass Effect or Oblivion. Most are 5-10 
 seconds with only a few load times in the 10-20 second range and thats about 25 hours into the 
 game. . 
  
  Some of the things that I didn't like were these memories that keep "popping" up and breaking up 
 the flow of the story. Some the dreams really help the story along, but the fact that almost all 
 of these dreams are retold in text format makes some of them annoying and unnessesary.
  
  The camera angle is not adjustable or rotatable. It's pretty much fixed with a little bit of play 
 and a zoom option, but during a few parts of the game either looking for certain objects to complete 
 a mission or running away to escape to the next part, not being able to see what you need really 
 annoyed me. 
  
  Just like GAMESPOT mentioned in their review before the battle there's a reacurring intro video 
 that become chessy and over used. 
  
  I really would have liked to have a map in the menu screen that would show what part of the city 
 I was in, where the shops and other important places are located found in all different kinds of 
 games on the 360 like the single player map option in GRAW or the map found in Mass Effect. The 
 only map you have in LO is made up of black and white areas in the upper corner of the screen with 
 a few blues and purples here and there. I did find it kind of hard to find the shops and inns when 
 I first entered a city.
  
  I would recomend this game to anyone that ever enjoyed vandal hearts or any game in the FF series. 
 Many parts of this game remind me of the Final Fantasy series (previous of FF 11) and other JRPG 
 found on ps1, ps2, and xbox.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardknock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN.
  
  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN.
  
  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN.
  
  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN.
  
  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN.
  
  It's very hard for a game to capture my attention like this one has. The atmosphere, graphics and 
 gameplay are absolutely fantastic. And most importantly the game is FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360owner
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The first two hours of this game consists of about 110 minutes of video and about 10 minutes of 
 actual action. If I wanted to watch cheesy Japanese anime, I'd rent a dvd not play a video game. 
 There is very little action in this game and you'll become bored to death unless you're Japanese. 
 Whatever action there is is disappointing and boring as well. The ring system is stupid and so 
 is the timing element, where you gave an opportunity to increase the damage of your strikes if 
 you time them right. No matter how timed it, I could never get anything other than "bad" and "good" 
 - never perfect or anything else. The final straw came when all the enemies I met were extremely 
 easy to defeat until I met the first boss. This is a sign of a poorly designed video game. When 
 you defeat all the enemies on a level but then are completely unable to defeat the final boss. 
 No matter what I did, I could no get past the first boss, so gave up and traded this crapper of 
 a game for Turok, which at least has the merit of being entertaining. Don't waste your time with 
 this one. Like Blue Dragon, it's a dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avee69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  As many already know, Lost Odyssey is a project created by the mastermind behind the Final Fantasy 
 series, Hironobu Sakaguchi himself. After releasing the sub-par title known as Blue Dragon, Sakaguchi 
 is back again with the release of Lost Odyssey. The game has been hyped as the next great RPG for 
 the 360, with 4 discs jam packed with admirable cut scenes.
  
  Lost Odyssey tells a story about a man named Kaim (K-eye-m) , an immortal for 1000 years. Although 
 the thought of being immortal may appear as a gift, for Kaim, it is far from it. Being immortal 
 means that Kaim must live through a series of deaths with people that he is attached to. Throughout 
 the game you uncover his "dreams" which help him reveal the story of his past.
  
  Kaim is not alone, however, as you meet many companions that fight will fight alongside of him. 
 The first allies you meet are Seth and Jansen. Seth the first feminine character that you meet 
 in the game. She is also an immortal, who has trouble remembering her past similarly to Kaim. She 
 is particularly skilled in physical combat. Jansen's character is played as a sarcastic, dumbfounded 
 idiot. He is only mortal, but he has advanced magic capabilities. Overall, the characters at first 
 sight are very compelling and provide some humorous conversations, especially with Jansen and his 
 idiotic ways.
  
  Graphics:
  
  A key component to look at during this review is the graphics, and to keep it short, they are simply 
 beautiful. The visuals truly illustrate the Xbox 360's power with beautifully detailed environments, 
 characters, and cities. Lightning and shading are also taken into effect throughout the cities, 
 which look fantastic as well. The reflections from the sun onto the realistic water as you are 
 sailing on your boat (available in disc 2) are also very visually compelling. Overall, you truly 
 get the sense that this RPG is "next-gen" in terms of graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  Another vital component to look at in in this review is the sound. A famous composer by the name 
 of Nobuo Uematsu (who also worked on various Final Fantasy's in the past) worked on the audio for 
 this game, and for the most part it was a job well done. The audio throughout the games towns and 
 battles are relatively well done. The boss battle music is also very engaging. The battle music 
 does get a bit repetitive however, as there is only one generic tune for every random battle. Overall, 
 the games audio was relatively well done however it is not mind blowing nor is it a masterpiece.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Moving on, one of the most important aspects of a game is gameplay. For the most part, Lost Odyssey's 
 gameplay is truly engaging. However, with that being said, it is not revolutionary by any means. 
 The game uses traditional turn-based battle sequences throughout the entire game, which many JRPG 
 fans will be used to. There is nothing wrong with this type of battle system, as many people enjoy 
 it and have been using this for years. However, some gamers may feel that it is too tedious and 
 may get bored rather quickly. I believe it is really up to the gamer in terms of the battling in 
 the game. If you are not able to stand turn-based battles, then the game may not be for you. However, 
 for gamers who do enjoy this type of combat, the game provides an innovative twist during its battles. 
 
  
  An "Aim Ring" system has been implemented into every battle. When you attack with either Kaim or 
 Seth, a ring appears on the screen. A second ring quickly appears after, where you must hold the 
 right trigger and release the trigger once the 2nd ring overlaps the first. You can attain three 
 outcomes from the ring system. Perfect, Good, and Bad. Gaining a "Perfect" will sometimes give 
 your character bonus damage. Although this is a minor tweak in the battle, it spices the gameplay 
 up just enough for a player to want to get "Perfect" as the damage dealt will be higher. 
  
  Another aspect of the gameplay is the skill system. Immortals (referring to Kaim and Seth) 
 are able to use "Skill Link" to gain attributes from those who are mortal. For example, Kaim and 
 Seth are unable to learn black magic themselves, however, Jansen is a black magic specialist, and 
 can link his black magic to the other characters. As you battle, you will earn points where your 
 immortals can master other mortals skills. When enough points are compiled, Kaim and Seth will 
 always be able to use black magic.
  
  With the battling system out of the way, this gives me an opportunity with talk about the gameplay 
 resides outside of combat. The game provides various mini games and side quests throughout the 
 game. One, for example, is marking various stones throughout a village with a 5 minute time limit. 
 Although the game attempts to offer meaningful side quests and mini games, they evidently fall 
 flat. Most are fairly boring and do hold the interest of the player very much. Some are quite interesting, 
 however in the end it feels like you are doing a chore than playing a mini game. 
  
  The final gameplay element that I would like to talk about is Kaim's memories. As you uncover memories, 
 you are are subjected to read a passage in which tells the story of the memory unlocked. This includes 
 incredibly well written and scripted writing. However, what makes this probably the worst element 
 of the game in my opinion is that it is all just text. You can only read what the memory is. It 
 would have been nice to make the memory's interactable, where the player actually plays through 
 the memory rather than just reading it. It would have made the whole memory idea much more enjoyable.
 
  
  With all of these elements taken into account, it is evident that Lost Odyssey stands out in many 
 different ways. The beautiful graphics, the great audio, and the engaging story all in one package 
 make Lost Odyssey a worthy purchase. However, this does not go to say that the game does not suffer 
 any flaws. The games turn-based battle system may not appeal to all gamers, the "dreams" are non-interactable 
 which may bore some gamers, and the loading times (usually about 9 seconds to begin a battle) may 
 turn off some gamers. 
  
  I believe that Lost Odyssey's too many positives that outweigh the negatives, which is my main 
 reason to say that it is a worthy purchase. With the game being 4 discs long, it will hold the 
 interest to RPG fanatics for roughly 50-60 hours. I feel this game is not getting enough love from 
 the critiques simply because of its turn-based battle system. If you are a fan or able to withstand 
 the turn-based fighting, Lost Odyssey will definitely provide you with a great looking, and well 
 told role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I will be short and clear, and because everybody knows about the game and to tell you the truth, 
 im still in disc one, so i will write what i truly so and expect for this game.
  
  
  
  skaguchi had alot of history with great RPG's like, final fantasy VII and VIII and many more, so 
 he delivered to us Lost Odyssey the greatest RPG game on xbox360 and believe me or not, you will 
 like LO like you did in FFVII and specialy FFVIII, so to start.
  
  let's talk about the voice acting, it has the best english voice acting i ever seen before on RPG 
 games and believe it or not, i like jap voice better, but in LO it's totaly the opposite and it 
 served very well in english, and to talk about loading time issue, it dosen't have any long loading 
 time, and it only loads about five to ten second max so don't worry about that.
  
  Story & sound
  
  LO has the greatest story that you will ever want, it has a great romance 
 story, a good humor and alot of action, it's like the perfect package and you will never go wrong 
 with the story game specialy the soundtrack and it goes suprisingly very will with LO and believe 
 me, if they will release a soundtrack, i will be the first one to buy it for sure it's a kind of 
 music that will make you wonder alot and it will make you stop the player and just listen to the 
 great music, hell even the game menu will let you stop and listen.
  
  Gameplay
  
  well if you like turn based battle, it will not fail you, and to tell you the truth, im a big fan 
 of turn based RPG's and im not alot into action RPG's, so they tweaked the game battle a little 
 to make it freash.
  
  overall
  
  don't hesitate buying this game and like i said before if you like FFVIII then you will like this 
 game alot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vze2s85x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the game for over four hours and the loading times amounts to a matter of seconds. 
 And when I say seconds I mean 2-3 seconds to load battle screen and 3-5 seconds to load another 
 level change. What is the big deal ???????????????. enjoy the game and stop listening to other 
 players. I have never ever written a review but when I saw all the complaints about loading times, 
 I just had to stop what I was doing and write this opinion . The game is all what it crack up to 
 be- great characters , beautiful graphics , great value what else do want .
  The developers at Mistwalker did a great job with the 1000 year dreams.
  They are well written, 
 opens the games story line a bit more and makes you want to see them over again. For all of you 
 who have not purchased the game yet - you are committing an injustice on your self . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  First off let me tell you that i am not a fan of turned bases rpgs. I do enjoy the Final Fantasy 
 series mostly because of the story lines but other turn based rpgs get repetive and boring. When 
 i first heard about this game i had mixed reactions to what everyone was telling me but i got the 
 game on pure gaming instinct. 
  
  I AM SO GLAD I FOLLOWED THAT INSTINCT. From the very beginninig Lost Odyssey had me. The story, 
 gameplay, cinematics, characters, voices, details, enemies, cities, environments, it has everything 
 a perfect rpg should have. And im going to admit it this game made me tear at some points because 
 it brings your relationship with the characters so close that you feel you know them personaly 
 you feel their pain as they struggle and you feel their triumphs as they succeed.
  
  The storyline in this game couldnt be more perfect. Immortals that can never die living since a 
 thousand years ago with no memory of it. They are brought into a world where political struggle 
 and the threat of war rule. They journy through mountains, oceans, cursed forests, to places where 
 their memories are being pieced together bit by bit. Some memories bring back pain and suffering 
 while others happiness and joys. You meet unforgettable characters as you explore this vast world. 
 Characters that will make you laugh and characters that will make you hate and characters that 
 will make you just go wtf? lol. You will reunited with friends and family and you will say goodbye 
 but you still go journey on to save the world from the destruction and devastation of war.
  
  The enemies in this game are very good and very very very hard at some points. Some bosses 
 require you to kill off its minions as it generates power from them working up to a huge attack. 
 Others you need to destroy certains things from its body before finishing it off. Others you will 
 need to save your friends first before you can finish them off. 
  
  The world and cities are amazing. From the Industrialized uhra to the peaceful and beautiful Numara 
 the environment visuals are breathtaking.
  
  Another detail i liked in this game are the face expressions they really help capture the feel 
 of the characters at certain moments whethers it happyness, sadness, or anger.
  
  The game is 4 discs and the transition of the discs is smooth and wont disrupt your play of game 
 as each disc is a new part of the story.
  
  Being that this game is 4 discs it will be a fairly long game. The first disc for me took 11-13 
 hours so we could be looking at a 40+ hour game. i also played a straigh 10 hours when i got it 
 so im slowing down now to enjoy the game more and not finish it so quickly and regret it lol. 
 
  
  
  And the last thing i love about this game is how successful its bein with everyone loving the game. 
 With all this great reviews from the players im hoping Lost Odyssey will be the 360s response to 
 the Playstations long famed series Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnpiszton
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If you like Final Fantasy, you will like this. There are some rather silly platform style mini 
 games, but overall, a very good game. The graphics, sound, and music are top notch. Especially 
 on a surround sound system. The ring construction system is innovative. It's fun collecting the 
 different components and seeing what kind of ring can be created. Unlike what some other "professional" 
 reviewers write, there is nothing wrong with this old-school turn-based combat system. I don't 
 mind random encounters. FF is arguably the best role-playing series for any console. This can be 
 considered a Final Fantasy for the Xbox 360 and is the first epic RPG for the Microsoft console. 
 This could be the start of something big for Xbox 360 owners. Bottom line, if you like FF, you 
 will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secher_nbiw
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I'll skip the synopsis- youve some this far, so you probably know what the game is supposed to 
 be about. 
  
  It looks very good, and I noticed no real framerate issues, and while there have been a lot of 
 loading screens, none have been particularly long.
  
  There are far too many cutscenes and pointless walking around the city, especially considering 
 there is nothing to do or buy in that city.
  
  All the basic RPG elements are there and are executed fairly effectively, with spell lists, items, 
 ring creation, etc.
  
  A large problem I have had so far is the boss difficulty and the save system. 
  The bosses easily 
 deal a huge amount of damage, much more so than your piddly Heal spells and potions can handle. 
 A few hours in, you get to fight one boss, that can paralyze and deal hundreds of HPs of damage, 
 while easily producing the minions it needs to do this. When you manage to make it through that 
 boss, there is another immediately following, with no chance to save, heal up, anything. This is 
 where I stopped playing- after 2 hours of incredibly frustrating ass kickings by stupid giant glowing 
 worms, I returned my game to Blockbuster. 
  
  Additionally, the save spots are very far apart, with several encounters between them. You have 
 no option to save anytime despite a save option in your menu. Guess what? That option only works 
 when you are standing on a save spot. Why is it even in the menu?
  
  There is no way to heal other than using Magic or potions (remember the tents from FF2? You could 
 plop one down and recover?) , and those resources are in very short supply. No, if you level up 
 it doesnt fill your HP of Mana up either. Why is this game getting a 10? Because its pretty? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edclerk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  If you like FF games then this is your cup of tea for sure. The graphics are quite lovely, and 
 it offers a new gameplay function in the ring system which is well done. While most of the battle 
 system and even the main story seems to be pulled from some of the later FF games, there are still 
 some very good elements that are fresh. I do really enjoy the dream sequences for Kaim they are 
 quite emotional and very moving. It gives him a real sense of humanity. The dialogue and banter 
 between the characters is also well done and fun to listen to. I also really enjoy the music very 
 moving some of Uematsu's best. There some problems. I think that while the loading times aren't 
 long they are plentiful which can sometimes detract from the fun. Some of the tiny puzzle elements 
 are more of an annoyance than an actual part or need in the game. Especially the stealth stuff.. uugghh. 
 Otherwise very well done i am very glad i purchased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xangel0884
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I dunno why other reviewers gave it a mediocre score since they havent finished the game at all. 
 I bet they only played a couple of hours and based their reviews for those hours which i think 
 is unfair and not enough. Im still playin the game and its getting better and better! It may seem 
 that nothin is new to this game but a there is a quite-interesting-innovative new features. The 
 story is very emotional, and i almost cried on this scene where Kaim saw his dying daughter (NO 
 BS) . It was just very sad. It was very effective for me since i got 5.1 surround speakers! Im not 
 a RPG junkie but a casual gamer when it comes to this genre but this game truly touched me and 
 opened myself about the story of this immortal man who has to cop his pains/ sufferings and reclaim 
 his lost precious memories !!
  
  PROS
  - Great Emotional Story
  - Solid-new oldschool gameplay (SHield and Ring Systems)
  - Unique on its own way 
  - Amazing 
 graphics
  
  CONS
  - Framerate drops (im hoping if they can release some game updates to fix this issue) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I was excited, worried and also happy that this game was one of the first RPG's to come out this 
 year, this game is infact a story telling game where you just get to fight and hear some pretty 
 good voice acting but there are a couple of things that hold this game back from its true potential.
 
  
  First thing comes first im sorry to say to all who just decided to give this game a 9.5 and a 10... you 
 can't give a game with a bad frame rate a 10 or a 9.5 thats just not going to happen... yes infact 
 you must be a patient person to enjoy this game and you must also like leveling up your characters 
 above where they should be just to get past the next boss as well as the loading times which can 
 be long and last to about a minute especially when the graphics aren't the best even though they 
 are running on the Unreal Engine.
  
  Ok so the story as i said is the absoloute best part about this game. This story is about a character 
 named Kaim who just so happens to be immortal (as well as other imortals that you will get to meet) 
 it just so happens that he lost his memory and over time in the game pieces of his memory come 
 back to him.
  
  So yea Kaim.... immortal sounds boring right? well as you move through the game you see beautiful 
 area's and scenary and when you get to see his memory through dreams and story telling its a beautiful 
 thing.
  
  There is also corruption that happens in the main city of the game where Gorrgon (or w. e his name 
 is) is creating the Grand Staff which channels magic energy and makes it more stronger (which is 
 why at the start of the game a huge metor comes crashing down and basically kills almost everyone) .
 
  
  To be honest there is not much more i know about the story anymore then that. This game is around 
 120 hours long so cut me some slack lol.
  
  The gameplay is something that you would find from Final Fantasy being a turn based RPG that allows 
 you do moves each turn depending on your spead and how much mana (MP) you have then seeing how 
 long it will take to cast and blah blah blah... its basically the same thing you've done over and 
 over again in any other RPG just with the additon of these rings.
  
  These rings allow you to do more damage... or just do the same damage to a target. When your just 
 attacking with a weapon you pull down the right trigger as the ring gets smaller into the other 
 ring on the target where you can get Bad. Good or perfect which is the maximum amount of damage, 
 some rings have affect like... one ring might steal MP from a target when you attack or do fire 
 damage so its more effective against like grass. (note that the rings do not affect spells) .
  
  As i said the graphics of the game are... meh... the character models are so so depending on 
 the character but what really stands out is usually the background and the scencary which looks 
 really nice... but the problem is that it slows down depending on where you are, and its the same 
 thing in the cut scenes which are probably the best graphics in the game but sometimes cause huge 
 amounts of lag.
  
  The sound is of good quality and is above average when rain starts falling it sounds like really 
 rain or anything else that interacts with the scenary but im just not into a small noise when you 
 cast a spell like flare or wind or something like that its just a quick noise then done.
  
  Overall as i said this game dosent deserve a 9.5 or a 10 you must be a patient person to get the 
 full enjoyability (which isnt a word i know just bare with me) or if your just in RPG's you could 
 actually buy this game being 120 hours long and should take you a long time to get through, this 
 game has a great story alright gameplay laggy graphics and alright sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalcyonJedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm not one to usually write a review for a game, but after seeing several gameplay videos and 
 trailers for this game I was intrigued and tempted to purchase it on its release date until I saw 
 the various reviews. It seems that most sites/magazines gave this game only mediocre reviews with 
 most of them slamming the game for poor framerates, and incredibly long load times. I haven't played 
 a turn-based JRPG since the late PS1-early PS2 Final Fantasy days, but this one somehow caught 
 my attention. I decided to rent the game first to see if the critics were being overcritical, or 
 right on the mark....
  First off, let's talk about the graphics and environments. The game makes excellent use of the 
 Unreal 3 engine, and for the most part the graphics are excellent with absolutely gorgeous cutscenes. 
 Occasionally you will see some jaggies or rough textures that look like they could have been polished 
 a bit more, but overall the graphics are very nice. Visual effects such as special attacks and 
 spell effects look nice and seem to be well varied so far. 
  The chief complaint from most of the reviews I have seen is the excessively long load times and 
 poor framerate. Let me set the record on this now for those of you that are like me and were kind 
 of on the fence after reading these critiques: I am 5 hours into the game, and I have not seen 
 ANY framerate drops that deserve the berating that this game got from the reviewers.... there have 
 been only a couple times I have noticed it at all, and that was because I was looking for them 
 so that I could write a fair review for you all. Since this is a turn-based RPG to begin with, 
 the framerate issues shouldn't have been a major detriment at all, but as I said - most players 
 will likely not even notice them. They are VERY few and far between and last a split second or 
 2 at the most. This game has no where near the framerate issues the reviewers have claimed. 
  Admittedly, there are a TON of "Loading..." screens within this game. Every new room/shop you enter 
 in the cities or while exploring generates one of these loading screens. With that said, I have 
 not had a SINGLE loading screen that has exceeded 8 seconds. The vast majority of them have been 
 3-4 seconds or less, and it certainly does not detract from the game experience at all. The battle 
 introductions do suffer from delusions of grandeur and take a few seconds to complete, but they 
 are no where near as agonizing and disruptive as many of the reviews claimed.
  The musical score is very nice and very Final Fantasy-ish, as I would have expected from this developer. 
 The voice acting is very good so far, and there are actually a few characters that add some comedy 
 into the dialogue. The turn based combat will definitely be a turn off for some that are used to 
 the run and gun mechanics of some recent RPGs, but so far I have found it engaging, easy to pick 
 up, and the game unfolds at a nice pace. It doesn't seem overly difficult as of yet, but the Save 
 Points do seem to be spaced a lengthy distance apart. 
  Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone who was intrigued by the trailers or gameplay videos. 
 The bottom line: The critics were over-critical on this one. While it doesn't make RPG history, 
 or is a jaw-dropping 10.0 in every aspect; those looking for a great RPG on the 360 will find this 
 one very enjoyable. If the next 4-5 hours of the game are as enjoyable as the first 4-5 hours, 
 I will likely be purchasing this game Monday. Thanks for reading and hope this clears the air for 
 some! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is an excellent game. This game slowly unveils its story as you play. You play the 
 role of Kaim who is immortal and he adventures with fellow mortal characters. The story and the 
 game slow unveils itself about Kaim's past. Part of the story is done through well produced full 
 motion videos; the other is through dream sequences that are beautifully written -- and the music 
 and effects that go along with each dream sequence is very well done.
  
  I'm still on disc one and feel like I want this game to go on forever, so seeing that there are 
 still 3 remaining discs to go through is great. I feel like savoring every little bit of this game 
 -- the fights, the adventuring, the movie sequences, the dreams. Finding out about Kaim.
  
  The movies and dialog are very well acted and performed. The dreams are text, but I don't feel 
 like it's an overly amount of reading. I feel like reading the dreams is just an extension of the 
 excellent story telling this game does. Let me tell you, the dreams are quite something too -- 
 they will have your every emotion revealed.
  
  The game play is your typical JRPG step-based fighting, but love how it's done in this game. There 
 are abilities and skills to learn, and a ring system that is a nice touch. Some of the boss battles 
 are a challenge, so you really have to think about your approach to being victorious. The little 
 animations that are done by the player characters and non-player characters are nicely done. Along 
 the way you will acquire items that will help you fight, heal and quest items that will help you 
 perform side quests in the game, or help you acquire items from people.
  
  One thing I wish this game could have had was a quest log, to log what side quest to do and the 
 status. You have to make sure you talk to everyone in this game, or you might miss out on a dream 
 or an item.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game. Apparently the Gamespot score of 7.5 is not reflective of the 
 actual retail version. The version they reviewed was a development "debug" version of the game, 
 and that's why they experienced long load times and other issues. Hopefully they will look into 
 possibly changing their score, since in my opinion a 7.5 does not reflect the true quality of this 
 game. Enjoy this game for all that it has to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandooshki
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review so bear with me. I have played videogames and rpgs in particular since 
 the release of the NES and have only truly been impressed by a handful of games almost entirely 
 dominated by square-enix. Upon finishing these games (such as final fantasy VII) it is clear to 
 the player that the developers set out to convey their true mental image of a story as accurately 
 as possible using the technology they have at the given time, and thus often setting new graphical 
 standards with each release. Lost Odyssey is the most recent game i have played that impresses 
 me in this manner with mass effect, in my opinion, falling just a little short.
  Lost Odyssey tells the story of a 1000 year old immortal named Kaim that has lost his memory and 
 recovers pieces of it as the game progresses. Its an interesting premise that provides for the 
 most compelling and in depth exploration of the concept of immortality that i have experienced 
 in any medium. The story unfolds through gameplay, beautiful cutscenes and the surprisingly common 
 written stories of Kaim's memories. These stories are often quite lengthy and frequent which would 
 really be a turn off for the player if they weren't so damn well written. Some players will certainly 
 grow bored of them and they are skippable but for those like me they bring an unparalleled understanding 
 and background to an already quite interesting and likable character.
  Graphically Lost Odyssey is gorgeous and shows off countless amazing locales. Though the framerate 
 does admittedly slow from time to time, i found it to be so minor that it took nothing away from 
 my experience. in fact one of the main reasons i am writing this review is because i have read 
 several reviews, including gamespots, that speak of inexcusable load times and framerate issues 
 that i simply never encountered. Perhaps i am just more patient than these reviewers but i found 
 the average load time to be no more than five or ten seconds and to me far more favorable than 
 mass effect's endless elevator rides.
  The gameplay is tried and true turned based combat with a unique skill system that is something 
 a little different and perfectly functional. Nothing revolutionary but it works. When attacking, 
 a well timed release of the right trigger can provide a bonus to your attack, the bonus being determined 
 by whatever type of ring you've equipped before the battle. Again nothing to new, but it adds a 
 little skill to the strategically based battles and keeps you on your toes. However, i would rather 
 have seen a timed defense bonus than attack bonus because to me that seems like more of a timing 
 dependent action but the system is still more than acceptable to me. What really makes the battle 
 portions of the game excellent is the difficulty. For final fantasy fans it will be refreshing 
 to face challenging battles that require a strong strategic approach and not simply a pocketful 
 of potions.
  Overall this is great classic style rpg that successfully makes the transition to the next generation 
 by making the proper technical advancements and staying true to the elements that make the genre 
 great. It will not be loved by all, but its worth looking into if you've any interest in the genre. 
 Who knows you may find its what you have been waiting for. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codehacker2003
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I don't know why Gamespot gave this such a horrible review. First off it's a JRPG, anybody who 
 has played one of these knows it's story driven. A story can't revolve around constant battles, 
 you have to have something in between. The interludes aren't any worse than any of the Final Fantasy 
 games, or honestly any other JRPG. The voice acting is top notch which really gets you into the 
 story. The characters are superb. They each of a mysterious past that you want to unlock. The plot 
 keeps throwing small twists at you, to make you keep playing to see what the hell is going on. 
 The loading times aren't bad at all. Personally I don't think 10-15 seconds is that long to wait 
 to load the gorgeous environments you see in this game. Or you can just use it to take a breather 
 after the devestatingly difficult boss battles, you will constantly be wondering how you survived 
 the battle. 
  
  In the end this is just your standard JRPG from the master himself -- Hironobu Sakaguchi. Anybody 
 who likes this kind of game should diffenitely pick it up, you won't be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This is a turn based PPG game which takes a bit of getting used to. It requires patience and a 
 willingness to learn the battle system which is not all that intuitive. The story is engaging and 
 fun. After a game like Oblivion I found this game difficult to play because it is so scripted. 
 What I like about the Oblivion model is that the world is open with very little scripting beyond 
 what the characters say and the objectives of the 'quests.' In all fairness 'Lost Odyssey' is based 
 on a completely different model of gameplay and, it is my belief, that some of the lower ratings 
 that it is getting are due to the fact that Wetern RPGers are just not able to adapt to this model 
 of play or they just don't like it. Having said that the graphic presentation is at times quite 
 spectacular. The play of light and shadow as well as the detail in many of the scenes is quite 
 stunning. Admittedly I found the turn based system to be difficult for me to appreciate but that 
 should not prevent anyone who likes this approach from buying this game. It is games like 'Lost 
 Odyssey' and 'Oblivion' , as different as they are, that are creating a whole new and spectacular 
 genre of entertainment . Take my score with a grain of salt because I am not a true JRPG enthusiast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bushwanker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is, if you like games like Enchanted Arms, Eternal Sonata and also Mass Effect, a 
 must have : It is a very polished, old school JRPG that is very entertaining, has a great storyline, 
 has wonderful characters and is, compared to all the FPS hack, slash and shoot garbage, like a 
 much-needed breath of fresh air.
  
  It looks, plays and feels similar to the Final Fantasy series of games (except when compared to 
 online nr XI, which, in my view is not worth it's money)
  
  I suppose the official professional (?) G-spot (?) reviewers would rather spend a couple of hours 
 mindlessly blowing away aliens in Halo 1,2 or 3 (9,5 for Halo 3 : You have got to be joking) and 
 this probably explains the low score they gave this game and also Mass Effect and Eternal Sonata.
 
  
  
  BTW: Marvel Ultimate Alliance similar to LO - Is there ANYONE out there who agrees with this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed45823
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I got Lost Odyssey earlier than most. I got it on 24th of january. (Region difference thing, dont 
 ask) . I bought this game after I saw the trailer. It was a gamble as there was no review of this 
 game but I game it a shot. I was glad I did cause this game rocks. This is one game that I can 
 honestly say that there's no flaws. This is a very addictive game. Probobly the best game turned 
 based RPG game next to Final Fantasy series.
  
  So lets get some issues cleared off the head. This game does not lag. The loading time is between 
 5 to 15 seconds in almost thoughout the game. I do not see why people as well as some review sites 
 were complaining about the framerate issue. I played though this game and it was fine other than 
 one or two hikups in a few cutscenes. Maybe my game is from different region from the U. S. I guess 
 I got lucky.
  
  Lets talk about the GOODS. Intriguing storyline, heartpounding combat, nice visuals and soundeffect 
 and amazing gameplay. Mind you though, the pace of the game is a bit slow in the beginning as the 
 game introduces charecters and new stories and plots but it all pays off. All in all, this is one 
 game where one would say, "What else can go right" instead of "What else can go wrong".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  I seriously don't understand how this could be rated 7.5 when it's so painfully obvious this is 
 a much better game than what they make it out to be. Obviously the reviewer is way out of touch 
 with what gamers are looking for in rpg's or is just another one of the many jrpg haters out there 
 but couldn't rate it any lower because even he had to admit its a damn good game.
  This is your classic turn based rpg brought into next gen and it came out amazing from graphics 
 to outstanding storytelling to gameplay. I have no issues with load times and so i can't even understand 
 that argument or maby i'm just more patient than most people cause waiting a few second just doesn't 
 bother me i dunno call me crazy. 
  I could get all technical but really all it comes down to is this .. a good game is a good game 
 is a good game. Outstanding graphics, amazing visuals, fantastic sound, classic old school feel 
 with some cool new twists thrown in, and quite possibly some of the best damned story telling i 
 have or will ever see in an rpg or any other game for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeslicehass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Pro's - 
  Turn-Based Combat
  Random Battles
  Great Voice Acting
  Artistic Scenery
  Amazing Musical Score
  
  Con's - 
  Occasional Crashes
  Bad NTSC Packaging
  
  Lost Odyssey 
 has finally arrived and all I can say is that it's definitely been worth the wait. The game mirrors 
 that of old school Final Fantasy's which is a plus for fans of the genre and who better to design 
 the game with none other than, Hiranobu Sakaguchi, the father of Final Fantasy. The game really 
 captures what makes an RPG a truly great genre in the industry. All the hype that you have heard 
 about the excessive load times are FALSE! There is almost no long load times and the framerate 
 has been stable. I would advise that I have experienced some occasional crashes but nothing to 
 cry about. On a side note to anyone who plans on a purchase, open the game and check the disc's 
 in the store (especially the 4th disc in the sleeve) as they are known to have scratches. I highly 
 recommend this game for anyone who has ever liked JRPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! It's essentially Final Fantasy X, just updated for the Xbox 360 - don't worry 
 though, the game still feels fresh and original and the great music, story, and little innovations 
 and changes to the classic JRPG system make it great!
  -Graphics: The game looks brilliant and the individual scenes and characters are artistically beautiful. 
 I have not experienced any of the frame-rate problems described by the Gamespot review and I have 
 *certainly* not experienced the long loading times they complain about - I have not had a loading 
 time longer than a few seconds.
  -Sounds: Great music, good voice acting (in English, at least) .
  -Story: The story focuses on 
 immortals searching for memories of their past. If you're in it for the story (which is interesting) , 
 you're in for some reading - every time you learn something about your past, you have the option 
 to read something about it. Don't worry though, you can get by without them and still experience 
 a nice (though obviously predictable) story.
  -Innovations: There's a ring system added to the combat that keeps you a bit more involved than 
 mere turn-based fighting. There's also a skill-linking system that's really entertaining to mess 
 with. (Don't worry, there's more, that's just all I put.)
  -Overall: Great story, beautiful graphics, really entertaining, very immersive, neat little additions 
 to the standard JRPG system make it great.
  
  I'd recommend buying it, personally - renting it won't give you enough time to get through the 
 good stuff (and the game takes a couple of hours before it actually gets good) - but if you don't 
 like JRPGs or aren't sure about them, I'd, at least, say you should try it...
  If you liked any Final Fantasy games, or anything like them, don't worry, you're sure to love this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosferatu006
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Heh! 7.5? NO WAY! Loading times are NOT as long as they say. And it DEFINITLY has new features 
 from other RPG's! IT IS THE SINGLE MOST AMAZING NON-FF RPG EVER (INCLUDING OBLIVION) The story 
 is AMAZING! The characters are believable! The graphics are MIND BLOWING! The battle system? It's 
 the same with a few new GREAT features! The frame rate has an OCCASIONAL change, but normally it's 
 flawless. And come on, 4 DISCS OF GAMEPLAY! I don't know what Gamespot is on, but I'm stayin on 
 my stuff! You know what the game is about, so I won't bother with that. I played the game for 10 
 seconds before I said "SWEET!" and realized this was the game for me! Well, heh, I guess I could 
 keep going till December 12, 2012, but I's probably run out of space. The basic story? If you've 
 got an Xbox 360 and enjoy RPG's? THIS is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahoosoda
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I've reviewed this game extensively on my blog, here's the review I wrote for it: http://thirdworldgamer. blogspot. com/2008/02/lost-odyssey-jrpg-for-next-gen-gaming. html
 
  
  That said, in summary this is the best Xbox 360 JRPG right now and possibly the best JRPG ever 
 made in a long time. The story is well crafted and the characters are all fleshed-out very well, 
 and each of them are given their own moments to shine. The turn-based combat brings the concept 
 to a whole new level, requiring you to cast buffs (defensive magic) to survive even regular enemies, 
 and the boss fights are a whole new world of challenge entirely. You can't just choose 'Attack' 
 all the time and expect to win. You have to play strategically and that is what makes the turn-based 
 combat execution in this game extremely satisfying.
  
  The dream sequences are well-crafted and do add to the story by making you appreciate who Kaim 
 is and what he's been through. Sometimes events in the dream are even referenced in the actual 
 game, so they're not simply 'attached' to the game, they're really part of the story.
  
  Lastly, the Nobuo Uematsu's music is just immaculate.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a true masterpiece, 
 the true successor to the Final Fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThreeVo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up lost odyssey the other day and and safely say that it is an rpg that is prominent 
 with all the aspects and elements that most of us grew up loving with early ff games.
  
  Some critics were harsh with it simply because of expectaions it think, when they crutialy bash 
 it for its laoding times, wich arent that severe to the point that it could ruin gamplay, negetive 
 points made about animation introduction to random battles "unexceptably" long, wich is rediculous, 
 ff8 beared longer battle intros and cast animations and the pace was absolutley fine. Some reviewers 
 said it was a "technical mess" wich is rediculous, sure the game house a few fps issues but hardley 
 enough to, again, ruin the gameplay. This game has suffered reviews based on the standards of todays 
 gaming wich i dont think is fair at all, and all these "flaws" are purley passive to most who cherish 
 these types of rpgs, wich i think its safef to say that most of us here are those types. 
  
  Kaim has even been branded as ur typical "emo" (bah, i can feel my IQ level drop) protagonist, 
 however unlike most who are labled that, kaim has ABSOLUTLEY every single reason to be the way 
 he is... his past has some pretty sad and topuching stories that REALY get to u, and possibly the 
 greatest aspect of the story is taht the game goes that EXTRA mile to tell u these tales of his 
 past thruought the game as novel like mini storyies, when the reviewers complamented these (wich 
 every website review did) i at first didnt give it much thought, thinking "ok so they have some 
 narrative side story telling thats nice" but..... its difficult to explian with words... how moving 
 these short story/events are to the game while u play, it provides such a great experience and 
 bond with kaim and the other cahracters relationships, numerous times i found myself saying in 
 my head "damn... that is just sad.. this guy has been through some serious stuff". And the way 
 its scrypted is superb writing skills.
  
  The sound track, wich most said is passive and predictable at best.. not truly capturing the mood, 
 should be shot and die in a car fire. Its nothing revolutionary for Nobuo but is still excelent. 
 And the english voice overs are quite fine and even though one particlur character is annoying, 
 he provides soo much comic reliefe that merges so well the the other characters.
  
  This game is a prime example of a topnotch character driven story and excelent rpg elements (although 
 nothing exaclty stellar in terms of battle system) that anyone whos been keeping up with the games 
 progress right b4 its release is clearly someone who will be able to look past the loading time 
 and not so often "lag" issues that hinder this game vaguely. Its sad that rpgs like mass effect 
 are now being used as reference to modern day rpgs, while its still a good game, imo it is by far 
 not a game that should be in the same feild as jrpg, wich a few idiot editors felt they should 
 compare LO with mass effect simply cause there both on 360.
  
  If u own a 360, have 50-60$ in ur wallet, and are a fan of JRPG that came out between 1986-2007, 
 that doesnt own this game yet, then there is somthing wrong with u.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziabatsu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is finally here, and I was able to purchase it and try it myself, well knowing that 
 the critics who rate games don't know what they're talking about 99percent of the time.
  
  Now, as many game reviewers will complain about, this game does not re-invent the wheel, it does 
 not create fire for the second time, it is an old-school style RPG. Not to say it doesn't have 
 many modern touches though. Before I say to much, I would like to state that I am only about 10 
 hours in, so keep this in mind.
  
  The Game play is solid, so far. The battle system is easy to use, and to me very enjoyable. Lost 
 Odyssey employs random enemy encounters, but the rate of you running into an enemy on the map seems 
 pretty low; I've run across an entire map only fighting 2 times or so. One in battle, you will 
 get the traditional options, Attack, Defend, Magic etc, while there are several twists, combat 
 on average remains pretty traditional. Though, your character may equip rings which have an array 
 of different effects, what this will do is during an attack phase, make you try to trigger the 
 perfect timing to get some extra damage off on the enemy. You can add different element types such 
 as Fire and Water, or equip rings that are good versus Beast or Aerial monster and so on. One last 
 thing, the "Loading Time", the critics hit this pretty heavily, though as I've played through, 
 I have yet to wait more then 4-10 seconds for anything, so unless they are utterly impatient and 
 need to down 5 bottles of Ritalin a day to stay patient, I don't see a problem whatsoever.
  
  The Sound in lost Odyssey is very reminiscent of the Final Fantasy series, for obvious reasons 
 as the games composer is non other than Nobou Uematsu. I've enjoyed all the tracks thus far, much 
 better than what I heard in Blue Dragon which were pretty much all hit or miss. The voice acting 
 has gone over rather well too, I have yet to hear a voice that just utterly annoys me and force 
 me to scratch my nails on a chalkboard to make it stop. Aside from that, all sound effects in the 
 game seem in place and compliment the environments well.
  
  The Graphics in the game are pretty awe-inspiring at times, seldom coming across a map that isn't 
 interesting in one way or another. The world for the most part is very unique, with interesting 
 structures, surroundings and objects, such as vehicles. The character models are well done and 
 seem to express emotion well, though I've noticed in combat when they give their opening battle 
 lines their mouths don't actually move; obviously a very minor detail, I just happened to catch 
 it. The CGI scenes are what you would expect from a former Square employee and creator of Final 
 Fantasy, very well done, flashy pretty etc etc.
  
  The Story in the game so far has kept me interested. It's cryptic enough that it keeps you guessing, 
 though some times as suspected, you will know what is about to happen. Kaim is an immortal who 
 throughout the game seems to unlock his past, though sometimes unwillingly. He meets a cast of 
 interesting characters along the way who team up and inevitably help save the planet in one way 
 or another. As you play the game, it almost feels as if you are playing an older Final Fantasy 
 title, before the Playstation 2 days, which isn't a bad thing.
  
  So far it's looking to be a very promising title, which hopefully won't disappoint in the end. 
 The characters are likeable, the sound is good, and the story is entertaining. Some will complain 
 about the game play because it isn't anything you haven't seen, but it gets the job done, and does 
 it well. Compared to their last game, this is in a whole different league, in Blue Dragon I didn't 
 care for any of the characters, I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters, and it was just 
 pretty boring; for me anyways. This game has managed to entertain me more in 10 hours then Blue 
 Dragon did through its entirety. If you haven't played it, give it a shot if you're a RPG fan, 
 I'm pretty sure it won't disappoint.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I hardly ever play JRPG's (Japanese Role Playing Games) , so the fact that I bought Lost Odyssey 
 the second day tells you something. This game has a lot of flash and will draw you right in. This 
 game has something about it that sets it apart from other games in the genre.
  
  Lost Odyssey has some excellent visuals, and in a JRPG like this, they are some of the more important 
 elements of a good game, along with story. The story is very deep and there are a lot of cutscenes 
 to communicate the story to the player. Because of these cutscenes, the game has a slower pace 
 and you need to keep this in mind when approaching the game. You will also get the most out of 
 the game by watching the cutscenes, not just skipping through them.
  
  What makes this game fairly formulaic is it's turn based combat system. It's a system familiar 
 with the genre. However, as usual, they've thrown in a few twists such as the ring system to add 
 a little interaction to the combat. Combat is not a very strong point but the enemies vary a lot 
 so at least it feels different.
  
  Lost Odyssey tackles a huge scale with great graphics, an ambitious story, and more. And what demonstrates 
 that better than the fact they put it on 4 dvd's? 
  
  If you are looking for a great game, with some impressive graphics, a great story, and many gameplay 
 hours, there is a great package to be found with Lost Odyssey. I highly recommend it for gamers 
 with any degree of interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladerunner513
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  After all the bad press about horrid loading zone, bad framerate, and generic story, I picked up 
 LO to play. I am now 13 hrs into the game and on the second disc and i would like to say... Do Critics 
 even play the games they review? LO is an amazing, beautiful, and touching game. I have not played 
 a game that has had such an emotional effect on me in years. With its well written characters and 
 haunting stories of love, loss, and redemption, LO is a polished gem. The battles, while not revolutionary, 
 are fun and emersive, giving a wide range of enemies and powers. The new ring design adds a compelling 
 adjustment in combat and the bosses are never pushovers, causing one to think out a different strategy 
 of each one. 
  As for the framerate and loading zones, the ones that were unforgivable to all the critics, must 
 have been fixed for the final product, because i have never had a loading zone longer than 5 secs 
 and i have not noticed any framerate slowdown. This is my first time posting on this site and i 
 do this because of the injustice the critics have done to such an amazing game. A score it does 
 not deserve and might keep a JRPG fan from experiencing a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALFA_Q
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a layedback game where i didnt have to be fast with controls ie: COD4 (which is 
 amazing) . I thought i would try out LO as my first JRPG and I was amazed. Great visuals, great 
 linear storyline. I was able to sitback relax and play while getting sucked into its immersive 
 story, it was almost like watching a good movie. the loading times where fine, not long at all... the 
 most 5sec maybe. Alot of people said that they have benn having framrate issues, i didnt notice 
 many framerate issues, and when i did, it wasnt horrific.
  
  
  I would recomend this game for someone who wants to play a charater in a movie, interact for some 
 of it, and sit back and enjoy. This is a story that will suck you in, just like Mass Effect. I 
 would say play this game if you want a great Story, if your looking for action look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degenerate13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  After putting around 15 hours in on the game in the last 48hrs I have to say I am quite impressed. 
 Alot of the reviews almost stopped me from buying it, but my love for similar titles (FFX + FF8 
 being the most closely related) I ended up picking a copy at launch.
  
  Right from the begininning of the game I had moments where I literally gasped or just yelles out 
 "Awesome!" As most JRPG's have a great intro I expected such, but this one was really above the 
 rest. One thing that I didn't notice that all of the reviews had to complain about was the load 
 time. I felt like the transition from world map to battle felt seamless and was much better then 
 games that have more horrendous load times (Mass Effect?) . 
  
  Alot of the reviews are un-fair saying they didn't get anything new from the genre. I found that 
 although it is a turn based RPG all the similarities stop there. I found a very new and exciting 
 skill-link system that reminded me of older games, but had its on uniqueness to it. The ring system 
 is another thing that I love about the game; and something that I didn't know at first is that 
 you have the ability to switch rings mid-battle. Not only can you switch to make sure you are using 
 the right element on the right enemy, but it doesn't count as a turn so you are free to switch 
 equipment (even swords and accesories) as often as you want.
  
  One last piece of this game that really put me off at first was the Dream portion of the game. 
 "Oh no, I have to read!" was my first thought, but then I realized each individual story was so 
 good and fleshed out I couldn't wait to find the next one. It is a new technique in story telling, 
 and it couldn't be any better.
  
  Final verdict is this game really deserves a chance. Most people see a  8.5 review and will ignore 
 the game, I am glad I didn't. This has to be the most satisfying RPG on the Xbox 360 at this time 
 and if you are a fan of the genre you will absolutely love everything it has to offer. For those 
 new to the genre the massive amount of hidden items, side quests, and Dreams may be a bit daunting 
 but it really deserves some amount of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  As of now, about 8 hours in, Lost Odyssey is the best RPG I have probably seen in years. Mass Effect 
 and Oblivion were excellent too, but LO seems to nudge ME in story, what truly matters in an RPG. 
 
  
  The characters are well built, whether it be the dialog between Seth and Jansen, or Kaims occasional 
 snippits, but so far at no point have I felt "Ok, this guys just a little to much of x, y, z".
  
  The graphics are well polished, especially for a game of its type, in the battles, there is 
 a very bit of rigidity on the landscapes, but the beauty of the rest of the scene will make you 
 forget about it quick.
  
  The sound is RPG sound, the 5.1 is used well, not mind blowing but definatly serviceable.
  
 
  The new ring mechanic is neat, adding a reason to pay attention when you are meleeing, since especially 
 against bossess hitting that status affliction could make or break you. The skill system too at 
 first seems slightly underdone, but quickly I think you'll find its just right.
  
  Finally, the overblown load times are not 1 bit as hellacious as they claim, matter infact, saying 
 the big 3 RPGs atm are this, ME and Oblivion, this easily is the fastest of the 3. 
  
  In LO, you'll find a stellar RPG with a gripping story, with a system that hasnt been done in a 
 long time but shows it can stand the test of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anduril621
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome, even though other reviewers seem to not appreciate it as much. The 
 graphics and sound are amazing. The music and the voice-acting are top-notch. The story is interested 
 and well paced. It's fairly challenging and requires some strategy in the battles which is a plus 
 for people who like to think things through. I have no clue why some people are trying to knock 
 it. It's much better than Final Fantasy ever was in my opinion. Furthermore, I don't know what 
 people are talking about when it comes to the load times. The load times are pretty fast on my 
 system. It loads faster than Blue Dragon for sure. I'm also pretty sure that it loads faster than 
 Mass Effect too. If you don't believe me, monitor how long it takes to ride down the elevator in 
 Mass Effect. Believe it or not, that's a load screen. And people mention frame-rate issues. I haven't 
 really noticed any really bad frame-rate issues. Mass Effect had worse graphical glitches and frame-rate 
 issues than this game. Don't get me wrong, I like Mass Effect, but I think it's a bit unfair how 
 most people are criticizing this game for problems that are seemingly non-existent from my point 
 of view. Maybe some reviewers need to get their Xbox 360 checked out or something. As far as being 
 innovative, well, it's sticks to its turn-based JRPG roots, which some people may not like, but 
 since I'm a fan of the genre, it's not that big a deal. It does change the setup some with having 
 the immortal characters gaining skills from items and mortal characters, while the mortal characters 
 gain skills from regularly leveling up. The ring feature was kind of cool too by giving you some 
 amount of interaction during a character's attack. Also, the game does have random battles, but 
 the amount was nowhere as annoying as some games in the past have been. Also, things were so well-paced 
 that I didn't have to spend a huge amount of time grinding. Overall, if you like JRPGs, then this 
 is a must-have game. It is a solid improvement of the genre. Just because it's not outrageously 
 different doesn't mean it's not next/current gen. One could argue that Mass Effect isn't really 
 next gen since it's mainly a combination of KOTOR with a third person shooter. Mixing genres isn't 
 the same as creating one. Furthermore, if people want to talk about the lack of originality, then 
 they need to take a second look at all the first person shooters that keep getting made over and 
 over again without really changing anything. I like Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4, but honestly, they 
 are both still first person shooters. Don't get me wrong. I love all these games I have mentioned, 
 but I'm tired of the disproportionate reviews that will accuse one game of lacking originality 
 but praise another game for having it when it doesn't. It's okay if the game isn't radically different. 
 Believe it or not, some people still play table-top RPGs. Turn-based is not a bad thing. It's about 
 the story anyway, and honestly, this story is way more original then some of the other stuff out 
 there. Anyway, If you never liked JRPGs in the first place, then don't buy them, and don't waste 
 people's time giving a negative review for something you never liked in the first place. If you 
 are tired of playing them, then fine. Play something else. As for me, I enjoy turn-based traditional 
 RPGs, and I enjoy Lost Odyssey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AznHaloMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This game deserve a way higher score than what gamespot gave it. It is true that there are low 
 frame rates in certain areas, but it is not really distracting to the point that will start to 
 annoy you. I think gamespot really exagerated about the loading time from areas to areas and into 
 battle. The battles only took about 3 seconds to load and the areas about 10 -15 seconds at the 
 most. For the battle, the 3 seconds is including the battle intro scene which really isn't loading 
 at all. Also, the graphics in this game is really nice. There are countless time where I just stop 
 and look at the surrounding because that's how good they looked. The game is pretty much as a standard 
 rpg like Final Fanasy series; however, there is the ring system. It is really fun as it challenge 
 you to get the right timing for additional damages. As a result, it really adds another level to 
 the overall gameplay and customization. I gave this game a 10 because it is probably one of the 
 best JRPG I've ever played with outstanding graphics and just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipchase
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the tech issues. Yes there is a framerate hitch here or there. Nothing more then 
 Mass effect which recieved a way better score then this without having any real innovation or change 
 from there previous titles. Yes there are tons of loading screens. None of which are as extreme 
 as what the reviewers are stating. Really just another example of the limitations of the 360 not 
 allowing games to install a portion of there content to the hardrive. 
  
  On to the game itself. Simply a good ole fashioned JRPG in the same tone as the FF series. Great 
 graphics and sound. Random battles are back which to some is too old school but to me who was raised 
 on that style it's no issue at all. Just a real classic feel which really isn't a bad thing. 
 
  
  I'd say buy it. So far I am having real fun with it even with it's slight tech issues. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  If my High School English teacher were to grade Lost Odyssey, here is what she would probably say. 
 "Self-indulgent." "Needs thematic editing." "Squanders too much on background." and would problably 
 scribble in red pen "Hey Mistwalker? Less talk, more rock, please." and even with the games technical 
 problems like ridiculously long load times every five miniutes, the game eventually does rock in 
 a traditional RPG sort of way.
  
  On The Positve Side: An unapologetically pristine J-RPG experience which also comes jam packed 
 with a bunch of wacky item-whores mission. And the characters in the game are also very appealing. 
 
  
  On the negative side: Way. Too. Much. Loading. Also their is too much chuggy animation in the turn 
 based parts of the game.
  
  Verdict: Lost Odyssey is an okay game. But the game is just the exact same thing that we have seen 
 in every other RPG ever made. Only unless your a hardcore RPG fan, you will feel as if you have 
 done this all before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey may be the first game that shows a couple of the weaknesses of the next-gen consoles, 
 rather than having major weaknesses of its own. Most reviews have slammed LO for its frequent load 
 times, and slammed it for being on 4 DVDs. First, if you want high-quality, high-res images and 
 sound, they take memory, and that requires data to be loaded off disc constantly... Second, if 
 you want the game on one disc, then you need a high capacity disc, which is significantly slower 
 than a standard DVD drive, making problem #1 worse.
  
  The PS3 has taken recent flack for requiring hard disk installation of games, but the 360 likely 
 needs to head in that direction. Personally, I would've rather seen LO install all four discs on 
 my 120GB hard drive, eliminating disc swaps and shortening load times within the game.
  
  Anyway, on to the game itself... Lost Odyssey is exactly what I was looking for in a next-gen JPRG 
 -- excellent visuals, good character and story development, but also a more "mature" story line 
 than we've seen in the likes of Eternal Sonata and Blue Dragon. Admittedly, much of the deeper 
 story telling is done through a series of dreams/recollections of the main character told to the 
 player through written stories -- yes, you have to sit and read them if you want to get that part 
 of the story.
  
  The combat system is rote JRPG -- turn-based, strategic, with a few timing-based button presses 
 to enhance both offensive and defensive abilities. The boss battles are quite challenging early 
 on until you get the hang of strategies, and get more abilities and gear for your party.
  
  The game has some nice elements based on enhancing inventory items to help with combat, such as 
 combining found raw elements with various rings and weapons through the game. Nothing sophisticated, 
 as it tracks everything you need automatically.
  
  The good:
  * Great visuals -- in-game animation, combat effects, cutscenes, and even the written text segments 
 are presented in a visually interesting way.
  * Excellent audio -- music is good throughout (a bit "generic" for the style, but all well done) , 
 and the voice acting is well done
  * Compelling storyline and characters
  * Solid and well-constructed game elements
  * Semi-interesting equipment enhancement system
 
  
  The bad:
  * Frequent load times -- they aren't killers, but there are times you'll be tapping your fingers 
 saying "c'mon!" to yourself...
  * Frequent cases of Final Fantasy style "interactive" section where the whole point is you just 
 walking from one screen to the next as a bridge between cutscenes.
  * Superficial character development
  * Weak secondary quests -- I often "solve" secondary quests 
 I didn't know existed by talking to a random citizen in the game and happening to have a found 
 item that solves the quest... There's really no system built in to the game to find/track these 
 side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odins_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Every time that I read a review about an RPG, especially turn-based RPG's, the first thing you'll 
 hear about is whether or not the game breaks new ground. What if I don't want this game to rewrite 
 the rules of playing RPG's? Is that OK? What if I just want to enjoy a game that plays like a classic 
 RPG but has all the eye candy of a brand new one? 
  
  If you're looking for that game, then look no further. Sure, there a few frame rate issues but 
 at least for the love of all things holy the developers used a little thing called vertical sync. 
 It gets old playing the latest and greatest games on the 360 and the games have horizontal tearing 
 (I'm looking at you Assassins Creed and Mass Effect) . 
  
  The story so far is great and is engaging enough to keep almost any gamer interested. The skill 
 link system and the ring assembly is simple enough to not be put off by it, yet engaging enough 
 to keep you looking for more ways to improve your characters by using it. You don't have full control 
 over the camera although you can use the left stick to tilt it. This does take some getting used 
 to. 
  
  RPG's are my favorite type of game, and as far as this game goes in that category I would have 
 given it a 10 if it weren't for the minor frame rate issues (which I believe are over exagerated) . 
 By the way, the soundtrack is awesome... but we all knew it would be with Nobuo Uematsu composing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madroxcide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a turn based RPG. That style of gameplay is mixed for people it seems there is 
 no in between you either like it or you don't. Personally i think of it as a game of chess and 
 thats why i enjoy that style. The ring system adds more to it to make it more interactive and it 
 does a fantastic job in doing that. To relate to another small feature that changes how things 
 are the active reloading in Gears of War was a small little feature that really helped make it 
 different. 
  
  Most RPG fans know the real draw to a game like this is its story and its characters and i must 
 say both are fantastic. The story to the game slowly picks up as you would expect but the characters 
 are so interesting and voiced just as well. You play as a quiet immortal named Kaim. He seems like 
 a bit of a jerk at first but slowly as things progress you begin to understand him more. The dream 
 sequences in the game help lend to understanding the travels of Kaim and even begin to question 
 if being immortal is a good thing at all. There are other immortals and regular mortals you will 
 come across in the game and that will join your party and they will show their personalities right 
 from the start. 
  
  My review hasn't focused on the combat or the rings or anything like that because this is a turn 
 based rpg. We know how that all works it has been done and it still complements a story driven 
 game really well. The main thing this game brings is well thought out characters, a great story, 
 and some fantastic cut scenes. 
  
  I will close this out by saying this, when you pick this game up (and you should if you are a fan 
 of turn based RPG's) and the opening cinematics and battles all up until the credits show and you 
 see the title of the game don't make you feel as if you are about to go for a wild ride through 
 this game. Nothing will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  So after 4 1/2 hours of game play - I have to say most of the negativesI've read in other reviews 
 - I am not seeing.
  
  Load times - FAR faster than Mass Effect or Oblivion. I counted for awhile jumping into battles 
 since the reviewer claimed 20 second loads - well its more like 3-5. Same with other issues. And 
 while there are some big cut scenes at the beginning - most are much more like the dialog sequences 
 you find in Mass Effect - you are watching two people talk -however like most jRPGs there are not 
 really dialog options - standard for the genre. In fact they seem far shorter than I recall them 
 being in FF and other clones.
  
  So far I think the dev's themselves said it best - we aren't breaking any new game play ground 
 here - but we are crafting a compelling story with an emotional connection. I think that sums it 
 up well. The story is drawing me in, the art is amazing, and the game while not really doing anything 
 new, is done extremely well and everything is well made. In fact its probably one of the best made 
 FF clones I've seen.
  
  If you played FFVII then mechanically you've played this. The only add in is a timing based attack 
 booster in combat and a huge crafting system (that is very easy to use) that determines the boosts. 
 Its fun, sort of tough to get the timing but as it doesn't affect your hitting, only your damage 
 boost or effects it works pretty well.
  
  On the MS is being cheap side - the 4 disc game is in a 3 disc dvd box with #4 stuck in a paper 
 sleeve where the manual also tucks in. Lame.
  
  All in all - I give it 8, with high marks for a compelling (so far) story, solid mechanics, seemingly 
 deep characters, ease of use and beautiful graphics. Marks off for the been there done that feeling 
 and not really pushing the genre forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lugreenb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Everything about Kaim and his cast of supporters is in depth and interesting. As you read through 
 the various dreams that kaim recalls, you learn about more and more interesting events and sorrows 
 that make him the person he has become. If you think that "slow" loading times (which aren't even 
 that slow) and occaisonal low framerate make a game bad, you are crazy. Just because a game isn't 
 non stop killing doesn't mean it isn't a great game. Reviewers need to stop looking at games expecting 
 everything to be fast paced, because sometimes the slow, in depth parts of the game are what makes 
 the story truly interesting. This is a masterpiece, on par with games like Final Fantasy 7, Half 
 Life, and Mass Effect. Don't buy into the low scores written by the gaming critics. If you like 
 RPGS, this game is more than satisfying; if you don't, just don't feel obligated to interject your 
 opinion because of your biased game tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  FF VII is THE game that got me into RPG's back in the 90's when I was in high school. Lost Odyssey 
 takes the greatest elements of the JRPG and rolls them into one nice neat package.
  
  I agree with the reviewer, this game really doesn't bring anything new to the table. Does that 
 make it a bad game? No. It just makes it another game. This is the closest any 360 owner is going 
 to get to Final Fantasy, so enjoy it.
  
  Frame rates are a bit choppy at points, but I haven't seen any real problems with load times. What 
 does aggravate me is the camera. Is it really necessary to keep a fix camera in this day and age? 
 You can kind of zoom in to Kaim's location on the screen, but most times you end up zoomed in on 
 a park bench when Kaim is 10 feet to the left of the camera.
  
  I have not finished this game, not by a long shot. However, I see alot of great strategic potential 
 in the formation of you party (magic users in back, tough guys in front) , ring formation and skill 
 linking, which is still a bit confusing, but I'm only 3 hours into the game.
  
  The English language voice acting is average at best. A lot of times it sounds like the same crew 
 that did the English dubbing for Dragonball Z. Upward inflections on questions are missing and 
 the dialog sounds forced at times.
  
  However, these are minor problems and should not deter you from playing this game if you are a 
 fan of JRPG or Final Fantasy in particular. The graphics are amazing, although the character models 
 are not the greatest, but I'm just coming off playing Mass Effect, which was groundbreaking for 
 it's facial modeling. 
  
  All in all, I would recommend this game to any fan of turn-bases JRPG's. Final Fantasy fans should 
 feel right at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Backstory. . . . . .. . . . . . .  . . . . 
 . . .. . . . .  
 . . . . .. .. . ... . .. .. .. .. . .. . . .  
 . . . . . .. .  . . .  
 . . . . . . . . . . Loading. . . . . . . . . . . .  
 . . . . .Backstory. . . . .. . . . . . . . .  
 . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .  
 . . .. . .  
 . . ..  
 . . .  
 . . . . . ........... Turn based combat you've seen a milllion times over in Blue Dragon and FF, 
 and now back to ........................ . . .  
 .  
 . . .  . .  
 fetch quest . which has no bearing on the game .  
 . . . . . . . . . .  
 a dungeon, finally,  
 . . . . . .................. .  
 ooops, you just feel in a hole in a dungeon so please go back to the beginning of the dungeon ...... loading 
  
 a mindless beer drinking game, because that's crucial to the  
 and repeat ........................... . . 
 
   
 insert disk 2 ............. . . . 
   
  to  loading 
 screen . . . ... . . . ...............
   
 more turn based combat you've no doubt seen a million times before in Blue Dragon and FF 
 
   
 And now you've played Lost Odyssey. 
  The story is somewhat engaging when the screen isn't skipping or freezing up on you. The music 
 is great as well, as it should be, it comes from an old-school wizard. The Xbox 360 just can't 
 handle this game. Like all the trouble of Oblivion but three times as bad. I'm sorry, but this 
 is a masterpiece of wasting your time. I wish certain staff members of Gamespot would stop being 
 so "emo" because they keep deleting my reviews because of being offensive? Have I said anything 
 offensive? I don't think so but Ill guarantee you that Gamespot will have their "emo" department 
 on this right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPAddict
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Slow load times, ya right! Whatever! Great game!!!
  
  Breakdown:
  The interface is nice, the graphics are great, music and sound are good, and oh yeah 4 DVDS!!!
 
  
  Very interesting characters - some are mortal and some are immortal and depending on which they 
 are they have different abilites.
  
  Nice cutscenes - some can be quite bloody, but good nonetheless
  
  Standard JRPG like battles, 
 but some really cool enemies to fight.
  
  Can use rings to enhance your fighting attacks and power.
  
  Good amount of items in the game 
 you can get, and they are not placed everywhere like that one game called BLUE DRAGON where in 
 one area there was like 10+ places you had to check, which to me was kinda annoying.
  
  Gamespot made a big deal about loading times, maybe 2 - 3 seconds load times tops. Does not take 
 any fun from the game at all. 
  
  Even though Gamespot gave it a 7.5, I really don't think that is the score it deserved. As you 
 can see I give it a 9.0. Great game! Don't pass it up! I did, and I definately don't regret it 
 one bit! Happy JRPG Gaming my friends!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Lost Odyssey is a mesmorising JRPG.
  
  I honestly don't know why the game hasn't gotten better reviews. Everyone seems to be knocking 
 it for it's turn based combat but I got news for ya Jack, myself as well as many other old-school 
 RPG fanatics LOVE turn based combat!
  
  This game is just incredible all around. A truly immersive story (which is very rare these days) 
 and well developed characters that you actually care about (another bigtime rarity) . The visuals 
 are stunning and the ring and element system are surprisingly very addictive.
  
  This is a thinking mans game and I guess that's what has turned off some reviewers and gamers.
 
  
  There really hasn't been an RPG with this kind of depth and meaning since FF 7 if you ask me. Everything 
 is there and Sakaguchi has proven once again why he is the master of this genre.
  
  If you love a great story, top notch character development, well composed music to set the mood, 
 and like games that require a little intellect and strategy.... then you'll think you're in heaven 
 while playing this title.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexCasas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, when i placed the dvd and watched the first cutscene i knew something great 
 was starting. Amazing music, ambience and presentation. Even though im not really a hardcore jrpg 
 fan i have played and finished ff7,8 and chrono trigger, i really enjoyed them, i love turn based 
 games (Be it jrpgs or x-com) .
  
  So about the game, the combat flows well, its nothing too advanced , no combined attacks bettwen 
 party members like chrono trigger or limit breaks like final fantasy 7/8, it does however have 
 a ring system, it might not look like it actually does anything at start but it does help the battle 
 in the end, a shame they did not explore combat a bit further however - it could have been nicer, 
 don't get me wrong its still great but you just know there could and should have been something 
 more.
  
  The music is great, one thing is somewhat frustrating however - there is just one music for regular 
 bosses and 1 for spawns, i wish there were more too keep things interesting.
  The english voices are suprisingly well done.
  
  The story - This is where the game excels 
 at, its great, it flows in a way that allways keeps you interested and it has its comical relief 
 moments (thanks to jansen mostly) , some dramatic moments and a specially touching one, if you thought 
 the ff7 funeral was touching... well this one beats it.
  
  The graphics are great, some of the best i have seen, i don't really know how to comment them except 
 that i like them, loading times can be long though , im a pc gamer also however so they don't really 
 get much into my nerves.
  
  It's one of the greatest games i have played, im not sure if i enjoyed this one more than Mass 
 Effect. A shame its being so poorly and wrongly reviewed, i get a feeling that if it was called 
 something like "Final Fantasy: Odyssey" it would have got a 8.5 or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuqbag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing Lost Odyssey a few minutes ago, and as i found my first weapon shop i thought 
 to myself, 'you know, the game is near perfect for me, i bet the only thing that will disappoint 
 me is that, it won't show weapons change as they're upgraded...' It's happened before. It used 
 to be about 10 years ago, you were lucky to see a weapon change in a console RPG but PC RPGs were 
 always ahead of the curve and you could see armor too. Its little things like that, for me, that 
 not only adds the substance of a cherry on top, but 10 cherries thrown on for good measure!!! So 
 i bought my new gear, some fun materials for crafting rings, which is a pleasant, fun surprise, 
 some healing items and antidotes and of course new swords for the warriors and a new staff for 
 my magic slinging, drunken womanizer, C3PO meets Charles Bukowski, "JANSEN". The first time in 
 a long time i enjoyed a comical character in a game since the classic HK-47 graced our monitors 
 from KotOR and made us all feel like terrible sinners as we selected him for our group...
  
  So i stepped into the fresh battlefield which is also very fun exploring new areas, because 
 as you traverse the map there are many treasures to find to help you craft your former rings and 
 sometimes when your really lucky you may find new spells too, thats a great treat. So i ran around 
 like a jackass searching the first part of the area waiting for a battle to start adn thats when 
 the music changed into a dark and brooding dirge unlike any battle music ive heard before, very 
 fitting for such a tasteful game, and thats when i saw it, proof that this game was perfect, i 
 saw all three characters wielding new weapon models!!! i thrust my fist into the air giving the 
 rock horns at my TV as though it would look back at me and say "dude, you SOOOO ROCK!!!" 
  
  And then the battle plays out like it always does, full of fun new ways, fun new FRESH WAYS, 
 to keep my 22 year relationship with turn based RPGs exciting and new!!! Theres just enough added 
 to the game, movements of evolution if you will that makes this game really feel like the next 
 gen is finally here, because you've already had your ARPG (american rpg) , youve already had your 
 next gen FPS, adventure game etc, and so on... And now we finally have our next gen JRPG!!! 
  
  I cant believe how many sub-par reviews ive seen/heard/read about this game, with claims that 
 theres nothing new added to the JRPG genre. That its the "same ol story, same ol combat, its your 
 same ol dad's RPG"...
  
  NO ITS NOT!!! x-play (3 out of 5) NO ITS NOT, worth playing (7.5/10) NO ITS NOT GAMESPOT (7.5/10) 
 and last but not least, SHAME ON YOU GAMESPY, 2.5 out of 5??????????????????
  
  nope.
  
  The game adds freshness everywhere i could have wanted it back when i was playing FF10!!! Three 
 speeds for exploring maps with your characters, (hold B) for walk (nothing) to jog and (hold X) 
 and you'll zip around really fast which is very helpful in town when your backtracking. 
  
  The save spots are frequent, and when i got my ass kicked fighting a boss it allowed me to retry 
 from right before the boss instead of missing out on 1 hour of leveling up and what not. 
  
  I really missed a batch of 9+ characters while playing Blue Dragon... You got 5 and that was 
 it, your party was full. I love finding many different characters throughout a game and mixing 
 and matching them up for different scenarios. And once you do get those characters theres a great 
 skill system in place that works by mapping a "mortal" characters skills to your "immortals" empty 
 skill slots. you see theres 2 types of charcters in the game, theres the Immortals that have lived 
 for 1000 years and then theres the humans that when they level they automatically gain skills. 
 but see the fun part is mixing up a party of 3 immortals and 2 mortals and linking skills and then 
 leveling them in battles via skill points, XP for your skills. Immortals can also link skills from 
 equpment found throughout the world kinda like FF9.
  
  The system works well because even though you may think it ends up that all your characters have 
 the same skills and strengths its not so. because i find that certain characters gain more attributes 
 at level up than others. for example, Kaim (your hero) gains lots of strength and combat prowess 
 when levelling, but when jansen levels he mainly gets stronger casting spells, so the party doesnt 
 feel like some zombie copy-cat group like the one in FF12. i had a hard time enduring that in FF12, 
 what a shame. But like i said the good news is LO does NOT suffer from that illness. 
  
  Lost Odyssey is a great game, if you like JRPGs you most DEFINITELY should give this one a chance. 
 This game is an easy shoe-in into my top ten with the likes of Tales of Symphonia, Mass Effect, 
 Baldur's Gate, Phantasy Star Online & Final Fantasy 7 % 10!!!
  
  I'm sorry ive been all over the place, my review comes on the heels of a 10 hour session with LO 
 tonight and its 7am right now.
  
  now go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_fizet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Back to the time of Final Fantasy X, this game would be call a masterpiece. Outstanding visuals, 
 Turn-Based Combat System, Great Story, Great caracters, Great Voices and great music. If you like 
 the kind of R. P. G. that involve all of this, your taste for videogame have a name: ''Lost Odyssey''
 
  
  If gamespot or other website says the loading are too long, I think they just don't enjoy the game 
 as much as I do. The only reason why I didn't gave it 10/10 is that games like FFX and FFVII and 
 Xenogears appear in the past leaving this gave 9.5/10. 
  
  You cannot critic this game by comparing it to other. Like: Mass Effect is more innovation, Bioshock 
 kills!!!!. If you see videogames like this, you are just a piece of crap. The makers wanted to 
 create a good japenese R. P. G. '' la Old School''. They made something great of it.
  
  The feelings you get throught the game are memorable. If you want to enjoy the game, read (or listen) 
 the dreams. This is a good addition to the game that make you think about everything. You cannot 
 say: this game is gay. Just because it involves sword, magic and other D n D stuffs. You cannot 
 say its gay because its turn based, thats what they wanted to make, and this is what some customers 
 want.
  
  If the fact that turn-based game exist make you sick, just go on another game, we don't give a 
 ****. This game is good. They may say whatever they want, Lost Odyssey diserve 9.5/10. 
  
  For all the FF Fans, this game is all written, from start to finish, to us. Play it and enjoy. 
 
  
  Sorry for bad use of english, I Use this language only once or twice a year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gipht1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  its what all of us FF and the like have been missing! the game is awesome to look at! no horrific 
 loading times like the gspot moron claims! Battle system is in the classic jrpg mode and those 
 dreams are moving and extremly well written. you wont be disappointed if you like the genre and 
 if you like games with essence! plan out your battles cuz U will die if your careless. the enemy 
 design is immaculate like we are accustomed to. overall a very fun experience that maybe its not 
 the FF killer that everyone thought it would but perhaps another tittle that couple with FF will 
 help a dying genre survive!
  pros
  classic style battle system
  music
  graphics
  story
  backstory
  dreams are cleverly written
  cons:
  reading the dreams one after another 
 does break up game play
  lack of armor
  cant sway camera
  well theres not much I dont like to tell you the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmfan84
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok! My first impression after playing it for 5+ hours.
  
  So far the cinematography has been outstanding! I've been waiting for this since FFX and it seems 
 like this game builds on what happened in that game, but brings it to a whole new level with great 
 acting, visuals, music and more.
  
  Kaim is the first badass turn based rpg main character I've seen in years! I've been waiting for 
 a guy who didnt have the super emo look!
  
  The 1000 Years of Dreams almost make this game worth buying if for nothing else. I'm a grown man, 
 but damn those are seriously so well written, I'm saddened by them, and those seriously make you 
 feel for the main character! I'm officially attached to him, which is great since most games lately 
 leave you feeling "i could care less". 
  
  Talk to everyone! You don't wont to miss one of these. I've opened 5 so far, they are long reads, 
 but worth it. They have great music in the background, with beautiful paintings to illustrate the 
 stories.
  
  I cannot see how this game hasn't gotten a 9 anywhere. The loads are blown out of porpotion. Plus 
 framerate problems shouldn't be blamed on Mistwalker. Everybody who uses the Unreal 3 engine has 
 them. It's a beautiful engine, but flawed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, I like many others have been a FF fan for quite some time. That being said, I feel that 
 this is a wonderful game so far. What the review does get right is that it doesn't seem to reinvent 
 the wheel by any means, it is just simply very good at what it does. Exactley what it does, is 
 be a jRPG similar to the FF series. 
  
  I have only been playign for 3 hours now, but everything I expected from the game I have gotten 
 so far. A wonderful story line, next gen graphics, and wonderful combat sequences. 
  
  I would like to say the the loading issues that this game keeps getting tagged with are being blown 
 way out of proportion. Yes, there are frequent load times, but they are short. Very short actually. 
 One reviewer actually said that it was 30 seconds between zone lines, when in fact it is more like 
 5 or 6. 
  
  If you enjoy jrpgs, or you are in love with the FF games you cannot miss this game. It is an outstanding 
 RPG that is taking heat for not being a copy of Oblivion or Mass Effect, which is fine by me. I 
 liked both of those games, but I liked the FF games better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nihlus2050
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Great visuals, Compelling story, lovely backstory sequences, and interesting battle mechanics make 
 this game the begining of the jrpg revolution to Xbox 360. First and foremost four discs it actually 
 makes me feel like im getting value out of the purchase. Some untimely loading sequences and frame 
 rate issues cannot slow this excellant game down they may be annoying but anyone accostmed to the 
 genre will not be bothered because STORY is the most important thing and this games gets an A F#$%&^G 
 plus. I also love the ring feature and how its puts a fun spin into combat that in traditional 
 rpgs is boring as hell. This game is going to go down as the next Legend of Dragoon. The Critics 
 are haters get over Final Fantasy comparisons. Excellant Story + Great Music + intense Visuals 
 = a number 1 STUNNER and thats what Lost Odyssey is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicguy1313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I read the GS review and was puzzled. It seems that nowdays, people seem to equate classic mechanics 
 with outdated ones. Turn based combat is not now, and probably never will be outdated. Those of 
 us who have played Final Fantasy games for years will feel right at home with this return to old 
 school turn based combat.
  
  
  Hironobou Sakaguchi has created a gripping story every bit as captivating as any Final Fantasy 
 game. The characters are interesting, plot twists keep the narrative interesting, and you'll find 
 it difficult to put down. 
  
  
  I must say, that FF 12 was sorely lacking in one area: the music. I was overjoyed to pop in the 
 disk and have the game open to a Nobuo Uematsu score. The music is, in my opinion, one of the game's 
 strongest attributes.
  
  
  It is true that the frame rate boggs down frequently, but this is nothing when one considers the 
 beautiful visuals. Framerate issues do not detract at all from the experience. For a first attempt 
 by Mistwalker, this is nothing to complain about.
  
  
  In short: I earnestly disagree with the Gamespot review. This game is every bit as engrossing and 
 amazing as any Final Fantasy game, and in my opinion, is the best of its kind since ff 10. The 
 minor graphical hitches and occasionally tedious gameplay are greatly overshadowed by the sheer 
 genius behind this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ply74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well if you like rpg's and are looking for one less kiddie than Blue Dragon and Eternal Sonata. 
 Then yes buy this. I haven't seen ANY problems with the frame rate or long loading spots, so I 
 have no clue where these others get it from. Maybe I'm just not to far into the game or something. 
 Longest loading screen I have had so far was like 24 secs. As far as the turn based battles. They 
 animations in NO way in my opinion slow down the game. They are actually nice and welcomed to me. 
 The story can be sad, heard before, and sometimes just flat out funny. But all in all interesting. 
 This is a must buy but be warned the first1-2 hours depending on your type of play could be a bit 
 long like you wasted some time. But once you finally get your first mission and set off. The game 
 plays wondefully! If the critics and their odd opinions keep you from buying it. Rent it but make 
 sure and play it for atleast 4-6 hours since the first 1-2 are kinda slow. Only then will you have 
 your own opinion about the game which I love and the only reason I don't give it a 10 is because 
 it took awhile getting into to it at the beggining. But once through made up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  To be straight up and honest this is probably more of rant then a review for Lost Odyssey but I 
 felt like I had to voice my opinion as well as give a review under the circumstances. Let me be 
 blunt, I'm getting really sick of way some people (gamespot included) perpetrate their ignorance 
 associated with JRPGs and turn based gameplay. JRPGs are NOT outdated, or sub-standard as a result 
 of using a strategic battling system in any way, shape or form yet they are constantly under attack 
 for it. Its totally outrageous and hypocritical to say the least. 
  
  Case in Point - FPS (First Person Shooters) have been around since the days of the 386 in the early 
 90's starting out with Wofenstein and kens labyrinth (trust me, I was there) meaning the whole 
 idea of running around in a maze and shooting people with a gun has been around 15 years and is 
 OLD and yet nobody is out there slamming Bioshock, Unreal Tournament 3 or Half life 2 because they 
 use a system of gameplay 'that is outdated' and 'Brings Nothing new to the table'. How Ironic then 
 that the same people insinuate that it's a crime and a disappointment for JRPGs to use their 'outdated' 
 native combat system which frankly is far less antiquated then previous example mentioned. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I own ALL THREE of the FPS titles that were mentioned previously and 
 are they are all fantastic examples of why its worth being gamer at all but enough is enough. 
 
  
  The other point I wanted to make is that CLEARLY Lost odyssey IS and always WAS a turn based game 
 and if you were stupid enough to go out and buy it, Blue Dragon or even any of the Final Fantasy 
 titles without looking at reviews and seeing for yourself the game mechanics then you DESERVE to 
 be disappointed. 
  
  Finally, (I'm going to keep this short) Lost Odyssey not only delivers a great and in depth story 
 but amazing graphics and heart felt characters I felt rivaled that of many of the best final fantasy 
 games we have all come to love. Yes it's a bare bones assessment but I wouldn't want to go into 
 it any further in case you want to go and experience (and I mean experience) this wonderful title 
 for yourself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Victor_Davion
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Rejoice, 360 fans. The equivalent of the PS's FF series has finally arrived. Lost Odyssey puts 
 you in control of Kaim, an immortal who lost his memories and is trying to recall his painful past. 
 Although the game plays out almost like the FF series (FF fans will be at home here) , there are 
 a myriad of new features and unique visuals and sound effects to complement the game. Collectively 
 with a rich storyline, Lost Odyssey is definitely on par with other RPGs like Mass Effect.
  
  LO starts of with a bang literally. The starting cinematic shows the fighting between Khent 
 and Uhra. In the midst of the fighting, Kaim is seen killing Khent troopers and suddenly the cinematic 
 switched into the game and introduces you the battle mechanisms of the game. After dispatching 
 a couple of Khents, the cinematic continues with a fiery meteor crash, killing everybody in the 
 blast radius except the protagonist (cos he's an immortal) . After surviving the crash, the game 
 introduces you to the second and important part of the battle mechanism, the rings. Basically by 
 timing the 1 ring to intercept the other, more damage can be applied. After that, the adventure 
 begins with cinematics on the various politicking in Uhra. Eventually the protagonist will be introduced 
 to 2 characters, the flirtatious Seth Balmore (another immortal) and the corny Jansen (a mortal) . 
 There are so many things in the game that I can't cover everything. However let's look at the major 
 details of LO.
  
  The game's non battle sequence will take a majority of the games. There will be lots of in game 
 or real cinematics describing to you the game's main plot (mind you both cinematics look almost 
 the same!) . Besides taking on the main quests, which will be fully narrated by the characters themselves, 
 interaction with minor NPCs and doing the side quests are also worth completing despite the line 
 texts of the minor NPCs. Line text? Not another NWN game! However, the similarities end there. 
 Unlike NWN or even FF, the incentive of engaging the minor NPCs is because sometimes it unlocks 
 Kaim's memories. It appears as a form of dream and more line texts appears. And surprisingly, the 
 dream sucks you in as you read the story of part of Kaim's 1000 year old past unfolding in some 
 form of PowerPoint slides! What makes it so unique is due to the intense background design, gripping 
 soundtrack and the occasional sound effects to punctuate the certain words in the text. It stimulates 
 your imagination. And after "playing" through the dream, you realize there is a moral to be learned 
 in every story, ranging from the frailty of life, to the loneliness of being an immortal (after 
 watching all your loved ones die) . Besides unlocking the "1000 years of dreams", there is a myriad 
 of puzzles to solve too. Ranging from the challenging (avoiding security bots in a ship) to the 
 mundane (picking up certain objects) , LO retains its freshness and surprises you sometimes with 
 the unique puzzles.
  
  However, for the action lovers, there will be lots of battles too. The battle sequences are similar 
 to the FF series. By using the formation properly, low HP characters can be partially protected 
 from further damage by the GC, calculated by the total HP of the front row tankers. However unlike 
 FF, the GC drops after when your tankers take damage. So unless you have a character that cast 
 some replenish GC spells, your back row people will take more damage as the battle progresses. 
 This applies to the enemies too. So there is a certain element of strategy involved during the 
 battle and makes the targets that you choose so important. The battle will have different outcomes 
 from the choices you make. One sterling example is the giant worm boss. He attacks by absorbing 
 energy from his minions. Do you immediately go for broke and assault him, or should you take his 
 minions out, even though they respawn at every turn? If your characters faint, you can revive him 
 or her using some items or spells. But for immortals, they usually revive FOR FREE up to half HP 
 automatically after 2 turns. So this gives another dimension to the tactics involved, especially 
 when the fainted characters do not gain XP. 
  
  Secondly, the enemies have different types and element. By using a rock, paper, scissors mentality, 
 your black magic (attacking) spells can do extra damage against the element types. The rings as 
 mentioned earlier can be used to deal additional damage against either type or element of the enemy. 
 This is especially useful when fighting the bosses as they have huge amount of HP. There are also 
 white magic spells to heal yourself and remove certain status problems afflicting your character. 
 Then there is composite spells. A mixture of two black or white spells. So it is possible to cure 
 paralysis and heal your characters in one turn when it would have taken 2 turns for example. Finally 
 there is spirit magic which is akin to nature magic. It has both offensive and defensive spells. 
 Finally, certain characters have different set of skills to do additional damage or recovering 
 the HP of other characters for example. Thus, the battle in LO is complex and difficult, with a 
 certain degree of tactics involved.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the game's storyline is gripping and filled with many plot twists here and 
 there (as clearly shown when you meet the twins later on) , the characters are well portrayed ; 
 Kaim being a emo-less guy, Seth being a flirt and Jansen with his incessant whining and funny one 
 liners ("Oh Puberty's weird", "Did someone order the seafood?") . The score is really topnotch with 
 melodious tunes during happy times and pulsating rhythms during battle sequences. The sound effects 
 are realistic enough especially during the dreams. Graphics wise, the different environment graphics 
 are realistic (the water is really fantastic!) . The characters models are very detailed, with the 
 fluttering of Kaim's hair to his tattoos to the veins on Ming's hand and on the exposed part of 
 her body. However, at times, the graphics in general feel a wee bit dated. This is evident during 
 the harp scene. The lines of the harp are not straight and sometimes the shadow lines are jaggered 
 too. It could be because of the AA of the 360. Thankfully these moments tend to be rare.
  
  Despite the good and memorable moments, there are a few shortcomings in LO. One major gripe is 
 the frame rate issue. During some battles with huge or many creatures, the frame rate tends to 
 stutter when the spells are flying fast and furious. Another gripe is the starting difficulty. 
 The first boss is rather difficult and the starting few battles tend to give you some headaches 
 too. Be prepared to try and try again. But patience will see you through and thankfully, it gets 
 easier as the game progresses towards the end of the first disk. I still don't know how hard it 
 is for the remaining 3 disks though. Another gripe is that some side tasks are too difficult (avoiding 
 security bots in the ship for e. g.) .
  
  Ultimately, if you overlook those small gripes, LO is a long long game (4 disks) with a compelling 
 storyline and a solid cast of characters. The characters themselves are so compelling, you'll want 
 to replay the game just to laugh at Jansen's one liners, pity Kaim's eternal curse or enjoy the 
 company of the ever bickering twins Cooke and Mack. Coupled with a dynamic musical score and intense 
 visuals and sound effects, it makes LO a joy to be played, placing it together, if not higher than 
 other excellent RPGs like Mass Effect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokiri-Kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After all I have heard, and im sure many of you have. This game is not getting the credit it deserves. 
 From the opening CGI to the gameplay to the loading, its all great, its all fine.
  
  The loading times... well its supposedly a "BIG" problem. For me, and im sure anyone with a proper 
 working XBOX are extremely short. The load times are so short I barely have time to read what it 
 is on the screen. The battle loading times are not noticeable either. I barely have a time to gather 
 myself.
  
  Supposedly, I also heard there was many Mass Effect like glitches and stalls in the frame rate. 
 But I have yet to encounter anything like that, not a single problem with the running of the game 
 yet.
  
  The game play is of course Old-School. Although, I see this as no way to give a game a demerit 
 or a lower score. I have yet to see any "Innovative" or "Ground Breaking New" game play systems 
 in any genre. 
  
  The ring system is surprisingly fun, adding in that little kick you need to feel like you are really 
 becoming part of the action along with that feeling of skill.
  
  Lost Odyssey is a wonderful game that deserves more then the bogus reviews it is receiving. Best 
 RPG since FFX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_riku
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  -Before I begin I would like to say that I put difficulty as Very Hard because the gameplay of 
 this game is VERY HARD TO APPRECIATE.
  
  now on to the review:
  
  this game is a CGI lover's paradise and I mean PARADISE. right from the get go you've got an amazing 
 battlefield with soldiers from opposing sides duking it out, and then enters Kaim, the main character 
 of this game who makes his presence known with a flurry of slick moves, and what better way to 
 enjoy watching those moves than in CGI right? But if you're thinking that the CGI effects only 
 offer themselves in cutscenes then you're wrong because the whole game is a CGI feast which is 
 essentially why the game HAD four discs. I was initially thinking that the game had four discs 
 because it would be a very long game but look what I went and did... I finished it in a week...
 
  
  but sadly that's where it all ends... the only good things about the game were it's wonderful graphics 
 and the main storyline, along with those stories of Kaim's and the other immortal's 1000 year journey (told 
 in text) . These were actually the only reasons I had to keep playing the game. I love the different 
 tales told in "A Thousand Years Of Dreams" and even though it's in text the stories still accomplish 
 that goal of making you feel for the characters and the experiences that they go through in their 
 stories. Not to forget, the voice acting in the game is excellent which gives it even more immersive 
 pull.
  
  But other than what I mentioned above, the game doesn't really stand out much retaining the gameplay 
 of the past, that being turn-based command menus... but I don't hate this style of gameplay in 
 fact I adore it because I love turned-based games... what I did not appreciate about this game 
 was that they didn't serve anything new to the table of turn-based command menus. So they added 
 the feature of CG which basically means that you have a set of characters in the front row and 
 the back row and if your back row is attacked while you still have characters infront, the damage 
 dealt is significantly decreased. But this feature doesn't really help much because most of the 
 time your enemies don't care to attack the back row and always attack your front.
  
  Add to that the worthless skill system of the immortal characters which is more of a nuisance than 
 an alternative way to gain skills. The fact that these immortals can only learn new skills by taking 
 it from their mortal companions makes it tedious work to always have to remember to set your immortal's 
 skills everytime you 'steal a skill' from your mortal characters. It makes it feel like immortals 
 are nothing more than copy-cats. This game placed along side other old and recent RPGs should be 
 embarrassed at it's weak skill system. even the complex sphere grid of FFX was more fun to waste 
 time in than this game's skill system. It would have been better if immortals gained skills of 
 their own and make it optional to 'steal a skill' from your mortal characters.
  
  Even more of a let down is the non-essential (except for those puzzle sections which is even more 
 irritating) , non-combat gameplay that pops up every now and then which is an irritating experience 
 opposed to it's real purpose which was to give you something fun to do when not in the battlefield... 
 apparently... they failed to do that.
  
  Finally... this one simple sentence tells you everything:
  
  LOADING TIMES ARE A PAIN.
  
 
  Now I'm giving this game an 8/10 because the story is amazing but if the story had failed along 
 with the gameplay then I would've given this a 5/10.
  
  well that's all for now until my next review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  a well-make game with huge story and the best character that your ever seen; perfect graphic with 
 a big world to explore and conquer; amazing characters with a beautiful past; elements that are so 
 many to be known in the first round of the game; every spell and the weapons have their own visual 
 effects; in this gener you must have a good story to follow, perfect followers to play with them 
 long time, great graphic to enjoy it for many hours, elements that contain many affects and at lat 
 a great maker that make it good; you have them all in this game;
  then we must play it;
  in the first 15 hours of the game you experience the most beautiful things in this gener; in the 
 second 15 hours you fight the most stylisg war in the world of gaming;
  at last wehave all the best game in this gener this year; i am so glad, so so so so so; what about 
 you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcane82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I am writing a review, so please pardon me if it is not very helpful.
  
  I am a fan of RPGs games, and this one really got me hooked to my xbox 360 since the day I 
 bought it. Granted, this is not the BEST RPG ever, but it certainly comes close enough.
  
  The visuals are absolutely stunning, for 4 DVDs, one cannot expect anything less. Right at the 
 opening of DISC 1 you are treated to a superb cinematic (shall not disclose here.. haha) . The battles 
 are highly realistic and it follows the old school system of turn based battles. So this might 
 not be too good for some people as they prefer their actions to be fast paced.
  
  The story line is solid enough, not much major flaws or anything, (I am only at DISC 4 so far) . 
 The player follows the amnesia struck Kaim Argonar on a journey which he pieces up the bits and 
 pieces of his memories. Some of the memories might be a bit boring though, whenever he recalls 
 a memory, you can choose to read through a long series of words for a piece of the story, but it 
 might get a bit boring after a while.
  
  True to all RPGs, this game comes packed with side quests and special bosses to fight, though some 
 quests might require you to run through vast distances and fight some super low leveled monsters 
 along the way (I am still searching for an item to avoid random encounters) , otherwise, they are 
 quite fun to do and usually comes with good rewards.
  
  The battle system is interesting, immortals learn skills from mortals and items, so you can switch 
 your skills anytime BEFORE you face a new type of monster so as to give you the competitive edge. 
 Boss fights are cool and not too hard, although some bosses can really make life miserable for 
 you.
  
  All in all, I will say this is a must get if you are a RPG fan, great story line, nice voice acting, 
 and superb graphics to top it off. One cannot ask for too much... Perhaps only if the immortals 
 had some limit break skills like the FF series.. Then again, this isn't Final Fantasy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaunter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  It's sick to see a good game given the overtly unjustified score of 7.5/10. It's the first original 
 Japanese RPG out on the xbox 360. True, many of the gameplay elements; from the turn based battles 
 to the predictability of the characters behavior, the somewhat linearity of the story line; everything 
 seems so cliche, been there, done that, yawn. 
  
  But the truth is that for the xbox 360, Lost Odyssey is the FIRST and true Japanese RPG to ever 
 set foot on a western console. Eternal Sonata might have some similarity with a traditional Japanese 
 RPG but it still lacks a certain touch, the familiar touch. Have always been a true fan of Japanese 
 RPG, beyond the days of Final Fantasy 7? My take on this game, get it. You'll love it. 
  
  The game is reminiscence of past RPGs, dungeon crawling, leveling, music score, typical ending 
 etc. Thing is, for xbox 360 owners, what other choice do you have short of switching to a PS3? 
 None, none at the moment. 
  
  Oblivion might set the scope and depth of what an RPG should be but for a Japanese RPG, the very 
 first on the xbox 360, Lost Odyssey deserves better than the abysmal rating Gamespot's reviewer 
 has given it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuna08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  What's good: A variety of beautiful and memorable places to visit; Saccharine soundtrack; Traditional-old-school 
 gameplay takes you back to the good o' days.
  
  And the bad: Frequent and lengthy loading draws you away from the story; noticeable visual glitches 
 and bugs; Limited features.
  
  My Score: 8.5
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Remember back 
 in the days when memorable RPGs are created? So marvelous that makes you want to play it again 
 and again, even it means the 5th time you're playing it and overheat your console. Now you don't 
 have to dig out the gadgets from your storeroom again, because Lost Odyssey will take you back 
 to the past and experience the long forgotten warmth in gaming.
  
  Story:
  
  The invention of magic power has changed the world. Eventually, this power had lead to war between 
 two nations: Uhra and Gohtza. The royal house of Uhra then decided to build a magic engine called 
 Grand Staff. This engine was initially built to unite all magic powers, but during the construction, 
 they came to realize that the Staff requires an amount of magic power so great, which it had lead 
 a meteor down to the world. Ground-zero is battlefield of both nations, and no one survived the 
 crashexcept for Kaim Argonar, known as the Immortal.
  
  The royal house of Uhra immediately halted the construction of that magic engine and sent Kaim 
 to investigate. From here, Kaim's journey to solve his 1000 years old mystery begins, and soon, 
 he finds that he is not the only Immortalbut there are 4 others.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Lost Odyssey's gameplay stand no difference with any other Japanese RPG. You'll mainly take control 
 of Kaim, the Immortal, together with another 8 companions and fight your way to the end. When controlling, 
 you will have three types of movement: Walk, run and sprint. By pressing different button on the 
 controllers will change Kaim's moving speed.
  
  There's a new feature called Zoom added in the gameplay. As you walk, pressing RT will cause your 
 default camera to zoom in closer, roll the Right Stick to navigate. This is useful as it to see 
 clearly what's located on the other side of the bridge before risking your HP.
  
  You'll have some mini games to play with, but they're pretty simple and blend that aren't worth 
 mentioning; such as lighting up torches, escape from the area before time runs out and some other 
 similar ones. However, the Auction game is a good additional feature to spend some time on. It 
 is fun to bid with NPCs for rare items.
  
  Graphics:
  
  A great proof of what Unreal Engine 3 can do. The game has lively colors and crisp character models; 
 they are so good, that will make us engrossed till the end. Focus effect is also introduced here, 
 the thing that make distant ambience blur and turns clearer to where your character stands.
  
  Surprisingly, Lost Odyssey discriminates actual gameplay graphics and movie graphics. Like 
 what you've seen in last generation consoles, when it comes to action scenes, the graphics becomes 
 better and stimulating.
  
  Music:
  
  Nobuo Uematsu never failed us for bringing great music is gaming, at least not this one. There's 
 a wide variety of music composed for each different places, scenes and boss battles; hence, there 
 won't be such thing as repetitive (except for normal battles, which uses the same music for the 
 whole game) . If you've read my previous comments, then you'll know just the music itself can cause 
 'bitter' to the scenario.
  
  The English dubs are recorded pretty well, most of the voice actors have successfully portrayed 
 the character's identity and behavior; which the Japanese dub failed to do so. The game doesn't 
 have the best English translation script, but much better than other JRPG, so it's acceptable.
 
  
  Battle:
  
  So you walk around mountains and dungeons, and suddenly the screen flashes with couple of magic 
 rings. What you are going to know next, you've engaged a battle with monsters.
  
  As you might already know from all those preview videos out there, the game uses turn-base system, 
 very similar to Blue Dragon. Each character will have 5 battle commands: Attack, skill, magic, 
 item and defend. If you push left, you can change your equipments, rearrange party formation or 
 escape. When commands have been given to all, both sides take turn to attack. Character who selected 
 Item will usually go first; attack comes in second and magic, last.
  
  It's is crucial on how you set up the battle team. A team can only have 5 members, and divided 
 into front and back. The front characters are usually strong ones, who act as a shield to protect 
 those who stand behind. How strong you can stand to protect the weak ones is indicated by your 
 GC-level.
  
  There are four GC-level with its points. When you take damage from enemy, you'll lose GC points, 
 and when its deducted to a certain amount, GC level will drop and weaker the barrier becomes; hence, 
 your characters at the back will suffer more damage when being attacked. For example, you have 
 10,000 GC points at level 4, you take 2000 damage from enemy, and that deducts to 80,000 GC points 
 and level becomes 3; so now your characters in the back will suffer 1000 damage from enemy instead 
 of 500.
  
  Now, the game is made into such a way that, player must think carefully before they input any command 
 in battle; One careless act will cause your entire team wiped out. This applies specifically in 
 Boss battles. Sometimes Boss battles are so frustrating, that it will make you give up the game 
 instantly. However, with proper formation and tactics, you can easily win the fight even without 
 training.
  
  As for spells, there are only 4 of them: Black Magic for inflicting elemental damage; White Magic 
 for healing and defending; Curse for status change; and Combine Magic for combination of powerful 
 magic.
  
  At the end of every battle you will receive experience, money, item and SP (skill points) . SP are 
 needed for Immortals to permanently master a skill, either from a human character or items; which 
 I will explain later.
  
  Unfortunately, there aren't any monsters you can summon. All you can do is to perform a normal 
 attack, magic attack or item attack. Also, don't put your hopes high when character HP is low, 
 as there won't be limit attack (a. k. a. Limit Break, Over Drive) to aid you - thumbs down for this.
 
  
  Character Growth:
  
  Now this is the part where you will get really disappointed.
  
  Leveling is the heart of RPG. Here, each character will have a maximum of 99 levels, and each 
 level requires 100 experience points to move up to the next. A single battle only allows you to 
 acquire one level, so even if you defeated the toughest enemy, you will still gain a level in the 
 end. On the other hand, you couldn't stick at one place to train, because you will begin to receive 
 a ridiculous experience of 1-5 points. Henceforth, you need to proceed on.
  
  All characters will have only 3 equipments: Weapon, Ring and Accessory. Equipping certain items 
 will benefit that character with new skills and status change. Such as increase attack damage, 
 resist against poison, auto-barrier and many more.
  
  Ring, comes real handy in battle. Each Ring has its own effect; it can either boost attack power, 
 or apply an attribute/effect to your weapon. Performing a normal attack with Ring equipped, you 
 can increase your damage by holding RT when the character is running towards its enemy. This will 
 trigger a ring on the screen to zoom into a second one, when both rings meet, release RT. Doing 
 so will result in either Bad, Good or Perfect; thus the damage will be effected.
  
  Immortal characters won't learn new skill by leveling; only human characters will. So what you 
 can do is to let Immortals learn from human or Accessories. Linking skills to an Immortal doesn't 
 mean you can use it immediately, but you must first fill up Skill Point (SP) gauge to master it. 
 After you've fulfilled the SP required, then you're allowed to equip that skill permanently.
  
  Loading makes your crazy:
  
  The thing that will piss us all is the extremely lengthy load 
 times which makes you wait and wait andbored. It almost took 20 seconds to load the title screen, 
 20-30 seconds for battle, and sometimes a minute for just 20 seconds of cinematic movie. So it 
 often causes me to recall what happened back in the last scene to continue watching. However, I've 
 received reports saying that some players can read the disc pretty smooth and takes two times lesser 
 to load. It may also depends on the disc you get and your Xbox 360.
  
  There are some visual glitches but they aren't obvious. But sometimes you'll feel like your character 
 is separated from the ground, like it doesn't blend in really well with the environment - need 
 some fine tuning here.
  
  'Final Fantasy Killer?' & Closing Comments:
  
  There isn't anything else to play with in the game, apart from fighting and doing some repetitive 
 side quests. Things like cards, mini car race, gamble, pet will never appear in the game. They 
 are all replaced with too much cinematic scenes, hence it eaten up most of the space and left peanuts 
 for additional fun.
  
  Reason why it took me so long to write this is because I often find myself comparing Final Fantasy 
 Series to Lost Odyssey. Personally I don't think this is fair. Final Fantasy is a long-running 
 franchise for over 20 years. They came through many obstacles, difficulties, and hold a lot of 
 experience in making RPG. However Mistwalker is a newly born and small game development company 
 that has yet to become independent and have a tilt in RPG game.
  
  However, with such powerful graphics, music and enjoyable battle, I would say they have done a 
 fantastic job. Thumbs up, again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Lets be straight, Lost Odyssey doesn't bring anything that new to the world of JRPGs. Sakaguchi 
 knows this and has stated this, so to fault the game for that would be ridiculous and missing the 
 point of the game completely. Sakaguchi stated that he wanted Lost Odyssey to center around story, 
 and by recruiting award-winning novelist Kiyoshi Shigematsu, we now have one of the best stories 
 so far in this generation. 
  
  In a generation of lackluster stories and crappy endings, Lost Odyssey shines through with a truly 
 emotion evoking story that is good from start to finish. The moment I read about the story of Lost 
 Odyssey, I was sold. The initial premise of a man who has lived for 1,000 years and cannot die 
 serves up huge existential possibilities. I remember reading the first preview of it and just thinking 
 of all the possibilities that could bring up with a man living 1,000 years. Just take a moment 
 to think if you lived for 1,000 years and couldn't die how messed up life would be for you? Yep. 
 That's why this game is great. 
  
  In the game you play as Kaim, an immortal who has lived for 1,000 years and can't die. Already 
 covered that. Anyways, you go through the world meeting other immortals and mortals as you try 
 and recover your memories. Eventually you start seeing parts of Kaim's memory through cut scenes 
 along with readable chapters in a in game novel. And let me tell you, there's some pretty heavy 
 stuff going on in Kaim's path, especially with his family. The story holds no punches and goes 
 right for the heartstrings. It is compelling from start to finish and if you're unmoved by it, 
 you're just soulless. 
  
  The graphics use this generation's de facto engine, the good ol' reliable Unreal 3 Engine. It is 
 really good to see the U3 engine working in something other than a gritty shooter. It really shows 
 the diversity of the engine with it creating characters with the most realistic face animations 
 and huge cities that are a mix of magic and machine. The effects surround the graphics like a nice 
 distance effect with great lighting really ties everything together to make this one epic looking 
 RPG. 
  
  Game play like I said, there's nothing really new here. It's a turn based RPG that adds a bit of 
 timing to each physical attack. Its very classic RPG style and like Blue Dragon (which is a great 
 game) it's classic style may be seen as boring to some, which is really a shame because people 
 will judge the game simply on that. The game really isn't about game play; it's totally about story. 
 At parts it just seems like a big interactive movie. 
  
  In the end, Lost Odyssey is a superb achievement for games creating new original stories. It will 
 win no awards in the gameplay innovation department but for those who see the game for what it 
 is, it will win a place in the hearts of those players. In order to enjoy Lost Odyssey you need 
 to throw all your stereotypes as to what a game should be. Which is going to be hard for ignorant, 
 ADD fanboys, which 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Well, where do I start, I know! - Firstly, and let me get this out of the way; the game is a technological 
 mess - MistWalker did not take full hardware optimization of the Unreal Engine, and thus made the 
 graphics side of the game (and a portion of the playability) flawed. Long load times and choppy 
 frame rates hamper those breathtaking moments that you are surely going to have: (and example of 
 this is that when you are going into a battle - you have to wait a good 15 to 20 seconds before 
 you actually get to fight, which gives you time to go get a soda or a beer, or even a sandwich) 
 or when you are about to enter any door, - boom! load time again. Second issue is the frame rate, 
 choppy animations at times, but in all truth I could are less about that, as to it was barely noticeable 
 when I was planning my next attack. And thirdly, are the character animations in the non-cg cut-scenes; 
 they feel sub par to the overall to this could-have-been-a-masterpiece game; Characters often show 
 little emotion, and are kind of bland . Oh, and also the combat might get pretty hard at times 
 (especially at the first to second disks)
  
  Enough about the bad points of the game, its on to the numerous good ones!
  
  Kaim is a really 
 likable character, that you will enjoy playing through the game with. The battles are strategic 
 - the rings ( rings are magical - rings that add attack bonuses to your character, such as standard 
 JRPG fire v. s. ice combat, and that it will give you a bonus to your attack if you are equipped 
 to fight elemanally different monsters.) add a great deal of depth, and that you can swap them 
 to your liking at any time. In addition, the great level-up system, non-immortal characters can 
 level up as a standard experience system, and the immortals can level up by means of "linking" 
 to the non immortal characters. Also, the writing is great, - the so-called "dreams" are pages 
 that you can read of extremely well written content, compete with their own theme and BGM. (If 
 you do not know what BGM is then you have to right to read this review :) lol) . Also, about the 
 BGM - it is very well done, and allthough I wish there were more tracks done - really fantastic, 
 adding a awesome and sometimes epic feel to the game. For us "old-school" players and fans off 
 FF7, we [loved or hated] the message "Please insert disk [blank] " and this game just brings back 
 this feeling of "Just at the last part and ..... Insert next disk!?" - so you thumble around all 
 those pizza containers and (oh, by the way, I know the word "thumble" is not a word) cannot find 
 the box, which contains the game's four-DVD set. Also on the notion of why the game is 4-DVD's: 
 each disk is filled with awesome HD movies that you cannot but praise. That is really the only 
 reason on why there are for disks other then to maintain the old JRPG spirit of "disk-swapping". 
 Despite some outdated graphics, and choppy frame rates, the enemies that you encounter look really 
 good - If reels like you are facing some boss or another with every encounter in some ares. And 
 another point on the graphics is how remarkable the environments look - I Cannot help but to compare 
 the environments to the FF series, especially some parts of the game to FF10. Its time to get to 
 the story; It does not really seem like a original story at times, and If you played lots of JRPG's 
 like Enchanted Arms, FF, and some others, you might feel a bit of deja-vu. Even this doesnt stop 
 this game from being really fun - though linear, and you feel engulfed my the magnitude of the 
 story. And that is about all there is to say: If you can look past the games technical flaws, you 
 will have a blast with it, more-so if you are a newcomer to JRPG's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  You go trough the game playing an immortal Kaim that lost his memories. In order to get everything 
 straighten out he will have to gain his memory back and in the process save the land from the evil 
 that is prowling. On this quest you will be accompanied with other immortals, and mortals each 
 one with it's own stories and abilities. 
  
  The battle system is turn based, during witch you are able to equip various types of rings weapons 
 and items that will help you exploit your opponents weaknesses, and you will have to do so 'cause 
 battles are hard to win. There are a lot of side-quests that will keep you occupied and help you, 
 and the members in your group to level up. To complete the full game you will put in a good 70 
 hrs or so don't make any plans for the weekend and take a week of work to enjoy yourself.
  
  Exploring in this magical world is so much fun. The world is wast there are caves, forrests, 
 towns villages and maze like castles and so on. You will want to talk to everyone go to every corner 
 and in the process fight a lot of random battles. 
  
  Cut scenes are long sometimes emotional and loading time is a drawback but this is not a game that 
 you can finish in one sitting so it's not a mayor disturbance. Controls are good and synchronizations 
 of images, spells and battles all reflect on the vibrating game-pad intensifying the experience. 
 
  
  Personally I never enjoyed this type of games before (you can say I'm more of an action-RPG type-oblivion, 
 mass effect etc...) but this game turned me around hence the 10. Hope you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  You cannot deny the anticipation of Mistwalker's second shot at proving perfection within the company 
 and bringing classic jrpg style back. I'm going to break my review down in portions about graphics, 
 gameplay, sound etc.
  
  Story: The story is one of the most engaging stories you will experience in a jrpg. This game stands 
 toe to toe with some of the greats and doesn't hold back at taking a brutal punch to your heart 
 and making you tear up. The characters in LO you will actually care for, which is a huge rarity 
 in video games today.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best you'll experience this generation so far and definitely the best in 
 its genre. Everything from character details, facial expressions and scenery all show off the power 
 of both the 360 and the Unreal 3 engine.
  
  Gameplay: Proving that turn based combat is not dead, Mistwalker added a few touches to the classic 
 fighting style. Adding the new ring system that gives the player a reticule on the enemy followed 
 by a second reticule requiring the player to engage in somewhat a timing game for better damage. 
 And also the new guard system where the front lines take the most damage while the characters in 
 the back take less. It proves that there can be a lot of tactical uses to this system and the ring 
 system is incredibly addictive.
  
  Sound: Coming from the original composer of the FF series, you know damn well that the sounds and 
 music in this game are all top notch and some of the best that once again, this genre has seen.
 
  
  Value: Lost Odyssey comes packed on 4 dvds and DLC planned and already released. This game will 
 have you coming back again and again as you cannot deny it's addictive gameplay and story. For 
 the price of $59.99 and offering 50+ hours of gameplay spanned across 4 discs, it's well worth 
 your money.
  
  The only gripes that I have are some of the loading times can range past 10 seconds and theyre 
 very frequent. Other than that, this game deserves the 9.5 im giving it. The .5 loss is for the 
 frequent and long load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happyastro
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  If you love old school RPG: turn based; stat powerleveling; saving different party configuration; 
 and emotional stories, you will enjoy this. The graphics are awesome and I had no long load time 
 issues. There are fantastic side stories that are really emotional and well written. The main storyline 
 is conventional for final fantasy players no surprises. The story starts off slow as your character 
 has no idea who he is and what he has done in the past. 
  The story made me cry and that is rare for a game. 
  There is the use of random encounters but 
 it is not ridiculous like other games where you walk 2 steps and fight. 
  
  Pros:
  Great Story;
  Great Graphics;
  Lots of stats to play around with;
  Power level friendly;
 
  Feels like old school FINAL FANTASY
  Long game
  
  Cons:
  Not for casual players
  Linear story 
  Long game (for those who prefer to jump games like an ADD ferret.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I really dislike JRPG's on the whole, but Lost Odyssey I don't mind in areas.
  
  The gameplay is the usual JRPG fare, run around an area, pick up item X, random battle, then ten 
 minute cutscene. The game adds a couple of new features to this mix, a ring crafting menu, which 
 lets you create your own item buffs etc, and a slight alteration in the combat system requiring 
 you to hold down the right trigger to add a bonus to your attack. There are a lot of random battles, 
 which can be annoying at times, but mostly they're okay, with some interesting enemy types.
  
  The graphics are average in some areas, and very good in others. the level and character design 
 is top notch, with vibrant colours and extravagant costumes filling interesting environments throughout 
 most of the game. However, some areas are very bland and lifeless, and can be a chore to navigate.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good, with a nice soundtrack and some of the usual JRPG sound effects. Creature 
 noises are varied and the voice acting suits the characters well, even if some of them rarely speak.
 
  
  This is a fun JRPG, and definitely worth the purchase if you like games of this type. However, 
 if JRPG's aren; t your thing, stay clear, this will only annoy the hell out of you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
