-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/maddennfl09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cris Collinsworth's commentary is superb.
 Backtrack feature breaks down exactly why a play failed and rewinding lets you try again.
 Formation audibles allow you to change plays without tipping your hand.
 Vastly improved visuals.
 Tight controls and varied player animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quirks and glitches hamper otherwise solid gameplay.
 Superstar and Franchise modes have received almost no attention.
 Madden IQ feature isn't as helpful as it claims to be.
 Tom Hammond and John Madden's voice work is poor.
 Online leagues are a huge letdown.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.5, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,253 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 12, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few key gameplay additions and enhancements make this year's Madden great despite some unseemly 
 flaws. 

  When John Madden Football was released in 1988, no one had any idea that it was the beginning of 
 one of the best-selling series of all time. But after 20 years, tens of millions of copies sold, 
 countless tournaments, and even a TV show, Madden is a global phenomenon. When you purchase a Madden 
 game, you know you're going to be the beneficiary of 20 years of experience. Fine-tuned gameplay, 
 top-notch player animation, extraordinarily detailed playbooks, and competitive multiplayer are 
 all series staples. This year's Madden is just what you'd expect: It doesn't take a whole lot of 
 chances with the formula that has proven so successful in the past. Improvements such as the additions 
 of Cris Collinsworth as a commentator and a backtrack feature that points out and helps correct 
 your mistakes make for a great football experience. However, there are quite a few issues that 
 keep Madden 09 from reaching its full potential, such as disappointing online leagues and mostly 
 unchanged Franchise and Superstar modes.  

           Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope.      

  Madden 09 has a number of features 
 designed to address the steep learning curve associated with the series. This years game is clearly 
 one of the most user-friendly versions in recent years, but unfortunately, beginners will still 
 probably have a tough time learning the ropes, in spite of these new features. If you throw an 
 interception or take a bad sack, Cris Collinsworth will break down the play for you and explain 
 not only what you did wrong, but what you should have done instead. Collinsworth's analysis during 
 these backtrack segments is startlingly accurate and useful -- it's just a shame these moments occur 
 at random. It would have been nice to call them up at any time. Another useful yet controversial 
 addition is the ability to rewind plays and try them again. This is a great way to help you learn 
 from your mistakes and it's nice to have a do-over if you get cheesed by the CPU, but it takes 
 self-control not to rewind anytime you make a bad play. Rewinding a buddy's touchdown is also a 
 surefire way to prematurely end your friendship.  

  When you first boot the game, a virtual Madden that looks just like R2-D2's projection of Princess 
 Leia in  Star Wars  appears onscreen to administer a Madden IQ test. This test takes place in a 
 VR simulator and consists of running, passing, tackling, and pass-coverage drills. The game will 
 adjust its difficulty based on the results of this test. This process is a good idea in theory, 
 but it doesn't work. The offensive drills are so easy that it's possible for first-timers to score 
 well enough that the test results indicate they should play a mixture of all-pro and all-Madden 
 difficulties. The defensive drills are a little more accurate, but this only serves to highlight 
 how difficult it is to play defense in the game. Your IQ will fluctuate based on your performance 
 during games, but it takes so long to balance out your IQ that you're better off manually setting 
 the difficulty to rookie and using the simplified playbooks if you're a beginner. The simple playbooks 
 combined with Collinsworth's backtrack analysis are a step in the right direction when it comes 
 to making Madden more accessible to casual players, but more work needs to be done before these 
 newcomers truly feel welcome. A manual or in-game documentation that explains  all  of the game's 
 features would be great, as would some sort of in-game glossary. How many people who don't watch 
 football every week know what a "cover 2" is anyway?  

  There are a number of gameplay enhancements that make Madden 09 play better than 08. The ability 
 to bluff plays from the line of scrimmage lets you view your play and then display fake routes 
 to mislead your opponent. You can also quickly call audibles without changing your formation and 
 inadvertently tipping off the other player. Another excellent addition is that you can now tell 
 individual receivers to run smart routes on third down. This will ensure that they don't stop their 
 routes short of the first-down marker. It would be nice if receivers were smart enough to adjust 
 on their own, but at least the smart-route option is available. On the defensive side of the ball, 
 you can spotlight a receiver. This puts an extra player on a receiver to ensure double coverage 
 on the play. By no means does it render that receiver a nonfactor, but it's now a great way of 
 slowing down an opponent who passes to the same guy over and over again. The only problem with 
 the number of pre-snap adjustments is that it's near impossible to perform many of them when you're 
 on defense due to the short amount of time between when you come out of the play-calling screen 
 and when the ball is snapped. Sure, there are Madden savants out there who can call an audible, 
 shift the line, highlight a receiver, tell the left outside linebacker to spy on the QB, and fake 
 a blitz in five seconds, but most people can't.  

  Just as there are plenty of good things to talk about with regard to 09's gameplay, there are some 
 problems worth mentioning. Slants and crossing routes are exceedingly difficult to defend against. 
 The linebackers who could snag almost any ball out of thin air last year were annoying, but so 
 is watching a lousy QB and below-average tight end pick you apart like they're Peyton Manning and 
 Dallas Clark. It's not all fun and games for QBs and receivers though. Quarterbacks will frequently 
 overthrow passes in the flat so that they lead receivers right out of bounds or receivers will 
 get stuck in an animation and, head to the sidelines, lose yards, or run right into a tackler. 
 This is a huge problem in Superstar mode when running screen plays. The more you play the more 
 you'll notice the sometimes questionable AI. CPU-controlled teams might not opt for an onsides 
 kick when they're down by a few points with no time-outs and less than two minutes on the clock. 
 Officiating is also hit or miss. Referees typically ignore holding and are often inaccurate when 
 spotting the ball, and booth reviews are a total crapshoot -- you never know what the ruling is going 
 to be. Other nagging issues include sometimes horrific tackling, occasionally inept blocking, unstoppable 
 quarterback sneaks, and play-action's utter lack of effectiveness against the CPU.  

           Yep, you made a mistake. Now let Cris Collinsworth tell you what you did wrong.      

 
  Series fans have been clamoring for online leagues for years, and this is the first year the mode 
 has been included. Well, sort of. Yes, you and up to 31 other players can form a league and play 
 against one other whenever you like, regardless of how many games other participants have played. 
 In that sense there  are  online leagues; it's just that they aren't any good. You can't fill out 
 the league with CPU-controlled teams, so if you've got only three friends to play with, you're 
 left with a four-person league. There is a draft, but it's an autodraft that selects players based 
 on your predraft rankings. Again, having just a handful of players hampers the experience because 
 everyone in the league will get awesome players. There aren't a whole lot of weaknesses a defense 
 can focus on when the opposition's fifth-best receiver is Pro-Bowler Anquan Boldin. The default 
 settings don't even allow for player statistics to be tracked (stat-tracking is curiously tied 
 to the unexplained "unique rosters" setting) . When you consider how full-featured Electronic Arts' 
 own NCAA Football 09's online dynasty is (although it has its own problems) , it's puzzling that 
 Madden's online leagues are so lacking. At least online gameplay generally performs well. We had 
 some frustrating problems with the kick meter not recognizing our input, but for the most part, 
 the action was extremely smooth and lag was never an issue.     

  Longtime fans of the series will recognize the "all new" Madden Challenge feature. These challenges, 
 which have appeared in some form or another in some earlier Madden games, let you try your hand 
 at reliving some of the more dramatic moments of the 2007 NFL season. This is a good way of quickly 
 placing yourself in a variety of different high-pressure situations, but the sometimes punishingly 
 difficult/cheap AI, combined with the repetitive nature of many of the challenges, ensure that 
 the fun is short-lived. One final new mode lets you use your console to track fantasy football 
 teams created (for free) on the EA Sports Web site. At the time of this review the NFL season hadn't 
 yet started, so we were unable to see the stat-tracking mode in action. It's not going to make 
 up for the game's lousy online leagues, but its inclusion will likely please those looking to manage 
 their Madden and fantasy football addictions at the same time.  

           There are a staggering amount of pre-snap adjustments you can make this year.      

 
  The rest of the game modes are holdovers from last year. Franchise mode is solid. The simulated 
 statistics seem to be fairly accurate, and it's certainly fun to take the reins of a franchise, 
 but the mode has received only cursory attention since last year, and you can still sign overpriced 
 free agents and package them into deals for draft picks and star players. That's more than can 
 be said for Superstar mode, which is virtually indistinguishable from its 08 incarnation. If you've 
 never tried to take a created player or rookie from his first training camp to the Hall of Fame, 
 there's some fun to be had here, but if you've previously put up with the lame training events, 
 obnoxious agents, and inane e-mails from your in-game mom, there's nothing here that warrants another 
 look.  

  Madden 09 is easily the best-looking Madden to date. The presentation now features more dynamic 
 camera angles, and player emotion is a bigger part of the game than ever thanks to new touchdown 
 celebrations. By running to a highlighted area of the end zone and pressing a button after a score 
 you can dunk the ball over the goalpost, climb up the wall to bask in the admiration of the fans, 
 and more. The dunks often don't work and they look kind of terrible, but the rest of the celebrations 
 are cool -- especially when you steal another player's move. You can do Chad Johnson's River Dance 
 or Steve McNair's hands-to-the-helmet pose, or you can taunt Denver fans with the Mile High salute. 
 Other player animations are top-notch, and if you play enough you'll notice some great little touches, 
 such as kickers tackling just as awkwardly as they do in real life. You'll see some odd transitions 
 and quirky moves upon close inspection of replays (which can be uploaded and shared online) , but 
 you'd be hard pressed to notice most of these instances during gameplay.  

  Stadiums aren't blurry anymore, and they feature more detail than ever -- they look great. Snow and 
 rain effects have been cranked up to where it feels as if you're playing in a blizzard or monsoon. 
 By the end of a game in the rain, players' uniforms will be absolutely filthy. You'd have been 
 grounded for a week if you had come home that dirty when you were a kid. The only knock against 
 the weather is that field conditions don't seem to degrade as the game progresses. It's odd to 
 have players caked in mud when the grass looks like the fairways at Augusta. You may notice some 
 stuttering before and after plays, but when the ball's in play, the frame rate is as fast and smooth 
 as you could hope for.  

  Cris Collinsworth is easily the highlight of Madden 09's audio. His commentary is timely, accurate, 
 and insightful, and it sounds perfectly natural. Imagine having one of the best commentators in 
 the league standing next to you talking about your grudge match against your little brother like 
 it's a real-life showdown in the playoffs -- that's how good Cris is here. On the other side of the 
 coin is play-by-play announcer Tom Hammond's performance. It's bad enough that he'll remind you 
 that the game is "brought to you by EA Sports" several times per game, but his choppy, vague, and 
 monotone play calling will almost make you miss the radio-style announcer from previous years. 
 Almost. John Madden might be one of the greatest announcers of all time, but you'd never know it 
 by listening to the game that bears his name. His vaunted "return" to the franchise is limited 
 to brief pregame introductions as well as one or two sentences at halftime and the end of the game. 
 He barely even talks during "ask Madden" plays; occasionally he'll explain why he's suggesting 
 a play, but a vast majority of the time he doesn't say a thing.  

           Simply put: Football has never looked so good.      

  The Madden series has been so 
 good for so long that the bar for each yearly release is extremely high. And it's because standards 
 are so high that, while it's still great, Madden 09 could have been better. For every addition, 
 like the backtrack feature, Collinsworth, or improved visuals, there's a problem that rears its 
 ugly head, like the unchanged Superstar mode, poor pass coverage in the middle of the field, or 
 underwhelming online leagues. Newcomers will still face a steep learning curve, but if you're a 
 football fan or series veteran, you can't go wrong with Madden 09.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (163 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Opinion - I always tend to dab here and there into Madden football for the past decade and every 
 year I see a new feature here and a new feature there but nothing really earth shattering or significant. 
 09 broke that string on mediocre enhancements and features. In my opinion this version puts a complete 
 package out there that can be shaped and utilized based on the user's level of play comfort.
  
  Positive - Graphics are awesome and the introductory ability to test your abilites a perfect 
 way to focus on weaknesses and exploit your strengths.
  
  Negative - You know I really can't think of any significant or small problems. 
  
  Overall 
 - This is a solid game worthy of purchase if you're into football. It received a B (8.0) because 
 the game seems totally redone for new generation consoles. Framerates were solid and movement very 
 fluid. I guess the score would have been higher if this wasn't an annual product. With a game coming 
 out every year its hard to give it a higher score when you've become too accustomed to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  In this game you choose a major league football team. (Bears, Colts, Steelers, Cardinals, Dolphins, 
 Etc.) Then you play another team and you score touchdowns and try to win. The game is really simple 
 to play in some football games but it also gets boring really fast to.
  
  In this game you can go to places that are actually in real life to and you can also pick your 
 team that you want to versus against. The game has amazing graphics and amazing controls. The game 
 also has alot of glitches and huge letdowns as well.
  
  The good of the game is the amazing graphics. Amazing plays. 
  
  The bad of the game is that 
 there are alot of glitches. Some of the stuff in the game are letdowns. The game is just like the 
 other NFL games.
  
  Overall this game is a really awesome game for people who are football fans. (And non-football 
 fans) I rate this game 7.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtrav60
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I have experienced the Madden franchise since it's infancy. Madden is a pleasure to play. The gameplay 
 is so much like the real thing. As a youth football coach, I have actually told my players that 
 their homework was to go home and play "Madden". The 2009 version of the Madden series has lifted 
 it to a new level. I appreciate that the playbooks are very congruent for the last few years. It 
 makes being a long-term addict easier. The tweaks to the running game and the inclusion of "lead 
 blocker" are excellent. The growth of the audible system is very intuitive and fun to use. There 
 is one thing I find truly shocking, however: it is the live, in-game ads that are present on the 
 menu screen!! I can overlook it, even though it is somewhat invasive, because this game fulfills 
 my spiritual requirement for football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MistaStalkeR
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so basically the madden engine staff decided to take a vacation this year while the graphic 
 designer crew stayed on call to do a sub-par job. Clearly the madden crew decided to focus more 
 on graphics this year than the much needed gameplay improvements. Unfortunately the upgrade in 
 graphics isn't extreme enough to hide the fact that the engine is still the same, if not worse, 
 than previous next gen madden games. The one new addition "Online leagues", is a let down, as is 
 the robot-like sounding commentating. Include the fact that there were no franchise or superstar 
 additions (apart from more freezing and glitches/bugs then a year ago) and we can conclude that 
 this years madden was a monstrous disaster. 
  
  Madden gets a 3, not because of the gameplay, but because i can use the DVD as a frisbee when my 
 dog is bored. Thanks EA, for the $60 doggy toy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorback6189
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Madden game for the latest generation console. There is no room for me to complain 
 about graphics. Some of the veins in the players arms may be a little exaggerated but that's too 
 picky. The fields look great and the movement of the players is very realistic. I particularly 
 enjoy the Franchise dynasty mode. The Hall of Fame Superstar mode is very good too. The combine 
 and workouts can be difficult at times though, especially the 40 yard dash. One must be careful 
 to keep a good rhythm with the sticks to ensure that the runner gets in "the zone". I also struggled 
 with the bench press workout on several occaisions, simply because my fingers just aren't fast 
 enough to charge up for the next rep. The addition of the adaptive difficulty setting is also a 
 good idea. My offensive difficulty settings were All Madden and my defensive settings were very 
 low. This helps to ensure good competitive A. I. while playing, for some players this is something 
 that could not be achieved just from setting the difficulty at one specific level. I would recommend 
 this game to any fan of the NFL and the Madden franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVegassIII
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The only problems I have with this game is that it's too easy to throw picks and if you dont yet 
 have a HDTV the audibles are very hard to see because the command buttons are to damn small - I 
 know thats the same story with every game thats played on a regular tv but if you have a solid 
 knowlegde of football and audible alot (like me) its hard to see the little arrows of which direction 
 to puch the R stick to get the play you want. Other than that I love the new Madden Moments gameplay 
 and little things like how they show the stadium with cars driving past in front and spotlights. 
 Collinsworth does great commentary, he really breaks it down like he's sitting next to you. The 
 other guy sounds too much like he's reading from the script for the play by play. Everything else 
 about this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teddy17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Very good game don't know why people are complaining. The backtrack and rewind feature are very 
 helpful not only to new players but also the madden gurus who have been playing the series since 
 it came out. I really think that people should buy this game because even if u don't watch football 
 at all you can still learn how to effectively run plays and fix mistakes from cris collinsworth. 
 A lot of things that have been fixed are you actually have commentary instead of the annoying radio 
 announcer. Also you can manually celebrate touchdown's this year. It's really cool and most of 
 the achievments are pretty simple to get which is a downfall but unless ur a gamerscore freak then 
 keep listening. Superstar Mode hasn't changed from last year but the graphics have. The lighting 
 of the sky at certain times has changed from last year and so has the look of the grass. For you 
 Colts fans yes, the new Lucas Oil Stadium is IN the game and it's very nice. The new Madden IQ 
 system is brilliant. Although the pass defense is kind of tough but it really doesn't make a difference. 
 It's pretty challenging because you feel like you've never played on that difficulty before because 
 its so new. Those are my thoughts on the game and I deff recommend this game to any hardcore GAMER 
 not just football fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WCCobra
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I never thought Madden would release such a horrible game. If you love Madden games, prepare to 
 be disappointed with this one. 
  
  While looking at reviews for this game, you'll see some people mention "glitches." Generally, these 
 in-game glitches are few and far between. For the significant amount of time I put into the game, 
 I remember only three or four times where something crazy happened, such as the camera not following 
 the person with the ball, the ball being thrown 90 yards in the reverse direction, etc. With that 
 being said, it is far more common for the game to completely freeze. I can't tell you how many 
 games I finished, yet did not have the chance to save because it froze going back to the main menu. 
 It really doesn't bother me, except it always happens in Franchise Mode or the Career Mode.... 
 worst possible time to freeze. It has come to the point where I would like to return the game and 
 get my money back. (This is the only game I have that freezes)
  
  All the main features from the previous games are there. I love the ability to replay a down if 
 the game tries to screw you (backtrack feature) . You fumble less which is nice, but you tend to 
 get intercepted more than usual. I had a game where I picked them off 11 times, but also had a 
 game where I was picked off 5 times "throwing into coverage." By "throwing into coverage" I mean, 
 there was no defender within 10 yards of the receiver when I released the ball. 
  
  The Madden Tests are a nice idea, but horribly designed. The "tests" are far, far easier than anything 
 you'll see in game. You could easily achieve All Madden in every test, and then turn around play 
 a game on Pro and struggle to win. While I'm on the subject, the levels are horribly imbalanced 
 as well. Rookie is extremely easy, and I must say enjoyable if you like winning. Quite easy you 
 blow out a team by 125 points (I've done it) . Play again on Pro (the next level up) , you'll struggle 
 to win the game by 10 points. Increase it again, and good luck. The skill level of the player has 
 little to do with whether you win. I swear on the upper levels, the AI players become super human 
 and the game will consistently screw you over only to add to the frustration. Oh, and the static 
 defenders are still there. They'll fly off their block and tackle you if you get too close. It's 
 also common for your teammates to completely miss blocks (which is alright sometimes) or not block 
 at all (not cool) . I can't tell you the number of times I was running up field and the receiver 
 turned around and ran back towards me, or off in another direction, instead of blocking the CB 
 standing right next to them. 
  
  Oh, and I love while in the Career Mode, the opposing team can recover their on-side kicks two, 
 three, sometimes four times in a row and score on each possession. I also notice a lot of text-based 
 glitches in the Career Mode (while you summarize the game) as well. Run for -4 yards and it will 
 show you ran for 1 yard. Opposing team recovers their own on-side kick, it says you recovered it, 
 yet they have the ball. Also, weird play calling as well. 4th quarter, down by 10, 3rd and 9 on 
 your own 35, lets run it with the Full Back...? Huh? Passing on 2nd and 1, again on 3rd and 1, 
 then punting on 4th and 1. Really odd sometimes.
  
  The commentary is... alright. I didn't mind that they chose Collinsworth and Hammond to be the 
 voices, but I would have liked to hear Collinsworth be the main commentator. With that being said, 
 the range of commentary from both of them is limited. You'll quickly get very tired of hearing 
 the same lines over and over again (like all Madden games, but it seems more so with this one) . 
 You'll also notice sometimes what they say doesn't match what happened in game. It doesn't have 
 to be perfect, but at least get somewhat close. The review of plays by Collinsworth is nice (I 
 watched one) , but then get very annoying and slows the game down (as do the replays) . 
  
  There is a fair amount of showboating after every play as well, which I would rather not see so 
 much of... but you're forced to watch. I would like to just push "A" and bring the playbook up, 
 but can't. 
  
  The menus in the game are very annoying. You must push START to show the menu (s) , otherwise it's 
 hidden and you don't know whether it's still loading or what. Then the menu's are like Windows 
 Start menu, they expand. I'm still up in the air as to whether or not I like this feature. It certainly 
 is kind of odd.
  
  The first time you're playing the game it asks you for your favorite team, but I'm still trying 
 to figure out why exactly. Normally the game will customize the background images to your favorite 
 teams logo or color scheme, stuff like that. Not this game. You get the same background no matter 
 what you select. What's the point of asking if your not going to make me happy?
  
  The touchdown celebrations are kind of cool, but running into the blue boxes makes it less cool. 
 Kind of weird being forced to run around the endzone looking for a box to celebrate in. Could have 
 been so much better.
  
  Graphics can only take it so far. I would avoid buying this game unless it's on sale for $10, and 
 even then... you might be better off with 10 candy bars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAYESMAN1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  By far the best Madden game out there. The graphics have been updated, and are amazing. Game play 
 hasn't changed too much from previous versions, but don't know why you would need to. Also, the 
 broadcasters have been updated, which makes for a more lifelike experience (something NCAA 09 could've 
 learned from) . Haven't done much with the online play, however, the idea of having an online dynasty 
 sounds pretty cool. The "replay it" feature, which allows you to go back and replay a down if it 
 didn't quite go the way you had hoped, is a nice feature for those who choose to use it. If you 
 are trying to decide between Madden and NCAA 09, I have both, and Madden is much more difficult 
 (as it should be) . Both are great games, and personally I prefer NCAA 09 (GO HUSKERS!!!) . However, 
 if you're looking for a more realistic football game that has the better graphics and broadcast 
 announcers, pick Madden 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hitman360-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay so first off this game at first glance is very smooth and "slick" if you will.
  From when you pop the game in to when your down by a touchdown going into the final drive trying 
 to make the miraculous comeback, the game just looks nice
  
  Once you start up the game you will get the typical EA Sports logo and intro to all of their games. 
 Then when you get to the main menu, youll notice that it looks very familiar, that is because it 
 really hasn't changed from the previous version in Madden NFL 08. You still have to press start 
 to bring up the menu so you can go through your options. From the menu you have all your typical 
 madden options, You have your play now, game modes (in which you can select: Franchise, Superstar, 
 Mini-Games, Virtual Training, Practice, Madden Moments, and Madden IQ Test) , your My Madden, Settings 
 and the new feature that says Collectors Edition (im not 100% sure if this feature is in the normal 
 edition because i did purchase the limited edition so this may vary) In which you get to go back 
 and play the once great Madden '93.
  
  Okay lets start this off with the all important gameplay of the game. If you are familiar with 
 the madden franchise you will find that this game is very similar but yet still a lot smoother 
 and better. They have added into the gameplay, special move interruption in which if for example 
 you are in the middle of a juke right, if you press spin move half way between you will perform 
 the spin even if your juke is not finished. This is a great feature and adds more to your moves 
 in which you can try and break free. Also in this new edition of madden you can try to break free 
 even after you are wrapped up. So if someone wraps you and your still on your feet, keep hitting 
 your spins, stiff arms, and jukes and keep trying to break free. After playing even from the first 
 snap you will notice how much smoother the gameplay is. 
  
  Now for the presentation of the game. Once again when you start it up you will notice the difference. 
 Although the menu is still somewhat similar and you still have your rings and trophys, it still 
 feels better. When you start a game you will be introduced by John Madden himself while seeing 
 the new scenery of the outside of the stadium as the fans pile in. After that he will pass it over 
 to Tom and Cris in which Cris Collinsworth excels in his color commentating and Tom not so much. 
 You get the feeling of a real game with Cris as he is said to have ad libbed his lines in order 
 to obtain that feeling and with EA's new engine for madden you are ensured to never hear the same 
 thing said twice in the same game, which is a relief. Madden has always delivered on its soundtrack 
 in their games (atleast to me) and this year is no exception. With its usual estimate of around 
 15 songs by Sam Spence, they add a variety of music throughout from songs from Disturbed, MSI, 
 Underoath, Busta Rhymes, Hollywood Undead, and many more. At first i was a little scepticle when 
 i looked at the list of songs but i dont know what it is but they always seem to fit (once again, 
 to me) .
  
  And here come the new features, in which Madden usually doesn't dissapoint. I'll start off with 
 the new touchdown celebrations which are pretty cool but sometimes can get repetitive. Not a severely 
 bad thing but can be annoying, but all more rewarding when you do see a new one. The all new Madden 
 IQ test is pretty cool in the sense that it puts you in this sort of VR world where everything 
 is all neon (pretty sweet) but is pretty inaccurate. You'll be introduced by a hologram John Madden 
 and he'll talk you through all the drills and all that crap that John rambles on about. Although 
 they say the game adapts to you, which i guess it kind of does, but the madden IQ test is slated. 
 The situations they put you in are nothing like game situation so therefore you cant farely be 
 scored. Good concept just poor executuion. If your experienced in Madden or if your really good 
 you should score roughly in pretty high all-pro or all-madden. Once your in game you dont actually 
 have to use your Madden IQ difficutly setting but its reccomended, but if you dont pick it, your 
 progress in the game still effects your Madden IQ. The new backtrack feature is a good addition 
 to the franchise and i think will stay in Madden for years to come. It allows you to see where 
 you made a mistake in your play so that next time you dont make it again. While adding this in 
 they also added a new Rewind feature which enables you the player a "redo" if you will and you 
 can play that play all over again and erase that fumble or interception that happened. I personally 
 do not like this feature because i like the game to be un-interrupted and whatever happens happens, 
 but on the positive note, you can turn them off. Along with all the old features of create-a-player 
 and create-a-team, etc.... it should be pretty interesting...
  
  And for all of you achieve-o-holics out there (like me) there are only 25 achievements in this 
 game which are all pretty easy. None of them are online and only 3 or 4 are in franchise. If you 
 are really desperate for the points or you just arent good at Madden you can always get a friend 
 to play as the other team so you can do the achievement. 
  Note: The only condition to the achievements is it says (non co-op) meaning your friend can not 
 be on the same team, not you cant play against him!
  
  Overall i give this Madden 09 and its 20 year anniversary a 9.2, but since GS is gay with thier 
 new scoring it has to be 9.0
  
  Happy Maddening!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xshortyx30
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Every year the graphics and gameplay get better and smoother. They've made some changes im happy 
 with like the madden test, which makes the difficulty of the game perfect for you, the virtual 
 trainer, to help you practice on certain parts of the game you struggle with, and the backtracker, 
 which tells you exactly what you did wrong on the play that turned horrible. They make a lot of 
 changes to gameplay and controls and stuff like that but still little to no change to franchise 
 or superstar. when i've played this game on the ps2, its superstar mode has stuff like gameplans 
 for the team where you work against plays that your opponent would be using, now that could be 
 cool to use on the xbox360. now thats not my point im trying to make. im saying the game is great 
 but all of the game modes have a ton of room for things to be added. The online gameplay? AMAZING! 
 i see now flaws except for the occasional lag but that happens with every game. All in all, the 
 excellent graphics and superb gameplay make it an amazing game and, even with its flaws, deserves 
 a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is a game I've been waiting for! Madden 2009 is flat out great! Though there are always a 
 few things to lookout for when you review a game! In this game, there are just so many things that 
 are good and bad! Let me start with the good though! Good: Awesome controls and awesome menu music 
 and cool new setup for the game!! The bad that comes out is the terrible graphics for it! The graphics 
 are terrible!! I thought I was sitting down playing an NGC! But I was not! Thats just one way how 
 the game was bad! I wonder what Madden 2010 will be like?? Hmmmm... Well anyway, from overall rating 
 I'd rate Madden 09... ****... 4 stars! Thanks for reading this review! Tune in next time!! Thanks 
 for reading! Next review will be on the NDS game... New! Super Mario Bros.!!!!! Thanks for reading 
 and have a great Thanksgiving!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  What to say about another edition of Madden that wasn't said in 2008,2007,2006... EA sports sticks 
 with the winning formula while adding safe ineffective features that make the series feel fresh 
 again. Fact of the matter is, this is Madden 2008 with tweeks that improve gameplay, but a few 
 and far between. All in all, this game seems more in sync with the league. Gone are the days of 
 throwing bombs for 80 yard touchdown - defenders will catch up with even the swiftiest receivers 
 and break up the play - and the countless 200 yd running games. Added in are new ball control features 
 which give you more control over whether you fumble or not, and the touchdown celebrations, because 
 and irish jig in the enzone is the only true way to rub your opponents face in it. The biggest 
 compliment I can give this years addition is that it is the most lifelike football experiance a 
 game has ever given me.
  
  09 is graphically the best game in the series. Player motions are (for the most part) smooth and 
 seeing the effects of the weather and field on the players (dirt, grass stains, etc) is certainly 
 a blessing. This game makes the largest leap forward in the audio department. Thankfully they (for 
 the most part) ditched the annoying "radio voice" and went with my boy John Madden giving a nice 
 segway into color annaylists Tom Hammand and Chris Collinsworth. Chris Collinsworth really breathes 
 new life into the series, and his breakdown analysis of big plays is my favorite part of the game.
 
  
  Game modes are pretty typical of a madden entry - exhibition, create a superstar, practice modes, 
 etc. The newly revamped franchise mode, which features simulated stats and a new rivalries are 
 a breath of fresh air, but the franchise still feels stagnant, and I doubt many will play past 
 two seasons. The superstar mode feels extremely dated, and the subtraction of the commentary makes 
 this mode my least favorite. Madden Moments - in which you replay memorable moments of the 2007 
 season - makes its return, but I don't see many people playing that. And now onto the most touted 
 (and over-hyped) feature: ONLINE LEAGUES! This was the biggest dissapointment to me. Not only can 
 you only play one season, but unless your playing with ten or eleven guys, you miss on what's truly 
 a fun experiance. If you want to play online leagues, buy NCAA 09.
  
  My biggest complaint lies with the AI that "adapts to you" serves more as a frustration than an 
 implementation. The game doesn't "adapt" to you as much as it marks your process, the ultimate 
 result being in an increased level of difficulty in your strongest areas and a "dummy opponent" 
 difficulty in your lesser honed skills. I understand the ultimate goal is to make us all the ideal 
 madden players, but part of the fun of madden is using your better honed skills to exploit the 
 other team, while simultaneously trying to hide your own flaws. Simply put, save yourself and your 
 controller the trouble, and just use the difficulty sliders. 
  
  Madden 2009 is like the New England Patriots of 2007 - It's far better than every other entry, 
 but it doesn't quite get it right. Still, it's a fun ride, and a welcomed entry for any sports 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakeerie_effect
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Well game feels looks and plays better than last year. hot route works solid along with audibles. 
 things that are still messed up. guys running their routes will just get caught up on groups of 
 people and just keep running into them causing them to screw up the route or timing. which makes 
 you loose so many passes that would have been wide open if it just ran around them. this gets real 
 upsetting when your online going for a 1st down and it rips you off. online most of the time is 
 smooth and doesn't lag much. sometimes its unbearable though. then should also change the mercy 
 rule to 14 instead of 28. i hate when people just quit out of games 1st 2nd quarter. then you have 
 to play comp. i didn't want to play the comp thats why i'm on live. also if tom brady is hurt people 
 shouldnt be able to play as him on xboxlive til he isn't hurt. isn't that what the roster update 
 is for. another problem is after a play is done it won't let you just go right to play screen. 
 it sits for 5 seconds not letting you do anything while the clock is running, which is gay. i still 
 give it a 9 after all this bashing because its madden. its still dank as hell but it just needs 
 the small stuff fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fathut1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  I first bought madden 09 for ps2, i was very disappointed. So i returned it and got it for 360 
 and it was a different game. The gameplay was very realistic the fields looked great. The best 
 thing about the game is the all new madden IQ. Madden IQ measure's how you play the game and sets 
 the difficulty to make as if you were playing someone of your same skill. Madden moments are also 
 a new feature, it has about 50 of last years top moments and you can reenact them. The superstar 
 and franchise are back and better than ever. If you are hooked up to xbox live new weekly roster 
 updates are available. Also if you are playing franchise mode and you sim some games or a season 
 all running backs wont have 2000+ yards anymore, they have made the sim-ing more realistic. The 
 only bad thing i found in the game, if you get an interception it is a little to easy to return 
 it you a TD. Other than that this has to be the best madden i have played so far.
  
  -Hunter Tumbleson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsfan8993
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2009 is definitely the best in the series so far. With a large number of improvements and 
 new additions, 09 is a game that can last a long time. 
  The first part of the game is the madden test. I think that this part was a pretty big waste because 
 I didn't feel any difference whether my IQ was 300 or 750. A very cool and realistic addition in 
 09 is the branch animations in tackles. For all the past games, if you go into a tackle animation, 
 you're tackled. But this year even if your hit, you can press spin, juke, truck, or stiff arm and 
 try to break free. While the ability to actually escape the tackle is pretty low it is still very 
 cool and you have an ability to fight for extra yards. 
  One thing that I hope EA sports will add next year is the ability of your defense to look primarily 
 look run or look pass. And also there is no 4-4 and 5-2 or 5-3 formation on defense which makes 
 stopping guys like Clinton Portis pretty hard. Also there are way too many dropped interceptions, 
 primarily when playing online. And field goals are WAY too easy in this game. In real life kicking 
 a 55 yard field goal is extremely hard and in Madden it is extremely easy; even with high winds. 
 
  This game is the best Madden game yet, and one of the best sports game ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_a_genius5995
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best Madden so far. In gameplay, it is surpassed by no other football game. 
 A lot of new features are in the year's edition. I love the new running controls. Jukes are a lot 
 more effective as is the spin move. You can also reverse your direction fairly easily. You can 
 spin one way, and then spin the other way without ever finishing the first spin. The highlight 
 stick isnt quite as effective as in past Madden editions, which i suppose adds more depth to the 
 game. I can remember when every time you used highlight stick, it always worked, now it doesn't. 
 The player-triggered celebrations are a cool edition, giving you the ability to dunk the football 
 over the field goal post, or jumping up into the stands. You can also copy an opponents own celebration 
 by pressing "B" when you've scored a touchdown. I think my favorite celebration on the game is 
 Chad Johnson's riverdance. The celebrations were a good idea. It's quite ironic how the NFL is 
 clamping down on celebrations and EA is now offering triggered celebrations. There are only a couple 
 things that I don't like about this Madden. One, is that the quarterback does not place the ball 
 in good positions, giving the wide receiver a chance to catch the ball. It's just about impossible 
 to throw a deep pass. I've often had Desean Jackson have a good 2 yards on the cornerback, and 
 the quraterback throws it behind him enabling the corner to go up and make a play. The other negative 
 thing about this year's Madden is that it freezes a bit too much. I've noticed that whenever it 
 happens, i use hit-stick when the ball is in the air. I don't know if this is what triggers it, 
 or if it's just a coincidence. When it does freeze, the controller starts vibrating uncontrollably, 
 which is highly annoying. Other than those two things, I highly reccomend this game. It doesn't 
 freeze enough to ruin the game so don't let the freezing stop you from buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Now I buy Madden every year just cuz I'm a football junkie and I need my football fix. I've enjoyed 
 Madden over the last few years, some being a lil bit disappointing like Madden 07. Last year's 
 game was actually pretty good imo though it was your typical minimum improvment game. This year 
 hoever Madden 09 was surprisingly much better than 08.
  
  First off, the graphics are very nice, the weather looks good and the player animations are nicely 
 done. Franchise mode has not really been improved but I have still enjoyed it. Gameplay wise I 
 really like the game, I haven't had too many un-realistic games. Most of my games are competitive 
 and I end up with realistic stats. One thing I woulda liked to have seen put in was smart routes. 
 It's a valuable feature for me in NCAA 09 and it'd be great if EA would put it back in Madden.
 
  
  All in all, Madden aint a perfect game but if you love football as much as I do then you should 
 have fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua1207
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Same old Madden, needs new features, they need to make a deeper Franchise mode like on NFL Head 
 Coach 09. Seriously, I've play about 1-3 hours of Head Coach 09 every day because they actually 
 took time to make a very in depth draft and franchise mode, if they could do the same thing for 
 Madden, like the NFL Network people talking and draft paths (or your own draft paths by importing 
 NCAA Drafts lol) and stuff like that, it would make Madden so much better. But I heard that the 
 Lead-Franchise designer thing from Head Coach 09 will be working on the franchise mode for next 
 years Madden, so I'll have to check that out... anyways this madden is pretty much the same as 
 08 execpt better graphics and new roster update... I only got it cuz I like to have the new roster 
 updates lol... But I gave this game 8.5 because I like football games too much... otherwise i'd 
 give it a 7.0 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I am disgusted. I have no problem with other games (Except MLB 2K8, but that was my fault, as the 
 disk got a small scratch; I emphasize small) .
  
  Madden 09 crashes 50% (at least) of the time on me. I have not gotten through one season. I train, 
 then save, then hope for the best when I play. I went through 5 seasons in franchise on the PC 
 version of '08, with maybe 3 crashes. It is ridiculous, that a game made with so little variables 
 involved specification-wise, should be so flawed. I have been playing Madden since the Sega Days. 
 If there is not a fix, whelp, I guess I will have to wait a bit to toss money on an inferior product.
 
  
  The only reason anything like this happens is NO COMPETITION because of that stupid licensing nonsense.
 
  
  Great gameplay; when it works...
  
  BTW Forza, yet to crash. Mass Effect? Once. NBA2k 08, zero. I could go on, but it is pointless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidet22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I usually do a long review and go into detail of every facet of the game. I'm not going to do that 
 because a) I don't get paid to do that, b) they obviously don't listen, and c) I'm lazy =)
  
  The graphics are amazing. Let's get that out there. They improved the graphics and I loved 
 the graphics anyway. Still, I have to give them credit on that front. It looks amazing, guys.
 
  
  Thank you also for limiting fumbles. It's probably not as realistic with so few fumbles, but I 
 like the system just as it is. With games going so quickly, I'd rather that both sides only have 
 the extremely rare fumble.
  
  I like the quick substitute system - probably my favorite addition in this year's game. Quick, 
 easy, and effective.
  
  Some of the problems (and there are a LOT) .
  
  1) Every opposing quarterback is the same. I typically play in coverage and can do pretty well 
 on my side of the ball. However, the cpu usually finds someone open and almost never seems to throw 
 it anywhere but between the numbers. Tom Brady and Brooks Bollinger are equals in this game - it's 
 that simple. Oh, and every team seems to throw it a minimum of 80% of the game.
  
  2) Forget running the ball. Your offensive line hates you, and the same swim move fools your guard 
 on 50% of run plays which means you just get to watch as your RB gets leveled. 
  
  3) When catching the ball, it doesn't always have to be a spectacular catch. So many times I'll 
 hit my guy right in stride. Instead of just catching and running, they have to leap in the air 
 or lay out for the ball which slows them way down. I've lost touchdowns countless times because 
 of this.
  
  4) What's up with the offensive lineman mini game? You can't NOT reach all-madden level on there. 
 You don't need to block anyone. Oh yeah, except for when your RB inexplicably runs backwards or 
 into lineman when he has a clear path to the endzone... it's just weird... and poorly done.
  
  5) Why does the CPU often just run east/west on the field. I don't want to stop a team on 3rd 
 down because of a glitch. Sometimes the CPU will just catch the ball and run out of bounds for 
 no particular reason... maybe they're just thirsty???
  
  6) PLEASE EA!!!! PLEASE!!! Stop having wr's and rb's running out of bounds on routes to the flats? 
 And stop having the qb's lead them out of bounds! It takes away a HUGE chunk of the playbook.
 
  
  7) EA Backtrack only works about 60% of the time. Overrated new feature.
  
  8) Why would I rewind?
  
  9) Too many user dropped passes. Reduce dropped passes a LOT in next 
 year's edition.
  
  10) When I intercept a ball with Charles Woodson, why does he suddenly struggle to outrun the center? 
 I'm not exaggerating - the center is just about as fast as my db's when I intercept. Why?
  
  11) If you want to know what else is wrong with your game, I can submit a detailed report. 
 I doubt you care. You screwed me a couple years ago, when you shipped me a faulty game (as in, 
 it simply didn't work) . When I returned it per your instructions, you made me pay for your mistake 
 by paying all the shipping and calling some obscure number 17 times to get my money back for the 
 game... yes - I bought it from the EA store, so this is relevant to EA. 
  
  I rented it this year and I'm glad I did. I won't by another Madden game until it's done right. 
 Glitches and a few problems with the game are common. And I know that my preferences may not always 
 be included because they can't please everyone, but I think they know they put out the same game 
 again and I refuse to support this. According to recent reports, it appears others feel the same 
 way. It's fun watching big arrogant companies take big hits though. Sony certainly took one and 
 how many software publishers are hurting? Poor products and a train wreck of customer service never 
 seems to translate well into business endurance. Just ask GM... ok - random rant over. I will continue 
 to petition that others get the NFL license when EA is done screwing this up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8919
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Reuse with new quirks. That about sums up madden 09. Don't get me wrong the My skill addition is 
 a great idea something that I hope Madden will keep. Because hey lets face it once I don't want 
 to have worry about adjusting my difficulty for the game. The only bad thing about it is that hey 
 it adjusts the skill to fast so I your difficulty should only be rookie, the game tends to like 
 to make you play at all pro. It has no sense where you should be, the drills that they put you 
 through when you first play the game are the best indicators madden has of where you should be 
 playing. So you should probably keep it on custom and adjust it accordingly. The my skill should 
 definitely be adjusted in madden 10, and the the franchise mode and Superstar need to be changed. 
 I hate that stupid ring thing. Freak en pointless thing to have gives you something to look at 
 basically. The rewind feature is kind of up in the air. It is neat if you make a stupid mistake. 
 But not so neat when a friend rewinds your awesome touchdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  It's the little things where Madden falls apart. It has the nice bullet point features and modes 
 and replay value to be the only game you play until next year and keep you satisfied the whole 
 way. But again, the little things, that's where it falls apart.
  
  Cons:
  -You can still have a receiver blocked from getting to a ball by a stationary defense man and not 
 get a pass interference call. Not accurate enough on Pass interference.
  -Clipping is also not called accurately enough. You'll get pushed in the back too often with no 
 penalty.
  -The ball clips through the uprights on field goals (especially the bottom bar)
  -Not enough commentary.
  -A little more diversity in the EA Sports TRAX, not Frank Sinatra but 
 like maybe Bob Dylan. Psyche. But I would like more than hard rock and rap and some NFL anthems.
 
  -During the virtual mini-games there's no retry, you have to quit to the options menu or finish 
 out your drill.
  -A. I.-stupid stuff like the safety having a clear shot at a ball but since I called a blitz he 
 gives up on what could've been a interception for a solid completion. Plenty more, but all pretty 
 subtle. (like lineman not knowing who to block when there's 2 defenders rushing the QB, they end 
 up blocking neither man.
  -Sidelines are dead and you can clip right through them.
  -More afterplay player responses are needed (though there's a solid amount of animations in place.)
 
  
  Madden is just the game you can nitpick on non-stop. Personally I think EA Sport's engines in general 
 are a little buggy cause 2K Sports games like NHL 2k9 flow smoother than NHL 09 animation wise. 
 (the quality of those games is a different story)
  
  I do see though that either dev team sizes are going to need to ramp up to 500 or we need more 
 power in these systems to see a real looking game, It is almost there. But there's just a ton missing 
 in little areas.
  
  Pros:
  -Simple enough it's pretty well balanced football with lots of plays, the ability to make your 
 own plays (if you get NFL Head Coach or have the Collectors Edition, like I do.) , and there's enough 
 modes here to last you the rest of the 360's lifespan (if they gave you updated rosters for a small 
 fee every year, which of course they don't)
  
  I'm not going easy on the game because it doesn't deserve it. It's great but everyone knows Madden 
 is really cool. There's a list of some of its problems, again there's plenty more little problems 
 and good things but it's not gameplay effecting, just immersion effecting.
  
  It is a complete package, but it was last year, and very least will be every year throughout the 
 rest of this generation if it only builds upon this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeus501
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Madden 09 was very hyped because of the "Madden IQ" well first off the most of it is broken, 
 however it is a good idea but how EA made it sucked. Now let's see what other things EA did to 
 Madden.
  
  Game play-
  In football games many people want them to be a realistic as possible, well first of I can tell 
 you madden 09 is very far from realism. Corner Backs jump about 15 feet to make a swat, the mechanics 
 and timing are totally off but running is harder therefore being more realistic but blockers still 
 act stupid. The game play has many faults and it's not realistic but there are certain things that 
 are terrible but still...
  Madden needs to improve game play drastically if this game is going to be better. (They have toned 
 down spectacular catches so that is something to be happy about)
  
  Graphics and Sound- Well the graphics are probably the best part of this year's Madden, the players 
 look crisp and the surroundings are pretty good but the crowd looks extremely generic. Animations 
 are also generic and very repetitive but the bobble catches are pretty cool. Tom Hammond and Chris 
 Collinsworth do commentary and while Hammond sounds like a goddamn robot Collinsworth sounds realistic 
 and realism is what this game is trying to obtain. Some menu songs are pretty good actually. Usually 
 you will hear players chattering but that is nothing that is so good.
  
  Modes-
  All the modes this year are recycled seriously there is nothing really to talk about, there is 
 nothing that is new, well maybe progression in franchise which is broken and I don't think EA is 
 going to be smart enough to fix that particular issues. Yeah well I am sorry folks but that is 
 the sad truth the modes are freaking recycled.
  
  Overall- Ok if you want a game that focuses more on graphics then game play buy Madden 09 if not 
 go out and buy NFL 2k5 and search the web on how to update the rosters.
  
  This is Zeus501 signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishRage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like madden, I really did. Back when EA went all anti-competition on the NFL loving 
 gaming community I swore off EA forever. It worked alright for a couple of years, but you can't 
 swear them off forever, they own to many IP's. In comes Madden, EA Sports cash cow of a series. 
 Yearly installments with minor improvements over the last installment at the full premium price. 
 It is truly the perfect "scam". But they loose a yearly customer for one specific reason.
  
  Immersion in the game is all but gone. What happened to the ticker? Something so small was 
 one of the things that kept me LOVING NFL games. The best NFL game to date was ESPN NFL 2k5. ESPN 
 licensing their name to that series put a huge amazing draw to the game. I would line up for a 
 play and have the ticker come on to see that it was half time, and the team that was first in my 
 division was down by a touchdown! I would see that and silently say "YES" to myself. Being a stat 
 whore, I really miss the ticker, the half time show, and that amazing sports center broadcast in 
 game they did after each week of football. Good time.
  
  Now, EA Sports Madden NFL 2009 is not a BAD game by any standards. It's simply what you would expect. 
 Its football, the franchise mode is well done as usual, and the online has big improvements. But 
 it makes me completely shocked there is no damn ticker. What happened? Something so small, that 
 was there in every series since 2000. When did it go away?
  
  Immerse me EA, make this stat whore run every play thinking "That should help that running back 
 get rated higher this season" or "That amazing pass will make the highlight reel this week!". All 
 of those feelings are gone, no longer do I have the urge to play each game of the season to make 
 sure the QB or the RB or that one LB is taken advantage of. I'm not immersed, and that does not 
 make me want to get next years copy.
  
  But I love football, and there is no competition. Well played you greedy company owners... well 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark1003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  It is apsolutly amazing! And even though it's american football it's still..... WOW! The graphics 
 are Great. You can see players apart from eaxh other anywhere on the picth, the kit get realisticly 
 dirty, Players sweat like in real life and the crowd is better than a usual sport game. One thing 
 about graphics that is bad though is the camera people can be walked through sometimes. Another 
 would be that Sometimes after plays players just keep stupidly walking into each other. But overall 
 the graphics are good. The game has a fair few modes as well including a few new ones, surprisingly. 
 The franchise mode is pretty much FIFA manager mode except it's the NFL. Oh, and you can play matches 
 with the teams other then your own. Superstar is be a pro accept you get to train and alot of other 
 stuff like making a statment on Sundays. (Apperently NFL players do that) Then there is madden 
 moments which is not like anything in fifa. You have to do classic momments from the NFL 2007-2008 
 season. And last and actulaly, probobly least is Minigames. 40 Metre dash, Weights and 4 more mini 
 games are probobly the worst part of an otherwise great madden. The controls are somple for anyone, 
 you can just press a button to throw it to a certain person but also have plenty of controls only 
 the hardest of the hardcore Madden fans will use and even then there will be some unused controls. 
 Overall it is fun to play, but when you dont get to call a play before defending, it is hard to 
 get onside without hitting an opposition player and conceding a penelty of 5 yards. Celebrations 
 give you a fair amount of choice, but is not as good as Fifa in that way. The game though is a 
 bit too easy and if you turn up diffictulty all that happens is your players play worse. But compared 
 to kicking it, it's the hardest thing ever. You can create your own team as well. Or a player. 
 The xbox 360 version is also full with easy achievments. Oh I nearly forgot, there is a unique 
 madden test feature which means you can improve your skills in a virtual room with the help of 
 john madden. And it is fairly fun though games are better. Overall a great game for just about 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  ok here we are in another season of madden ..1st the only thing that e. a. really touched up was 
 the graphics and the control.. but thats not sayin much cuz the control really needs to be updated. what 
 do i mean when i say that well. lets see you grab control of your WR right before the ball gets 
 to him .. its like hes stuck in some kind of animation or something .you can totally press the other 
 direction all you want he will keep going hes own way ... also again why cant we change the camera 
 angel to what i want it to be like in the ps2 and xBOX1 versions ?that would help out an lot on 
 def cuz you cant see on defs your positions on the ball or how close you are to the WR ... its like 
 the camera is set for offs .also ,, GOD how many INT's can you get on this game and fumbles which 
 they toned down this year but didnt fix the int prb.. also where are the ball markers ,side line 
 refs ,refs on the field ,chain gang ,the line of scrimm. field action on the jumbo tron.. i feel 
 that e. a. has ben making football games for 20 years and the things i mention should be an automatic 
 .. u think.... but its like the new features that e. a. said we'er in the game this year .are options 
 that are in the ps2 aND XBOX1 VERSION from last years AND THEY STILL DIDN GET THAT RIGHT ... THIS 
 DEAL THAT the nfl AND e. A. have . just isnt good for people like me who want an real sim video game 
 football game .something like 2k brought to the table. in 2k5 which in my opinion is still in an 
 lot of way better then maden09 .. as bad as i would like to write good thoughts about madden 09, I 
 CANT ,cuz then i would be LIEING .itz an very arcady style video football game .. off top if you 
 watch football on tv and then play madden .its just arcady man .. sorry .. ive playied the game for 
 more ten 100 hours and its just not crack up to what it should be ,for real.. all these reviews 
 ive read on video game site are all lies ,they must be real madden fans or be getting some type 
 of money from e. a. to give it anything higher than an 7 .. just my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazywhtb0y
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  A good all around game, combines old Madden fun with a new skill test to fit all users, plus a 
 snappy new break tackle system. One player defensive assignments made easier. There is a problem 
 with snap counts occasionally when you try to snap the ball while doing a hard count the QB will 
 run forward causing a false start, but it's easily avoidable. The online is solid, offering traditional 
 play with online mini games face-off. Accurate player statistics, adding a few players with a rating 
 of 100 instead of stopping at 99, such as Tom Brady with 100 awareness or Devin Hester with 100 
 speed. The gameplay is addictive and fun. Superstar mode is superb for helping a player get used 
 to a position and excel at it. Playing a few seasons as a cornerback helped me immensely at passing 
 defense, playing as a halfback helped me know when to juke, spin, truck, or stiff arm a defender 
 for maximum tackle breaking, and playing as a quarterback let me know when to use a touch throw 
 instead of just using a bullet pass. Buying this game is a solid investment, as you will play for 
 more than enough time to make it worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft52
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Alright. I'm sitting in my living room thinking of something to do. How about play Madden 09? Sound 
 like a good idea? Well it is. Madden 09 is anything and everything a NFL football game should be. 
 The only draw backs are the glitches in the game. I mean sure every game has glitches but these 
 are some of the same exact glitches from the past games in the series. The play challenging is 
 a little bit off. You have a play clearly incomplete so you challenge. Ruling stands that it was 
 completed and vice versa. AI is stupid when it comes to catching the ball on the sideline. Instead 
 of dragging their feet, like a real receiver would, the game decides to do a weird jump to the 
 catch the ball while both feet fall out of bounds. Although there are some glitches, you can't 
 argue with how amazing this game truly is. Great job EA Sports! Can't wait for Madden 2010. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josa29
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  this madden is the best i ve ever played the iq makes me want to play more as i want to get a higher 
 one. the graphics are amazing the grass looks very realistic, and the snow looks real. the gameplay 
 is easy for every one and my iq is 720 and is just not too hard and not too easy i love it. madden 
 moments are challenging and greats. the superstar mode has always been my favorite so has been 
 the franchise and they didn't disappoint.
  this is the best football videogame i've ever played i highly recomend it. i also kind of like 
 the facts they put on the screen whe the game is loading. if youdaon't like football you will like 
 it. i'm waiting for a new thing like the nba 09 game that makes it fresh every day. i would also 
 like it to have the option to make your own plays and another one that lets you audible into more 
 things. over all this is a great game every one should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Where to start, EA Sports? I pick up Madden NFL every year it is released. After the past few years 
 of having the same game with minor updates, and when I say minor, I mean the bare minimum of updates 
 to make it look "new" to players, I wasn't really expecting much but I would say EA finally hit 
 the nail on the head with this one. 
  
  Franchise mode is highly addictive now. With the My Skills set, it seems like every game is a great 
 game worthy of a look back to see the high lights and low lights. This years game finally allows 
 for some nail biter moments against the AI teams, and it keeps you coming back for more. It's rare 
 for me to keep coming back for more after I go undefeated in my first season of franchise and win 
 an easily played Super bowl even on the All-Madden difficulty. My Skills adjusts to you, and is 
 the greatest thing EA has ever come up with. I was headed toward a 7-0 record in my first season 
 thinking I would play through 1 season of undefeated and super bowl champion then lay the game 
 down once again when suddenly I started losing once the My Skills got to the right settings. Games 
 got harder, and now I couldn't tell you if I was going to win or lose. 
  
  Multiplayer has quite a few bugs, thats the downfall of this game. Between the freezing during 
 called time outs, and the glitches other players have found to make them unbeatable, you definitely 
 may not see yourself going back again and again to play online. The new League system is a great 
 touch to play with your friends who you know won't cheat though. EA really did a good job with 
 the leagues. 
  
  Graphics, unbelievable, the way they have detailed each and every stadium and dome is absolutely 
 the biggest improvement I have seen. They are so very detailed that it makes you, the player, feel 
 small, like you are on the field for real. 
  
  All and all I would say this is one Madden NFL game that you can't refuse to pick up. I give it 
 a 9.5 - 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heroldp813
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays when a madden comes out I'm usaully the first one to be skeptical on whether it will be 
 a good game or not and after all the failed madden's b/f this one can someone blame me for feeling 
 like this. The hype around this game did make me feel a bit different about it so i told myself 
 "Don't write it off until you play the demo". So i waited for the demo and afterplaying it i felt 
 like this game is different than the other pieces of crap EA put out and dared calling a madden 
 game. 
  This game actually had substance. I know to some of you it might seem like i making the game better 
 than it is, but in reality, compared to the other maddens, this game rocks. I won't go into detail 
 b/c i don't get paid by this website, and there is the official review, but i would like to say 
 this, if you never liked a madden game or were disappointed with the past installments, then look 
 no further for that redeemer bc madden 09 is what they should of done when they first got the license. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  let me first say.... as football fans, we all miss NFL 2K5...... and after that Madden was the same 
 like every year, but this year [nex gen at least] they actually put in some work and made this 
 a great football experience. One thing they improved on dramatically was the rushing game, its 
 pretty much perfect. The gameplay itself is the best out of any Madden game you play. The graphics 
 is great, the player models are accurate. Pretty str8 forward the game is A MUST HAVE if u love 
 football. O yea the my skill addition was brilliant because it adjusts to how good u really are. 
 For instance i'm really good at rushing and passing, but not so great at pass defense. So the difficutly 
 sliders raise automaticaly to how good u perform at these aspects of the game. It makes it to where 
 the game is not easy nor hard, its just right......... overall a great football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwamaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The hole adaptive/Madden IQ thing is not impressive at all. I don't see the purpose of it. This 
 game is a great Madden like most others. However, the franchise continues to search for something 
 that is revolutionary and again fails. Franchise mode is fun as usual and allows you to completely 
 take control. It is very realistic with all of the finances involved with a franchise. If you try 
 to buy a bunch of big players, you're salary cap will suffer and your franchise will crumble. However, 
 superstar mode gets boring very quickly. Unless you are a quarterback. Sometimes your stats are 
 so bad you have to create several guys to get the stats you like. The madden test is not difficult 
 at all so almost anyone can excel at that and get an IQ and that is a misinterpretation of your 
 actual skill level. The announcer during the game get to be very very annoying. Especially when 
 he continues to hang on the nuts of players like Tony Romo and Peyton Manning. All in all it is 
 a decent game that deserves good marks. It is not spectacular, but is good enough to burn hours 
 during the day when you're supposed to be doing homework. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  
  Well, there I was. The year was 2007, and I had so quickly laid Madden 08 on the 360 to rest:
 
  
  "I will never buy another madden game again, before I rent it!" I yelled to my (equally) madden-enthused 
 bro. "The progression's broken, the off-season is uninspired, and it just DOESN'T replicate the 
 real 'politics' of the NFL... I never get a sense with this game, that it's a living breathing 
 NFL experience; just some half cocked attempt at being a generic football game!" I reasoned. "I'm 
 done with it!" I cried.
  
  But lo and behold, the NFL season comes round, and I begin to salivate. I immediately conjure up 
 dreams of grandeur for the on coming Madden 09: "Maybe they'll finally get this right! Ooh! Online 
 leagues! Sweet! New rosters! Yay!" (Etc etc) 
  
  So I bit the bullet, and, since the NFL owns my soul, I bought the collector's edition.
  
  
 And, once again, amidst all the fan-fare, hype and all... The game let me down.
  
  Now, the game engine is great; the on-the-field action is fantastic; (minus a few quirks) the graphics, 
 solid.... Yet, some things are odd; "the computer is incredibly accurate at Quarterback!" "What? 
 No computer sliders?? You mean I can't adjust their style of play??" 
  
  Even worse; the "First game that adapts to you" was a massive failure. My IQ, in no way, is either 
 accurate to your skill, or in any way realistic. So just forget about that touted feature.
  
  "Okay" fair enough, you say, "It's a work in progress, for next year" you hope. "At least I 
 still get online leagues with 32 teams gunning for the super bowl like the real NFL!" 
  
  Wrong, my fine friend... How wrong you are...
  
  What you DO get, is a horrendously slapped 
 together online TOURNAMENT mode, with no semblance of real NFL purpose. Instead, you play each 
 guy in your league 5-15 times each in one-off games, and at the end a winner is declared, and it's 
 over. No fan-fare, no super bowl, no injuries, no REAL NFL season what-so-ever. 
  
  Yet another massive failure...
  
  But as an out-and-out lover of the franchise mode, at least 
 I still had some hope left. At least I could still participate in a living, breathing, and evolving 
 world of the NFL made digital!
  
  I know, that's epic right? Reason enough to buy it, right? Seeing teams rise and fall like so many 
 European empires! Watching quarterbacks and everyone else, claim victory, or fall in defeat, get 
 injured, released, become heroes and goats; increase their stats and lead teams to greatness, or 
 fall into the pits of free-agency after a horrible year as a starter....
  
  All this is possible in the best of Madden Franchise modes.
  
  And yet, so much of it is missing 
 from Madden 09.
  
  Take this one example: Progression is broken. This is the most important failure of the Franchise 
 mode; and get this, they even patched it!
  
  I simulated a season, just to see what happened; and, under the fact of Tom Brady's injury, Matt 
 Cassel became a hero. 26 td's and 10 picks, 2nd on the Pro bowl team; "He's the next Tom Brady! 
 :O" This is going to be awesome -- I wonder if he'll get cut and start with another team?? I wonder 
 if he'll demand a tonne of money in his next contract? I bet he'll be like... 85 overall now, wow, 
 he's going to be a beast in MY NFL.
  
  No. Instead, he progresses none. Zero. His abilities did not increase at all! He stays 74 or whatever 
 he was, and get this, Matt Gutierrez, the third string, who threw one total pass, goes up 4 overall!
 
  
  Now, this wouldn't be an issue, if Cassel was at least recognized for his success. But alas, in 
 a game run entirely by the concept of overalls, Cassel then becomes third string, and will, conceivably 
 become buried in the New England depth chart, by a computer and a system that will never take into 
 account WHAT success he had! 
  
  So I asked myself; if this is the case, why play?
  
  I mean, if Cassel did that well in real life, we know he'd be 85 in next year's madden, and he'd 
 probably start somewhere else, so long as Brady returns as his old self; but because of this broken 
 system, none of that real (as I say) NFL politics happens here.
  
  It's just not real enough.
  
  Don't even ask me to mention Superstar mode, which, as a terrible 
 rehash of the old versions, places you as the starter as a rookie, even if you're 46 overall, and 
 Braylon Edwards is the main man... Yes, you'll start no matter what. Why? Because this game's simply 
 not realistic.
  
  Anyway, yes, online (if you can get a non-laggy connection) is great! Single games, are, interesting.
 
  
  But to a TRUE NFL fan, the meat of this game is rotten.
  
  The only reason I don't score it lower is because there is the possibility of editing the game 
 in a make-shift way... And by that I mean, you can choose to control all 32 teams, make edits to 
 other teams depth charts based on performances and those who are 'on the hot seat' (like the real 
 NFL) , AND you can also edit the overalls of every player based on how they played during the season, 
 and thereby progress them yourself. But these take a lot of time, and they rely on your own honour-system. 
 If you want real NFL, you might try this; but it takes commitment, and an honesty to say that your 
 running back sucks, and so, despite the fact he's your favourite player, has to go down -3 points 
 in overall -- and that's hard for some people. Nevertheless, that option exists, and so, I mention 
 it... Though I hate to do EA's work for it, to get an experience we all deserve to begin with...
 
  
  Anyway, this game just isn't what the NFL is; and I have a serious problem with that. I won't be 
 jumping on their $70 band wagon so soon next year.
  
  6.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  We the consumers are persistent with EA Sports to produce a Madden title each year with no glitches 
 and bugs. Apparently, Madden NFL 2009 failed to meet the consumer's demands and the title continues 
 to lose its player base to other sports titles. Gamers may argue this theory as there are known 
 to be hardcore maddenites who care nothing but to see a Madden title each year regardless if there 
 are bugs and glitches. Those players are the online gamers who wish to exploit the bugs and glitches 
 and have a great time ruining everyone's online experience. What has EA done to address these issues? 
 EA Sports immediately after release issued a quick fix with patch #1. Of course being EA Sports 
 nothing was actually fixed and the game was still unplayable. EA made us wait 3 weeks of non franchise 
 play, online cheaters, and no answers from EA Sports to when and how this new patch #2 will work 
 with its current title. EA responded saying "there will be major fixes with our current patch which 
 allows you to play your franchise without freezing and numerous bugs and glitches." Of course after 
 patch #2 was released with countless issues, we never heard from the developers again.
  
  Hardcore maddenites please read. There is nothing I need to tell you about this game except for 
 have fun and enjoy your game. No matter how much we show you and explain the game is not what we 
 expected, you refuse to accept EA's failure because of the cool, hip Madden name EA has been famous 
 for.
  
  To the franchise players and in depth gamers looking for a real simulation football, let me explain 
 that Madden NFL 09 falls short from our expectations. I'm not going to get into the sliders issues 
 because there are no CPU sliders. This has caused an uproar in the madden community. EA decided 
 to use a feature IQ which in my honest opinion doesn't work.
  
  Graphics:
  EA Sports has made no attempt to take Madden into the future for the next gen console and beef 
 up the players as to what 2Ksports has done with NFL2K series. The game looks exactly the same 
 as its first attempt for the next gen console and EA continues to believe that animations are more 
 important than physics and game play. Mediocre at best but don't expect anything less.
  
  Game play:
  Madden NFL 09 continues with its suction animation that destroys the game play which 
 doesn't give us real simulation football. Players make ridiculous plays and with no acceleration 
 in the game, your running back has no chance of actually making it past the line of scrimmage. 
 There have been numerous issues with gamers having a hard time running the football because of 
 no acceleration and how quickly the defense reacts to your sprint usage. One of my major issues 
 is the reaction of the CPU. No matter what play you pick or what level you play, the CPU will always 
 know what you are up to and it will have an insane reaction to your play. The moon jump is still 
 in the game, be careful when you pass the football. There is no Maximum Passing as to what NFL2K5 
 had and the passing is a little scarce. Regardless what quarterback you have, putting the ball 
 in the receivers hand as perfectly as you can is almost impossible. The defense reacts so quickly 
 that you don't have the power to zip the ball to your receivers. Theirs is an issue with the CPU 
 quarterbacks called "Robo QB" which allows the CPU QB to make accurate 100% passes even if they're 
 rolling out or on their heels. There are so many issues with this game that it doesn't allow you 
 to fully enjoy it unless you're slamming your controller to the ground and cussing a thousand words 
 at the EA Developers.
  
  Replay Value: 
  There's actually no replay value since the franchise mode is broken. You're constantly freezing 
 during franchise mode when you try to save. The referee calls for the clock to be reset and constantly 
 freezes your game. There are many issues with franchise that destroys the NFL fan's gaming experience 
 because your are either forced to play online, play quick solo games against the CPU or if you 
 have the collector's edition; play Head Coach 09. The only thing you get from the replay value 
 is online gaming which at times gets frustrating because of cheaters and there's no really way 
 to actually avoid them.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  It's always a sad day when Madden 09 is released because we the gamers know that EA Sports will 
 never deliver a game with rich content the NFL offers and a new physics engine to leap EA into 
 the future for nex gen console. There were good things coming out from 2kSports but unfortunately 
 EA went out of their way to make sure madden was the only title to produce NFL games. It will always 
 be a dark day in football until one day we are given the right to choose between two titles.
  
  Please, do not read this and make harsh decisions. If you can't live without an NFL title by 
 all means, get Madden 09 but I would hit eBay first before visiting your retail store. If you would 
 like my honest opinion, rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norwinknight
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2009 is probably going to be the best football game you are going to play since ESPN 2k5 
 in m view point their are so many new features that make the game amazing like the new graphics 
 look outstanding EA has def outdone them self's this year with the backtrack system witch tells 
 you every detail about what you did wrong theirs tons of new animations to witch are awesome the 
 new cometaty is well done with many new things though it dose get repetitive though some times 
 and their are some glitches like the CPU running out of bounds for no reason and other stupid stuff 
 like that that happens in madden some times But what game dose not have these problems They finally 
 made online leagues but they are not as good as we would like them to be but they are still a nice 
 fun thing to play superstar mode still has a bad camera and few improvements witch i have not seen 
 any yet Franchise is still the mode we no and love You got the mini games still the New virtual 
 trainer system witch is also a new feature witch gives you your madden IQ so the game adapts to 
 your skill level as you play witch is nice and neat so why are you still reading my review get 
 out their and buy It 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbolt76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Yet for all of the right it does, Madden still falls short of my expectations. 
  
  I was looking for some real innovation, but all I got was the same game as last year with updated 
 visuals and a few gimmicks thrown in. 
  I was excited to see the "adaptive difficulty" feature as I thought this would make the game a 
 bit more balanced.
  My biggest issue with the game is the "AI" as it corresponds with the "adaptive difficulty". 
 
  The AI will not let you call the same plays over and over, which is welcomed, while also picking 
 up on your tendencies (running on 1st down, PA passes on 3rd and short etc.) yet, as the difficulty 
 ratchets up, your players perform worst.
  I have never seen so many missed blocking assignments, dropped passes or blown defensive assignments.
 
  This was rather disappointing in to me.
  
  The game presentation is adequate, although the halftime and end game presentations are lacking. 
 
  It also would have been nice to have drive summaries after scores.
  
  Plenty of game modes, mini games and a robust online experience give this game plenty of replay 
 value.
  While some of the added features aren't as innovative as they are made out to be (see adaptive 
 difficulty) . 
  
  In the end, Madden 2009 is the same old Madden with updated rosters and a few added features. Nothing 
 on the way of a WOW factor, this is disappointing, since this is the 20th anniversary edition of 
 the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toosmoothforya
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Madden 09 comes in this year with expectations of being the greatest simulation of football ever. 
 The game is solid but the expectations and the resources EA has to make the game makes you feel 
 that the game is made each year just to earn a profit it WILL get because it IS Madden. What are 
 the good things:
  1. Presentation
  a. The game looks great! Stadiums are beautiful even the background you see while you are kicking 
 a punt. The players looks great and move well
  2. Attributes
  a. The weapons systems is a nice touch. Doesn't make player superhuman but you use your strengths 
 to create mismatches as you do in real life.
  3. Chris Collingsworth
  a. His voice is beautiful and natural. Anaylsis are great when you make a mistake just like watching 
 the real deal.
  4. Beginners
  a. If u are a beginnig you can set the difficulty on easy as heck and have fun mainly with running 
 up the field for 300 yds a game.
  
  The bad: Sadly outweighs the good
  1. John Madden
  a. yes he was added back in at the request of fans but why? To give us a 5 second intro sometimes 
 not stating the teams or the significance of the game? Thanks for being Obi Won in Madden trainer. 
 Madden needs a little bigger role in his own game. Maybe be on MNF games or playoff games. Or if 
 you are old and don't want too .. than don't!
  2. Tom Hammond
  a. PLEASE! we are aware that EA makes Madden and has done so for 20 yrs! "Just to let you know 
 that our game is brought to you by the good folks at EA Sports." That will be heard probably twice 
 per game! Very dumb. Thats not the main problem here. His voice sounds Mechanical. You know how 
 the lady who reads off the phone number of a generic voicemail sounds? Thats Hammond. You try to 
 press 1 to leave a message then she says "I'm sorry that is an invalid entry." Dangit can't get 
 around it Need a different play by play. Anyone.
  3. Feel
  a. Madden feels shaky. The atomosphere isn't there. They is no feeling while playing just sound 
 of Tom Hammond and tackling. Need more player chatter or the crowd involved. Better commentary 
 would do it since it's main part of real game
  4. Glitches
  a. The passing glitches hurt. Throwing out routes is a hit and miss. Some receivers don't run routes 
 causing interceptions. Best defender tackle can be broken by anyone.
  5. Franchise Freeze
  a. This may sound like a new dance by the steelers but it isn't. Some gamers experience their franchise 
 mode lokcing up. Having your MAIN game mode freeze 2 out 4 games isn't good.
  
  Econ 101: Competition
  
  Our country is built on competition. Madden has no competition. Wheb 
 you have no competition what do you get? USA basketball team when they lost. You were use to being 
 the best and you let your guard down and got embrass and woped. Or Monopoly like oil. There is 
 no alternative to oil so you can do whatever and charge whatever the big dogs are making money 
 what are you going to do? Not buy? Okay. You need a LOT of folks to follow suit to make an impact. 
 Madden has no competition so it can do what it want. a great marketing program builds hype and 
 the game nevers totally sucks so you can always have the self hopemaybe next year will be good" 
 And there is something about "next year" that makes you truly feel it will be a little better than 
 next year and you get it and you start the process all over. Until Madden has competition EA has 
 NO reason to do their true best!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox4life76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well I ended up getting this as a gift... but boy am I happy I did. The graphics for this game are 
 first class, sharp detail and great movement and flow by the players. Passing is a blast and not 
 too difficult Tackling is a lot of fun also but I would suggest doing some practice if you aren't 
 familiar with it. I've only played 3 pre-season games and I'm getting ready to start my season. 
 I love the MY SKILL feature. This feature allows your correct skill level for the game to be reflected 
 while you're playing. I find it very accurate and really allowed me to play competitive games and 
 work on certain aspects (pass defense and rushing offense) . The Franchise Mode is perfect for me, 
 not too work involved yet enough for me to have fun with it. If you are on the fence with getting 
 this, my suggestion... GET IT!!! You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianlawrence28
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Ever since the new generations have came out for football they downgraded all the features for 
 Madden.. Like in 06 you couldnt even create a player that was just horrible.. back when they had 
 2k fooball it was amazing they Sport Center features and gameplay were amazing.. If Madden could 
 have all the features 2k5 have this would be the best game ever made but no. Year by year there 
 just going to keep adding old features that are going to be (NEW) for the new generation making 
 every year more disapointing. They need more features. I want to feel like im actually playing 
 a real football game. The commatary gets old after you play for awhile. you just start hearing 
 the same old stuff. It is an upgrade for the horrible radio commatary but this brings back to what 
 i said about the downgrade they didnt even have real comm until 09? wow Madden needs to step it 
 up next year. but i guess we have no choice on what football game to get because this is the only 
 NFL Football game we can purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggler8460
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  dont let this review fool you. I am a huge madden fan and I have really enjoyed the gameplay. while 
 it works. madden 09 is easily the most frustrating game I have ever played on the 360. the game 
 is constantly freezing in the middle of saving and in the middle of a game. The visuals are amazing, 
 especially on an HD screen, and the dynamic amount animations make the experience feel more real. 
 I also really enjoyed the break away feature of the running game. not just to completely break 
 the tackle but to make a second effort and gain an extra few yards before your taken down. if the 
 simple issue of the freezing could be fixed madden 09 would be a superb game. unfortunately I dont 
 want to play 30 games just to complete a 16 game season. I belive that if a patch was released 
 Madden could completely live up to its lofty expectations and not make every franchise game I play 
 a waste of my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteyford1985
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2009 would be a great game if it weren't for the glitches and bugs that foul it up. 
 Online freezes just as often as franchise, which freezes quite often. A ton of new features enhance 
 the game play, when the game is indeed playable. EA promises a patch to fix 18, yes 18 bugs and/or 
 glitches found in the game, and the patch is yet to be seen on 9/13/08. The games developers have 
 said that fixing this game will take time away from improving the 2010 version, so after the first 
 patch, if it even comes, madden owners are on their own. If this is true, I would suggest anyone 
 who hasn't bought it to hold out for next years version, although you may want to rent it first 
 if it is anything like its predecessor. Steer away from Madden NFL 2009 as long as you can, and 
 maybe the NFL will not sign another exclusive rights deal. Hopefully, the competition will improve 
 the Madden Series in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiroyukiwu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Madden 09 register's it two decade prominence in American football gaming with 09, and what a way 
 to round off 20 years.
  
  Immeadiatley noticable before the game is even in your machine you'll not Brett Favre on the front 
 cover, but despite his late trade to the Jet's the game itself is very fine in terms of it's rosters, 
 although playing through the game you get the trade off so it's simple if you a Favre or jet's 
 fan to acquire your man.
  
  The visuals standout from the get go, a vast improvement on 08 and with stunning weather effect's 
 player models and superb replays it's even more of a joy to hear Chris Collingworth's spot on commentry, 
 controls are very responsive and the changing of the play's is simple and won't give away what 
 your up to.
  
  Despite the shinning commentry from Collingworth Madden's on the other hand is bland and tom hammod's 
 is mundane to the point where you'll be looking for the mute button, add to this the fact franchise 
 hasn't been improved OR superstar modes you might be asking if EA have a blind spot for this game.
 
  
  Online is fun enough but the leagues aren't enough but having said that there will always be people 
 up for games.
  
  All in all Madden 09 is a solid game with a few let downs, but this is the way sports games are, 
 there are always room for improvements, but madden will sit comfortably on the nfl hill for another 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinjohns0n
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this Madden is by far the best in series. It is leaps and bounds better graphically 
 then all the rest. But of course graphics aren't a selling point in most games, gameplay is. Now 
 for the gameplay aspect, it's so much more realistic and very smooth. Gang tackleling, breakout 
 runs, and hit stick-cam are just a few of the new additions to the gameplay. Everything is a lot 
 smoother from throwing the ball to your running game. The addition of "Backtrack" w/ Chris Collinsworth 
 is really cool and for beginners it's quite helpful and for those that already know strategy it's 
 still cool to watch. In previous Madden games the A. I. just wasn't up to par at all but this one 
 wins the award. No more idiot O lineman just standing there while someone runs right passed and 
 sacks you. As for the new feature of "MY SKILL LEVEL", is great and showed be in every game. I 
 was a skeptic at first but now I'm loving it. If your like me and like competitive games against 
 A. I. as well as friends then this is for you. I've played every Madden since its debut and this 
 is is by far my favorite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alstevens83
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  So what does this the 4th next Generation Madden game has to offer. Well actually quite a lot. 
 In which I will go into details later in the review. First off we have in my option here one of 
 the prettiest madden games released to date. A Career mode that covers either being a superstar 
 or running a franchise mode. A somewhat debateable "rewind" mode that gives a player (both human 
 and computer) a chance to go back in time and change the play, online play which included one on 
 one games and a online league for you and your friends. Then to end we are treated to an improved 
 commentary team as well.
  
  So we start off with the graphics and all I shale say is wow. This year for EA sports have gone 
 all out to make this visually impressive. In playing this years madden it little things like being 
 able to see what looks like blades of grass which is a great seller and also in some matches where 
 if it's raining the outfits gets caked in mud. A great example of this is when I was playing my 
 career mode the Quarterback for the Green bay packers Brain Brohm shirt got that muddy you couldn't 
 see the number on his jersey. However the one let down of the new game is fact unlike in Madden 
 08 the pitch doesn't get turned up over a period of the game. Even though this is a tiny detail 
 it doesn't take much away from the game, due to the enjoyment factor of the game. I have played 
 the game with three different people in the flesh and each of them had a big smile on their face 
 as they was playing and sacking each other.
  
  Another thing that I forgot to mention about in the main over view is the touchdown celebrations. 
 Now in American football we see stuff ranging from the chest bump to giving the ball mouth to mouth, 
 however this year on madden there is a range of things that you can do. For example you can slam 
 dunk the ball between the posts ala NBA Jam style, or you can run to where the people are sitting 
 and jump on the boarding and even steel someone else's celebration. This is simple if you run into 
 the endzone and see a box appear run to the box and then press Y or on the PS3 I would believe 
 to be Triangle (The reason why I am not sure is I reviewed this on 360) which can lead to some 
 funny moments.
  
  The heart and soul of any team-based game is the roster of teams on there as well as the game modes. 
 And I can say that this game has ever member of the NFL roster here on this one baring Brett Favre. 
 Ironically I believe that this is one of the few times that a person who has featured on the games 
 cover and manual who isn't in the game due to the real life retirement and then later un retirement. 
 However if you want to make the box art up to date then EA's site has got the option to download 
 Favre in his New York Jets uniform. However I am sure that if the time were right then I would 
 expect to see the Jets getting an update to include him in the game.
  
  As for the game modes then well they're hit and miss really, for example the franchise mode is 
 made slightly more true to life so there won't be many running backs getting 2,000+ yards in one 
 season however the superstar mode is the same from last years madden game. Even down to the emails, 
 which your character gets from his mother, however they are both staple modes in the madden series 
 and for me the most fun you can have with out being naked. Also within either superstar or franchise 
 mode the game makes up a big stink when it comes to rivalry matches which is great for new comers 
 to not only madden games but like myself to the NFL in general. Also may I add there is nothing 
 more fun that reducing your rivals to 40 10 thrashing, but then again that's like say having Liverpool 
 beating Everton 12 0 on FIFA 08.
  
  Online play plays like a normal one on one match which means your playing as everyone on the team 
 and there is the online league and this is one of the disappointing features on there online play. 
 You can set up a league with your friends, which in turn plays like a round robin style system. 
 However the biggest let down is when you are playing the league you need everyone there playing 
 which is annoying if you have friends in America and Canada due to not having everyone at the same 
 time due to time zones however it is fun playing the normal one on one matches and sitting back 
 with a beer and having a laugh while your doing it.
  
  Also there is a bunch of new features in 09, which are both brilliant and annoying. They are the 
 Backtrack system and the rewind system. Before confusion sets in the backtrack system is basically 
 regardless if the play was a good one or a bad one it shown again and with help from the commentary 
 team of Cris Colinsworth and Tom Hammond explain what when wrong or what when right with the play. 
 This feature is something that is a brilliant idea and it can help not only the new comer to the 
 game series but season vets as well. However the other option to rewind the play if it goes wrong 
 could be a grey area. However thankfully it's for single games and multi player games so if you 
 want to you can turn it off you can.
  
  Also there are other things like a Madden IQ test, which has old John giving and introduction in 
 a R2D2 style hologram and then doing different drills in a tron like mode. Also this updates and 
 changes the difficulty level as your playing along. This is something to really test the metal 
 of any die hard NFL fan, however the problem is that if you do the test and your new to the game 
 series it could in fact put you on the hardest setting. Also there is a classic moments where you 
 have to play different moments in real games and try to change history (Think the history moments 
 in the Brian Lara Cricket moments) 
  
  So to rap this up Madden 09 is a great game which depending if your playing on your own, online 
 or have a few friends over with a couple of crates of beer. While with the new touches like the 
 Madden IQ, the re-telling of your plays and the improved weather features are welcome to the series 
 and also little things like the improved commentary and graphics. The main modes like franchise 
 and superstar could have been slightly improved however I wouldn't think it would affect the enjoyment 
 level.
  
  For me I would have to game a solid 8 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedofinsanity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  ... this one is the best.
  
  Madden 09' brings a ton of new features:
  - 4 Game Style Options
   Adaptive AI
   EA SPORTS Backtrack
   Bluff Play Art (Extremely 
 fun in multiplayer.)
   Bobble Catches
   Booth Commentary and Play-by-Play
   Dynamic ActionCam
   EA SPORTS Rewind
   Options on Demand PIP playcall
   Formation Subs
 
   In-Game Button Hints
   Madden IQ
   Madden Moments
   Madden Test
   Online Leagues
   Return Missed Field Goals
   Rivalry Games
   Slide Protection
   User 
 Activated Celebrations (Lambeau-Leap, Slam-Dunk the Up-rights, Snow Angels, ect.)
   Virtual Trainer
  - Upgraded Weather Machine.
  
  Wether you're playing alone against the 
 computer or playing with friends this one will keep you entertained for hours. The upgrades make 
 this the first really enjoyable Madden game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jebus11
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I actually really enjoy playing the game... when it's not crashing. The graphics and presentation 
 are much better than last year, and the animations are excellent. The gameplay, while not perfect, 
 is fun. However, during my second season of franchise the game started freezing during the loading 
 screen to train players for the week. I was a little upset, but willing to overlook this, even 
 though this is the only way to improve players since the progression system is a joke. So I made 
 it through the second year of my franchise and when trying to advance to the offseason the game 
 freezes once again. Now I cannot continue my franchise. I called the support line and their answer 
 is that these problems are widespread and there will be a patch to hopefully fix this, among several 
 other glitches that plauge this game; but it won't be available for a few more weeks. Piss-poor 
 effort by the developers and testers. Oh, almost forgot about the direct snap to the wr in online 
 play that ruins that feature as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOblahMan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, I like the EA Sports BackTrack, and I guess the Rewinds even though I hate 
 it when people use it. I definitely like the Madden Test because it puts you on the skill level 
 that's just right for you. Not too hard not too easy but just right. I like the fact that there 
 are different types of things you can do after you score the touchdowns, but when you dunk on the 
 field goal post, you don't touch it. But it's cool when they shoot the fadaways!!! I like the fact 
 that the achievements are relatively easy depending on your skill and experience. Also the Madden 
 Moments aren't new. They had something very similar to it on Madden 08 on the PSP. It was called 
 "Super Star Challenges." So it isn't a new addition to the game. I really don't understand the 
 purpose of the virtual trainer. They could of just made it a regular field, but I only like it 
 because it looks cool. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is a major improvement to the 08 game. The 08 game, to me, had many 
 flaws and I hated it all together that I didn't play it anymore. However, this game is a quite 
 a large improvement, although some of the new features don't work or are just annoying. 
  
  The Good
  
  The best thing about this game overall is the graphics. I turned on the game and 
 began to play, and you could already see a huge improvement to last years game. The game looks 
 stunning from the players, to the feild, although, the audience still is made out of paper. A minor 
 complaint. The game also has a good opening menu interface and the game is overall fun for the 
 most part. I enjoyed the new addition of Madden Moments where you can relive some of the great 
 moments of the past season. Say Miami's first win for example.
  
  The Bad
  
  Madden IQ is terrible. The tests, in my opinion, are extremely easy. Expecially the offensive tests 
 which I got All Madden on. Then I get in to the game, and the game is ten times harder then the 
 tests were. Now I personally am not good at Pass Defense, and I scored a Pro, but I was hoping 
 to improve. That didn't happen when it seemed like Pass Defense was on all Madden when I would 
 try to cover my man, but he would sprint off or all the sudden my person who was suppose to be 
 covering the WR is way off from him when the pass was made. And rush defense is terrible unless 
 you do a Blitz on them when you think they are doing a run play. So needless to say Madden IQ will 
 not help you in the slightest. Then Backtrack can be very annoying. You see you threw the INT, 
 do we really need to hear what we did wrong again and see the play twice more to make sure we know 
 how much we just blew it.
  
  Overall the game is an improvement, but Madden IQ is pointless and broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MinerAvatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  This year's version is the football game I have been waiting for on the field. This years version 
 has changed how you have to play madden. Gone are the easy long bombs like in the 08 version, the 
 CB and Safety AI is vastly improved. Most players I have played online in 08 would just toss bomb 
 after bomb and the AI was such that it was almost impossible to defend against, the receiver would 
 almost always be open. This new AI helps make the game more balanced, and calling the right play 
 is rightly the focus. If you use the madden IQ feature you can really learn the controls if you 
 need to and the AI is tailored to how you play giving you a challenge where you are skilled and 
 a break where your game may lack. The addition of the rewind feature I was reluctant at first to 
 use, thinking it a cheap and useless feature. I am happy to say I was wrong, I find it a great 
 way to learn how to read defenses, offences, and football in general. With this feature turned 
 on, let's say you hit the wrong button and pass to a covered receiver and turn the ball over wit 
 a Pic. Now you can rewind time and try it again making sure this time you try the correct button. 
 With this feature (even if you turn on unlimited rewinds) give you only one more shot to correct 
 whatever went so wrong so it doesn't feel cheap. It's almost like a film study before you try that 
 play again. Another new and useful feature is backtrack, you may get a lesson from Chris Collinsworth 
 explaining what went wrong on a play, and what should have happened, and used with the rewind feature 
 a new player should be able to learn the game at their own pace offline before testing your skills 
 on a human online. The rewinds are turned off for online games thankfully, and can be set on or 
 off for local play on one system. The presentation and graphic updates are very slick this year 
 and are quite impressive, and yes people commenting on the grass are right, it looks great. For 
 hardcore Madden players don't worry they added a hardcore mode with out weapons, rewinds, or backtracks, 
 note however you can turn on rewinds, but not weapons, or the backtrack feature. Some other new 
 tweaks are icons under the players that let you know what button or stick is the players' best 
 move. For example on defense if your opponent passes your CB will display what button would work 
 best to disrupt the pass, either the catch, swat, or hit stick will appear under him. Once you 
 learn the game you can turn this feature off if you dislike it by switching to the hardcore mode. 
 As far as all the other modes of play, there are really no new features at all, I think EA focused 
 on game play and presentation this year over new features, this however is a positive step. For 
 example in the franchise mode the stats the CPU controlled teams get are pretty darn close to what 
 you get in the NFL now and not over bloated like in Madden 08. I would rate this game higher if 
 they had also overhauled some of the other features in the other modes however. One suggestion 
 I would give EA is please no more Superstar mode, it SUCKS and has not really changed since it 
 was first done anyway. In the franchise mode I would rather run the team practice types in the 
 superstar mode than the current pick three guys crap, there are 53 players, what about the other 
 50? What could have made the practice types better would be to give you a chance to work up to 
 three total times, but having to choose a unit group, like the madden IQ test is now (Pass offence, 
 Rush offence, Rush defense, and Pass defense) but with the whole unit out there like in the practice 
 mode in Superstar. That way you could get a boost in three of the main four unit groups & give 
 your team a boost based on your practice results not some stupid mini game that controls different 
 than the game play on the field, I don't want to do a 40 yard dash or lift weights to improve my 
 players, I want to play football to improve them. There are a few minor glitches I have come across 
 but nothing too major that takes away from the games overall experience and I am sure an update 
 should fix those issues. The bottom line is this years Madden seems much more like football than 
 in years past, last years game was good but had an arcade feel and it was a bit to easy to pass 
 the ball. This year thanks to the new AI, every yard you get you fell like you earned it, you beat 
 their defense. If you are new to the Madden series this is the version to get, if you're a hardcore 
 Madden player, this is the version to get. For the really hardcore get your madden IQ to 800 turn 
 on hardcore mode and you will get a challenging game of football for once from the CPU. If you 
 are one of the long bomb lovers from madden 08, you may not like this version at first, the long 
 ball is not an easy thing to do anymore, but when it happens it feels great. For the new player, 
 you can a have a great deal of fun and get to know the controls much easier than in years past 
 thanks to rewind and backtrack. All this and the great game play tweaks make this an easy game 
 to recommend this time, Thank you EA, you are getting closer and closer to getting the game right. 
 PS if you check out my other Madden review you will see I am no blind follower of Madden or EA, 
 however a good game is a good game, and this time I think EA got it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sseals23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I had watched video after video from the Madden Team, stating over and over how they have fixed 
 the turnover issues from last year. I am 6 games into my franchise, My defense has an incredible 
 21 interceptions, with one player having 13 just by himself, well done EA. problem fixed. And i 
 am not playing it on the broken Madden IQ setting. Theres really not enough room on here to go 
 over all the problems with this game. Commentary is the worst in a football game ever. Hammond 
 is a freaking robot, rather listen to Celine Dion on loop while i play. Online leagues are broken. 
 Still has tackling glitches. Real easy to pass, Cant run, (unless its a QB keeper, QB sneak glitch 
 will get ya at least 4 yards at a time.) Until 2012 when this exclusive deal between the monopoly 
 that is EA, and the NFL ends, we will not get a good football game, no competition means no motivation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welchj05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  When you first go on the game the madden iq test is what you first have to do. How well you do 
 on this well set your 'my skill' rating which goes up and down after every match.
  The graphics are just amazing and the commentators are much better than last years.
  The superstar 
 is as good as ever but i would have liked them to make a bigger deal of the playoffs and the superbowl. 
 The achievements are all fairly easy, i have got all of them mostly without trying to go for them.
 
  The teams have more accurate ratings same as the players and the stadiums look fantastic.
  Madden is far better than the NCAA series and this game totally proves it. The endzone celebrations 
 are amusing and you even get achievements for TRYING to do them!!! 
  Just an overall great game and i cant think of anything bad to say right now........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a loyal fan since day one though I started to really wonder if they could fix the major 
 issues with the game. They finally went the right direction in Madden 09 despite some minor issues 
 and a few big ones. First I will say the graphics are top notch they really got it right with the 
 graphics this time. The gameplay itself is mostly very good with a few AI issues from time to time. 
 The ability to run a play successfully depends greatly on you're ability to know what play to run 
 where. The people that say they can through bullet passes every time either A) have the difficulty 
 setting set to 0 or are cheating. I myself have had a 16-0 season however my passing attack is 
 never that easy. I throw a good pass it's caught I throw a bad pass it's not or intercepted. Now 
 there are a few issues like the AI from time to time looks completly broken like a pass literally 
 going right through them but that's rare. The only nagging issues are A) the AI logic sometimes 
 is annoyingly bad (like running a pass play on third and long) and sometimes spot on. The other 
 issue is the announce who is not Chris. He is nothing but an annoying mouthpiece for EA. The only 
 big flaw is the Virtual Training and the adaptive learning system. Good concept poor execution. 
 Overall a great football experience and definitely the best next gen Madden game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyMP153rd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Every year i get hyped up about Madden, pre-order it, and go out and dish out the cash for the 
 next best thing in sports gaming.... and every year i play it for about 5 hours and trade it in. 
 what happened to the madden i used to love? competition, that's what happened... here's a hint 
 EA Sports, next year don't try to blow our minds with a new feature that "takes the game to a new 
 level." instead make the game fun, with amazing gameplay, like it used to have when NFL 2K series 
 was around. Maybe make it possible to run the ball next year.... or... or.... dare i say, make 
 it possible to throw a screen pass without having 2 linemen blocking the air in front of them while 
 the defense runs by dropping you for a 6 yard loss..... now that, would blow my mind. There is 
 good news though, you can still get a great football game from EA sports. Do yourself a favor, 
 pass on Madden and pick up NCAA 09... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimmreefer
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 - What can I say, still the worst Madden since 2005, which is still better than 06,07,08, 
 and 09, and why might you ask? Solid gameplay, none of the annoying little things that have plagued 
 all of the next gen Madden's.
  
  Cons
  
  Madden IQ - www. howtogetraped - bymaddendifficulty. com, it's revolutionarily worthless as it's 
 way to easy to comprehend how the actual game works.
  
  AI QB's are all Joe Montana's who will pass for at least 250 YPG, while your defense allows less 
 than 40 YPG against the run. Sacking is very rare, and your better off letting your AI make any 
 open field tackles or pursuits due to this years really annoying "stutter step" or the shuffle 
 they do when you try and run in any direction except "up" on the analog. Your DB's will get burned, 
 a lot and will cover a receiver from 3-6 yards behind the WR instead of being remotely near him 
 to defend the pass. AI DB's will make a play on every ball, regardless, and your's? They just don't, 
 ever. I've gotten one running play to avg more than 4YPC, and with the oustanding opponent DB's 
 good luck passing to stay in the game, and I agree with whoever posted that games are predetermined 
 at the start, because if the AI wants to win, they're just going to, and there's no good playcalling 
 or playing that you can do to stop it. The only positive thing I can say is, the player models 
 look great this year, and not like they're all from Gears of War.
  
  Overall: 4-10
  Gameplay: 1-10
  Sound: 7-10
  Soundtrack: 4-10
  Fun Factor: 0-10
  Visuals: 9-10
  Controls: 
 3-10
  "New Features": 1-10
  
  My suggestion, if you haven't bought it, wait until the reviews for 2010 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerscorpion
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The game looks nice, thats i gave it a 4.0, and the IQ is interesting. However there are several 
 issues with it freezing up and causing the system to need to be rebooted. Also the game play itself 
 has a lot of flaws. Such as the cpu running out of bounds on side line passes to the backs, way 
 too many interceptions from both user and cpu. At this point I have quit playing it because as 
 several others have posted on the EA forums this game's freezing problem is causing systems to 
 become unusable, 360's are getting RRoD, my 360 had lines in it's dashboard after the game froze 
 up on me. Ps3 users are reporting their ps3's will no longer read blu-ray, music, or game disc. 
 Just a friendly warning from personal experience, if it freezes up stop playing it before you do 
 real damage to your ps3 or 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orin_Steel
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  While it is Madden and that alone makes it a game worth buying, they have once again left us wanting 
 more. Much much more in fact. Nothing that I see touch and feel is any different than what has 
 already been there. So wow, they created a Madden IQ test, woopdie doo. All I am getting at is 
 this, EA stopped bringing their "A" game once they created the next gen versions in '06. Heck in 
 '06 the Madden for regular Xbox was better gameplay than the the Xbox 360. I'm not going to lie 
 the graphics are amazing and they are now; but once they got exclusive rights to football it was 
 over. Look back at all the stuff they put into Madden during '00-'06. Each year it was all about 
 the ohhs and awws. Now it's wow why do I feel like I just played this game. If EA wants to do something 
 revolutionary do this. Instead of creating a new game every year you should just sell a standard 
 Madden and then each year sell the expansion pack w/ the updated rosters. Or better yet let another 
 company give a go and creating the game for you or with you. Like 2k sports or gameday. Work on 
 it together and create a masterpiece. I am really surprised that this game is getting the reviews 
 it is. The limited edition was tight because of the old school madden, that was a good idea. If 
 you wanna go basic see what you did back in those days when you had the Madden team the all-madden 
 team and the all-time-all madden team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ed_The_Great
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  What's the deal? My RB just juked by itself when I tried to hit the hole. He spins off defenders 
 by himself without me pressing anything. Am I suppose to feel a sense of accomplishment because 
 I didn't do anything? Why do the players keep running toward the sideline on the out routes and 
 just keep running out the bound when they are by their self. Celebrations are corny and way too 
 frequent that it becomes aggravating. How about the Lambeau leap, mocking the mile high salute or 
 mocking the dirty bird, the "you can't see me"? Everybody does their stupid celebrtaion after every 
 positive play, even the 90% of the players in the NFL that never celebrates. There are many other 
 things that they can improve on this game and make it as accurate to the NFL as possible but it 
 almost seems like they just don't want to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden a football sim most of us has been playing for year's and year's. A lot of people really 
 like the game and others simply hate the game but for me I thank it's an ok game. It's not at it's 
 best were it could be but isn't the worst football sim I've played either. The game is great the 
 graphics look great the stadiums looks great also. And the weather effect are just as good if not 
 better, there's two things about the game that I don't like. One there's that franchise freeze 
 which in my opinion is a big problem because it always ends up messing you up big time. Then second 
 the commentary is so bad but it's always been like that but at the same time that isn't a big deal 
 to me. You'll also like the end zone celebrations I love seeing them. But if you ain't got the 
 game yet and your wanting it I'd say wait for a while before you go and get it. Unless your like 
 me and you must have the latest addition of Madden but other than that just keep playing Madden 
 08 for right now. So the final score is 8.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier305
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  somewhere down the line in franchise mode, your game will freeze!!!... its not the your system, 
 its not the actual disc, its the games programming!!!... make sure to save before and after every 
 action!!!... pre-game, post-game, off season event, MAKE SURE TO SAVE!!!... other than that, the 
 game is solid. awsome animations, awsome playbooks, cool achievements, cool graphics and details... awsome 
 stadium and weather effects!!!... the commentary is pretty lame, but all you gotta do is lower the 
 commentary volume all the way to 0 and your good to go!!!... hopefully the "franchise freeze" problem 
 will be solved for madden 2010... we just got to wait and see!!!... and for all you brett farve fans 
 out there, he's in the game, he's in the legendary players section in the rosters... just release 
 him from there, then sign him to your favorite team, or update your rosters and sign him to the 
 new york jets. we all know that franchise mode is the heart and soul of the madden games... and 
 having to be saving constantly because of fear of loss memory due to it freezing is a really disappointing 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandujano87
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Looks like EA managed to dupe me again. I'll admit I bought into all the hype leading up to the 
 release of Madden NFL 09 (though I am certainly not alone) . With Chris collinsworth in the commentary 
 box, a new training simulator, and enhanced graphics how could this game be a disappointment? Well, 
 I'll tell you! Apparently in adding all these superficial new features the folks at EA forgot about 
 delivering on the actual gameplay. Forget about running the ball, 1 ypc just isn't worth it. Passing 
 is now the only practical way to advance the ball (and good luck doing that with the seemingly 
 psychic corners) . At times you'll swear that the CPU has predetermined the outcome of the game 
 as last-second user orchestrated drives will almost invariably end in a disastrous interception 
 (thanks to the previously mentioned clairvoyant defensive backs that stack the CPUs roster) or 
 a heart-breaking (and controller-breaking) fumble.
  
  For me personally, the most annoying thing about this game is the horrifically unrealistic stat 
 lines. The CPU is lucky to get 30 rush yards in an entire game with even the best of running backs 
 (think LT or AP) . No matter what defensive play you're calling your linemen will nearly always 
 manage to break into the backfield and hit the runner for a loss. Perhaps this was done to counter 
 the incredible passing skills of the CPU. When the CPU calls a pass play your linemen (who previously 
 had such an easy time breaking through the O-line and getting to the tailback) will simply push 
 against the opposing O-lineman in vain while the QB calmly scans the field for his receivers before 
 delivering a picture perfect pass to that one open receiver that your crappy corners couldn't pick 
 up. What's even worse is that on the rare occasion when you do manage to get one of your DTs or 
 DEs to beat his man, pursuing the QB for a sack, or even a hurry, is an exercise in futility. D-linemen 
 run in such a bizarre fashion that they never get to the QB in time and the CPU seems to know this 
 since even under the pressure of a pocket-crushing blitz even the worst QBs (think Rex Grossman) 
 will maintain their composure and throw incredible passes for 15-20 yard gains. The QB stats for 
 the CPU are always insanely stellar, with the Grossmans and Alex Smiths of the league completing 
 85% of their passes. 
  
  Prior to the game's release, EA claimed that the camera angles had been fixed so that players would 
 be able to see the whole field and play effective defense against the pass. This, I assure you, 
 was a complete lie. Trying to play the cornerback position is as frustrating as ever now that you 
 have to contend with robo-QB as well as the fact that you can't see the sides of the field.
  
  Yet another disappointment is the complete uselessness of the Madden IQ "My Skills" feature, 
 which is designed to customize the games difficulty setting for each player. The exercises in the 
 training simulator do a terrible job of evaluating the player's skills. The rushing exercise was 
 laughably easy and the computer advised me to play on the All-Madden difficulty setting as a result. 
 It came as a rude awakening when I found that in actual gameplay I was only averaging about 1 ypc. 
 Basically, this feature is complete garbage.
  
  Essentially, the only reason to buy this game is if you are, like myself, a die-hard football fan 
 who absolutely must own the latest addition to the Madden series. Casual gamers should definitely 
 avoid this one and maybe wait for Blitz: The League II to come out. Hopefully it can deliver in 
 the gameplay department since EA has failed so spectacularly to do so. I could go on and on about 
 the shortcomings of this game but it would take more time than I have the patience to invest in 
 a game review that I suspect Gamespot will probably delete anyway once they see that it rails against 
 their ol' chums at EA. AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doneskey57
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  I've played Madden for years and if you have too, you might be disappointed with this new version. 
 Here's why:
  
  1) It's glitchy! In Franchise mode you'll suffer odd crashes during games, which means you have 
 to restart your PS3. Is anything worse? The screen will freeze, though oddly, the sound goes on, 
 like the game is continuing but you can't do anything about it. Ever wanted to play Madden without 
 watching the screen? Now you can!
  
  2) More glitchy! In Franchise mode you'll have the game crash often when trying to train players. 
 This is especially Madden (ing) because your team won't improve through stat acquisition, as in 
 past games. In other words, it won't matter how many touchdowns your HB scores in a season -- he'll 
 ONLY improve through these training drills, and if you can't do them because they crash, well, 
 you're outta luck. Ever wanted to play Franchise when you have no ability to improve your players? 
 Then Madden 09 is just right for you! I suppose if you play as the Chargers, Cowboys, Patriots, 
 or Colts, this isn't a problem. For the rest of us, like Bronco fans, Cutler starts with a low 
 awareness rating and it may NEVER get any better.
  
  3) Some training drills still make no sense, such as having your field goal kicker do the bench 
 press to improve leg strength. I'm not kidding.
  
  4) The new Madden virtual training area is strange. For offense, it's too easy. For defense, you 
 can't stop anything. Skip it and just set the difficulty manually the way you always have done.
 
  
  5) Gone are the days of the long bomb over a receiver's outstretched arms for a TD. The bomb touch 
 pass just doesn't work anymore. You can hit long plays, but usually slants using left or right 
 touch, for a short reception and long YAC.
  
  6) Online play doesn't have enough people playing right now. In Madden 08 you could find a game 
 within 30 seconds. Here, you'll end up waiting a LOT.
  
  7) Superstar mode could be fun, but your player will probably start with REALLY low stats.
  
 
  8) unrealistic running animations. It's just not fluid -- especially true when you break into the 
 open.
  
  Some things I like:
  
  1) Chris Collinsworth.
  
  2) Some fun new tackling and catching animations
  
  3) snow and rain games, while they cause 
 fumbles and interceptions, look very real.
  
  4) endzone celebrations
  
  In sum, I bought it and I'm not sorry, because I'm a Madden gamer. But EA is just riding on their 
 rep and don't fix obvious problems and don't think through new "innovations." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Close up the graphics resemble that of a NFL fever series, with slightly less sharpness, yet the 
 far away cam for the general game play, I found to be borderline fuzzy and unclear as if 
 the players looked washed-out, and appeared as if they were trying to look like the starving 
 Olsen Twins, skinny and hard to see. Actually I preferred the player models from madden 
 07 and 08 better, but you may find otherwise. 
  
  As for the new renditions of the game which many complain of being non-existing, those would be 
 correct in thinking so. Not much has changed, with the exception of improved graphics (the far 
 away cam graphics are NOT good) , and there is no custom game play cam either. The stadium 
 cam shots, and pregame fireworks; These features are great, and I think should use more 
 attention. These previews could have been slowed down and be given more focus, and not quickly 
 run through. These virtual trainer exercises were dull and 21st century to the point where it makes 
 football look like an arcade game and not a sim.  
  
  Much of the controls stay the same, with a slight learning curve from madden 07. The other thing 
 I found to be vague was the madden skill challenge. In this challenge, madden takes you through 
 a series of virtual tests that will match your AI skill level in the game, but what I actually 
 found that it set the difficulty too high, but don't worry because as you either not live 
 up to the AI's expectations or either do better than you thought, the AI skill level will 
 adjust itself accordingly throughout your season. The announcers were the best part of the 
 game, and probably the best of the series. It's about time Madden took a break before he 
 gave himself laryngitis. 
  
  Overall the game surpasses any other football title, but for the not-so football fanatic, you should 
 consider renting first. I gave the rating higher of a score than deserved because it still remains 
 the best and only selling football title on the market. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaquisMurph
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Alright madden still is madden , nice graphics though i am playin it on the 360 , it is a purely 
 button game... the players are not smart at all they are friggin slow how many passes i throw (which 
 i play with the chargers) and my guy stops running his route or it hits him in the back... kind 
 da sucks beause your guys are not that smart you tend to get picked off... The commentator is annoying 
 as hell.... online is just awful... it slows down and that is not good when you are tryin to kick 
 a field goal or punt.... they made half time better by makin it move this time haha (damn pictures 
 in 08) it is a sad game , same game better graphics thats pretty much it.... people love the game 
 cuz guess what it is the ONLY NFL FOOTBALL game out there haha plus you can win with the madden 
 bulls**t bring 2K back so we can have some real fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I love that Brett Favre is on the cover but the cover looks better than the game. The graphics 
 are real impressive but some features in the game shouldnt have been in the game in the first place. 
 Like the rewind feature. I dont see the point in it at all. Madden is suposed to be a football 
 simulator, but it has a rewind button. In the real NFL you cant rewind any thing unlees the refs 
 review a play and reverse a challenge. And the Madden test is retarted with all do respect to John 
 Madden. Some would say its genious because it can improve your skills, but others are too cocky 
 and dont need to take **** John Madden. Besides those 2 negatives I give Madden NFL 09 gets a big 
 fat thumbs up. I mean those features are only optional so its all good. Half of me likes 08 better 
 but it depends on what way you look at it. Overall 09 is better. But i dont think im going to trade 
 in Madden 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invincer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I thought I was mad when I played Madden 09; it was nothing compared to how mad I was seeing my 
 review deleted for trolling. The first game that disappointed me so badly I felt I should post 
 the truth of it all here on Gamespot where I had previously paid a year for a subscription online.
 
  
  I posted a review which I will only post sparingly now. Why go into much detail if it will be deleted 
 by a biased moderator who obviously wants to steer the votes and reviews in the game's favor.
 
  
  The game is flashier than in the past; and in general a bit harder (though cross pattern passes 
 are un-defensible by the AI in all man coverage and most zone coverage, enough so that I beat All-Pro 
 with Atlanta against New England) . EA got the online dynasty mode with NCAA 09 almost perfect. 
 But this game was so immensely a let down that is was a joke! It even ruined the online dynasty 
 for NCAA 09, because you have no true league online in Madden and can't bring forth the draft from 
 NCAA.
  
  Bottom line, huge disappointment if you are a true football fan. HUGE! If you are a fan of NFL 
 blitz type games without realism, maybe you will like it. These must be the types of fans that 
 are liking and reviewing this game with big 8's and 9's. For real football fans that want substance, 
 you will be screaming for your money back after playing their idea of an online league. They should 
 be ashamed of themselves for putting out this game. And Gamespot should be ashamed of themselves 
 for deleting reviews if they are different from the was they want them to be.
  
  Rent it, don't buy it! If you like it, then buy it, if not then you only lose the rental fee. Me, 
 I want a refund for the rental fee if was such a disappointment. Check this review later, it will 
 probably have been deleted! That ought to tell you something about the moderators here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers101
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Right now I actually feel quite sick and ashamed of myself. For yet again, I've been sucked in 
 by the reviews and previews of madden saying THIS is the year madden gets it right. Let me just 
 say NO IT's NOT.
  For EA, try as hard as the might, they just don't understand what makes a great sports game. Either 
 that or they do, they just don't care while they are the only NFL game out there. You decide.
 
  Once again madden hits the shelves saying about how many new features, this and that has been 
 added blah blah. But why don't they concentrate on making a solid football game first. 
  If when you loaded the game the was one 'Play Now' button on the screen and the game was great 
 - that would be fine by me.
  For starters, the presentation is horrible, again. The commentator is annoying, he just says one 
 line at a time like a robot. The camera angles are all over the place making you dizzy. And the 
 complete lack of replays is shocking. You can score a touchdown and not even get a replay. 
  Gameplay still has piroetting ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is, first and foremost, great fun to play. This is the first game in the Madden Series 
 that I have played and it makes me regret having missed all those years. In addition to missing 
 all that fun I am now having to learn the game from scratch.... poor me! I can't wait to get the 
 head coach add on so that I can script my own playes. I have evolved beyond having Madden hold 
 my hand but have a long way to go. 
  
  The Graphics are superb and the feeling one gets is one of really being in each venue. How awesome 
 it was for me to trot out on the field at Texas Stadium with the Washington Redskins loaded for 
 bear... and, even better, we kicked America's team up and down the field. What is great though are 
 some of the close games I have had that went right down to the wire and really had the feel of 
 a tight game. Not sure why this game gets 8.0 review. Maybe I am not a Madden purist who understands 
 all the nuances of the game but this game seems to be loaded with fun features and really a gas 
 to play. 
  
  Try playing in the snow or on a wwindy or rainy day. What a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSHEATZ
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is by far the best Madden for the 360/PS3. They seemed to have touched up the graphics 
 to make them that much prettier. Sound also is enhanced this year, even though the commentary does 
 get annoying as usual. You actually hear the hits.
  
  Gameplay is much better, it's so much more fluid than before. So many more animations; tackling, 
 ballcarrier movements, etc. It's just alot more FUN to play with how you can manipulate your player's 
 movements.
  
  Online Leagues are cool and disappointing at the same time. It sucks that you can't play the CPU 
 teams in a regular 16 game schedule. BUT, it is nice you can perform the fantasy draft. Also I 
 have just found it to be plain fun to create an online league with friends. For me I've been playing 
 with my old college friends that I used to play madden 04 on the 360 with.
  
  Overall it is definitely a worth playing, especially if you have maybe given up after the last 
 few years' versions. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombers13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME this game including the madden iq the madden highlights from 07 the awesome ridiculous 
 online play makes this game pwn to every level including the awsome run toughness this year the 
 only thing wrong with it is the middle of the field usally open for passing usally about 90-95% 
 of my passes are complete down the middle but besides that it is awesome and good job EA and make 
 it better next year and i almost forgot the ai and superstar mode are untouched and for the franchise 
 it is barely untouched besides the online part of it so anyways good luck in 2010 and why is favre 
 a 99 in the nfl legends and only a 93 playing for the jets like when i went to the online fantasy 
 draft i had favre starter and also favre back-up really messed up
  
  
  in the future EA dont put a guy on the cover who is retired because chances are they will come 
 back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMcCarty75
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Madden 09. Its amazing in so many ways with very little things that upset me.
  
  -The Pros- 
  The Graphics are incredible. The players are as real as anyone has ever seen and 
 the crowd and sideline crew are lookin less and less last-gen every single Madden. The field at 
 first looked fake, but i think it is really good.
  
  The gameplay is overall smooth and the controls haven't really changed. The new celebrations are 
 both fun to watch and you can earn an easy 60 gamerscore. Superstar is nothing new and Franchise 
 has a new layout that brings a new feeling to it.
  
  Madden Moments are so fun to play. But sometimes it can piss u off since it is automatically set 
 on all madden and everytime u pass u almost always get picked. Good list of moments that leads 
 to the "Giant Upset" aka demo.
  
  I have yet to really get into an online league or play a match online, but it seems easy to get 
 into. The online league is pretty simple to set up matches, but i am disappointed u can't play 
 for the super bowl. The online matches have the same set-up as before.
  
  -The Cons-
  Madden IQ? I guess it is kind of nice, but the whole thing doesn't seem to effect my gameplay compared 
 to using All-pro setting.
  
  Rewind is fun sometimes, but it seems annoying to a point. depending on how many and who u are 
 playing with ur most amazing touchdown can be snatched from u in two seconds. Good for beginners 
 i guess.
  
  The music is alright this year, little disappointed.
  
  Lastly it seems if one turnover happens another happens right after. Or if one player gets injured 
 another one does. Its annoying, but challenge that u just have to be ready for.
  
  -Conclusion-
  Madden has grown over 20 years and is finally making its impact on sporting games. 
 It is really good and any madden fan should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzehrung
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Great visuals and even better AI. This series just keeps getting better every year. The addition 
 of the rewind is a nice touch. At the end of a half it gives you a chance at the endzone and if 
 it doesnt happen than you can still put up a 3 spot. The superstar mode could be better but it 
 is still fun none the less. I found that you really have to pay attention to ratings of players 
 because you can compete against cpu if you have a high madden IQ and a weak team. You dont have 
 to know everything about the game of football but it comes in handy. You have to constantly change 
 your play style up to stay ahead of the cpu. There is nothing worse than watching backtrack and 
 seeing the replay of yourself getting owned, which seems to happen to me more on 09 than any of 
 the other previous maddens. In short it is very tough to get back on the horse in you havent played 
 in a couple years but it is very rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectrum505
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Don't waste your money on this edition just stick with 08. Nothing really new or exciting just 
 the same **** different year. We the gamers need consultation and to stop being treated with contempt, 
 EA's attempt to tackle the next gen consoles is a disgrace. Each year the games fall short. Twenty 
 years of madden and they pump out this **** Its no improvement on madden 08 in fact if i read correctly 
 it didn't even rate higher on the review. I know that as an employee if a year went by and i was 
 facing review and hadn't improved i'd be facing the arse. They think they've been revolutionary 
 with footprints in the snow and dirty jerseys! Wow you knobs why didn't you work on the gliches 
 as hard, maybe superstar mode or online leagues. EA sports needs some healthy competition or to 
 start communicating with the consumers. Cause mediocracy isn't good enough EA sports. Stop being 
 so **** lazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtlDuDe346
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty much falls into the category of every madden game since 2k wasn't allowed to make 
 a NFL game and that category would be 'weak'. 
  EA does not have to produce a good game because there is no competition.
  First of all none of 
 the game modes even got touched for this years game. Superstar mode and Franchise are the exact 
 same as they have been. The passing game is super unrealistic. You cannot, i repeat cannot throw 
 a pass over the top to your receiver, the defenders jump 15 feet up in the air to deflect those 
 passes so the only way your completed a pass is if its a laser on an out route. In every game somebody 
 gets flipped up into the air when they get tackled/blocked, so all i can say about that is show 
 me at least 2 games a week in the real NFL where somebody goes flying in the air. Running the ball 
 in the game is pretty fun i must say though. Its a very realistic running game. Online play is 
 pretty nice. I have only played one game online but it was lag free so that was good, but all over 
 the forums people say others cheat online so that is definitely not good. So in all this game is 
 just like last years. The game may look amazing in screen shots but just watch some videos and 
 you will see how fake it really is
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batman5978
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Another year. Another letdown. Madden is to football as cancer is to the body: death. A money making 
 gimic that brings us the same product year after year, uncleverly disguised in a fresh coat of 
 paint. Gamers are presented the option of either buying the only available NFL licensed game on 
 the market, or curtail their desire for reliving football glory on their gaming system. Madden 
 (the year is a void concept, as 08 is 09 or 07 or well you get the point) never hits the market 
 without its own collection of hype with every gaming website and magazine pumping it up like its 
 something the game community has never borne witness to. And every year, Madden just ends up being 
 another disappointment.
  
  The graphics have finally been overhauled. A tremendous accomplishment if this were Madden 06. 
 However, since we are in year 4 of the "next generation" consoles, it is about time Madden comes 
 with "next generation" graphics (and truthfully, they could be better) . The weather effects are 
 nice, as jerseys become soaked with mud and footprints are made in the snow. Why doesn't mud get 
 developed onto the field? Why aren't jerseys ripped and come untucked? And while the stadiums and 
 sidelines feel much more alive then ever before; how come there is no real variation between stadiums? 
 I want to see team cheerleaders and mascots parading the sidelines. Cheeseheads and Dawg Pound 
 fans cheering on their beloved teams. And while the addition of the game celebrations is good, 
 it doesn't go far enough nor is executed well enough. A few of the celebration animations are just 
 plain lame (dunking on the goal post should not look so pitiful) . And how come we don't see defensive 
 tackles pounding their chests after sacks? Running backs doing a salute after a firstdown? The 
 graphics overhaul was a start but it didn't nearly go far enough.
  
  You want features? Well, the franchise and superstar mode are exactly the same from 08. What, did 
 you expect something new? The rosters are incomplete and full of errrors (The Dolphins run a 3-4 
 not a 4-3, Donald Thomas is a starting RG not a 3rd string LG, Chris Henry is with the Bengals, 
 Chad Pennington is the starting QB for the Dolphins not Josh McCown, and there are several players 
 who are on teams that dont even exist in the game such as Devone Bees, starting slot receiver for 
 the Dolphins) . The Madden IQ test is nice in theory but poorly executed (and more of a pain then 
 anything else) . The online leagues are finally given to us, but, as expected, are broken and will 
 no doubt take several incarnations of the series in order to see it fixed. The rewind feature is 
 a complete joke: please opponent, rewind every good play I do so you can cheat your way to victory. 
 No thanks. Outside of this, there is nothing new, original, or innovative. Such terminology died 
 when EA secured exclusive rights to the NFL license.
  
  Gameplay is the biggest disappoint. The AI, while slightly improved, is still well below par. Receivers 
 who aren't directly thrown the ball will often just stand there and do nothing as the ball boucnes 
 in front of them. Players stay in their zone coverage even if the quaterback is right in front 
 of them scrambling for a first down. Guys will catch the ball in the flats and still run out of 
 bounds. Receivers will catch balls but routinely not even attempt to get two feet in bounds. Corners 
 make a bunch of pass deflections but have tremendous trouble intercepting passes. The entire passing 
 game is a mess. The ball does not arrive fast enough most times for your receiver to catch it. 
 If you lob it to him wide open, he's surrounded by 5 defenders by the time it gets there. If you 
 rocket it to him, it's even more likely to be inetrcepted or at least defelected. Several irritating 
 bugs and glitches aside (players going through players, a touchback that lands you at your opponents 
 30 yard line, etc) , EA still hs not addressed many of the "cheat" plays that bogged down the last 
 Madden game. Be prepared for players to run the same play against you over and over again because 
 they know it works and there is no way to stop it. Where is the squib kick? Why can't I make my 
 own plays? The tackling does not look that great and neither does the war going on in the trenches. 
 The physics engine used for developing this game needs to be updated. There are more problems with 
 the gameplay, but let's just say it is broken and move on.
  
  Sound. Sound effects are "average." There should be more smashing of pads, shotuing of players, 
 taunts and cheers form the crowds, yelling from the coaches, and whistle blowing from the refs 
 (btw, the calls made in this game are horrible. The booth reviews are pointless) . Chris Collinsworth 
 is tremendous and a much needed relief to this series. However, he is not given enough lines of 
 dialogue. Tom Hammons is horrid, and John Madden's cameo appearances are too far and few between 
 to really account for much. I do not care so much for the music collection in Madden. I have an 
 Itunes library full of music. I play a football simulator to play football. You want causal gamers 
 to play? Then create an excellent football simulator. People play a football game to realize the 
 NFL experience. I just wish the folks at EA realized that.
  
  Lastly, the presentation. The halftime show is a joke. Video highlights are ok but they are no 
 different than 08. No real pre or post game show. No sideline reporting. No ESPN radio. No game 
 interviews. Even the intro into the very beginning of the game is not nearly as good as Madden 
 08 (I love hearing Brian Westbrook giving that chilling speech) . Madden 09 is a buggy game that 
 falls short of its potential in every catergory. While it will sell well (because Americans love 
 football) and offer replay value with its online matches (get ready to be screwed by guys who figured 
 out the plays that will break you routinely) , it is still not all that its cracked up to be. It 
 is, at best, a very average sports game that makes its living off having an exclusive NFL license. 
 With EA's enormous pocketbooks and ESPN as their faithful sidekick, this series could be so much 
 more. They could be revolutionizing the sports game industry with phenominial masterpiece after 
 another. Instead, we are shipped a broken game that leaves this reviewer with a dimmer sense of 
 hope that this series will ever recapture its former glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Labeckio
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Once again EA pushed out another winner for their pocketbooks. In the form of canned animations, 
 fresh coat of paint, and their crappy skills equalizer garbage. HOW ABOUT FIXING THE NEVER ENDING 
 HAND ME DOWN PROBLEMS, INSTEAD OF CREATING NEW PROBLEMS!!!
  
  Hand me downs like the insane 20 yard cross field jump, when the comp needs that magical game tying 
 touchdown. How about (MY FAVORITE) Defensive linemen look like their doing the blocking for the 
 offensive team, not like I wanted to sack the quarterback. I'd rather play pushing games with the 
 O-Lineman I just blew past. The spirit DB that footballs pass through like their not even there. 
 How about the scrimmage line treadmill run, 225lbs + 350lbs VS 265 = lost yards. Or there is the 
 I'm ahead fumble and wont recover, because I'm ahead in the score. The mythical 20ypc running back 
 for the AI. The unstoppable drives, not just one but many of these. And of course don't forget 
 the superman diving tackle.
  
  Now I know somethings are hard to simulate, but when it works for the AI it should work for the 
 player. My secondary looks like a bunch of lost puppies, while the AI's secondary has its act together. 
 Am I suppose to be excited about this? This is a consistent problem for all positions in the game. 
 NOT FUN.
  
  Madden looks more like an easy buck for EA, than what it once was. Less money spent on development 
 means more profit. And it looks like they stopped spending money on development back in '05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mini11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time sports player I can tell you that this game has been fine-tuned and polished, eliminating 
 many of the unrealistic elements and bugs found in earlier versions. I do not play franchise mode, 
 dynasty mode, or any time of team-managing mode in football games; I LOVE the prospect, and in 
 some cases, the end product has been incredible (ie, NCAA 08/09 were immensely enjoyable games 
 for any position, defense OR offense) . However, this time around, I had high hopes for a tall, 
 white running back.
  
  After customizing my player to my tastes, I was thrown into a 40-yard-dash drill in which you're 
 supposed to alternate pushing the right thumbstick and left thumbstick down as fast as possible. 
 This drill has very convoluted instructions and no real hints are given as to how to master it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthvikes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing.
  EA kept letting me down. Now, at long last they got it.
  
  When you fire up the game you are presented with the madden test. The rushing offense test was 
 a blast, despite being easy. The tests are not perfect, but it was a great first try at this kind 
 of thing.
  
  I do not like superstar mode but I never had since it debuted on PS2 Madden 06. This is my favorite 
 out of the versions, but I am a franchise guy.
  
  Speaking of franchise, it is a blast. My only complaint is that the super bowl still feels like 
 a normal game.
  
  Notes-
  Gameplay is awesome
  Some freezing in otherwise great create-a-team
  Fantastic graphics
  Pretty Snow
  
  BOTTOM 
 LINE
  GO BUY IT NOW IF YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY
  Okay I am done with my review but it is not long enough so the Cowboys are awesome and thanks for 
 reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7718
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Same Madden type changes you see year to year, they change one for better, then 3 previous changes 
 from past games, disappear. This should once and for all prove to all of us Madden fans... even 
 after 20 years, there is no way, or no effort, to make a perfect game, for the perfect game. 
 
  
  I know we all have to buy it, what else do we have, but EA just won't, or can't produce this game 
 without problems or sacrifices. After a couple of plays, you'll see what I mean. My biggest complaint... 
 the running game. Pass to the middle, and you can walk down the field steadily. Run, and unless 
 your playing some really bad defense, you usually lose yards. Especially against the cpu. You can't 
 even adjust this edition of Madden to fit it to a "real" difficulty. Where's the sliders? 
  
  Good luck and congrats EA on yet another year of taking my money. I wish we could get our money 
 back after we buy crappy games...
  
  Nuff said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Berus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Madden 09. I was very excited about this game and what others were saying before it was released. 
 My excitement waned, however, once I started to get into it.
  
  The upgrades in the visuals are amazing, and this is definitely a very pretty games. The animations 
 are smooth, and everything just seems to flow really well.
  
  The new running games takes some getting used to, but all-in-all is pretty good at showing how 
 difficult it can be to run in the NFL.
  
  The Passing game, on the other hand, has a few issues. Most of them relate to the computer controlled 
 defense. I like to play SIM-type games, and against the computer this is almost impossible. Over 
 the middle passes are almost too easy and make it too easy to go over the middle with slants or 
 drags to pick up needed yards on 3rd down. I'd like to see some more errant throws and drops, but 
 it isn't too bad. One big irritant is that Computer-Controlled Zones are almost too effective sometimes, 
 and the ability for a defender to either jump 13 feet in the air or amazingly cover 10 yards in 
 .01 seconds to pick off a pass are really irritating. Most of this I think is due to the 'Try and 
 keep things close at all costs' AI. Lastly, Play action just doesn't work against the AI - at all 
 - in fact most times it ends in a sack because the defenders are through the line and on you before 
 you finish the PA animation.
  
  One final offensive issue is the lack of protection. The computer-controlled defense seems to get 
 through the line or shed blocks awfully fast. Nothing is more frustrating that watching a replay 
 of your Tackle turning to the side to let a DE or DT through the line untouched, as if to say "Go 
 ahead, have at him..." Sometimes it seems more like 'The Replacements' or 'Any Given Sunday' than 
 NFL football.
  
  Controlling the defense is as difficult as ever, and one of the things has needed fixed as far 
 back as I can remember. Man-to-Man coverage is very hit and miss, and the computer-controlled passing 
 game is at times just plain cheap. Some of this is probably just to keep things close, but it really 
 can be annoying to lose on 3rd down over and over again no matter what you do. Zone defenses work 
 sometimes, but the computer has a much easier time finding the holes in Zones. My biggest complaint 
 with the defense is the lack of penetration. While computer defenders get through pretty easily, 
 the Human controlled defenders get stuck engaged FOREVER and can present almost no pressure. I 
 wish things like this were more even and balanced. Stopping the running game is pretty fair. I 
 just wish the computer would be more balanced in the Pass-Run department.
  
  The Punt/Kick coverage is finally there this year, almost. It has been improved, but still has 
 a few issues. At least you have blockers now, but they don't really block that well (similar to 
 the offensive line) . The defenders just get through the blocks WAY too easily. Human kick defenders, 
 just like pass rushers, seem to get picked up EVERY time, allowing routine 30+ yard returns. I 
 don't mind getting blocked, but not being able to shed it is frustrating.
  
  All in all, this years Madden is improved. I just wish they'd fix some of the things that have 
 needed it for far too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Madden Football, the cheesers game of choice...
  
  I'm a die-hard Pro Football fan, and with the coming 20th anniversary edition of Madden I got extremely 
 excited about the game this year, with all the graphics changes, etc... and the graphics are outstanding. 
 However, like a hot girl with nothing upstairs, the glitter quickly wears off once you spend any 
 serious time with this game.
  
  The graphics are outstanding... until you see how the players actually move and interact. On almost 
 every play (this is not an exageration) players will "glide" along the ground like on ice. The 
 devs bragged about how great gang-tackling is this year -- well I've owned every Madden since the 
 first one came out, and I can't count the number of times I've went to assist a primarily tackler 
 and just glided on by... like if there was an imaginary wall between the current defender/ballcarrier. 
 THere are so many other unrealistic and frustrating things that happen, especially online... the 
 kick meter lag -- your team will be "set", ready to go... you'll pull back on the stick once... then 
 twice... then three times, thinking, "what the #* () # (", as on the fourth attempt your kicker will 
 finally start the animation but by this time, your timing is already off and you badly shank, miss 
 the FG, etc. This is a well-documented problem on many forums btw, for the phanbois out there that 
 will say this isn't a huge problem (It's even stated in professional reviews) . What the pro's fail 
 to hint on though as this may seem minor at first... until you miss a game-winning kick because 
 of it online.
  
  Speaking of online, I've played 15 games now online -- EVERY SINGLE ONE HAD A CHEESER ON THE OTHER 
 SIDE OF THE BALL. It's almost like that bud light commercial, "Here's to you Mr *FILL IN THE BLANK* 
 Guy!" Just today, I had the "roll out of the pocket every play" guy (who also went for it every 
 single 4th down) , the "pull the plug" guy, who I got twice (two different ppl, but same thing when 
 losing) , the "Unrealistic substition guy", who ran star WR at FB, star HB at TE, etc... among others.
 
  
  Add in the fact that even when you do have a few moments of legit play, the game decides to fill 
 in for the cheesy player base. LBs/CBs who make superhuman reads/jumps on balls (I had a 2 on 1 
 a few games back, where the WR had the CB beat by a good 5-7 yards on a corner route and a TE underneath 
 the defender was running with... as soon as the ball went in the air, the CB made a 180 degree turn, 
 was able to catch the 97 speed WR with that HUGE lead on a well-thrown pass, and intercept jumping 
 what looked like 10 yards in the air... makes you feel extremely cheesed when stuff like this happens, 
 and it happens a LOT in this year's game) . Running and passing plays are also decided by the "DL 
 factor" far at least once in every four downs -- that is, whether or not a defensive linemen will 
 decide to break through the backfield, straight up the middle (breaking every football blocking 
 rule of "inside-out" protection first by your OL) , and hitting your RB as he touches the ball, 
 tackling the QB before he can even hand off, or sacking your QB before you even gain control. This 
 happens from time to time in real football, but literally happens every few plays in this year's 
 Madden.
  
  Bottom line, this year's game is all flash and no substance, the highly-touted animation is amazing 
 to look at, but once in motion looks awkward (as players glide on "ice" after falling to the ground) , 
 plays poorly (kickoffs are almost always the same result, the unrealistic pass defender play, the 
 unrealistic DL play, the cheesy feel of the game, period) .
  
  Cheesers out there rejoice! You have your game! Real football fans will be better served to pick-up 
 NCAA 09 this year. I'm not a college football fan, the graphics in that title don't match Madden 
 09's, but the gameplay feels more like real football and you'll feel like you have far more control 
 in all aspects of the game then this year's pile of pretty dung called Madden 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0-
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  seriouly ea sucks at making football games i wish they never bought 2k. this game is boring it fells 
 exactly the same as 08 with updated roster this game is not worth 60$ it really sucks that madden 
 has no competition once so ever in the football catgory so there games can be terrible and people 
 would still buy it just because its the only football game out with REAL teams. ea please stop making 
 football games i can be more innovative than you guys and the virtual practice thing is just a 
 old practice feature with virtual people. maybe people will find oyt that ea doesnt care about the 
 football fans all thety care about is making more money on a game that is recycled with stupid 
 add ons that nobody want mabye in a couple of years they will realize that they suck at football 
 games and should stop making them. but what do you expect from a crappy company like ea which messes 
 everthing up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleepblop75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  i like football itas fun. i like to throw the ball. catch intercept touchdown dudde. omg 50 skald 
 lfg to rvr omg plse. i run vbbut its hard sumtimes i like the graphics and i think its ok. i smoke 
 a blunt before i play and it looks way cooler when u aint stoned. i like playing defernse too. 
 i like bnlizting andt he pass rush andsacking the quartwerback its stupid hella sweet omg i have 
 to write words its so hard when u just ate a bunch of shrooms jeeze im still writing review gawd 
 its manbearpig i toldu he was real. in all cereal i like this game. i like playing football. i 
 like playing video games of football its cool omg this makes me wanna play footballl while im writingabout 
 playing football i go to bed with a football and i run a post pattern to the bathroom and do a 
 touchdown dance while i brush my teeth and take my hgh before nite nite like a real pro athlete 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barilli71
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Ok - I haven't bought a Madden game in the last few years, so to satisfy my nagging brother to 
 get it so we can play together as he finally got online with his 360.
  Anyway, as I felt like a chump doing this, I had to purposely tank the virtual trainer as it set 
 my difficulty level so high that I could hardly even hike the ball without getting creamed.
  Aside from the game play, I really like how you have the ability to save highlights from the game, 
 then upload them to the internet. I've been having some fun with that feature. 
  Also, the graphics are insane - everything has such great detail. Only quirk I hate is that a few 
 games I played in the rain, I expected the field to get chewed up pretty good, but it looks just 
 fine at the end of the game as it did in the beginning. Of course I may not have played in a stadium 
 with actual grass, so that may be why.
  Overall, good game, glad I picked it up, just need to practice to beat my brothr now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  i have only played it 10 hours or less because i just got the game a couple days ago and have been 
 too busy to play it, not because i dont like it. I have only had a couple of maddens like 05, 06. 
 But this is the best one yet. It looks a lot different then previous maddens. for one the scoreboard 
 looks a lot different.. You can create a superstar where you make a player and go through games 
 and try to make him the best. There is franchise mode where you pick your favorite team and play 
 as there coach. there is a regular madden game you can buy or the limited edition and i suggust 
 if you have the extra money, that you buy it because it comes with a copy of NFL head coach and 
 a bonus disc which extra stuff. also on it you get a feature where you can play madden 93, which 
 is cool. the achivements are easy.... TIP for 100 gamerscore go to create a player with the name 
 John madden and then create another player with the name bones jackson and put him on the bears 
 and that is 50 gamerscore each. I give this game 9.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McGuire0025
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Ive bought madden every year since 2002 and madden 09 is still fun. It's still a great game with 
 franchise and superstar modes. But it's still not better than madden 08 they've toned down the 
 highlight stick making it hard for your running back to break a tackle, the strengths and weaknesses 
 are also toned down, and i don't see why they cut it in between they should have left the strengths 
 the way they were, and if not that just gotten rid of them. The difficulty is just hard enough 
 that you can beat your oponent, this is because it test you and arranges the difficulty to your 
 skill level. This is good because it makes madden challenging but it's also bad i've gotten pretty 
 pissed off well playing, you can't really run all the way for a first down, and your running back 
 will get shutdown alot, you will throw alot of interceptions and you will often bearly win a game 
 10-7, it is pretty much impossible to score 50 points. But madden is still fun, it's still a great 
 game and i am happy i bought it, if you like madden it's a must, but be prepared to get pissed 
 off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_S3rv0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have played every Madden game for the past 20 years... granted I was about 3 or 4 when the first 
 one came out so I didn't know what I was doing. Point is, this year's iteration is not just "Another 
 Year, Another Madden"
  
  First off, it is great to see John Madden himself back in the game. You would think since it's 
 his name on the box that he should have a prominant role in the game. Oh well. I usually shut off 
 his commentary anyway, so having him in bits and peices is a plus.
  
  Football has never looked so good, period. The Graphics are phenomenal and it's like I am watching 
 MNF when I am playing the game.
  
  And, it sounds like I am watching a televised game. Chris Collinsworth's addition to the game is 
 the best thing going for this. He always has great insight, rarely repeats himself, and the "Backtrack" 
 feature is something I actually sit and watch through, even though he is basically making fun of 
 my botched play.
  
  Tom Hammond, on the other hand... is.... eh... I really don't care that the game is "brought to you 
 by EA Sports" but he will remind you time and time again.... I guess it could be worse. More Collinsworth 
 please? 
  
  Even though franchise mode and superstar mode have been virtually untouched, that's ok. They are 
 still fun modes and I will play them for hours.
  
  The Madden IQ is a nice idea, just needs more flushing out, but this shows a lot of promise. Plus, 
 the idea that the game is adapting to me sounds like a pretty revolutionary tool to me.
  
  All in all, this is the best Madden I have played in years, certainly the best in the "Next-Generation" 
 era, and one NO football fan should be without.
  
  GO BEARS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucascruz2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Madden Football series has become a classic case of what happens when a company holds a monopoly. 
 With no other choice when it comes to NFL football gaming, people are left to decide to either 
 purchase yet another Madden game or simply shelve their desire for football altogether. Every year 
 I hope that Madden will finally become more then just the only football game on the market. With 
 EA's big pocket books and ESPN at their side, the Madden series could be revolutionizing the way 
 football games are made. Instead, we are given Madden 09 (or should it be 08 or 07 or, well does 
 it really matter what the year is after the game title. It's pretty much all the same) .
  
  There is some good. The graphics are finally next generation. That would be great if this was Madden 
 06. That is the time the Xbox 360 first came out. However, this is not the case and after 4, count 
 them, 4 incarnations of Madden we finally get a NFL game that looks next generation. This is, by 
 far, the best looking Madden title to date. From the crowd to the weather to the players, every 
 thing looks great. However, I do not notice any different in the crowds and on the sideliens from 
 game to game. It would have been a nice touch if fans were unique to the staduims and if we could 
 see team mascots and cheerleaders running along the sidelines. Something to give each time you 
 play a certain sense of unqiueness. And while the game play graphics are great, the celebration 
 dances need some work. I love the addition of the celebration dances. However, dunking it on a 
 goal post should not look so utterly lame.
  
  The sound is a mix of good and terrible. The great is the addition of Chris Collinsworth as an 
 announcer. He gives fantastic insight, however, they really should have given him more lines of 
 dialogue. Tom Hammom is a horrid play by play announcer. He is about as lifeless as the radio announcer 
 in Madden 08. And John Madden's little bits and pieces are too far between and too few to really 
 account for much. The sound effects are only ok. The crowd can get loud but where are the chants 
 of DEFENSE and team chantings of JETS JETS JETS? 
  
  Presentation leaves much to be desired. The pre- and postgame reports are a joke. There isnt much 
 of a halftime show. No sideline reporting. The highlight reel is nice, but it isn't really any 
 different from Madden 07. While the games feel more authentic thanks to the graphics overhaul, 
 there is so much more that could have been done its almost to the point of being frustrating.
 
  
  Speaking of frustrating, its tiem to talk about the gameplay. The refs are still horrid and booth 
 reviews are pointless. Plays still catch the ball int he flats and run out of bounds. Other receivers 
 will just stand there and stare at a ball that is directly in front of them but won't move a muscle 
 for it because it wasn't thrown to them. Rocket a pass to a receiver and watch it get intercepted. 
 Lob a pass to a wideopen receiver and by the time it gets there he's surrounded by 5 defenders. 
 Too many dropped interceptions and receptions. It's nearly impossibel to stop the quarterback sneak 
 and passes to the middle of the field. Onside kicks are also far too easy. And where is the squib 
 kick? These are all serious issues that should be addressed but probably never will since they 
 ahve been issues for years now. As for the rewind feature, its a joke and a half. Yea, I really 
 want my opponent rewinding every interception and TD i score so he can do it over and kick my butt. 
 Thanks EA.
  
  Both the franchise and superstar mode are left unchanged from last year. Nothing new. Nothing inventive. 
 Nothing that causes you to want to give it another shot. The biggest addition to the game is the 
 roster changes and as of now they have it still screwed up (the starting O-Line and QB for the 
 Dolphins still isnt right in the game. Donald Thomas is a RG not a LG and is a starter not a 3rd 
 stringer. And Chad Pennington is their starting QB, not Josh Mccown) . As for the online leagues, 
 wow. This is a very broken addition with a ton of room for a improvement. It is just flat out bad.
 
  
  I am pretty harsh on Madden since I know the potential the game has to be so much better. Don't 
 even get me started on the bugs and glitches I have come across that pop up here and there. Or 
 that some receivers (*cough* randy moss*cough*) are so unbeatable that opposing players will just 
 run the same stupid play over and over again and there is nothing you can do about it but watch 
 them score on you. With all that said, I still play online ranked matches and find some pleasure 
 in it. I love football. I just wish Madden did a better job of showing people just how fun football 
 really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacharyneuharth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  The few complaints this reviewer has are the on the challenging of plays and the change of game 
 play when selecting different difficulty levels. The taking away of certain aspects of the franchise 
 mode simply for choosing an easier level of play is very disappointing. If your skill level is 
 at say Intermediate to aquire 3 Rewinds nearly the entire play book is taken away from you as a 
 sort of penalty it seems. It really limits your ability to choose your own play patterns and style.
 
  
  The challenging of plays is completely erratic. Sometimes the computer will allow you to challenge 
 and other times it won't. More specificaly this player was never able to challenge any play that 
 he thought was worth review, ever. 
  
  Despite these and other set backs I would call Madden 09 a good game. Not a great game but good. 
 Possibly not worth $65 depending on how into football a person is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfortune
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well, it is another year, and Madden has been letting me down on the new systems, so why did I 
 think anything would change. The graphics look good, and all the new features are great, but I 
 feel that it is harder than ever to control your player with the D-Pad or the Toggle Stick. I actually 
 feel like I'm on roller skates when I try to move my defender, and I find it hard to control the 
 players on the field offense and defense. Maybe I need to get used to it, but I just find that 
 the game almost plays itself and the feel of the game is just off the mark slightly...
  
  I don't understand with the new technology we have we are going backwards with the Madden series. 
 The PS2 version made giant leaps in the standard to football play, but with the new series on the 
 Next-Gen systems has fell of with just making the game fun, simple, and great smash mouth football. 
 I think you guys at EA need to take a look at what made the game good during the PS2 era, and take 
 some notes or something. Maybe next year will be better. This is my first real attempt to play 
 Madden on the new system with the goofy menus and all, but I can't make any more excuses for EA. 
 They lose mad respect for not taking advantage of the technology, and making a game that runs smoothly 
 and is enjoyable to players. I hope Socom doesn't let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones_crouch
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  i love deffence and last years version made me almost hate it. but this year if you jump infront 
 of the reciver and hit the Y butten you will actually pic it off. run deffence is almost the same 
 as last so if you can read the play it's preaty easy so stop the run baring an amzingly agile RB 
 to break almost every first and second tackel attempt.
  offence is a little bit harder than last years version especally in the run game but if you know 
 how to reconize that what your doing isn't working you will have no problen adjusting to the D 
 that is thrown at you.
  overall it's a supurbe game and the vizuals is amazing and the action cam is spectacular on both 
 sides O and D so now your not throwing blindly to the out routs on O and getting tourched by them 
 on D.
  
  P. S. MIND THE SPELLING ERRORS LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellaFatCat
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  ok so they fixed the gameplay.. somewhat
  
  obviously the best madden on next gen to date.. but thats not nessicarily a good thing
  
  apperantly 
 they spent the last year making the game look good and fixing the ingame gameplay (mostly.. some 
 glitches hopefully to be patched soon)
  
  i swore last year i would not buy this years version 
  for WAY to many reasons to list.. if you 
 played last years version.. well you know its broken
  
  but i bought it.. im a football addict (NFL football at that) .. and i am slightly dissapointed
 
  
  i was hoping due to their horribly broken release of madden 08, they might really try to trick 
 this one out.. to make up for last years and to just make us forget about it
  
  i am primarily a franchise player and in terms of franchise.. vertually untouched.. ok not vertually.. 
 just completley untouched.. 
  same game except they fixed the freezing that made them the blatant false advertisers of last years 
 (most people could not get past season 3.. if they were lucky they'd get that far)
  and my biggest dissapointment is they have almost completley gotten rid of progressions
  not 
 what i expected
  
  when the playstation 2 and last gen xbox versions of 09', let alone a 4 year old game like 2k5, 
 have a deeper franchise than the next gen.. i ask myself.. why play next gen.. 
  i guess its because the game looks great.. but there is absolutley no depth at all
  *scratches 
 head*
  is that really enough
  
  
  it has only been a few weeks and the online play (which was all they attempted to fix last season) 
 is the broken
  part of this years game.. after the last xbox dahsboard patch.. users could no longer connect to 
 EA live (comunication issue between the latest madden patch and dashboard patch) 
  now i assume this will be fixed soon as the last people they wanna piss off is the online players 
 (at least thats what i gathered from last years experience)
  but this really reaLLY makes me wonder if they test the game or the patches before release.. i 
 know it would piss people off to delay a madden title, but it makes them look like they just dont 
 care when they release the 20th version of something and its more broken than ever
  
  so after all my flaming im sure my 7.0 rating will sound high
  
  well the game itself.. ingame 
 that is.. is the best next gen version to date
  the players are responsive and the AI is somewhat less stupid than previous versions, and the interceptions 
 have been tamed down from the last two versions which were absurd before.. ingame, i have had a 
 lot of fun with this game so i honestly cant give it the 0.0 rating i really want to
  
  out of game.. its like i am playing a version from 3 years ago
  in fact, even in the main menu.. 
 there is less going on than there was last year (videos of your favorite team.. etc.. all nurfed 
 in this version)
  
  dont expect much out of this years version as you will be dissapointed
  come in with low expectations 
 and you will have fun just playing the actual games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyRaider07
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  BS glitch play used on me over and over and over by GT: TooNice91. What he would do is a direct 
 snap to the wideouts using Carolina Panthers. He was able to use it on a 3 WR 1RB set and seemed 
 to be able to snap it to any of the receivers he choose. Play goes like this. Both squads are lined 
 up and as soon as he snaps the ball on offense the receiver magically has the ball and gets at 
 least five yards every time! GT: emetoogood, also used it on me for a two point conversion but 
 TooNice91 is garbage using a glitch play to score all his points. Now about this game, I have always 
 enjoyed the series but this year because of these people ruining online play by using glitches 
 makes this game very disapointing. I have enjoyed NCAA 09 much better, the bands playing and the 
 crowds getting louder when they are pumped up makes NCAA 09 a much more exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bosox4life32
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Madden is usually a good, consistent game each year. But at this point, consistency is very much 
 overrated. All the controls remain the same in 09 as well as nitty-gritty things such as audibles. 
 If you are looking forward to a whole new Madden, sorry, but i was too.
  
  Another bad part about Madden 09 is the new "rewind" aspect which is basically like a mulligan. 
 THERE'S NO MULLIGANS IN FOOTBALL. It barely passes in mini golf come on, what a horrible idea.
 
  
  And the new my skill level is quite frankly a bunch of B. S. It's definitely not your skill, unless 
 your skill is random throws that are always caught as long as you have a decent receiver, and your 
 lack of skill running the ball for about 3 yards a carry even in the open field.
  
  But still Madden 09 still holds the crown for the ultimate party game, and is great to play with 
 your friends as long as you set 0 rewinds and put the difficulty on all-pro or all-madden.
  
  That's my insight, thanks for reading. And go N. Y. Giants and lets hope for a good fall for 
 the Sox. I've been one lucky sports fan this past year haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  this game has great graffics, weather affects and commentary. The total control is much like the 
 NCAA 09 version but with better branching animations. A few small glitches here and there but nothing 
 major, or that will take away from the game, it froze on me one time when i first played it but 
 has'nt since.
  
  Franchise mode is still fun but it dosent have much depth, you can also continue a previous franchise 
 from madden 08.
  
  Superstar mode still sucks, it hasnt seen any changes at all, even the same old messages on your 
 phone from your mom and mentor.
  
  Online league is a new feature, i havent tried it yet but i hear it was quite dissapointing.
 
  
  when it rains the mud effects look great until the late third to early fourth quarter when both 
 teams are completely caked in mud, making it hard to tell what players belong to what teams.
  
  my skill and virtual test, a good idea but needs more work, a newcomer to madden can take this 
 very easy test and be placed on an all madden all pro setting when they arent good enough to play 
 on this level, it also changes your skill level way too much, if i get 145 rushing yards with brian 
 westbrook the next game i will get 135, and then it will slowly go down until he is no longer a 
 factor, like i said a good idea but needs time to work.
  
  once again, no player progression so you will have to train each player yourself, which will take 
 awhile so you might want to work on younger players because it will benefit in the long run.
  
  Sometimes it seems you can not stop the opposing offense
  
  rewind is a very cheap gimmick 
 unless you are new to the game, i been playing madden since madden 99 so i like it the way it should 
 be, if you mess up deal with it
  
  all together a great game and i do not regret paying $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan81092
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  best game ever- the game have great graphics and gameplay. it seems to improve every year. only 
 complaints are that on passes toward the sideline animations often start right as the player catches 
 the ball and it is impossible to stay inbounds and that slant routes are nearly impossible to cover. 
 one other thing is the glitches. they don't happen often but when an offensive lineman jumps offsides 
 the quarterback runs forward and players also run through other players standing on the sideline. 
 the last thing is i can't figure out how to jump the  
 if anyone knows message me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Like the yearly release of the Madden series itself, I feel my reviewing this game on a yearly 
 basis is becoming very pointless. You see, I could sum up any Madden review for the last few years 
 with just one short paragraph:
  
  "Madden is mostly the same thing as last year, with a new $60 price tag and updated rosters. The 
 things they did add either aren't even nearly as good as promised or actually make the game worse."
 
  
  Rinse and repeat.
  
  So rather than waste your time ripping the football franchise that I used to love more than I would 
 like to admit, as I seem to do now every year, I will just comment on what is new here. The rest 
 is pretty much the same.
  
  The new 'adaptive difficulty', while being a good idea in theory, isn't executed very well. You 
 can say this about almost all of EA's 'good' ideas for this series for years, but this is frustrating 
 to a point where you will turn it off (similar to the cone-vision passing of '06) . When you start 
 the game up, you will be thrown into a training simulator that is actually a test to see how good 
 you are at the game. The game has a Tron-like look to it and the big-guy Madden himself actually 
 makes an appearance to earn at least a little of the millions he gets every year for having his 
 name on this turd. 
  
  Like I said, this isn't a bad idea in theory. The problem is the game changes too much during the 
 game so it disrupts the flow of the game way more than it would in real life. You will have linebackers 
 who are absolutely terrible in the first quarter, turn into Ray Lewis just because you ripped off 
 a couple decent runs. The passing game is even worse. Needless to say, I went back to the regular 
 difficulties very quickly. I am not complaining about it being too hard, as I play it on 'All-Madden' 
 most of the time. But the lack of a consistent difficulty is the annoyance.
  
  The online leagues were the new feature I was most excited about. Well guess what I am now most 
 disappointed with in this game? Yep. EA manages to screw this up, as well. You can't have CPU teams 
 fill out your league. The fantasy draft is an auto draft, which is ridiculous. The stat tracking 
 is broken. So what could have been a great new addition, ends up being a missed opportunity.
  
  At least EA finally got rid of the horrid radio announcer that has plagues the last couple 
 games. In his place, we get Tom Hammond and Cris Collinsworth. While Collinsworth is great, Hammond 
 is terrible. I mean this is the best they could get to team with Collinsworth? Hearing Hammond 
 actually made me miss Al Michaels!
  
  And Collinsworth actually works into the next crummy new feature we get: Backtrack. This idiotic 
 idea gives you the ability to rewind time and re-do a play that may have gone poorly for you. Obviously 
 this feature can be turned off, but why is it here to begin with? At it certainly shouldn't be 
 touted as a great, new feature. Can you imagine playing a buddy in a great & intense match on the 
 same TV and one of you takes a TD, INT, fumble or whatever away from the other with Backtrack because 
 you forgot to turn it off? Friendships are ruined over much less. Thankfully, it's automatically 
 turned off for any online games.
  
  The nice thing is that if you do make a bad play, Collinsworth breaks down the game tape for you 
 in real-time and shows you where you made an error. This is actually a nice feature as it will 
 really show you how crappy your reading the defense skills can be at times when you throw an INT. 
 So in the end, Collinsworth is a good edition to this series & hopefully they will continue to 
 have him here for years.
  
  While the new features are mostly crap, the series has some legacy problems that still annoy the 
 long-time Madden player. QB's constantly overthrow passes in the flat (such as RB screens) so it 
 makes the receiver lose his momentum or it takes him right out of bounds. And is it just me or 
 is throwing the ball actually getting worse? If you lob the throw with some 'touch' the ball takes 
 about nine hours to get there and it gets knocked down or picked. If you bullet the pass in, the 
 throw is either errant or it gets picked off. Ugh. 
  
  The offensive line play is still atrocious at times. The booth challenges are still a joke. Onside 
 kicks are still WAY too easy. I can't tell you how many times the poor tackling made me yell at 
 my TV. Using the 'highlight stick' is nice at times, but you never know what kind of move you are 
 going to get. The hit-stick is still pointless and not worth the risk of missing the tackle. There 
 are still WAY too many turnovers, and too many dropped INT's at the same time. Yes I am shocked 
 that EA finds a way for that to be possible but it's true.
  
  The Franchise & Superstar modes remained untouched. This is my 2nd most irritating thing about 
 this game (after the disappointing online franchise) , as we have been playing the same franchise 
 mode for years now and the Superstar mode was never good in the first place. I mean do you have 
 to have an IQ of 45 to work at EA? Can't they realize that this is a problem?
  
  Once again, I am shocked that EA has the stones to charge everyone $60 for this game every year. 
 I could literally toss in a copy of Madden from several years ago (provided it's on the same console) 
 and have just as much fun with it as I would this game, maybe more. As with every year, I would 
 rent this game first and see how much you like the new stuff. If it doesn't blow you away, then 
 don't fork over the $60 for this. It only feeds into this crap that EA tries to shovel down our 
 throats every year.
  
  It's not that Madden is a BAD game, it's just gotten to the point where every year the game is 
 either the same, marginally better, or even worse. That is insulting and the only way, we as consumers, 
 can voice our disgust is with our wallets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  It's sad that Madden '09 barely improved on '08, despite promising around 80 new features in the 
 game with amazing online play, graphics, etc. The new graphics aren't any better than last year's. 
 This year also has one of the stupidest features ever: Replay. If you throw an interception, and 
 you still have a replay, you can re-do the play and could get a touchdown off of that play. That 
 is one of the most unrealistic things in any sports game. Plus, the achievements having to do with 
 passing touchdowns with the Falcons and rushing touchdowns with the Dolphins don't work. At least 
 not for me.
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  Not the most impressive soundtrack ever. Of course I'm not a huge Madden fan, so I don't know what 
 the standards of a Madden soundtrack are. I was impressed by the Madden 07 and 03 soundtracks, 
 so I guess I expected this one to be good. The player sounds sound the same as years before.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  The gameplay is ok. The plays aren't new, and the only new gameplay feature 
 that I can think of is the replay feature.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  They are a little bit better than '08, but you can't really tell a huge difference. 
  
  REPLAY 
 VALUE: 7/10
  Truthfully, I think I would go back and play Madden '08 more than '09. It doesn't really have solid 
 gameplay, and there is no online franchise mode. If you do online, you are just set up in an elimination 
 tournament sort of like the playoffs.
  
  OVERALL: 7.5/10
  Not the best Madden ever, over-hyped. I would rent it first, but really, its not fun enough to 
 rent. If you are looking for a good football game, pick up NCAA Football 09. It's much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurdyRubberX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  As I'm a 2K5 Fan Boy! This years Madden is pretty much the same as the previous year and for the 
 exception of new play schemes and the amazing graphics, to me all feels the same. For myself I 
 want better half-time reports like how ESPN did it with Chris Berman, Player stats and when I say 
 that I mean more in depth and as I'm playing. If EA is only going to bring sizzle and no steak 
 then it's going to end up holding 8.0 ratings instead of 10's which I think is very possible. Now 
 that graphics have been polished lets see some tweaking on game play and presentation. Other than 
 those few things I would encourage those of you to view the video review for 2K5 to get an understanding 
 of where I'm coming from and perhaps you will agree or not, who knows. As far as online gaming 
 goes I haven't bothered to try it's usually the same and judging from this sites review it's not 
 worth the time or the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky17
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is a great looking game it runs smoothly and the graphics are great, but every year the 
 game is almost identical as the previous game except for an updated roster and some new features 
 and better graphics. If you are a die hard Madden fan you should buy but if you want to save some 
 money and already have Madden 08 you can stay with that one and be just fine. The new features in 
 this game that I like are the Madden test to see your skill level before you start playing the 
 game. I also like the fantasy football option that you can do by intigrating your fantasy team 
 into your xbox and keeping track of your team through your system. Great controls easy learning 
 curve. Easy to learn the controls to play the game for a new player of the series. The voice work 
 is pretty good also for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Wow... This game is AWESOME!!! I picked up Madden with some big expectations and all of them were 
 met. This is easily the best Madden of all time. Before I felt that Madden 05 had the best gameplay 
 and features in one package for any football game but 09 easily surpasses it. I have played this 
 game quite a bit and I can easily tell you this game is unreal. I am very impressed with the gameplay 
 and the level of control you have over each player. Also, all the various options are amazing and 
 deep. I haven't even been able to do an online league yet (still waiting for two of my buddies 
 to get the game) but the online games I have played have been solid. If you like football at all 
 (even those 2K fanboys that are still clinging to 2K5) you need to play this game. It's just that 
 good! Just ask Andyboii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apgreer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09' in my oppinion is the best Madden that has came out since the beginning of the next 
 gen gaming era. Despite some of the flaws like the easy crossing patterns that are impossible to 
 stop; I have to say I really enjoy this game. The graphics are absolutely amazing, the response 
 handles wonderfully, and the animazions are great, but could use some work. I'm still waiting for 
 EA to add the historical teams back into the game. I loved playing with legendary players. The 
 weather animations on this game are quite weak. Snow doesn't accumulate, and rain does not alter 
 field conditions, other than these two minor flaws I love EAs attempt to cater to different skill 
 levels. There is always room for improvement, and thats what keeps me looking foward to buying 
 a new Madden each year. Hopefully in the coming years EA will implement some of the attributes 
 from previous Maddens that made this game great in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectone30
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  If this game could be compared to a real NFL team it would be the 76 Buc's. I guess that when you 
 own the whole pie it doesn't matter what it tastes like right? This game is no more than a .5 version 
 of 08's effort, which like 07's is nothing to jump in the stands over. Well I'm sure the 15 year 
 olds are just absolutely pumped to be playing this poor mans football game, but as an avid NFL 
 fan i feel more like crying at what seems to be the funeral of football gaming. EA has shown about 
 as much concern fixing the games nagging issues which have plagued its titles since 06 as Chad 
 Johnson concerns himself with being stoic. To me EA has 2 major themes when they "update" a sports 
 title.... step 1. Have we signed enough pop rock bands and rappers this year? step 2. Lets make 
 the annoucers say this game is brought to you by EA 35 times a game instead 25. Speaking of announcing, 
 this title does fare slightly better than the previous years offerings, but i still found myself 
 thinking is Hammond a robot or is he just as bored as i am? Online leagues which was a major selling 
 point for me this year is unbelievably under-developed and not worth the 60 beans i spilled to 
 by this diaper rash of a game. The Madden Test is supposed to gauge how well you can play Madden, 
 but the way it grades you is so backwards that you're better off setting the difficulty yourself. 
 The next time I wanna play a football game I'll just go outside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBHPK121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I've been gaming since '75. I was a senior in high school when the first Madden was released and 
 loved it. Tecmo Bowl was my favorite prior to Madden. All of them were fun; however, one stood 
 out from the crowd. ESPN 2K5 rocked. 
  
  Madden '07 was packaged with my 360. I played 3 games and never played it again. The graphics were 
 much better; however, the game was a poor experience in contrast to 2K5. 2K5 made use of the ESPN 
 license and incorporated Sports Center after each game. Chris Bermen recapped all of the games. 
 It was very close to what every Sunday is like. I continued to play this game until this year.
 
  
  I have played six games and Madden '09 is a considerable improvement over '07. The graphics are 
 amazing. Adding play by play was a good move. Cris Collinsworth is entertaining. I like the back 
 tracking feature (see Gamespot's review) . The game itself moves much faster than '07 and I have 
 not found this game to be difficult. I've enjoyed the game and think this is the best Madden in 
 years. Now let's get back to reality. It is still not as good as 2K5 as it does not use the ESPN 
 license effectively. 
  
  This game is good. I can see why hardcore Madden lovers are lambasting this game. There are many 
 similarities to prior efforts. I'm a 2K5 fan and do not have high expectations for Madden. I can 
 assure everyone this game is good. If you want a solid game with great visuals and sound, this 
 game fits the bill. If you buy Madden every year, you may want to rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  After buying NCAA Football 09, which I think is a near perfect game, my expectations were high 
 for a truly great Madden game. And while this year's game is certainly very good, it once again 
 falls short of expectation.
  On the good side, graphically the game looks better than last year's game (although I think NCAA 
 Football 09's graphics are better) . With the addition of Tom Hammond and Chris Collinsworth, the 
 presention is clearly better, too. Also, more stat menus are used. And even John Madden himself 
 makes short appearances in the game. Player animations are also improved, and the playcall menu 
 looks awesome. Finally, the way Collinsworth breaks down a play is not only awesome, it's revolutionary.
 
  Now the bad: while the graphics are good, I find NCAA Football 09's graphics better. That is unacceptable 
 when Madden is EA's flagship title. And while the presentation is better, it's like EA can only 
 take baby steps toward a great presention. With an ESPN liscense, again that is unacceptable. Also, 
 while Collinsworth is awesome, Tom Hammond is merely passable and at times comes off sounding like 
 a computer. Also, while players will get filthy during a rain game, gone is the deterioration of 
 the field. It just doesn't happen. What's up with that?
  But my biggest gripe with Madden 09 is it's pace during gameplay. For the first time since I've 
 played Madden, the 5 or even 6 minute quarters do not feel right. You tend to get scores like 7-3 
 at the half and 16-10 as a final. I love defense, but this is too defensive. Maybe it's because 
 it's tough to get big plays, forcing you to go 10 plus plays on a drive, draining the clock. Now 
 I'm not sure what to do.
  With all that said, all of these issues keep Madden 09 from being great. It's still a very good 
 game, and is the best Madden game released on the Xbox 360, so EA must be applauded for that. I 
 just wish that one day this franchise can live up to the hype it gets, 'cause it never comes close. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactorstl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  It plays very well it almost to the point that it was before they switched it over to next GEN. 
 It feels great. Looks Amazing, and the teams seemed to be stasticly acurate. (my rams are only 
 a 77) What is up with the online leagues??? How can the Ncaa team have a fantastic dynasty mode 
 and then in the room next door the Madden guys are creating the worst way i could have even tought 
 to make an online league. Don't these guys pass each other in the hall. Overall If you like Madden 
 then you will like this game, but just think how good Madden could be if they only had a little 
 compotition. Oh well this is america the land of the big stomping on the little. RIP 2K5 we will 
 always remember what could have been. It is horrible that we are stuck with buying the same game 
 and don't have a choice on what we spend our hard earned money on. The $60 price tag is a little 
 much for a game that, as compared to GTA 4, doesn't have that much in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vance_009
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple of madden games was for the hardcore. With that is mind if you did not play 
 Madden year to year, you could easy lose care of the game. Some can only play single player on 
 pro, because of all the hardcore gamers out in the Madden nation. 
  
  This year of Madden is all about geting up to level with the hardcore. The first thing you would 
 see is the Madden test. The test will give you a good idea of what your strong at and what needs 
 work, other then running the ball. Most people will be able to hit All Madden on the test, but 
 have the true skill of a pro. The reason for this is that you have only a hand full of denfenders 
 to run pass. Even with the test the skill does not stay the same, after every single player game 
 your IQ will go up and down in what you did well and what you did badely.
  
  Also the game looks great, and also runs great! By far this is the best looking Madden game to 
 date.
  
  On gameplay their is some bugs that EA is working on so we should see some patching work done with 
 that. 
  
  Overall this is a good Madden game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbenthal0476
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  First off i would like to say that I like this game alot. I do feel that next years gameplay will 
 hopefully catch up with the graphics upgrade.. I am somewhat dissappointed that .. as a bucs fan... 
 that every team seems to be spot on with the look but WHAT happened to the dark pewter!! The bucs 
 look odd to me and since I primarily use them it sticks out to me like a sore thumb. They are a 
 lite pewterish tan color in this game and that was not a problem before. At least they got the 
 throwback logo facing the right way on both sides this year. Anyway, that was a personal gripe 
 and I think most Bucs fans would agree with me. I still don't think that the run reacts as well 
 as they hope but it has improved and long passes are near impossible unless they ar wide open. 
 Good game, won't turn in NCAA just yet, but when the regular season kicks in maybe I'll get more 
 excited about this one. You are learning EA, it isn't all lost! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ek11sx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Madden 09 is a great game and I really enjoy it. I love how realistic this game is compared to 
 th actual game. The ai is incredibly great and they give you a run for your money of you put the 
 difficulty to your specifications. Madden IQ is great but the tests are horrible. they make running 
 and passing extroidinarliy difficult for you, being how this is my first madden and i apparently 
 have all madden running skills. Too bad i couldn't get a yard until i dumbed down the skills and 
 then just played some games then that gives you an accurate representation of your actual difficulty 
 level. Overall, I would buy it. The teams are accruatly represented but the roster updates should 
 be a little more frequent, unless you like doing it for yourself. The Giants are the greatest team 
 on the game because i said so, just a heads up. My friends say it is a total upgrade from 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The Madden football franchise has been on a decline in recent years. No not in sales but the game 
 itself seems in recent years to be a little lackluster due to the lack of competition.
  
  Well the slump is over ladies and gentlemen. Madden '09 is a real good football game from the graphics 
 to the gameplay. The graphics were built from the ground up, literally ground up since the grass 
 in '09 is just splendid to look at. The player models are all superb in detail. The game has very 
 lifelike animations you'll say to yourself "Am I watching a real football game?" There are some 
 small things I have noticed because I was nitpicking but I have noticed some problems with cpu 
 play calling, A. I and one big problem that I hope gets patched is that the game will freeze from 
 time to time.
  
  The gameplay is typical Madden its well done and very polished but leaves room for improvement. 
 You will still have all night marathons off and online. Speaking of online, there are now online 
 leagues in Madden witch is a nice addition but its a little bland of features. The mini games are 
 the same as last year as well as Superstar mode but they were fun to play to begin with so why 
 fix whats not broken?
  
  The sound is done well with bone crushing hits and crowd noises. The new additions of Tom Hammond 
 and Chris Collingsworth are ok but Collingsworth is really annoying but he is certainly much MUCH 
 better than that damn radio announced from previous years.
  
  If you passed on Madden the last couple of years I dont blame you but this is the year you should 
 get back in the game and pick this football title up, not because its the only football game but 
 because its actually a good football game.
  
  
  GameWired Score: 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbrosco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. I didn't buy Madden last year as I thought the game still looked like 
 the ones I used to play on gamecube five years ago. Now the look & feel are excelent imo as the 
 players & fields finally look like they are in High Definittion. And for a guy who isn't very good 
 at the game it is alot more fun than it used to be I believe our to the Madden IQ. Chris Collinsworth 
 is better than I thought & the rewind helps alot, I only use it when playing by myself & make a 
 dumb mistake. 
  I am in an online league but it hasn; t started yet, we have 12 players so that should make for 
 a decent league. I do agree with other reviews that Madden should have allowed AI teams to make 
 up for people who only have 3-4 friends to play in a league with, but at least they have the leagues 
 this year & surely will be better next year.
  
  I would definitely reccommend this game to al sports fans & people who might be looking for a break 
 from call of duty four until the next shooter comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrem25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Madden 09 is that it looks great. 60 FPS this year, which is better 
 than ever. Hits look realistic, tackling looks better, especially gang tackling. Defensive backs 
 don't look like fools trying to catch interceptions. The gameplay, which is undoubtedly the most 
 important aspect, is better than ever.
  
  Then you dive deeper. I like to take advantage of all the modes the game has to offer. Online Franchise, 
 a new mode that was a great idea, is a complete bust. NCAA 09's Online Dynasty was great, why can't 
 they just mimic theirs? 
  
  Superstar remains the same (awful) . It is still way too difficult to create a player better than 
 a 50 overall, and each time you try you have to fill out the information every time, lest your 
 player be named New Player. Then if you get a decent player, you always end up on the same team 
 depending on what position you pick (if you're a WR you're on the Chiefs, no matter what) . Then 
 you get Brodie Croyle throwing 8 picks a game. Just stupid. The AI of the computer players is awful 
 to the point of madness. For example, I'm on the Browns, and Anderson throws a dump pass to the 
 fullback in the 4th quarter on a potential game-winning drive. Now, in this situation, you probably 
 don't throw a dump pass to the fullback, but let's not touch that one. The fullback catches the 
 ball, and you expect him to do two things: run as far as he can for yardage and then step out of 
 bounds. Instead, Vickers catches the ball, runs two yards, and steps out, despite having 15 yards 
 of open field in front of him. The computer-controlled kicker also has consistant trouble hitting 
 a 30 yard field goal, and since you have no control of the playcalling (unless you're a QB) , there's 
 no way of going for it on 4th down to avoid the kicker. Also, every once in a while the camera 
 will rotate so you can't see your player at all, usually when they receive a toss or a pass, and 
 you pretty much run right into a defender or out of bounds. I've already lost at least 3 long touchdown 
 runs due to this.
  
  Franchise mode is also unchanged, and you have to wonder why this mode remains so lacking compared 
 to PS2 versions. PS2 featured training camp, owner mode, the ability to take control of any team 
 at the end of each season (and relocate all of them to Alaska if you wish) . Franchise mode isn't 
 much better than the first Franchise mode for Madden 02. 
  
  Online play seems to work, however there are some things that I just don't understand. Why, if 
 the player you're playing quits after the first play, do I have to play a whole game against a 
 computer (or quit without getting a win) ? Someone forfiets, other team wins. That's sports. It's 
 a waste of time, and if I'm beating someone I want credit for the win without wasting another half 
 hour playing a computer.
  
  The whole Madden IQ thing is the stupidest addition in the game's history. You take tests on Passing, 
 Rushing, Tackling and Pass Defense. Passing is the only thing that actually acts like a real game; 
 the others are unrealistic. It's impossible to do the pass defense one because you can only control 
 one preset player, and the QB always throws to the other side, where the guy is wide open. Passing 
 and Rushing is extremely easy. The defensive ones are quirky and don't work the way they should. 
 As a result you get unrealistically high scores for passing and rushing and low scores for defense. 
 If you take those settings into a real game and you're not ready for them, all your passes will 
 be picked off and you won't be able to move the ball. 
  
  The game freezes at the worst moments. EA has said they're working on the problem, but it's a real 
 buzzkill when you've played three franchise mode games and all of a sudden the game freezes on 
 a loading screen and you stare at Madden's face for 5 minutes kicking yourself for not saving. 
 These should be problems of the past. 
  
  The game menus and playbook screens are quirky and sometimes you find yourself picking a play that 
 you didn't mean to pick or going into a game mode you didn't mean to play.
  
  
  
  The game also has wayyy too many glitches for a game of its stature. The game has been around for 
 20 years, the modern version for 6, and the next-gen versions for 3. And yet, the game still has 
 glaring glitches. For example, I'm losing a game by 13 in the waning seconds of the 3rd quarter, 
 so I step out to save some time with 1 second left. Only as soon as I make it to the play calling 
 screen, the game clock runs to 0:00 and I lose a play. I wasn't contested in going out of bounds 
 and there was no question of my intent to step out. It may not seem like a big deal, but it lost 
 be a play, a play I could have run without worrying about going out of bounds or throwing an incompletion.
 
  
  A few other random complaints:
  
  I was playing with the Jaguars against a friend online. He was the Patriots. I decide to expose 
 the Pats' subpar secondary and throw a deep pass to Porter. He burns his single coverage and has 
 the ball hit his hands before dropping it. OK, fine. Bound to happen every once in a while. I try 
 again the next possession. Burns the coverage, drop. I try 5 different times, 5 dropped passes. 
 I know Porter isn't that good, but he's an 84 catch, so you think he'd be able to catch a catchable 
 ball at least 84% of the time, wouldn't you?
  
  Another time I was playing online with a friend in my hometown. I'm up by a ridiculous margin, 
 31-7, 3 minutes left in the 4th quarter. I go to challenge a catch and instead of going back to 
 the play screen, I get a message that says "The connection to the game has been lost." OK, fine, 
 might be my internet or whatever. However, I am still able to talk to my friend over the headset. 
 If I lost the connection to my friend, how am I talking to him?? 
  
  How come sometimes, when a player gets hurt, a "timeout" is called but not deducted from the team 
 whose player got hurt, but sometimes it does even though the clock is stopped anyway (for example, 
 after a touchdown) . 
  
  The more I play this game, the more it drives me nuts. This is what happens when EA has no competition, 
 they spew out garbage every year. Bring back the 2k series, maybe EA will be forced to clean up 
 its act.
  
  If you have 08, there's no point in spending 60 bucks for this roster update.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the madden games people play most have mixed reactions. The game is similar to '08, 
 you can play in franchise, or you can create your own superstar in the game while you watch him 
 rise to fame, you will be treated to different types of workouts to help you prepare for the pro's. 
 While opening on the main menu you will meet John Madden who looks like a ghost of the past (siriously) .
 
  The game is great online as you play against your friends which can make a fun time. The controls 
 are very fluent with the game and you can rewind any plays you screwed up on, which can be very 
 helpful in learning your mistakes, but also it will make you feel like it is very easy.
  The downfall for me in this new madden game is that John madden in this game gets very annoying 
 at most parts when talking, the game freezes for about three to five seconds in the game, which 
 can bite you in the butt at most parts, also there are some things in the superstar mode which 
 get very annoying and there are some tests that makes you wonder why they even put that into the 
 game.
  The upside to the game is the great Wal-Mart madden commercial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Fable-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Madden 09 the day it came out. I've played it about half of a season in franchise mode 
 (plus a dozen or more play nows) and a dozen or so games on xbox live. 
  
  Where madden 09 excels:
  
  I have to say at first I didn't really care for the game while playing 
 franchise - so I decided to checkout xbox live. This is where madden 09 has really improved in 
 game play quality from 08. In madden 08 you could never play a game w/ out lag online (kicking 
 had never been so hard) , but in madden 09 it almost feels virtually lag free - awesome! With that 
 said, this almost justifies buying madden for $60. 
  
  Where madden 09 falls short:
  
  Bugs, errors, glitches - whatever you want to call them, madden has a lot of them (not acceptable 
 for its 3rd round on next gen) ... I look at them more as bugs then anything else. One example is 
 the on screen replay (while picking your next play) will turn white and flash lines of other colors; 
 and if you go into the replay it does it in there too (just gets annoying on a 50inch DLP) ... 
 This is just one of the many bugs in Madden 09, if you want to find more just google "madden 09 
 bugs/glitches" for more...
  
  Besides the glitches madden 09 is still a great game and is worth picking up - since its the only 
 NFL game around. 
  
  Some key notes:
  
  1.) The running and tackling is more dynamic then ever before. 
  
  2.) kick returning is a lot 
 more fun - it almost feels like you have a chance to take one all the way every time!
  
  3.) "smart routes" are back. Also, the new pre-snap menu works well w/ its new futures (bluffs and 
 audibles) .
  
  4.) graphics look amazing - players (still need some work) , stadiums and weather have all improved.
 
  
  5.) overall, the game is just a better version then madden 08 and is fun to play.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  There are only three problems with this game and one is minor, and the most of the reviews I see 
 people posting are just far too negative. 1) graphics seem a bit dark even when playing day games 
 and this gets to be a bigger problem with late afternoon games, this minor problem is only a slight 
 issue based on someone playing on a crappy tv ( get a new one if you're mad) 2) online is not up 
 to par and lets hope this is fixed (this is a big problem in this time of video games) 3) The game 
 has froze on me... unacceptable especially since I was not even online. It is obvious the developers 
 spent alot of time improving this game but it is sad so many people dont see it. I liked 2K5 but 
 other than some nice presentation it does not come close to this game. Superstar mode has not been 
 fixed... well they should have never made this mode anyways because the whiners will just keep 
 multiplying. Finally the price people. $60 dollars. Cheap and very cheap. I find it funny on this 
 board how guys will complain about the price but they have no problem paying money for smokes, 
 beer, and strippers which could add up to an easy $100 in one night. Nice job EA you deserve a 
 bow. lets play some football and quit whining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was awe. The first time it gave the perspective of being on the 
 field it felt like I was watching a real game. It was so neat. Granted the awe wears down everytime 
 you play it but the first time for me was cool. The atmosphere the game gives you, raises the excitement 
 level when compared to previous versions, it's like when you anticipate watching your favorite 
 team play on a Sunday afternoon, then the very first play begins.
  
  The announcers are so much better this year than on previous ones. Chris Collingsworth does an 
 excellent job, the other guy seems fake in comparison. According to what I have seen on trailers, 
 Chris ad-libbed his lines, they are not scripted. There is quite a difference between the two announcers.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are amazing and makes the game 100% better than last years. You really 
 have to see it to understand. This is not to say the graphics and animations are perfect, they 
 are not. I saw a football pass right through my opponents receivers shoulder and was intercepted 
 by me standing behind him!
  That was the one and only time I have seen a problem so far.
  
  It was good to see they allow you to have computer vs computer again. Sometimes I like to play 
 a simulation of a real game I will soon be watching.
  
  I am disappointed they don't have a half-time analysis show like you would see on tv and one after 
 the game is over. It would also be nice to see the progression of other games around the league 
 while you are playing yours.
  
  The trainer does help a lot. It helps me out, because I am not that good on pass defense but I 
 am improving all the time. 
  
  This game is definitely worth the money, it's on another level graphics wise when compared to it's 
 NCAA 09 partner. You certainly owe it to yourself to at least try it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is FINALLY the first Madden that seems much more balanced, difficulty wise. There isn't 
 any major issues as far as fumbling, interceptions, freak DB's or anyone that overpowers one another. 
 Everything is much more balanced out and that is a huge plus in this year's edition of Madden. 
 Graphics are much better and they stand out much more with the nice shadows and reflections. Weather 
 effects are nice and much more realistic. Field deteoration seems to have been taken out for some 
 reason which is a letdown and decreased the realism of the game. The textures of the grass and 
 turfs are much better looking but they seem slightly rough looking. Gameplay wise, the game is 
 much better. There are more gang tacklee animations, running animations, new ways to juke, agility 
 is more realistic and relative to the players speed, and overall it's a much meaner and smoother 
 game of football. One letdown for me, personally, is the lack of catching animations for WR's and 
 also the WR's don't seem to jump for the ball much anymore. The defensive backs seem to make a 
 much bigger effort for the ball on deep throws as well which makes it hard to complete deep passes. 
 I am not a big feature guy so I wont go into the specifics of the rewind feature since I do not 
 use it much. I also don't play online so I can't comment on that. 
  
  Also to conclude this review, I still don't see a chain gang in Madden yet! wtf! or referees!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I hate EA. Period. After they bought the exclusive rights to NFL games their quality has declined 
 and crashed. Now FINALLY, EA has got it right....... and it only took them 3 years. There are some 
 issues, but they can be over-looked. This game is increadably good and any football fan will enjoy 
 it. Shell out the $60. You wont be sorry.
  
  +Online League with up to 32 players
  +Great Presentation
  +Best looking Madden is the series
  +Great weather effects
  +A good 
 sound thrack in an EA game?!! Holy sh*t!!!
  +Amazing animations
  +Virtual Trainer that adapts to you
  +Just a great game through and through
  
  -EA was too 
 generous with the player ratings and weapon system
  -Cant have AI players online in League Mode
  -Still some magnet tackles and catches
  -Sometimes 
 game doesnt feel like registering your kick-offs, punts, or field goals
  
  
  Buy it. Its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ok I will start by saying that in NO way, shape or form is this game "the exact same thing as last 
 year". 
  
  From the game play, to the graphics, to the presentation, to the AI pretty much the entire meat 
 of the game received an upgrade.
  
  I could personally care less if franchise or superstar mode received an overhaul because I thought 
 they were more than functional the way they are. 
  
  I will start with the initial training you get put through-
  
  Training is a smart way to let 
 someone know where there skill really is and it sets the game accordingly. That, to me, is more 
 important than adding the ability to sell concessions or change ticket prices. 
  
  The training was a nice little intro to what was about to follow.
  
  I immediately ventured 
 into a couple of quick matches and discovered right off the bat that they concentrated on the atmosphere 
 a lot more in this one. For example, the grass in Pittsburgh looks a little more run down and dead 
 than grass in Kansas City. Weather changes and visuals of the weather itself are both incredible. 
 The crowd is just a little more alive in this one as well.
  
  The game play feels a lot different and a lot better. I have not encountered what people call "typical 
 Madden glitches" at all at this point. What I have experienced is realism. I see Derek Anderson 
 having an arm but struggling with his accuracy. I see Reggie Bush running well to the outside but 
 not well inside. I see the Steelers below average offensive line get shredded like a block of cheese. 
 These aren't glitches people, its called football.
  
  WR and DB takeover has become much cleaner than in previous installments, making it simpler to 
 control your receiver/db. I also noticed that you have to be in much better position this year 
 to pick the ball off than in years past. I didn't notice any crazy INT's or turnovers while I was 
 playing.
  
  On offense I found my WR's running crisper, more accurate routes. The players that drop passes 
 are the ones notoriously known for dropping passes (T. O., Braylon Edwards) and guys with good hands 
 catch more balls thrown in their direction than others.
  
  I found my offensive line protecting and blocking accurately, but unlike NFL2k5, you don't have 
 a crisp running lane on every play, therefore making it very realistic. The breakaway cam is a 
 nice little added bonus.
  
  Oh and for you people who focus on the unimportant things, they have nets for the field goals.
 
  
  Online Leagues are a nice addition, but could use a little fine tuning. 
  
  In franchise mode, the difficulty progression is a VERY welcomed addition. Now I am not having 
 too much difficulty with the adjustments yet, but I do enjoy how the games stay interesting.
  
  I have yet to encounter any type of glitches with the mode either. No crazy stats, no ridiculous 
 ratings progression through my buddies franchise (we simmed about five seasons and imported our 
 NCAA draft class with the EAROSTER COM rosters I downloaded online, and it has worked seamlessly) , 
 and free agency is a little more accurate but could still use a little tuning.
  
  Two things this game has taught me-
  
  1. Gamespot has no idea how to rate sports games. Last 
 years Madden was given an 8.5, Madden 07 a 7.9 and Madden 06 a 7.4. Madden 06 and 07 were below 
 average games for football gaming standards even though I could play 07. I thought Madden 08 was 
 a very good game with several improvements in many necessary areas. 
  
  Now Madden 09 gets a lower score than last year? It's CLEARLY a better game and anyone with an 
 unbiased outlook could tell you that. Your staff needs new reviewers for sports games. If the people 
 on your staff have the audacity to give Halo 3 a 9.5 then your sports staff should be giving Madden 
 nothing less than a 9.
  
  
  The second thing I learned- 
  
  2. People love to hate this game. I have read some of the most inaccurate and ridiculous game reviews 
 I have ever seen when I read Madden 09 reviews. "This is the same game".... "They didn't change 
 anything"....
  
  You people are completely lost. Either...
  
  A) You aren't sports fans or sports gaming fans
  
  or 
  
  B) You are so wrapped up in the 
 psychology of the whole EA/2K exclusive rights battle that you take it personal that you can't 
 purchase a game from 2k (whom I might add made a very disappointing football game in nearly every 
 facet with APF2k8 last year) .
  
  The reality is this people. The NFL WANTED only one company producing an NFL/NFLPA licensed football 
 game. EA won the BIDDING war. They didn't buy anyone out. The NFL WANTED this. So learn to deal 
 with it. If Madden makes a good game, call it like it is good or bad.
  
  I understand we are all entitled to our own opinion, but some of you are complete tools in this 
 EA/2k thing.
  
  Personally I like both.... I like the NBA 2k series (NBA Live is just terrible) , I liked MLB2k 
 (albeit not as much as MVP) up until 2k7. I even like the Top Spin series. But I am not going to 
 sit back like and be a fan of one or the other and allow my bias control how I view an individual 
 game.
  
  That's why I give kudos to EA and Madden for getting it right. I will be playing this game for 
 a very long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  MADDEN 09 The illustrious Madden series has been a staple to sports gamers and football fans for 
 decades now. On its 20th anniversary, the franchise seeks to regain its reputation as an elite 
 product by fine tuning some of its small bugs and tackling a few big ones. Madden began is perilous 
 journey on "next-gen" consoles with a sub par offering in 06. Each year since has been a step closer 
 to the quality of game seen on last generation's machines. Much of 07's upgrades were damage control, 
 while 08 finally brought Madden to a level worthy of the Xbox 360's power. This season EA Sports 
 continues to plug the holes of what was a sinking ship and address features that truly need attention. 
 Does Madden 09 live up to the feverish hype and nearly unattainable expectations? 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Madden has always tried to be worlds best football simulator. Each year EA has piled 
 on new innovative gameplay features and options in an effort to push pixilated pigskin closer to 
 its real life counterpart. This year, a lot of focus went into tightening up the play between the 
 whistles. Addressing the problematic fumbling issue from 08 was first and foremost. Running the 
 ball feels more realistic than ever with its new "breakaway" feature  meaning you can spin and 
 juke yourself out of tackles with dynamic combinations of moves. The passing game has also been 
 toned down some this year. Long bombs into double or tight coverage usually lead to interceptions. 
 Playing smart is what rewards points in 09. The gameplay feels nice and fluid. Veterans of Madden 
 will find the mechanics completely familiar. A few noticeable updates include the ability to assign 
 Smart routes (which take your player past the 1st down marker) , hide your play calls in head to 
 head matches with fake pre-hike route art, double cover key receivers and make position specific 
 defensive audibles. One feature EA has been pitching hard with Madden 09 is the "Madden IQ" which 
 assesses your game skill on offence and defense to continually tailor the difficulty specifically 
 to you. While this sounds like a great idea, the result of the testing produces unrealistic difficulty 
 settings. Offensive tests are far too easy, while defensive ones are much too difficult. The drills 
 do not match the intensity of in-game situations and thus produce lopsided assessments of your 
 true skill. Luckily you can turn this feature off and customize the sliders yourself, or play from 
 the customary skill levels. Madden 09 contains all the modes we've come to expect - Superstar, 
 Franchise and Playnow remain the staples. Online play is great and has been supplemented with the 
 long awaited Online League mode. While the in-game online play is responsive and smooth, the League 
 portion is barebones. There are no divisions, playoffs or deep stat-tracking in Madden 09's online 
 league. It's great to see this feature finally included in Madden, but obviously needs to be fleshed 
 out in future releases. The handicapping feature is an excellent for multiplayer opponents with 
 different skill levels to have close and competitive games. This really levels the playing field 
 by letting amateur players face easier AI and hardcore gamers to battle increased difficulty in 
 the same game. Offline 4 player cooperative, online 2 player co-op vs. CPU matches are other welcome 
 updates. Overall the gameplay feels a little tougher than in previous years. Scores are a lot closer, 
 making games much more intense, but at times unrealistic. You'll hardly see blowouts happen in 
 09 even with teams of great skill discrepancy. There are a few AI problems that pop up once in 
 a while too. Computer players sometimes get locked in animations and make questionable decisions 
 like choosing to run out of bounds and not fighting for first downs on the sidelines. EA has done 
 a great job tuning its gameplay and fixing the bugs from 08. Just a little more polish needed for 
 next year. 9/10 
  
  GRAPHICS: Right out of the box Madden 09 is a huge step forward visually. With a new art director 
 and producer; EA Sports has given Madden a beautiful cosmetic upgrade that blows previous installments 
 out like the Patriots over the Dolphins. Starting with the completely redone player models and 
 renovated stadiums to the wickedly smooth animation transitions this game is a sight to behold. 
 EA has nailed the depth of field, haze, lighting and scale of its environments. Crowd camera flashes 
 are a nice dramatic touch. The fields themselves are very impressive. Grass and turf has never 
 looked so lifelike. Sidelines have been given a small visual boost too. The new camera angle that 
 drops further back and lower behind the Quarterback is a great step forward in getting all receivers 
 in view. It takes a bit of getting used to and the classic Madden cam is still available, but given 
 its opportunity, the new camera opens up your passing options considerably. Game introductions 
 look better than ever with new exterior shots of the stadium and the city backdrops. The new title/into 
 graphics and ticker are much improved, but still don't offer much variety from game to game. One 
 of the big improvements with 09 is the lighting and weather effects. Heavy snow games look incredible 
 with snow building up as the game goes on. Rainy games also look great, as the field conditions 
 slowly degrade and players getting progressively muddy with each down. Little details like footprints 
 in the snow, and splashes on wet turf add a nice immersive quality. This is not a perfect looking 
 game by any means. There are a few frame rate flickers and stutters between plays and camera cuts. 
 More sideline diversity and interaction is needed and fans fail to look realistic upon close inspection. 
 These are small but important details that keep Madden 09 from looking as good as it could. Despite 
 these shortcomings, this is still the best looking football game to date. 9.5/10 
  
  SOUND: This is one area of Madden that has really needed attention. Thankfully EA has answered 
 the call and put some effort into improving how the game sounds. The horribly boring and repetitive 
 "radio guy" announcer that has plagued the past three years has finally been removed. However, 
 the new play-by-play man Tom Hammond checks in with a less than stellar effort. His bland, disjointed 
 and wooden play calling is only marginally better than the radio announcer of years past. He does 
 offer more variety, but delivers his lines with little emotion or spontaneity. Color-man Cris Collinsworth 
 on the other hand is Madden 09's secret weapon. His off the cuff, natural and accurate delivery 
 is simply amazing. Close your eyes and you'd think he was talking about a real game during a broadcast. 
 EA has programmed its engine to know which lines have been used so that its not repeated in the 
 same game. This being the first year of Collinsworth's (hopeful) tenure with Madden, his comments 
 do become a bit repetitive after a number of games played. More voiceover work is needed to keep 
 it fresh moving forward. Sorry to say, EA needs to find another play-by-play announcer (like Al 
 Michaels) to compliment Cris' excellent work. At times the commentary goes off on a tangent that 
 doesn't match the impact of what's happening in the game. For example, the commentators with be 
 talking plainly about team strategy during an exciting touchdown play. Fans also need some attention. 
 As good as they look from afar, they don't really respond well audibly to the action on the field. 
 The Madden team needs to take notes from its Fifa cousin and bring the responsive and roaring masses 
 to the forefront of its audio. Home teams hardly get the support they deserve and visitors aren't 
 intimidated. The music for Madden 09 is a standard mishmash of rock, hip-hop and classic NFL films 
 cues. Nothing special, but nothing worth changing either. 8/10 
  
  PRESENTATION: Madden has been in need of a fix to the series lackluster presentation for years. 
 Ever since the universally adored presentation of rival developer's NFL 2K5, Madden has taken a 
 backseat with its dynamic broadcast look. Presentation is a marriage of graphics, sound and extras 
 that bring the game closer to the real thing. While many Madden players care little about presentation, 
 there's no question EA has been lazy with its showcasing in recent years. Madden 09 takes a few 
 solid steps in the right direction. The best is the new Backtrack feature that goes hand-in-hand 
 with Cris Collinsworth's analytical commentary. Backtrack breaks down a play that you've messed 
 up by showing you what you should have done. Collinsworth's comments are more than a huge leap 
 toward broadcast presentation, but are accurate and useful as well. The addition of new camera 
 angles during cut scenes help to bring the game closer to a real televised look. Game intros and 
 pre-snap camera pans are also improved. On the downside, EA still has ignored some crucial broadcast 
 elements that could really take the game to another level. A lack of gameplay camera options continue 
 to hamper a true broadcast feel  especially true with CPU vs. CPU games. Strange how this simple 
 feature like sideline, endzone, TV and booth angles exist in replay mode (and in Head Coach 09) , 
 but not during a live Madden game. EA has raved about its "Beyond Presentation" approach to Madden 
 09, but it still lacks some of the dynamic features present in its competitor's game 4 years ago. 
 EA's lazy halftime and post-game "shows" continue to ignore their acquired ESPN license and do 
 not offer commentary or analysis. There are no weekly shows and wrap-ups. No interviews. No out 
 of town scores and highlights during season games to build that extra level of storytelling and 
 drama that make the NFL what it is. 7.5/10 
  
  OVERALL: Madden 09 looks and feels like a true turning point for the series. The game has the best 
 visuals and gameplay that its ever had. For that reason it should be a mainstay in the game library 
 of gridiron gamers at least until next year's Madden. The sound is very much improved over last 
 year, and with a few tweaks and added variety it will be able to match the astounding visuals. 
 The presentation looks like its finally getting some notice by EA. This is a critical component 
 to any sports game, and is one that definitely requires continued focus to deliver an elite NFL 
 broadcast experience. With great new features like the Online League, handicapping, Backtrack, 
 color commentary and greater player control, Madden 09 lives up to its high expectations while 
 not necessarily exceeding them. A great effort by EA this year. Final rating = 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Since this year marks the 20th anniversary of Madden, I thought that EA would make it especially 
 good for the occasion. Boy was I wrong. There aren't many changes to the game but some very noticeable 
 ones are the Rewind feature, which lets you rewind the previous play if you for example throw an 
 interception or get sacked or give up a touchdown on defense. I like this feature because it gives 
 you another chance to get the play right if you make a mistake. I also like how you can celebrate 
 a touchdown yourself by pressing Y in the endzone. One thing I've noticed is that if you're killing 
 an opponent and it's near the end of the game, John Madden says that the other team is down by 
 two touchdowns. It's not that big of a deal its just something I've noticed. Some bad things about 
 the game is that the Franchise and Superstar modes are exactly the same as last years. I personally 
 think that the Madden Test is a waste because I don't think it will help you play against an opponent 
 perfect for you. But that's just me. So Madden NFL 09 is pretty much the same as Madden NFL 08 
 but that's not nessisarily a bad thing because Madden 08 wasn't bad. It's just they should have 
 changed more because of the 20th anniversary thing. Now for the achievement junkies. The achievements 
 are pretty easy and can all be unlocked within a couple days. Madden NFL 09 is just okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Ok here is my thing on MaddenNothing much has really changethe graphics are better of course 
 and I love the Virtual TrainingI think that is very helpful. I spent hours with the Virtual Training 
 before I played a real gamePlaying against the computer got tougher... The Madden IQ is nothing 
 more but Bragging about online. other than that everything is the same. Now I'm not knocking the 
 game, because I love the Madden franchise. I just believe in order to make a significant change 
 in the franchise they just need to take a year off or something. I think they got about 7 months 
 to make a new game (sorry if I'm wrong) You need more time then that to make a great game. I wouldn't 
 mind if they took a year off because I know the next one that comes out will be a whole lot better 
 then the previous nex gen Maddens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zylorph5
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Great game over all! I love how they break down the plays and even let ya take another shot at 
 it with the rewind addition! The difficulty "choices" are fantastic. Its awesome that they let 
 you have a custom skill, your own skill, or the regular rookie to all-madden! The "your skill" 
 option that they put in the game is by far the best i have seen and is very futuristic like. the 
 fact that it updates the difficulty after every game according to how you played is amazing! I 
 am very impressed with the graphics and layout of the game. Indeed a huge improvement from 2008! 
 The players i have found to ber very accurat in their statistics/skill ratings!
  
  The only thing i could pick out that is not to my liking is the running game! it seems much harder 
 than the past games. Granted i like it hard as it is more realistic but i think in particular the 
 defensive line is to affective at stopping the backs (especially when the defense is being blocked 
 and as you run by, they some how grab on to you...) ! Its bearable though.
  
  great game! i would give it a 8.5 or a 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BGeezus
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  My first review I gave this game a 7 or 8, but now that I wasted some serious time fooling around 
 with this pile i'm revising my last review. Today I have decided that I am submitting my resume 
 to EA because you don't have do a damn thing to get paid besides show up! If this was the first 
 game in the series it would be an 8.5 being that they have had 20 years total and 4 on next gen 
 consoles it's getting a 5. I still feel that its a glorified roster update, the pre and post snap 
 controls are sluggish, fix the 45 degree control deal, the pre snap interface has to much depth, 
 the AI is absolutely unintelligent when it come to pass defense and ridiculous when it's up against 
 the run. I have had 2 plays were D lineman have caught wide outs form behind. Where receivers run 
 the wrong direction after catching a come back pattern (button hook) for 4 steps, when the CPU is 
 on offense it will constantly throw the ball to the back who will then run out of bounds for a 
 loss with no one by them WTF?? EA, I can make this crap game in my spare time. (Like everyone else) I 
 threaten to never buy Madden again. This time i'm going to say that... hell, is you can't beat 
 em join em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2009 is the most challenging football game yet, sometimes too challenging if you score too 
 high on the new IQ test. Great Idea, just too unforgiving, if you score "All-Madden" prepare to 
 be shut down by the cpu A. I. While the rewind play analyst is very cool, the "Re-do" play is straight 
 up garbage. THERE IS NO CRYING IN BASEBALL, AND NO RE-DO IN FOOTBALL!!! The game is still fun to 
 play of course, despite the fact you can't configure your buttons, I mean damn they had that feature 
 last couple years why is it absent? I only want to configure my controller to the original madden 
 settings I have played with for 20 years, why deny me? The Superstar mode is just plain boring, 
 and needs to be revamped from the ground up. I think and Rpg-ish approach to build your Superstar 
 would be more rewarding, and the attribute points you aquire are determined on game performance. 
 Running the ball is a lot tougher now, funny how it wants my RB to "Stiff arm" opponents when I 
 run up the middle, I have never seen that in a real game, usually they are trying to protect the 
 ball, speed through a hole, and not get their arms broken. The game looks better than ever, with 
 some really cool new animations on both sides of the ball. I had a couple game freezes that made 
 me reset the system, that was just one day of playing the game. One thing did bring a big smile 
 to my face, I layed out a running back with the "Hit Stick", and I heard a resounding "WOOOOOO!", 
 lol thanks Terry Tate^^ EA is in a no-win situation here, people **** cause they don't make enough 
 changes to the just about perfect game of Madden, then when they do make alot of changes they **** 
 more, with good reason this time I must admit. The ability to upload your highlight films is cool, 
 plus all the current news, and actual game highlights. Madden 2009 is still a great game, but next 
 years version I hope will leave fans wanting for nothing. Every "Bell & Whistle", and cool new 
 features on top of that, I think after supporting EA for 20 years we deserve it. All and all Madden 
 2009 is worthy of your hard earned dollars, go buy it already! AM I NOT MERCIFUL?!?!?!? tEE hEE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeski89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game and I have to say that EA let me down. The gameplay in 
 Madden 08 was almost perfect aside from the obvious glitches and cheese plays. If they just re-used 
 that engine and fixed those bugs, this game would be perfect. Franchise mode and superstar mode 
 also deserved some much needed additions but very little was done to improve those aspects of the 
 game. Also, the defensive pass coverage AI has seemed to become much less intelligent and way more 
 artificial. The offensive players also need to realize where the sidelines are because I've seen 
 many a player run straight out of bounds or not pay attention to where their feet are on the reception. 
 In the end, EA should've gone back to the tried and true formula from Madden 08 and make some minor 
 adjustments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd1451
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  lets start off by sayin the graphics of this this game outdoes any other in the series.... it has 
 solid gameplay but some of the tackles are glitchy.... most of the celebrations are stupid and look 
 like they were put together in 5 minutes..... the game has a great variety of tackles.... ive played 
 over 10 games already and i havent seen the same tackle twice.... the games online play is overall 
 not laggy and there is harldly any glitches in the gameplay.... the only problem i had was the kick 
 meter being a little un responsive.... this is a little problem but it can be pretty aggarvating.... im 
 sure they will get this fixed soon though.... the madden test is a very good way to get the game 
 adapted to you and i think it was a very innovative new feature to put in the game...... overall 
 i think it was worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetsweeperz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  they try to fix the gameplay and it is better but still int are just to easy u throw a bullet pass 
 or it floats no in between the presentation is still behind what 2k5 did and why buy all the nfl, 
 espn rights and not use them? i like the game but i will be critical of them because realness is 
 still an issue with them i like having to break tackles not have them preditermened by the ai it 
 took them 3 years just to put nets behind fg, still no refs ( must be an addition for next year) 
 2k took 3 years off and still put those things in so i give it an 8 but being the only game around 
 they should do more to earn the 64 bucks it costs. you still can't run traps which are designed 
 to beat a blitz and you figure they would know this also tunning draws is for blitzing people but 
 that also is sketchy so though there were some improvements there is still basic football that 
 has to be addressed and i would take that over graphics any day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RickTheRaider
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I been playing madden since madden 95 and somewhere between 2006 and now something went terribley 
 wrong. they made the game next gen. this was probably the most over-hyped game since fable (at 
 least peter molynuex knows what they did wrong and cares what we think)
  
  
  since madden went next this game has been a complete miss every year. the gameplay i guess is fun 
 enough to play with your friends but good luck trying to finish 1 season on franchise mode. This 
 game is basically madden 08 with a tweaked game engine.. tom hammond sound like a robot, its next 
 to impossible to run the ball, and have fun trying to break through the line of scrimmage to get 
 to the QB because is this game dwight freeny just gets man handled by anyone and everyone.
  
  what happend to the features and simple gameplay? I see what theyre trying to do but they are 
 overduing everything! all I want is the ps2 game engine, better grapics, and better features.... 
 superstar mode should be buried because thats as good as dead to me...
  
  remember madden 05? best game in the series by far
  
  news paper headlines
  ea sports radio
 
  FUN mini games
  superstars actaully stood out
  great game engine
  great presentation
  
  its so hard to say to say not to get this game because I know you cant help buying a NFL lincesed 
 product but this game really is just a disapointment yet again. but we'll keep buying it and ea 
 will keep ruining it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqueringwolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I must say I think the really negative reviews I have been seeing on here must be coming from people 
 who have a grudge against Madden or EA Sports in general. I am not a Madden Lover as I always personally 
 preferred to play the 2K series over Madden but having been forced to play Madden the last few 
 years I can say the game is not as horrible as some would want you to believe.
  
  The biggest improvement with the game this year has to be the graphics and overall presentation. 
 Everything from the details of the stadiums, to the better textured fields and players make the 
 difference between 08 and 09 like night and day. The gameplay is improved over last year with subtle 
 things like foot plants while making cuts make the game just that much more realistic. I love the 
 addition of Collinsworth as a commentator. He seems to be dead on with most of the comments unlike 
 some other games where the commentary doesn't match up with the plays at all. The addition of TD 
 celebrations also adds a nice little flair to the game.
  
  I have not seen as huge a problem with the slants as some people have, I have done a pretty decent 
 job of shutting those plays down and have come up with quite a few interceptions on those plays. 
 I think it is just a matter of finding the right defense at the right time, just like in real football.
 
  
  The running game does seem a bit tougher but it is a matter of getting used to the new running 
 animation and using the more sensitive control stick properly. The first few games I only averaged 
 about 3 yards a carry (which really isn't all that bad) but then I started to find my stride and 
 in my last game played I actually ran through the middle of a pile, breaking tackles and squirted 
 out the other end for a 50+ yard TD run. You also have to remember that just as in real life, some 
 teams are easier to run against than others.
  
  The game is not perfect by any means, they could use some fresh new ideas with Franchise mode and 
 Superstar mode but they are solid game modes despite no overhauls. They could also use some subtle 
 touches with game atmosphere. I think some cutscenes of fans in the stands would be a good addition 
 (imagine seeing cutscenes of Oakland's Black Hole in the game) . I think cutscenes of cheerleaders 
 and maybe even some kind of team specific halftime show clip would work well.
  
  Overall the game is very solid and has a number of improvements over the last few versions of Madden. 
 Since there is no longer any competition for EA and won't be for the near future we just have to 
 hope they keep making improvements and maybe one day decide to break through with something truly 
 astounding and innovative. Until then this is a very worthy game to play and is not one to just 
 toss in the trash as some have said should be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) They have improved the graphics a lot from last years game and it looks a lot more realistic 
 from the turf to the players themselves.
  
  2) You can now celebrate everytime you do get a touchdown and its a lot of fun to use on your opponent.
 
  
  3) The gameplay is now smoother s tackles look better and so do player movements and all of that.
 
  
  4) The game adjusts to how you play so you wont have a hard time finding out what difficulty you 
 want to play on.
  
  5) There is still that same strong gameplay that the madden series is known for.
  
  6) The 
 commentary has improved a lot so there isnt that radio voice talking anymore its actual commentators.
 
  
  Cons:
  1) A little bit of framerate problems.
  
  2) Still a steep learning curve for new madden players.
  
  3) It feels like its a little bit 
 harder to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandshark8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into the review, I'll give a little background on my Madden history (if you couldn't 
 care less, skip this paragraph) . I've owned every odd year of Madden since 2003 for the Gamecube 
 and have been pretty content. The gameplay was fluid and balanced, the graphics were acceptable 
 and most importantly they were fun to play with your friends. However, after the birth of the almighty 
 "hit-stick" (a potential fumble-causing tackle a defensive player could perform) nothing post Madden 
 2005 had any kind of "wow" factor to me. Thus, began the mundane same-as-last-year cycle that Madden-haters 
 curse about. My copy of 2007 was also for the Gamecube (didn't own a 360 yet) , but I still felt 
 as though I could've kept my 05 copy and still be happy. Once I finally bought a Xbox 360, I borrowed 
 my friends 2008 edition and was stunned. The grass looked like cardboard, the players ran with 
 no body lean, the announcer was awful and the gameplay was so glitchy! I ran over to my 2005 edition 
 and gave it a hug and told it I was sorry and that I'd never leave it again. How could Madden take 
 such a step backwards!? How could they sell this to their loyal consumers and be content with themselves!? 
 Actually, don't answer that. Anyway, I've been following Madden NFL 2009 ever since the Green Bay 
 Packers finished their near-superbowl season (I like it when my team has a good rating) . When I 
 found out that Favre was gonna be on the cover I decided it was a must-buy (sorry 2005) .
  
  GRAPHICS (9/10) : Remember the "Next-gen" Madden trailer for 2006? The silky-smooth, drool-on-yourself, 
 graphics that were promised? Yeah, well they finally arrived (well, mostly) . The character models 
 have been totally re-done and they look a lot more realistic. Each athlete looks different from 
 each other and the kickers don't look freakishly small anymore, just proportionate. But most importantly; 
 the grass looks like grass! Its so beautiful and lush. I know it sounds stupid, but compare 2008's 
 with this year's and you'll understand. Weather is another touched on feature, each type featuring 
 its own effects. The snow games are great and the blue tint added to everything makes it feel more 
 realistic. During rain, players jersey's individually get dirty, so if your player has played the 
 whole time, you'll be covered in mud, but if you've just subbed a player in, he'll be clean, which 
 I think is really cool. Field goal nets have been added which is nice. The only reason I didn't 
 give the graphics a "10" is because of the players on the sidelines and the crowd. The teams sitting 
 on the bench (not in play) definitely look better than before, but are still not quite up to par. 
 They can also be "walked through" like ghosts, an issue Madden players know well. The crowd just 
 looks awful. They havn't been improved at all, and I cringe everytime the camera shows them. Besides 
 those two gripes, the game looks amazing.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8/10) : This one's hard to describe. Its the most realistic gameplay I've ever experienced, 
 but is it fun? Thats another story. You can't go for the deep bomb anymore, the corners and safeties 
 are a LOT smarter. I think I've only made one or two truly long throws so far. If your QB throws 
 on the run, he's loses a lot of accuracy. If you gun the ball to a very close reciever, he might 
 drop it. Almost every pass that should be an interception, is one. It provides for very challenging 
 and intense gameplay, so if you're the kind of gamer who likes a more arcade-esque feel, try the 
 Wii version. However, the animations are amazing and smooth. You hardly see any two repeat animations, 
 which keeps the game fresh. Personally, I find the game fun because I like how realistic it is, 
 but its not as easy to pick up and play compared to the previous games in the series. (I'm not 
 going to go into the virtual trainer mode, see Gamespots coverage of the game for more info on 
 that) .
  
  SOUND (7/10) : I'm not going into the soundtrack (mostly rap and alternative) because everyone has 
 their own tastes and my opinion wouldn't mean too much. I'm just gonna say I turned all of the 
 tracks off except for the NFL film songs and a few others I like. The new announcers, Chris Collinsworth 
 and Tom Hammond, are okay. Hammond is leaning towards robotic, but Collinsworth's natural-sounding 
 comments help even it out (I'm not a huge fan of either though) . However, they are worlds better 
 than that radio guy from the previous next gen installments. The only is that neither Collinsworth 
 nor Hammond ever put any excitement into their voices when it feels they should like touchdowns 
 or interceptions. It makes the gameplay feel a little more shallow and less meaningful. I still 
 like it when Madden and Michaels did the announcing.
  
  ONLINE (7/10) : Not much has changed here except for the addition of online leagues, which are very 
 limited. Up to 31 friends can join you, however you can't fill any of the slots with CPU teams. 
 So basically, there are as many teams in the league as there are players. I've played a few games 
 with my friends over Xbox live and it has been very smooth. Unfortunitely, many other players have 
 told EA that they keep getting disconnected from games and its apparently so bad that the company 
 is going to release a patch soon (which I guess is bad news for now, but good in the future...?) . 
 Anyway, the online gets the job done.
  
  OVERALL (9/10) : Its the best next-gen Madden yet, with superb visuals, smooth and realistic gameplay 
 and enough modes to keep you busy for a while. Once they fix the online, which EA claims its working 
 on, that should be a positive too. If you're still not planning on buying a copy, at least give 
 it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaTurtle13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that is great in the Madden series. With its new engine and a load of new features, 
 it will have people very happy and satisfied. One of the new features are the EA backtrack which 
 is a very helpful feature to tell u what u did wrong. Also the madden moments is one that is a 
 fun feature. U can relive those amazing plays that were made last year in the NFL. There are some 
 downsides that i notice. When the CPU are using slants, it's very hard to cover up the receiver 
 and it never fails them. Also what is a big problem is that the game itself freezes. So when u 
 after u play a game save u profile just in case the game freezes. Hopefully EA comes out with a 
 patch to fix some of these glitches and bugs and what not. Do not worry about that thought, this 
 game is one of the best in the series and i promise u that u will not be disappointed whatsoever 
 All in all, this game is worth ur money and will have u excited. this game is out now, dont wait, 
 go out and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdrenn
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I really think EA could do a lot better with what they've produced this year. I haven't been online 
 with it yet but truly I play a lot of Franchise and multiplayer with my brothers. The AI is just 
 killing me I was really hoping the My Level thing would be cool but it was pretty lame I maxed 
 out on offense and just did pretty crappy on defense then in the game I got smashed the whole time. 
 I also miss the old franchise I think it was 05 or 06 when there was all sorts of customization 
 to the finances and everything and now its just free agency, draft, pre-season, season, repeat. 
 EA has really been dissapointing me with the Madden series since the got exclusive NFL rights, 
 without any competition they've got no reason to really make any tremendous strides with the series. 
 Anyway if I'd read the review before I bought it I think I'd have stuck with NCAA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trobdawk4
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  i really like the graphical improvements however the addition of a rewind feature cheapens the 
 realness of the game. I hate the playbooks, Almost every team has the same playbooks, which are 
 completely different from last seasons plays. It look as if the game designers were so consumed 
 with making the game look better that the playbooks were an after thought. It looks like they completely 
 forgot about them and on the last day of production someone said.."Hey you, grab those NCAA playbooks 
 and toss them into Madden.. seriously, they are exactly the same ) minus the option plays) . What 
 was wrong with the plays from the past games? In my opinion these things should have just been 
 left alone. Overall i cannot wait until next years Madden release as i am sure EA will improve 
 these little things and make online leagues much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  The biggest problem gamers have with Madden is the fact that it's one of the most highly anticipated 
 games out there. It's hard not to build it up to being the "one" sports game that conquers all!! 
 The problem is EA has less than a year to tweak, upgrade and add features, so improvement must 
 be gradual. I must say, Madden 09' is vastly improved in areas it desperately needed to be. The 
 Animation and game speed is so much more natural looking and feeling that it makes it tough to 
 get used to. But after a few hours of play it becomes greatly appreciated. The graphics and presentation 
 are equally a large leap from last years generic feel (Thank god they got rid of the radio announcer!!) . 
 I must say there are still times when I'm steaming out of every Orpheus yelling, "THAT JUST IS 
 NOT FAIR!!". Sometimes the game isn't, but I can't name off many games that are 100% fair. Football 
 is the most competitive sport, which is why gamers get the most frustrated and at the same time 
 have the most fun with Madden. Playing with a friends at home is the most authentic experience (Unless 
 your friends are cheap) . I found the AI to still have it's annoying characteristics. And the online 
 mode is almost there but not quite. But when it is all said and done, I will not be pressing eject 
 on my console anytime soon..
  
  Final thought: would it be so hard to add the option of playing music during Virtual training?????? 
 It would make it so much more addicting
  
  Presentation: 10
  Graphics:10
  Gameplay:8.5
  Sound: 9
  Replay:10
  Online: 9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerboy82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Madden is a solid game to pick up if you are a football or madden fan. The new features are great 
 on paper but EA has failed to bring what's on paper, to your house hold. The quarterback continues 
 to overthrow receivers heading towards the sidelines, leading them out of bounds. The madden IQ 
 Test is a thoughtful addition but the offensive session is so easy that a first time madden user 
 could easily score all-pro or better. Also, in some cases the madden IQ rises in spots where the 
 gamer has done poorly. Another issue that is wrong with the game is the superstar and franchise 
 mode which have been left basically untouched!! If you pop in your madden 08 and play superstar 
 you will see that the madden 09 version is a virtual twin. And the final and perhaps biggest letdowns 
 are the online leagues and the extremely poor commentary by Tom Hammond. The online league allows 
 for up to 32 payers as we all know, but stats aren't tracked, the kick meter sometimes does not 
 acknowledge the controllers input and the draft isn't really a draft. However, this is a pretty 
 good start for madden. Now, lets get to Tom. Tom, come on mannnnn, how can you sit there with Cris 
 Collinsworth, who by the way is doing a damn good job, and just simply read your lines. And you 
 know what, this actually falls on EA too. When you compare commentary not just to the actually 
 NFL, but past madden games don't you realize that, oh my god!!, he is really boring and his lines 
 sound like they're being read to us. I mean hello!, do your job and tell the guy, be more enthusiastic!! 
 But hey, even with all the quirks I would still buy Madden 09, it is a very solid and fun game 
 for anyone who loves American Football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bitties
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't bought a Madden for several years now, and it's apparent that I've made the right decision 
 to make this the first year I get it again.
  
  The graphics are solid and look better than ever on a Madden game. Animation wise this game pulls 
 through as well. Gang tackles look great and when another defender adds to the tackle it actually 
 compensates for him.
  
  Gameplay is just amazing to me so far. I've really enjoyed all of the new features added in by 
 EA. The Madden IQ thing is kind of dumb and I found myself changing the difficulty to All-Pro instead 
 of my IQ based one because I sucked at the IQ defense but it was not challenging my when I was 
 in-game. Other than that, rewind is just awesome if you make a bonehead play. You know that play 
 where as soon as you release the ball you say.... uh oh..... well now that can be taken back and 
 you can make the right judgment the next play. I can see how purists wouldn't like it though. I 
 think it would get annoying if you were playing a person with rewinds turned on. It is neat to 
 have though.
  
  The commentary is excellent. It's funny because I was just making fun of Chris Collinsworth when 
 I saw him at the Olympics commentating, but he is very good in this game. It's a nice refresher 
 from the last Madden I had where you could tell John Madden is just aging.
  
  Overall I highly recommend this year's Madden to anyone who has been holding off from year to year, 
 as I have, waiting for something awesome. This year is a good, well rounded package that all football 
 fans should enjoy. (to the people who are knocking this year's Madden..... what more were you expecting? 
 It's packed with stuff to keep you busy!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrkinsey1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I returned my prior copy today. The new copy had the same problems (Freezing, glitching and other 
 problems) . I got in contact with EA to find out what's wrong. I had to remove my Rock Band adapter 
 and erase all of the Madden 09 files. Suddenly the game works! 
  
  Now to the game.
  
  Madden 09 is everything people love of and hate with the series. Noobs will get frustrated. I believe 
 the game is targeted towards people whom played the game for decades. 
  
  The offense is vastly improved. No more quarterback vision. Quarterbacks need to read defenses 
 and respond prior to a wideout completing a route. The running game is vastly improved. This years 
 game distinguished punishing and finesse running backs. Punishing running backs can plow through 
 DB's. Finesse running backs can juke a DL and pony all the way to the endzone. 
  
  This years defense gives players an opportunity to modify play's on the fly. You can finally double 
 team TO and Randy Moss without giving up on the other receivers. DB's strength has been reduced 
 significantly. In years past, FS and SS could tackle anyone with ease. If DB's are out of position 
 to make a perfect tackle on a TE, TE wins. If a DB gets a piece of a TE, other defenders swarm...... fumble. 
 
  
  The rewinds option is nice. You get the option of 5, 3, 1 or 0 rewinds. Rewinds are independent 
 of your level or difficult setting. My favorite team is the Niners. Rewind limits the following. 
 The Niners are up by one point in the Superbowl. With 0.05 left on the clock, Tom Brady throws 
 a touchdown pass. Swear words, broken controller, children repeating what dad said, angry wife. 
 Rewind lets you step back in time. Think Back to the Future. Rewind, Niners win the Superbowl. 
 
  
  The game looks and feels like football. Rival teams bring "A" games. 
  
  Rent the game if you never played Madden before. Experience players will be happy with the adaptive 
 AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tattoo04
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  o. k madden 09 is a great game if you love football like me i been playing it since it first hit 
 ps2. when i first played madden 09 i notice all pro and all madden are more harder then 08 but madden 
 iq makes everything better depending on your madden iq. i point out the bad things about madden 
 09 to me but they not huge problems. first in francise mode the first game of the season should 
 have the kickoff logo on the field which it doesn't also they should have the playoff logo on the 
 field during playoffs which they don't they could have the two officials on the field that stand 
 behind the players but that really no big deal but these little things can make the game more realistic. also 
 why the heck when you play a 1:00 game on certain fields the field is set like it's almost sunset 
 the field doesn't change from day to evening like it did on madden 07 they really miss that up 
 don't seem realistic maybe they took it away to improve in others areas of the game but the stadiums 
 and domes do look very realistic there just beautiful i notice some teams helmets the stadium lights 
 aren't that bright you can hardly see them but for the most part they redid that and did a good 
 job with it the lights on the helmets accurate reflect the stadium or dome lights just like the 
 real ones these are just small areas they can improve on but other then that this game is awesome 
 they way the did the weather effects is insane when it rains you see the water splashing off the 
 field from the players feet and in snow you see the players footprints in the snow bottom line 
 if you love nfl football you must have this game period (hdtv) highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best madden game to come out. This game has all the same modes with a few new additions. One 
 new addition is the madde iq test whith makes you run some drills and once you are done with the 
 iq test the game will set a custom game level so the game will be how hard your iq was. the madden 
 iq works real good the iq changes with every game you play so if you do good in a game it goes 
 up but if you do bad it goes down. there is also a new madden moments which lets you play in the 
 biggest momenet in the nfl from the 07-08 season. The franscise mode is the same but its still as 
 fun as madden 08 and will be the mode you would play all the time. There is a superstar mode with 
 lets you play as a rookie or create one and take him into the nfl and play game with that player. The 
 gameplay is way better than any other madden when passing the football you can now see the entire 
 field so now you wont throw interceptions just beacuse you didnt see a cornerback. The graphics 
 is the best grphics ive seen in any madden game i have played there are alot of tackle animations 
 and now you can tell some players from others. The sound is good the play-by-play commentary is 
 good and on track and the sountrack is good if you like rap, rock, or the classic nfl song there 
 all here in madden09. If you didnt get madden08 last year then you should get madden09 its not a 
 madden game you want to skip out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juancarlos012
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are somewhat improved and the game has some features you would come to 
 expect in a sports game (and a new play explanation feature that is not as useful as EA makes it 
 out to be) . However, the actual gameplay is definitely not where it should be at. Maybe it is because 
 there are no other alternatives for football games available for comparison that EA refuses to 
 spend more resources to improve this, but the way players move (run, catch, tackle) in this game 
 does not look real. Watch this game and the lack of realistic tackling, catching, and running motions 
 is disappointing. Definitely, the motion capturing in football games has not advanced the way it 
 has in basketball games, where the you see guys making moves that look like real life. Gamers should 
 demand more!!!
  
  If this was the year 2003, I might rate this game a bit higher, however, the lack of improvement 
 in all these years in the sluggish and tired gameplay of this game is quite frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorns301
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game make u just stare at the screen and stare with ur mouth open. But grapihcis 
 dont make a game gameplay does and this installment of madden has solid gameplay and then some. if 
 u lock urself in ur room on sundays and just watch football then u need this game! period. Dont listento 
 anyone else saying they hated this game they dont know what they r talking about i am a veteran 
 to the series and i am telling u now this is the most beautiful solid game to date. New features 
 like the play backtrack, online dynasty and madden moments (just to name a few) make this game the 
 best football game of the year. Go out and buy this game now or u will regret it. Dont even finish 
 this review just go buy it cause it will keep u glued to ur tv for hours and hours. The only problem 
 is ur consol may burn out after u become addicted to this game or u lose ur job because u skipped 
 work for the pass couple of weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalGib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Madden 09 returns with the same formula (if it ain't broke then don't fix it) that Madden 
 fans know and love with a few more additions. This years Madden gives players the chance to break 
 out of those annoying tackle animations from years past. Instead of your play being over once you 
 are tackledm you now have the chance to break out of those tackle animations and continue your 
 play by pressing one of the special move buttons ( juke, spin, hurdle, stiff arm) . Other improvements 
 to the series are the smooth fluid gameplay on and offline. Madden is celebrating 20 years of innovation 
 and it shows.
  
  SOUND: This year Madden does away with the home team radio broadcast in favor of color commentary 
 by Todd Hammond and Cris Collinsworth. Hammond has a monotone robotic voice while Collinsworth 
 sounds fluid and natural. Collinsworths excellent commentary most likely is the result of him adlibbing 
 his lines instead of just reading from a boring script (* shaking my finger at you Todd Hammond. 
 Take notes from Collinsworth next year*) All the other sounds of the game are similar to what you 
 have already heard from this generations Madden titles with minor additions if any to the background 
 player chatter. Player hits and crowd noise are the same and there is no complaint because crowds 
 in football games sound the same anyway. Loud cheers and loud boos along with some chants.
  
  FEATURES: Madden has introduced what they call Madden IQ to the series. This is a feature where 
 players go through a virtual training with a holographic John Madden through several drills ( running, 
 passing, blocking, defending) and depending on how good or poor you did Madden will give you a 
 rating. This rating will then adopt the game to your skills. For instance if someone is great at 
 passing and poor at defending then Madden will increase the difficulty when that person passes 
 the ball on offense and lower the difficulty when that person is playing defense. This Madden IQ 
 also lets people of different playing abilities and skills play each other and have a competitive 
 game instead of just having a blowout and not making it fun for the person who has less skill. 
 Personally I dont like this feature and when Madden prompts me to do the IQ I skip it. I take my 
 Madden very seriously and I dont want any false sense of security in the game by having the AI 
 lowered because I may not be good at a certain aspect of the game. I also dont want to end up losing 
 a game to someone who has no skill because the game puts the difficulty on ALL MADDEN for me and 
 ROOKIE for them. No Way!!!! If you are not good then dont play me. But for those who dont mind 
 that sort of thing then you will love Madden IQ because it will make games competitive for those 
 people of varying abilities and skills. Madden also introduces a rewind feature that lets players 
 rewind a play that went bad. I also feel the same about this feature but I do see a small positive 
 about the rewind. Rewind can let players fix plays that they felt the AI cheated them on. We all 
 have played a game and and felt cheated by the CPU. rewind can let you bring the play back and 
 hope that they dont cheat you again. Backtrack is another addition to the series that sort of gives 
 Madden the feel of a TV broadcast. Backtrack is a feature in the game that happens when you have 
 a play go sour for you. Backtrack has Cris Collinsworth breakdown your play and let you see where 
 you went wrong with a pass. It shows the open reciever you missed and the chances in percentage 
 that you had of being successful on that play.
  
  ONLINE: Online play is just as good as it has ever been with the play now, quick match settings, 
 and lobbies and it also includes Online Leagues. Online Leagues are a bit of a let down because 
 you can't track stats and season leaders or any of the tons of stats that you may see in a 2K games 
 online league. Hopefully next year EA will get with it and fix this. I can't understand how they 
 could make leagues and leave out important things like the stats and leaders. It is nice though 
 to have the leagues but the oversights such as those are a disappointment. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Madden 09 has the most amazing graphics in any football game ever!!! These graphics live 
 up to the old concept videos of 2005 and even lives up to the old Nike ( i think it was Nike) commercial 
 where Micheal Vick scrambled and threw the ball to Terrell Ownes. If you dont remember the video 
 look it up on YouTube. These graphics are amazing and it is scary to think how much farther they 
 can push the envelope with graphics or even what the NEXT gen graphics will look like in the future.
 
  
  
  Finally I would like to say that I see a few people stating that Madden 09 is horrible and terrible 
 and it just baffles me. If you hate Madden 09 so much then your expectations for a football video 
 game are ridiculous and unreasonable. I know Madden leaves out some things or doesnt fully live 
 up to some expectations but to say it is terrible just shows that you know nothing about football. 
 I hear all these complaints about the AI and I know that it isnt perfect. That is why there is 
 a such thing as online play. I realized years ago that computer AI in most games can be figured 
 out an become predictable so I have been playing online ever since. So for all those people hating 
 Madden because of AI you will never be satisfied. This is not Terminator and the Madden AI will 
 not become self aware (skynet) so get over it and muster up the courage to play against real people 
 online and see how good you really are. If you dont have an online connection then you probably 
 arent reading this review anyway so it doesnt matter. If you do manage to read this then you realize 
 that it is 2008 and you are probably the last person on Earth without internet connection and you'll 
 probably get one soon. When you do please do yourself a favor and play against something that is 
 truly unpredictable...... another human being!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SVTCobra006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, wasnt everyone kind of expecting this to be crap? Every single year, theres a Madden mania 
 in August, and every single year we all seem to be disappointed. I hate to sound like a broke record, 
 but EA, you need to give up that license. I remember the days where there was this big competition 
 between EA and 2K and it was quite exciting. We need that back for everyones sake.
  
  Well, after about 10 hours of fiddling around with this game, Im ready to review.
  
  Graphics:
 
  In my opinion the graphics and player models have improved over last years Madden 08. That being 
 said, they still look quite stiff and seem to skate across the field. 
  The grass looks like crap. If they made a type of grass that was a mix between last years vibrant 
 bright grass and this years dark old looking grass then they would have a pretty good grass lol. 
 
  One of the big bright spots of this game is the stadiums and the fans. They simply look fantastic. 
 Theres a high level of atmosphere that was missing from past Maddens and I especially like the 
 outside shots of the stadiums before the games.
  
  Presentation:
  There has been a big upgrade from last years cartoonie, corny, and boring in-game presentation. 
 There are finally stat tracks that come up during the course of the game, and career milestones.
 
  Chris Collinsworth and that other announcer guy are an upgrade over that dumbass radio announcer, 
 but theres still something missing. Collinsworth is slow, and repeats the same thing 20 times in 
 a game. The other guy ( I dont know his name) is quite boring and monotoned, and he makes sure to 
 remind you that the "game is brought to you by the great folks at EA" about 50 times a game. It 
 gets quite annoying.
  The main menus havent changed over last years Madden, I wouldnt mind if they werent so buggy.
 
  Franchise mode and Superstar havent been touched very much, of course, because EA is lazy.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, its improved.; the tackling is better than last year. Thats about all I 
 can say. 
  This year, instead of making superman defenders, theyve made mentally retarded defenders (not trying 
 to sound mean, but they arent too bright) . Even the best defense in the league can easily be picked 
 apart by a sub par quarterback and offense. For example: I play with the Denver Broncos, I was 
 playing the KC Chiefs (not quite known for their offensive abilities nowdays) and Brodie Croyle 
 started the game 15 for 15. 
  On offense, its damn near impossible to run the ball on All-Madden, but quite simple to pass. I 
 love to run the ball, so this becomes increasingly frustrating.
  
  Glitches:
  So far, Ive noticed balls going right through wide recievers and floating into a defenders hands. 
 
  When youre choosing a play, sometimes the "Madden Tips" or whatever starts going out of control 
 and its difficult to choose a play.
  Offensive lineman still get passed right through.
  
  
  In conclusion, once again, this game had potential but EA has screwed it up. Dont get me wrong, 
 its still better than last years, but I just want a football game that I can really get into again.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frunklindoodle
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Well here we are again this year with another EA Madden Football game. Yes that's right. For your 
 hard earned $60 bucks you can go out and purchase this finely crafted roster update while enjoying 
 the same drawn out gameplay from years ago. I think the only thing the series has going for itself 
 is that you can turn off the madden commentary (Now if we can find a way to do that during regular 
 season in real life, I would be happy) . I have to say though, I will give EA a 10 for getting away 
 with having a monopoly over the sporting games genre, but as far as Madden goes. It's time to move 
 on John and come up with something new and innovating. Why can't EA go back to making quality games 
 like Mutant League Football and General Chaos? Things like that will never happen, but you can 
 sleep well knowing that EA will be bringing us the same old games every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  i played a couple of games today ( i have the collectors edition) , great gameplay, scores are no 
 longer 100- 70. its more of a 40's to 50's game. the games i played in were close, the last one 
 was a nail biter ( in which i lost 47-40, urg...) but anyways, the game looks/ and feels great, 
 no glitched noticed, besides the "unstoppable qb sneak".
  
  pros:
  
  running feels great
  
  the ball actually goes to ur reciever (unlike in madden 08)
  
  defence 
 is good (both u and cpu)
  
  i just really like it
  
  cons:
  
  they could have done more with franchize, but otherwize, its a great game!
  
  real score: 8.6
 
  
  i also have nfl head coach: it is also great, it was definetely worth the extra money, im the packers, 
 guess what" aaron rogers, he is pretty good, threw me 3 tds, my back up threw 1. and we blew out 
 the bengals!!!
  
  my score for nfl head coach is 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASRCSR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is the best looking madden to date. The frame rate is steady and game play feels right. 
 With all the spectacular catches and great commentary this game is a step up from madden 08. The 
 new online franchise is more like a season online. It's not all what it is cracked up to be but 
 its okay. Offline Franchise mode has a few minor tweaks but it's similar to last year. You can 
 still relocate your team or trade who ever you want. Also if you want to do a fanasty draft you 
 can put in NFL legends into the game and draft them. The teams overall in the game are equal but 
 you won't see Lions beating Patriots. Superstar mode is the exact same as last year. Their are soke 
 bad things to this game. Its pretty similar from last year and it is not a big step but it is some 
 improvment. The biggest improvement is the graphics. This is really fun to play and it's a must 
 pick up for any sports fan and any football fan. Overall they just updated the graphics and added 
 a bunch of features. Madden IQ works okay but its not the best. The rewinds is a good way to lose 
 a friend and get a punch in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Okay so first off this game at first glance is very smooth and "slick" if you will.
  From when you pop the game in to when your down by a touchdown going into the final drive trying 
 to make the miraculous comeback, the game just looks nice
  
  Once you start up the game you will get the typical EA Sports logo and intro to all of their games. 
 Then when you get to the main menu, youll notice that it looks very familiar, that is because it 
 really hasn't changed from the previous version in Madden NFL 08. You still have to press start 
 to bring up the menu so you can go through your options. From the menu you have all your typical 
 madden options, You have your play now, game modes (in which you can select: Franchise, Superstar, 
 Mini-Games, Virtual Training, Practice, Madden Moments, and Madden IQ Test) , your My Madden, Settings 
 and the new feature that says Collectors Edition (im not 100% sure if this feature is in the normal 
 edition because i did purchase the limited edition so this may vary) In which you get to go back 
 and play the once great Madden '93.
  
  Okay lets start this off with the all important gameplay of the game. If you are familiar with 
 the madden franchise you will find that this game is very similar but yet still a lot smoother 
 and better. They have added into the gameplay, special move interruption in which if for example 
 you are in the middle of a juke right, if you press spin move half way between you will perform 
 the spin even if your juke is not finished. This is a great feature and adds more to your moves 
 in which you can try and break free. Also in this new edition of madden you can try to break free 
 even after you are wrapped up. So if someone wraps you and your still on your feet, keep hitting 
 your spins, stiff arms, and jukes and keep trying to break free. After playing even from the first 
 snap you will notice how much smoother the gameplay is. 
  
  Now for the presentation of the game. Once again when you start it up you will notice the difference. 
 Although the menu is still somewhat similar and you still have your rings and trophys, it still 
 feels better. When you start a game you will be introduced by John Madden himself while seeing 
 the new scenery of the outside of the stadium as the fans pile in. After that he will pass it over 
 to Tom and Cris in which Cris Collinsworth excels in his color commentating and Tom not so much. 
 You get the feeling of a real game with Cris as he is said to have ad libbed his lines in order 
 to obtain that feeling and with EA's new engine for madden you are ensured to never hear the same 
 thing said twice in the same game, which is a relief. Madden has always delivered on its soundtrack 
 in their games (atleast to me) and this year is no exception. With its usual estimate of around 
 15 songs by Sam Spence, they add a variety of music throughout from songs from Disturbed, MSI, 
 Underoath, Busta Rhymes, Hollywood Undead, and many more. At first i was a little scepticle when 
 i looked at the list of songs but i dont know what it is but they always seem to fit (once again, 
 to me) .
  
  And here come the new features, in which Madden usually doesn't dissapoint. I'll start off with 
 the new touchdown celebrations which are pretty cool but sometimes can get repetitive. Not a severely 
 bad thing but can be annoying, but all more rewarding when you do see a new one. The all new Madden 
 IQ test is pretty cool in the sense that it puts you in this sort of VR world where everything 
 is all neon (pretty sweet) but is pretty inaccurate. You'll be introduced by a hologram John Madden 
 and he'll talk you through all the drills and all that crap that John rambles on about. Although 
 they say the game adapts to you, which i guess it kind of does, but the madden IQ test is slated. 
 The situations they put you in are nothing like game situation so therefore you cant farely be 
 scored. Good concept just poor executuion. If your experienced in Madden or if your really good 
 you should score roughly in pretty high all-pro or all-madden. Once your in game you dont actually 
 have to use your Madden IQ difficutly setting but its reccomended, but if you dont pick it, your 
 progress in the game still effects your Madden IQ. The new backtrack feature is a good addition 
 to the franchise and i think will stay in Madden for years to come. It allows you to see where 
 you made a mistake in your play so that next time you dont make it again. While adding this in 
 they also added a new Rewind feature which enables you the player a "redo" if you will and you 
 can play that play all over again and erase that fumble or interception that happened. I personally 
 do not like this feature because i like the game to be un-interrupted and whatever happens happens, 
 but on the positive note, you can turn them off. Along with all the old features of create-a-player 
 and create-a-team, etc.... it should be pretty interesting...
  
  And for all of you achieve-o-holics out there (like me) there are only 25 achievements in this 
 game which are all pretty easy. None of them are online and only 3 or 4 are in franchise. If you 
 are really desperate for the points or you just arent good at Madden you can always get a friend 
 to play as the other team so you can do the achievement. 
  Note: The only condition to the achievements is it says (non co-op) meaning your friend can not 
 be on the same team, not you cant play against him!
  
  Overall i give this Madden 09 and its 20 year anniversary a 9.2, but since GS is gay with thier 
 new scoring it has to be 9.0
  
  I hope this helps and happy Maddening lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IFLBerlin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I do love football. Even though it's not really played much where I grew up (Germany) , I still 
 found a love for it early on. The Madden NFL Series came to my attention a long time ago, and I 
 was playing on and off.
  
  Now, with the next-gen consoles, and a (supposedly) easier access for newcomers (which I am not 
 - no, really. Well, maybe a little) or... let's call 'em hobby players (like me) , I picked up Madden 
 09 as soon as I could. Which was yesterday. What happened next was... neat. Pretty. Strange. Confusing. 
 Overwhelming. Frustrating. Not particularly in that order. 
  
  So, here we go: 
  
  Neat:
  I did the Madden test, and damn I was good. I didn't know what I was doing, but I was 
 good. Madden said so. The test proved it. So, yes, maybe I should have taken a week to memorize 
 each and every control command there is in the manual, but someone said : Nice to Newbies; and 
 I actually believed it. So I was waiting for the in-game tutorial to kick in, but it didn't show. 
 On the other hand, on my first try I made it to All-Pro in every category, so maybe I didn't need 
 a tutorial. Well, yeah, I did need one, but I only found that out after I played a exhibition game 
 (Steelers vs Dolphins) on the "My Skill" level, and boy, was I lost. Boy, did I lose.
  
  Pretty:
  The graphics are just stunning. Looking at Heinz stadium from the outside I might have 
 even thought for a second I was looking at a photograph. And the rest was just as gorgeous. The 
 lighting, the grass, the snow, the snow on the grass, the people behind the zones, the players, 
 the animations. Damn, it looked good. Better than good, it looked right. Then the game started, 
 and things turned strange...
  
  Strange:
  The game play was pretty much as I vaguely remembered it from Madden 06. Well, except for the humongous 
 amount of different controls (pre-snap and in play) , of which I strangely only understood half. 
 Which is totally my fault. For lack of preparation. I wonder if there's a university offering "Madden 
 NFL Prep" as a major. I'm sure after a decade or so, I'd be fine. Right then, it was just strange. 
 And what was even stranger, I lost. Where were the little buttons telling me what to do, when to 
 juke, when to jump, when to tackle? Where were the routes my receivers would be taking? Who knows 
 what these audibles actually mean? It wasn't easy access at all, and I definitely didn't live up 
 to my "Madden IQ" of 594. Did I cheat in the test? Or did the test cheat on me? Which pretty much 
 led to my confusion...
  
  Confusing:
  Throwing a football is quite easy, once you get the hang of it. You aim, you throw. Now, imagine 
 what it would be like, in the half second before your throw, to adjust your throw to, say the wind. 
 Velocity and direction. The weather. Temperature. Butterflies on the lawn. Migratory birds. Spin 
 of the Earth. Maybe even a possible mutant with magnetic powers in your vicinity, that could misdirect 
 your throw by manipulating the iron in the leather. That's kinda how I felt, looking at all those 
 different control options in the game. So I went to the VR-Trainer. And I felt good again. There 
 were my buttons, telling me what to do. They weren't telling me what it was I was doing, but they 
 told me what to do, and it was, well not easy (even on "easy" it wasn't always easy) , but it seemed 
 clear. Concise. But I had seen the reality of war on the field, and even though the VR-Trainer 
 made me very adept and mini-game button mashing, it was all about one player. Not playing with 
 a team. It might teach newcomers to run, block and tackle, but what about the people who'd like 
 to do more, but just don't know what it is they want to do yet? Where's the guy telling me what 
 an I-Formation looks like? And what it's usually used for? Where's the guy telling me which formations 
 are best to stop a rushing offense? I am willing to learn, but there's nobody here to teach me. 
 So, after that, I went to do a little practice on the field against the Browns. And I tried to 
 familiarize myself with the controls. Which was quite overwhelming...
  
  Overwhelming:
  So many options. So many choices. In marketing, studies prove that too many choices can overwhelm 
 the customer, scare him off and stop him from buying. That's almost what happened here. After I 
 tried a few practice plays, I started making more adjustments, grew more elaborate in my plays, 
 started calling audibles, setting my slide protection, hot routes for the receivers, and it might 
 have been great, if I had had an inkling of what exactly I was doing. Yes, maybe me not knowing 
 what I'm doing is a recurring theme here, but I don't think I'm alone on that one. I mean, just 
 looking at the control schemes I was a little scared. Checking the controls in mid-game is cumbersome 
 to say the least, the game forcing you to navigate through several menus until you get there. And 
 then the amount of one-sided information (mostly it tells you what does what and when, but not 
 what it is that it does when you do it) is simply staggering. Yes, there are ways to adjust the 
 complexity of your game play, from play-calling to the actual on field playing, but nobody likes 
 to feel stupid. Which is what the simplest setting made me feel. Where's the Madden NFL college 
 that actually teaches you, explains to you what you want to know, from the basics to pro-level 
 game play? Where are the tutorial videos? Where's the "Now do this and you'll see your player will 
 do that"? All of which made my first couple of hours playing this game turn out to be pretty frustrating...
 
  
  Frustrating:
  If playing offense was often times rewarding, sometimes annoying, and mostly guesswork on my part, 
 playing defense was... well, frustrating. Apart from the general confusion the wide-angled camera 
 produces when the play starts, especially when you're controlling a player in the back of the field, 
 the most frustrating thing was the lack of time to adjust to anything the offense does. Before 
 the snap, when the teams walk towards the line of scrimmage, the camera slowly pans over your guys, 
 then over their guys, then it settles behind the offense in an almost close-up, and BAM! there's 
 the snap, the offense is running, it's a pass play, no a run, no it's play action, where is my 
 player, who am I controlling, what are they doing, oh, it's over, now what the hell just happened?! 
 That's pretty much how it felt to me. You barely see the offensive formation (and you don't even 
 see all of it, for what ever reason, unless you push one of the pre-snap command buttons) and BOOM! 
 here they go. No time to call audibles, no time to adjust the line, hell, not even enough time 
 for most of us to even hazard a guess as to what formation it is you are facing. But you have all 
 those options, and maybe it's just me, but if I have the option, I would at least have the possibility 
 to use it. Which I did not. Not really, anyway. I'm sure there are other frustrating things, like 
 the misleading Madden Test, the insurmountable amount of controls and lack of relating explanations, 
 but in my short time playing the game, that was the most prominent.
  
  Closing arguments:
  
  If you are someone who can tell by the way the opposing QB wriggles his 
 nose in the huddle what play he'll call, if you can tell by seeing only one player on the offensive 
 or defensive line what formation they are playing and where all the other players are you don't 
 see, if you can memorize dozens of plays and play-calls, dozens of dozens of control commands... 
 then you scare me. And I envy you. Maybe you should get a life. Maybe you should be hosting a football 
 analysis TV show. Maybe you should coach a NFL Team. But if you are that person, and you love football 
 and like video games that are demanding, this is the game for you. Never before have I ever encountered 
 a more realistic and demanding sports game, boasting with this level of flexibility and individuality. 
 For me, well I play video games for fun. Which means I rarely want to study for a few weeks before 
 I can play. The general lack of in-depth explanations, information videos or the old "What's this 
 do" option of immediate help, will make it very hard for non-footballers or hobby footballers to 
 find this game enjoyable. The huge difference between game complexity settings, and the lack of 
 a "tutor-option" or bridge-spanning tutorial, will confine most of non-fanatics to remain at the 
 shallow end of the Madden pool, without any help from the game whatsoever to widen their experience. 
 These people will stand at the beach, looking out at the vast ocean, knowing that there are people 
 out there, people not unlike themselves, that experience the full wonder of its game play depths, 
 but nobody is there to teach them how to swim...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this a good game but I would not call it great. There just seems to be to many 
 glitches and hickups in it that keep it from being great. 
  First off the graphics are not as good as last year along with the camera angles. There queit poor. 
 
  The commentary is nice to have now, I think anything is better than that radio announcer so that 
 its good but still needs work.
  When I went in to try and start my Franchise I tried to put Favre on the Jets. I cant find him 
 in this game. Hes not a packer, not a Jet and not a free agent so where the hell is he?
  The gameplay so far is not as good as last year, way to many interceptions, way to difficult to 
 run the ball (i was using Adrain Peterson) and its difficult to pass as well. I dont know what 
 went on this game in production but it seems like a definate down grade from last years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironspore
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The bugs are minor, and it lags a bit online, but what game doesn't have those problems? The graphics 
 are good, and animations are great and lifelike. Surprisingly enough, the collision detection is 
 pretty freakin' good. The voice-over work is not as bad as some would have you to believe. Cris 
 Collinsworth is excellent and if John Madden sounds a little mushy, mabye it's because he's 72 
 years old. The new features really save this game. I happen to like the Madden IQ addition, it 
 helps the newbs (i. e. my cousin) put up at least a little bit of a fight. The game features a handicap 
 system which allows players with lower madden IQ's to take on players with high madden IQ's to 
 keep the slaughter ratio down. The gameplay and transitions are smooth, never frustrating. The 
 running and tackling engines have been upgraded making the game more fluid than previous editions. 
 I have to admit that I kind-of have a problem with the rewind feature. It's good and all, but ... 
 well, I guess I'm just being picky. I love the madden series, and I will always love it. Madden 
 '09 is a good one; I will be playing it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EkulNosbocaj8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I had been anticipating the release of Madden 09 for months and went out at midnight to pick it 
 up. When I first put it in my 360, I played my friend in a quick game and immediately noticed all 
 of the subtle but impacting changes. New animations, player models, and lighting were the first 
 things that caught my eye. Also, since we were playing in a rain game, the uniforms started to 
 get muddy from the muddy turf. The celebrations also bring the players to life in a new way. They 
 don't just seem like computer animated players anymore.
  
  There are a few minor glitches but none of them rteally take away from the experience. Other modes 
 such as superstar could have been updated a little but they are still fun and immersive.
  
  Overall, this game has got to be the best football game yet, and maybe even the best sports game 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another game, same crap all over again. essentially this is a better looking version 
 of 08 which was better looking than 07 and so on and so on........ the game has still yet to fix 
 it mirad of problems that plagues each title. Iam talking about the Artificial intelligence. let 
 me explain.
  I just played about 9 games against the computer on all madden level. on average during a 6 minute 
 timed quaters the computer ran the ball 7 times. Yes thats right 7 times. i counted 0 times the 
 computer threw the ball deep down field, i even played against TO and moss. the NFL is al about 
 balance. 50% run 50% pass not 80-20 or 90-10. why does this happen? its because the AI is horrible. 
 The game suffers from the same offensive versus defensive linemen problems it always has. It essentially 
 makes no diffrence who you have on the line, the AI will either block or completly go through your 
 block regardless of who the person is. The fix is an easy one and here it is. Lets say I have A 
 left tackle who is a 99 overall, rarely should he be beaten by anyone especailly a player with 
 a 80 or below but it does happen in the game. the fix is like a roll of the dice in risk or the 
 system that CIVILIZATION uses. The defense lineman attacks with an 80 I defend at a 99. I will 
 win that battle all day, same concept here. This would then allow my offensive lineman to block 
 his guy and then get into the 2nd level and block a linebacker thus helping the running game. on 
 the other side if the defensive linemen is better then i would have to double team that DT to stop 
 the pressure which would allow the opposite end DT to have one on one matchup and if he is good 
 then he would get the pressure, think of Strahan, and Umyenuria from the giants last year. Moss 
 as a 99 reciver should beat every corner in the league forcing the defense to double team him thus 
 freeing up welker or the running game because we have stretched the defense. the games needs to 
 focus on the one on one matchups. i get the feelings that they are just watering down the game 
 year after year, hey EA we have been playing it for 20 years feel free to make it as advanced as 
 possible. I could go on and on but whats the point they will never fix the problems and we continue 
 to buy. I hate this game offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afroloq1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh.... here we are, another year another Madden. So, whta do we have... Roster Update? Check. 
 Improved Graphics? Check. New EA tracks? Check. In short, Madden is getting there... it's slowly 
 but surely starting to get up to the standards that NFL 2K6 set FOUR years ago. 
  
  Let's quickly talk about some of what EA finally got right... and believe it or not a lot of those 
 things are small nitpicky things that have bugged me for years.
  
  1. Commentary.... FINALLY after 3 tries they finally have 2 man play by play and it's decent! I 
 still think Visual Concepts did it a bit better but in most ways, EA finally gets this one right 
 and Cris Collinsworth and Tom Hammond sounds pretty well together but it also does need some work 
 as they hardly ever say the names of players during the game.
  
  2. TV presentation style - EA got it right but you still have to ask the, if they have access to 
 the ESPN licence along with exclusivity, wny not rip the page out of 2K5's book and run with it? 
 But... you can't complain too much as what is given this year still feels a lot less clunky than 
 last year and marshall Faulk's pregame crap is gone... however, they still could have left in the 
 pre game intro.
  Also, Chris Collinsworth with the telestrator is a welcome improvement and gives you more of a 
 feel of 'watching' the game.
  
  3. More animations and enhanced graphics- by far this is one of the nicest looking games released 
 in awhile.... the stadiums look more alive now that they have varied the look and AI of the crowds. 
 There are more on field animations from the players and a lot less broken animations from broken 
 up plays... but... where are the refs?? The lighting effects are nicer this time around really giving 
 you a feel of 'being there' at the prescribed time of day... even the weather effects as stated 
 really do have an effect... a lot more sliding around and uglier games in worse weather and of course 
 uni's getting dirty. The sidelines also show a big improvement.
  
  4. The AI is getting better on D as some plays that were easily paydirt plays are constantly getting 
 shut down and the D will definently adjust more as you keep using certain plays so it's wise to 
 learn to use audibles a bit more especially in hurry up situaions. The AI also seems to be getting 
 better managing the ball in late game situaions... I have seen too many time sin past maddens when 
 the AI attempts ot run the ball late in the 4 the quarter when they need to be throwing it deep 
 and this iteration, you really do and some teams depending on the QB is also going to stretch the 
 field on you if they can.
  
  What are some things that still need improving on.
  
  1. The franchise mode - There was so many things that Madden 04 and 05 did right that made the 
 franchise mode fun and I still can't see why they won't bring it back to the next gen systems... I 
 kind of enjoyed managing my team syadiums and tix prices and so on.... but none of that has made 
 it back.... and BTW until or unless EA comes out with a roster update, you will have to manually 
 make changes to Favre and Pennington. Also I still would like to see other game highlights and 
 scores while my game is playing... i mean come on EA... that's going to determine how much harder 
 I am going to play if I can see how the rest of my division is doing thruought that Sunday!!!
 
  
  2. The halftime show..... ok... so they finally got rid of the cheerleaders last year... but come 
 on now, 2K5 had it down to a T.... EA get on the band wagon... again you have the ESPN licence... what 
 are you guys waiting on?
  
  3. More Realism - Where is the cart for injured players? Where arethe refs? Where is the chain 
 gang? EA we are 4 iterations into the NEXT GEN... get with it!! Speaking of the refs... is it just 
 me or can I barely understand him at times?
  
  4. Sound - sigh.... when is EA going to stop using the SAME CANNED crowds sound from 199X??? again, 
 this is something that 2K5 had a bit more on the right side that EA really needs to improve. Crowds 
 boo at dumb plays... they get seriously hyped as a great play goes... if Adrian Peterson breaks out 
 into an open field run on the way to a TD, I should hear the stadium explode... not the same sounding 
 static.
  
  Finally some things EA needs to dump.
  
  1. The rewind mode - 'nuff said.... you didn't want that play broken... you shouldn't have picked 
 it... suck it up.
  
  2. Madden IQ - if you play one really good game, the next one rachets itself up too high for you 
 to keep up plus you can adjust your diffulty level so why bother? Definently the gimmick for this 
 year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  - Graphics updated. Pretty impressive visuals and the same impressive animation you expect from 
 a Madden game.
  
  - Same ole Madden gameplay. They didn't fix what wasn't broken, thankfully.
  
  - New modes, 
 features, and effects make this easily the best Madden to date. The replay feature is very fun 
 to use. Pretty handy in a tight spot. Works well for trash talking online, hehe....
  
  - Voice work is fantastic.
  
  - If you like Madden or any football game like NCAA you won't 
 be dissapointed, it's my favorite football game ever. Out of All Pro, NCAA, whatever, Madden 09 
 takes the cake for the best football game ever made.
  
  - I write this review with only a few hours of gametime, but it's the real deal. It's odd seeing 
 Favre in a Jet uniform. I haven't noticed any huge glitches yet but I've only been playing a bit. 
 I doubt there are any real bad glitches anyways.
  
  - Multiplayer is GREAT. League isn't as great as it looked to be but it's funtional. I just played 
 a few games and it was pretty competitive.
  
  What else is there to say? Best Madden game ever, go get it, now, if you like football. Otherwise 
 what the hell are you doing looking at a football game review? Go get it, you won't regret it.
 
  
  Bottom line, it's great. I shouldn't have to tell you that though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  The good things in this game are added commentary and graphics. Thats where it all stops. its the 
 same game from a year ago. Which isn't all that great. Menu issues while viewing players and depth 
 chart is odd and buggy. Takes forever to switch between players, same with play calling. The madden 
 tips on the play menu scrolls are a super fast rate while you aren't even touching a button. This 
 goes to show you they aren't really trying to improve this series. This is the first year I haven't 
 bought college football since I was a kid, and this is the first year i truly regret buying a Madden 
 game. They didn't touch the franchise or superstar modes, which can ALWAYS be improved upon. I 
 can't believe how buggy the game menus are, its like playing on a PS1. Its just absurd for this 
 day and age of technology. Its pure greed and laziness. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone. 
 If only we had the 2K espn franchise to compete, it would be a much better game in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christool
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  A Really Good game, it makes the step that have missing in the 08, for the next gen of consoles, 
 the game takes you to a sensation of reality through the games, also its more accurate in terms 
 of statics with the actual game, the graphics are improved in comparison for the other versions 
 really awesome graphics, and the controls feel soft and responsive, they feel grate, the presentation 
 is less than what I expected based on the fact that this is a twentieth anniversary edition, it 
 just lacks the emotion than the presentations of its predecessors, and in the games there are a 
 few computer glitches but nothing serious, grate work from EA sports. I only played in franchise 
 mode an the mode its really the same of its successors but here the presentations of the game are 
 really good its make you start the game real fast, the Madden IQ its a really good move so the 
 game adjust to your skill level, this enhancement provides a really good competition out on the 
 field, so go play it, don't underestimate this game its pretty awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  the game play is pretty good, HB subing alot better, throws look more realistic, weather is awesome 
 I must say game have life. Still no logos for playoff games, Nothing happens at all after the game 
 is over, just straight to replay and end of game. Play by play is at least In da game" this version. 
 Dynasty is the same just numbers and yearly awards. The draft is the same, if not worse. So it 
 is a weird game to rate. Very unfinished it seem. Its like madden o6 7 8 are all beta versions, 
 For what we pay Ea should be embarrassed for just working on some good things but mostly unneeded 
 things like the replay option and the "Madden test" other things could be used with that code like 
 making the dynasty more interactive and more lifelike. EA needs to step up and give footballers 
 who pay for the NFL lisence what the want a true represtentation of the leauge, Not an arcade game, 
 Still feels unfinished, an improved beta version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravadox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  To me, they made a huge leap from last years game. The visuals are amazing, especially with my 
 1080p Sony XBR4. Game play seems to be more solid. People are complaining about the AI, they need 
 to learn how to switch off the AI and control the players themselves. It really isn't that bad 
 anyways. Some of the voice overs from madden and the other guy could have been better, but its 
 a lot better than the radio crap they had the last few years. Collinsworth is flawless with his 
 presentation. The feature they could have left out are the rewinds. There shouldn't ever be rewinds 
 and do overs in football. That's just messed up. Overall, This is a step up from the last few years, 
 and they are going in the right direction. There are a few small bugs that can and probably will 
 be fixed with the first live update of the game. This game is definitely worth the day off from 
 work I am taking today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The more Madden's that come out, the more money we throw to EA. It really sucks having games expire 
 after a year... but this one is much better after 4 years of making recycled junk. The visuals and 
 advertisements are there! The idea of throwing more money into the EA bank account is really sucky 
 when it comes to advertisements that should keep this game to a $40 buy-in. Now that my complaints 
 are out of the way, here is the good points. The gameplay is much better, and still has flaws. 
 Collinsworth and Hammond makes the commentary better. It is really difficult to recommend this 
 at a full price when fuel for a vehicle is more important! lol
  I have played the game once and after work I will be putting time into this hopefully coming back 
 to say this game is worth its weight in greenbacks. Football is football and this is a football 
 game that says #1 selling pro footnball game franchise when they need to say this is the ONLY pro 
 football game you can buy... thats pretty sad. All in all this one is an OK game. In 365 days I 
 guess we will be talking how you need to be buying Madden 2010. I am expecting that EA will not 
 put much work into correcting the still remaining problems this one has. 
  
  The animations of QB's sliding without moving their legs and tackles not happening due to just 
 bouncing off.... it is really something that will upset a true football fan. I didn't want to rant 
 about it... but I spent money that I can't have back. I wish I could say EA got it right this time... but 
 just making minor adjustments and not making the game truly fun... well thats why you buy out the 
 competition.... so you don't have to. If you can get this game for $30.... it's a yea... RENT this... or 
 wait 300 days and get it for CHEAP just like the other MADDENS.... cause the countdown is on for 
 Madden 2010... and I think everyone already knows that....... Mabey next years will be fun? or a 
 10 outa 10? why not this years? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_McTeabag
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Best in the series.
  
  - Graphics updated. Pretty impressive visuals and the same impressive animation you expect from 
 a Madden game.
  
  - Same ole Madden gameplay. They didn't fix what wasn't broken, thankfully.
  
  - New modes, 
 features, and effects make this easily the best Madden to date. The replay feature is very fun 
 to use. Pretty handy in a tight spot. Works well for trash talking online, hehe....
  
  - Voice work is fantastic.
  
  - If you like Madden or any football game like NCAA you won't 
 be dissapointed, it's my favorite football game ever. Out of All Pro, NCAA, whatever, Madden 09 
 takes the cake for the best football game ever made.
  
  - I write this review with only a few hours of gametime, but it's the real deal. It's odd seeing 
 Favre in a Jet uniform. I haven't noticed any huge glitches yet but I've only been playing a bit. 
 I doubt there are any real bad glitches anyways.
  
  - Multiplayer is GREAT. League isn't as great as it looked to be but it's funtional. I just played 
 a few games and it was pretty competitive.
  
  What else is there to say? Best Madden game ever, go get it, now, if you like football. Otherwise 
 what the hell are you doing looking at a football game review? Go get it, you won't regret it.
 
  
  Bottom line, it's great. I shouldn't have to tell you that though... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
