-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/madden07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A number of key features missing in Madden 06 have returned.
 highlight stick, lead-blocker controls are useful gameplay additions.
 superstar mode is reasonably compelling this year.
 having the Hall of Fame players is a nice addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game still lacks features available in other console versions of Madden.
 some bugs and fit-and-finish issues that hamper the experience.
 defensive-back AI is terribly easy to exploit on the default difficulty.
 some animations look rather awkward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 4,588 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 07 is a marked improvement over the previous 360 version, but some design quirks and 
 missing features prevent it from being the system's first great football game. 

  When the Xbox 360 debuted late last year, so too did the newest iteration of EA-brand football, 
 in Madden NFL 06. Rather than churn out a cheap and dirty port of its other console versions of 
 the game, EA Tiburon built a new version of Madden from the ground up. The result was a much more 
 attractive game of football, complete with a new menu presentation and excellent new player models, 
 stadiums, and the like. The trade-off for that newness, however, was an incomplete game. It played 
 like Madden, but it lacked the depth of its predecessors, offering only a barren franchise mode 
 and online play as extra features. Madden NFL 07 builds off of that previous game, tossing back 
 in some of the missing features from the other console versions, as well as including some new 
 components. Unfortunately, Madden 07 comes encumbered with some quirks and bugs, as well, and it's 
 still not nearly as complete of a football game as the other console and PC versions of 07 currently 
 available. But despite all that, this is a definite step in the right direction for the series 
 on the Xbox 360 -- just not a leap.  

          The NFL returns to the Xbox 360 not even a full year after its last visit in Madden NFL 
 07.     

  Madden NFL 07 brings back practically every feature that was in Madden 06 (not a tough feat, considering 
 how little there was to the package) , as well as the superstar mode, which was heavily featured 
 in the other console versions of Madden 06 but was absent in the 360 version. On top of that, a 
 number of new gameplay upgrades have been brought to the table, the majority of which are available 
 in all versions of the game. By themselves, none of these individual changes or upgrades is particularly 
 game changing, but taken as a whole, they add a nice dimension of depth to the gameplay experience. 

  These features include the highlight stick, a new kick meter, and lead blocking controls. The highlight 
 stick is a new version of the truck stick used for runners on offense. Here, you can use the right 
 analog stick to pull off the sorts of crazy jukes and steps that star running backs are so well 
 known for, and on top of that, depending on the type of back you're playing, you can opt to use 
 more-powerful moves, or more finesse-based maneuvers. This feels like the natural evolution of 
 last year's truck stick, though most experienced Madden players will be able to get by just as 
 easily using the button-based moves rather than making liberal use of the stick. But if you take 
 the time to learn the stick and figure out how to use it and the button controls together, you 
 can be a very hard runner to stop.  

  The new lead blocking controls are likely to inspire some new tactics from all types of players. 
 Here, while on offense, you can opt to switch your controlled player to any of the available blockers 
 during a running play. This includes offensive linemen, tight ends, fullbacks, or whoever else 
 might be blocking on a play. When blocking, you can just do standard blocks, or you can even get 
 dirty and do some mean-spirited cut blocks. This is an interesting mechanic, because it stops you 
 from having to rely on CPU blockers, which as any experienced player will tell you, are not always 
 the most reliable players on the field. You can also quickly switch back to control the running 
 back once you've laid down your block, which is good, because the CPU running back doesn't always 
 manage to find the holes you're creating. At first, you may find yourself unable to effectively 
 use this feature, as setting up the right blocks isn't always the most intuitive thing in the world. 
 But after some time, this control method gives the running game a really interesting new perspective, 
 and those who love finding new strategies are bound to eat this up.  

  The other changes to the gameplay are less significant, but they're enjoyable all the same. The 
 new kick meter is probably the most accurate representation of kicking available in a game thus 
 far. With this meter, you use the typical arrow to line up your angle and then press down on the 
 right analog stick to set up your power. The meter quickly fills up, and then you press forward 
 on the right stick to set the power, as well as your accuracy. The accuracy is based on the angle 
 at which you press up. If you press too far to the right or left, the kick will get away from you. 
 If you land it within a set space, it'll go right where you want it to.  

  Much like NCAA 07 this year, Madden 07 gives you the option to try and jump the snap while on defense. 
 Pressing a single button at just the right time lets your defensive player get a lead on the blocker 
 in front of him and gives you an advantage while trying to get to the quarterback or runner. Of 
 course, this is a risk-versus-reward situation, as opposing offenses will often try to lure you 
 offside by using a hard count and faking the snap. The CPU tends to make very liberal use of this 
 feature, and it tends to lead to far more encroachment penalties than are realistic for an NFL 
 game. If anything, it ought to lead to more false-start penalties on the offense, since offensive 
 linemen are notorious for jumping before the snap. Still, it's nice to see a key feature from the 
 NCAA series find its way into Madden, and when timed properly, it gives a tangible advantage to 
 the defense.  

  Beyond that, the changes from 06 to 07 are mostly ancillary, and fundamentally, the game plays 
 very much as its predecessor did. The basic feel of the game seems a little bit on the easy side, 
 especially on the default difficulty. Namely, the defensive-back artificial intelligence doesn't 
 seem terribly adept at handling certain types of routes, so it's possible to exploit those routes 
 for easy gains on a regular basis. However, upping the difficulty to all-pro and all-Madden tends 
 to fix that right up. On defense, there are a few more available options in terms of positioning 
 your DB, LB, and DL corps, and you can commit your defense in a certain direction the moment the 
 ball is snapped. But individual defensive-playmaker controls are still missing, which is unfortunate. 
 The quarterback vision cone, which made its debut last year, is still available, though it's not 
 a required feature. You can tap the right analog stick after snapping the ball, and the cone will 
 pop on, letting you use it for a little accuracy boost. No, it's not any more fun to use than it 
 was last year, but that's not altogether surprising. It's also worth mentioning that the achievements 
 in this year's game are decidedly more interesting than in Madden 06. Most of them actually require 
 some effort to get, though few are unattainably hard.  

          The new superstar mode inarguably benefits from the new role and influence system.     
 

  In terms of features, Madden NFL 07 brings back the franchise mode and online play from last year's 
 game -- literally. The franchise mode is practically untouched in most every way, with only a basic 
 off-season menu list to mess around with and none of the presentational pizzazz of the other console 
 versions -- no Tony Bruno radio show, no newspapers, no e-mail dialogue with your roster, no owner 
 mode. It's certainly functional as is, but that's about all that can be said for the mode. The 
 online play hasn't evolved terribly far, either, with the usual list of EA Sports features included, 
 such as the usual head-to-head play, lobbies, the EA Sports locker, and such. One new feature that 
 sounds very cool on paper is the live franchise game. While in the franchise mode, you can opt 
 to play one of your franchise games against an online opponent by switching on a toggle in the 
 team-select menu. This sends an invite to players sitting in a live franchise game queue on Xbox 
 Live. You also have the option of inviting friends to a game. Unfortunately, we were never able 
 to connect up with one of these games. Every attempt we made resulted in an immediate connection 
 drop, both by inviting friends and going through the player queue. Fortunately, all our head-to-head 
 games played just fine, and we experienced little, if any, lag.  

  The big new addition to the feature roster this year is superstar mode. If you played the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, or PC version of Madden last year, you're probably already familiar with 
 this feature in its basic form. You take a fresh rookie player, of any position, through his NFL 
 career, facing the various trials and tribulations that are typical for an NFL player. The version 
 last year suffered from some annoying quirks and interface issues. Some of those problems still 
 exist in the other console versions of Madden 07, but less of them appear on the 360. You no longer 
 hang out in a cheesy hub area modeled after a player's house, nor do you have to worry about taking 
 on movie roles or getting haircuts, and so on. Instead, the sole focus of the mode is on making 
 your player one of the greatest NFL players of all time and eventually getting him into the Hall 
 of Fame.     

  All throughout your superstar's career, a meter will depict how far along your player is toward 
 establishing his legacy as one of the best of all time. There's no specific list of things you 
 have to do to become a Hall of Famer, but obviously you want to have the most storied career possible. 
 Apart from throwing a lot of touchdown passes while playing as a quarterback or intercepting a 
 billion passes as a defensive back, you have to interact with your team and establish a personality. 
 You do this through various interviews, which give you specific answers that gear you toward a 
 team-minded player or a Terrell Owens-like brat, as well as through a new influence system. In 
 this system, every superstar has the ability to play certain roles on the field, and these roles 
 range from, say, a field general for a quarterback to a possession receiver for a wide receiver 
 to a rookie for, you guessed it, a rookie.  

          Lead blocker controls sound kind of weird on paper, but really do add a nice new dimension 
 to the running game.     

  These roles give you tangible bonuses and control over players on the field. A quarterback using 
 the field-general role, for instance, can upgrade his passing-accuracy rating, as well as the blocking 
 ratings for his various offensive linemen. Another role he can take, the team leader, lets him 
 upgrade the awareness, injury, acceleration, and agility ratings for all the other offensive players 
 on the field. You gain these points by upping your influence rating. This rating goes up or down 
 based on what you do on the field. Make a huge completion for a first down, and you'll get a nice 
 bonus. Throw a lame interception that's returned for a touchdown, and it will drop through the 
 floor. It's a great and addictive system that makes you want to play through superstar mode games, 
 rather than just simulate them.  

  This system is  the  reason you'll want to play through the superstar mode. The other big feature 
 to make its way into this year's game, the training minigames, sadly isn't all that great. When 
 you first create your superstar, you put him through a number of workouts with teams and at the 
 combine. In this mode, you run a 40-yard dash, do a number of bench-press reps, and do one position-specific 
 game that's somewhat similar to the minicamp games from the other versions of Madden. The trouble 
 is that none of these games are anywhere near as good as the classic minicamp games. The 40-yard 
 dash and bench-press games are very awkward at first, and the instructions for each game use some 
 confusing language when explaining how to play. With some practice, you'll get the hang of it, 
 but even when you do, the games aren't much fun. The same goes for the position-specific games, 
 which don't feel especially fleshed out. You can play any of these games throughout the superstar 
 mode if your agent has access to the performance institute, and there's also a separate minigames 
 mode that includes all of these, as well, but odds are, you'll never much want to bother with them 
 outside of the requisite superstar-mode workouts.  

  Some of the issues with the original superstar mode rear their ugly head here, too. Mainly, there's 
 no particularly good sense that your agent, wealth, or status really make much difference beyond 
 the Hall of Fame aspect. You could hire the best agent available, sign a gigantic free-agent contract, 
 and never notice a difference save for the change in uniform. There's not much flash to the life 
 of an NFL superstar, and trudging through menus on a constant basis doesn't give you the right 
 kind of vibe. Another issue is that, like last year, some positions just don't play very well. 
 The game uses a zoomed camera angle during the mode that effectively limits your vision to the 
 area immediately surrounding your player, and for some positions, like defensive back, it makes 
 playing it a huge pain. In fact, the camera angle kind of makes all positions a bit more of a pain, 
 but with some positions like quarterback, running back, and linebacker, it doesn't hinder your 
 ability to play properly terribly much.  

  Also, the superstar mode doesn't run as well as the rest of the game, especially when you're playing 
 actual games. Since you're not controlling anyone but your own player, sequences on the other side 
 of the ball from where you play are sped up and played solely by the computer. You'll see some 
 wonky aspects during the sped-up simulation, including a liberal amount of encroachment calls as 
 the CPU-controlled offense goes nuts with the hard counts. As for when you're on the field, the 
 game seems to struggle to load up plays and transition between cutscenes and on-field action. You 
 can hear the disc thrashing badly in the 360 disc tray while this is going on, so there's definitely 
 something unpleasant happening there.  

  That's not the only technical issue you'll run into with Madden 07, either. There are a number 
 of odd bugs and glitches scattered throughout the game. The biggest one, by far, is the lack of 
 functioning fatigue meters. Fatigue never appears to drop when you're playing the game, meaning 
 players are evidently fully energized all throughout a game. It's something that seems easily patchable, 
 but it's annoying that the game is shipping with such a key feature broken. Another weird bug involves 
 the kick meter sometimes disappearing. This mainly happened to us during franchise games. At random 
 times during games, the kick meter would either completely refuse to appear onscreen or the arrow 
 would appear without the strength/accuracy meter. This was infrequent, and you could still make 
 the kick happen without the meter displaying, but it's an annoying bug all the same.  

  There are some other weird design issues in the game that aren't exactly bugs so much as they are 
 poor choices. One pertains to the game's Madden gamer level and the connected Hall of Fame feature. 
 As you play through the game, your profile has a level associated with it that increases as you 
 perform specific tasks. It's similar to the whole Madden card system from the old console versions. 
 Upping your level unlocks classic NFL players that are currently enshrined in the Hall of Fame, 
 both as video reels you can watch and as players that hit the free-agent pool in the game. Neat 
 as that is, a problem arises when you start a new franchise or superstar mode after unlocking some 
 of these guys. They appear in these modes' free-agent pools, too, and quickly get snapped up by 
 various teams. If you're the type that wants to keep your roster pure, you essentially have to 
 save your default roster when you boot up the game for the first time and reload that roster every 
 time you start a new franchise or superstar. A simple on/off toggle in the options menu for the 
 Hall of Fame players would have gone a great distance toward eliminating this issue.  

  It's been significantly less than a year's time since Madden 06 debuted on the 360, so it's not 
 entirely shocking that the graphics engine in this year's game is fundamentally identical to last 
 year's. It seems like a few more players have faces that match up to their real-life looks, and 
 there are some nice new on-field animations (as well as an off-field team-introduction animation 
 that plays before every game) , but primarily, 07 looks a lot like 06. That's not necessarily an 
 indictment, mind you. Madden looked great last year, and it still does this year. There are some 
 definite issues with off-kilter animations appearing on the field (clipping issues, clumsy transitional 
 animations, and the like) , and the aforementioned chugging in transitions between cutscenes and 
 on-field action does get in the way during the superstar mode, but otherwise, the action looks 
 excellent, especially in high definition.  

          It's safe to say Brett Favre's never looked better than he does here.     

  Similarly, 
 the audio presentation hasn't changed to any notable degree. John Madden is still relegated to 
 Ask Madden play-calling scenarios, and commentary is handled by an unknown EA Sports radio announcer 
 who delivers 10 times the enthusiasm his predecessors ever could. On-field audio is a delight, 
 with some really top-notch player banter and plenty of bone-crushing hits. The soundtrack is once 
 again made up of a mishmash of popular rock and hip-hop, and just like every other year, it's a 
 wildly varied mix that doesn't gel at all. Not to mention that some song choices, such as Spank 
 Rock's "Backyard Betty," seem a little seedy for an E-for-Everyone game, even with lyrical edits. 

  There's no denying that Madden NFL 07 comes up short on delivering all the improvements one would 
 hope for after last year's disappointing debut on the 360. However, it does at least push the series 
 in the right direction. There's no one big, game-changing feature added to this year's game, and 
 the bugs are certainly going to hamper your enjoyment, but the culmination of re-added features 
 and control upgrades give the necessary oomph to make the 360 version feel like more than just 
 last year's game all over again. If you skipped 06, definitely give 07 a look, as it's far more 
 representative of what a football game on the 360 ought to be like.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (503 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Madden NFL 07
  
  Review 166
  
  Released: August 22, 2006
  Publisher: EA Sports
  Developer: EA Tiburon
  Game Genre: Football Sim
  ESRB Rating: E for 
 Everyone
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  The gameplay of Madden 07 seems to be more solid than NCAA 07. The cruddy diving graphics (both 
 the ball carrier and the tackler) were the only negatives I could find. Unfortunately, there are 
 still a lot of features missed from the version on the original Xbox, like the owner's box. 
  
  Player progression is a definite plus. It is much more realistic than before. Somehow, Santonio 
 Holmes shot up 9 points overall after the second preseason, very accurately simulating his standout 
 sophomore season in the NFL.
  
  Although a lot of features are missing, there is still plenty to fill the plate. NFL Superstar 
 mode is available. You can choose a current NFL rookie, create your own, or import a legend from 
 NCAA 07. You control this player through their NFL career, only controlling them at their position.
 
  
  The biggest plus of all is that John Madden no longer announces. EA Sports radio now does the play-by-play.
 
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  Other than a wee bit of lag, and the diving graphics, the graphics overall are pretty impressive.
 
  
  Durability (9/10)
  The Franchise mode contains more than enough to keep a football fan occupied for a long time.
 
  
  Overall Score (8.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you are a low-income college student like myself, this is certainly a good pickup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulja-Foy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  As i said played the demo of 09, which is what got me into NFL games. Went out to try and get 08, 
 but i couldn't find it. So i got this for cheap. Ive played it for about 3 hours and have enjoyed 
 every second of it. To start with i tried out training, makes sence im new to the series, found 
 it pretty crap. Then i got to franchise mode, and wow. The freedom is great. Being able to play 
 in any match you like. By this i mean a team you originally didn't start the franchise with. Ive 
 played 3 matches and have won 2 lost 1. The graphics are solid and the gameplay is much better 
 than i expected. The range of attacking and defensive plays is immense. My favirote part of playing 
 in a match is being able to take a conversion from wherever you are on the field, before scoring 
 a touchdown. The tackles are fun too. The only real let down is that it needs to be more like FIFA 
 09 in the sence that not everyone can run the same speed. It looks stupid watching a really fat 
 guy keeping up with a small speedy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Opinion  A lackluster improvement over the previous year. Barely any discernable changes and controls 
 at times less than responsive.
  
  Positive  It's Madden football. Seriously, I have to really think hard about any positive features. 
 Let's see . . . oh yeah you can create a player, play franchise mode  wait a minute that was also 
 included in last years version. Uh, it's Madden football.
  
  Negative  The passing button at times doesn't respond to whether you want to throw a long bomb 
 or a laser beam to a receiver. The graphics is well suited for the original XBOX console. Creating 
 a player forces you into a mini-game mode to incorporate your player's attributes instead of using 
 the all familiar slider. 
  
  Overall  A poor attempt at improving the game over the previous year but what do you expect from 
 a product that produced every year. B- grade. It's still entertaining despite its flaws and if 
 you're a football enthusiast buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmarkin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Plain fun, at first I didn't succeed than after many errors and hard hits against I started to 
 make first downs slowly but sheerly, the running game, punts and field goals where my biggest weakness's, 
 not any longer though my running game can use a little improvement good for short yardage (on average) . 
 I must say many reviews for this game makes it seem terrible and I feal slightly bad for though's 
 who paid full price when it first game out... unless you enjoyed it, isn't that what gaming is 
 all about. If you can buy this game for cheep go for it its fun I dislike the movements in between 
 plays where it seems the game is going to freeze the rain was coming down in Pittsburgh and I thought 
 my game broke for a second if you are like me and not to keen on the defensive plays ask Madden 
 he helps (I suppose) . I plan on playing this game for many more hours threw out the week late at 
 night before bed. There is a lot of work to be done and I hope this franchise sticks around ... 
 lol I have to type 800 characters in order to submit this little review/opinion of mine. - x Markin 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I don't know if it's just the Xbox port, but this had to be the worst football game I've ever played. 
 I enjoyed 04 and 06 a lot more. They tried to fix the game with all these stupid new things, and 
 obviously they failed.
  
  The graphics are extremely blurry, something that shouldn't have to be tolerated on the Xbox 360. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  Well, they suck for Xbox 360.
  Sure some details are nice, but maybe I'm just too used to the cripser look of the PC. But if my 
 PC graphics card is not as powerful as Xbox 360, then there isn't much of an excuse now is there?
 
  
  Sound: 
  The voicing of the announcers and commentators is TERRIBLE. It sounds like they put their voices 
 through a bunch of filters and it turned out bad.
  
  Gameplay:
  Not as good as Madden 06. The controls are totally screwed up and confusing. And trying to map 
 new ones is even more confusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player - There are choices from play now, franchise, mini games, superstar mode etc. 
 Franchise is really good and enjoyble. Superstar mode in my opinion is amazing, but its not everyones 
 cup of tea. You have to give it a chance, i mean i didnt like it the first time i tried it. The 
 madden gamer level system is a nice addition, but its easy to level up.
  
  2) Multiplayer-Not played much, and you cant really find a match these days, but honestly the franchise 
 and superstar mode are enough. 
  
  3) Graphics- Amazing, i mean WOW, i love it. The grass looks great and the helmets are so shiny. 
 :D 
  
  4) Sound- The crowd sound decent, you can even hear the players speaking which is cool. The only 
 thing that annoys me is what John Madden says out of his stupid mouth, eg
  
  'HEY!!!! Give this one a shot!!!!!!!' ok chill out
  'You will want to pass it to the wide reciever...... 
 blah blah blah'
  
  You get the picture.
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. Easy controls to 
 learn. 9.5/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are pretty good and require you to 
 play in superstar mode, franchise mode, and play now, adding replay value.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. I have been playing it since it came out, and im still gona play 
 it when 09 comes out soon, becuase i liked this better than the demo on 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge football fan and I got this game as my first 360 game and it is pretty disapointing 
 but the graphics are good and so is the controlls. It has all 32 NFL teams and fields but it just 
 fells diffrent from madden o8. But the thing that really makes this game bad is the achivments 
 you have to play threw a whole dysty mode just to get like 20 achvments but in madden 08 I got 
 all the achvments in quick games. So if your a foot ball fan or looking for a solid $20 360 game 
 its worth buying. My favorite team is the CLEVELEND BROWNS BECAUSE I LIVE IN OHIO. y a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a so this is a good ass game but it is a **** mess but its worth playing 
 and who dosent love a good game of football yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa 
 yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa yaa **** ya. I love Video Games w o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o 
 oo oo o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechnologoDoom
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 17, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, my review only pertains to the Franchise mode of play for the 360 versus the GC. 
 It would be an understatement to note that the graphics are much better for the 360, the stadiums 
 are alive in a way the GC can't match, etc. With that said, there are a few BIG dissapointments 
 with this installment of the same game.
  
  1. Madden doesn't announce on your games on the 360 version (even the super bowl) . You just have 
 the team's radio station do a poor play by play. It's really bad. At least madden is funny.
  
  2. Here's the real kicker.... as you play the franchise version over time, some positions become 
 rediculously strong across the board, and some very weak. The biggest difference is that players 
 can loose awareness when they play "bad" despite the team's performance. So in my franchise, after 
 10 years, there are 10 QBs who are rated 99 or more (clearly wrong) as are linemen. Defensive players, 
 on the other hand come into the league at 85+ if they're a great 1st round pick, and then slowly 
 get WORSE. The best LE in my game is rated 82!!! This makes it so you can't improve defensive players 
 because the offenses are so good in the game. it also means that almost any team can beat any other 
 team. The best SS in the game now is 99 (a veteran, not a draft pick) , and the 2nd best? 90. It's 
 really totally screwed up!!! No draft pick can improve at all. 
  
  3. Gamecube didn't have either of these problems. It made the franchise mode MUCH more enjoyable 
 to play. I must say that i'm REALLY disapointed with the 360 version!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I like what they added to the franchise play. They made it funner. I like the fact that once you 
 look at your play by hitting the right trigger it zooms out but thn back in. A big problem i do 
 not like in 2006 is it stayed zoomed out and made things harder. I think the game might be a little 
 easy tho. I would suggest trying to pitch the ball to the left or right its quite fun. Also if 
 your in for the achievements I would play one season with the skill difficulty on rookie and pown 
 the other team. The achievements are not that hard if you just work on em the 30 year thing can 
 get annoying but just sim your way through it and you should be fine. This game is one to get but 
 if you have the money plan to buy 07 and 08 because you will want to play one of them! hehehe great 
 game buy it the graphics are better and game play is smother the players celebrate more after td's 
 this time around too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonnerd-22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  madden 07 is a very fun game with many good features E. G superstar mode you get random parents 
 that can be shuffled and make your skill and position. Superstar is awesome in game play you get 
 a close up of your player but not to close but not to far away. But now I'll get on to the bad 
 features this is why this game is so terrible. Say you're about to be sacked the QB will just barely 
 get the ball away but then the ball warps back into his hand and he'll be sacked. But there are 
 much more annoying things in this game, throwing to the receiver is the one of the most frustrating 
 the QB will throw the ball it couldn't be a better throw but then just as your receiver touches 
 the ball the defender warps through your receiver and intercepts it. But the MOST frustrating is 
 when the CPU runs the ball they break out of 1 tackle (not that frustrating) but then there RB 
 breaks another tackle then another but then there RB runs into a bunch of guys and runs straight 
 through them like a ghost and wins the game with a touchdown. This game is TERRIBLE!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Madden is probably the best football game and maybe even the best sports series available. Creating 
 your own team was awesome and so was making your own character, stadium, and even more. Every game 
 added just enough to make you want it, spite being similar in gameplay. However, if you like the 
 other Madden games, you might be disappointed with this one.
  
  The gameplay is ok, not much else to say. Just the fun football game that you know but the A. I. 
 is a little weak.
  
  It's the lack of features that makes this game fail compared to it's predecessors. First of all, 
 there is no create a team or even create a stadium anywhere. Seriously, why would you EVER take 
 that out? It's one of the things that made Madden awesome! This brings down the replay value..... a 
 lot.
  
  Well, there is create a character, but it's terrible. Customizing your character is more limited 
 than it should be, unlike previous Madden games. The worst part is the stats. Unlike before where 
 you choose your player's stats, you are taken to the field and you "practice" running, passing, 
 and weight lifting. Your player's stats all depend on how you do in the field. This is a problem 
 because there's a huge chance that your player will suck and so he is useless to use all around. 
 Your better off using the players already given to you, which is kind of boring.
  
  All in all, gameplay is decent but without it's features, there's really not much to see here, 
 at all. This game just does not live up to the already great series and if your looking for a football 
 game for your 360, I say you might want to skip this one and get Madden 08, which is far superior. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Bad Game Play. Hit Stick Is Allways Awesome. I liked The music i think thats the best thing Madden 
 has going for them right now in any Madden platform. I think Madden should fix the fumbling and 
 the ratings of this game. It gives other oppents disadvages and makes the game not fun to play 
 with. Unless you are a madden genoius you wont beat a 90 overal jackup team like them. It has to 
 be fun for everyone and not just the WINNING teams.
  
  
  
  Its Madden so everyone is going to buy this game but i would stay away from it because its not 
 what you expect from madden. Get it because you need Acivment points not anything else trade it 
 in ASAP not worth your time
  
  
  
  4.0 because its trash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Well again madden made a great game that I still play today. It is lots of fun with pretty smooth 
 gameplay which is really needed when playing football. The graphics have improved every game which 
 this one has too. Now for the bad part... When the play would be over the guys would sometimes 
 run into each other and basicly get stuck... walking into each other which I thought they would 
 of solved by this time. The only other thing is sometimes the game would well lag. This did not 
 happen very often though so it was bearable. Usually this would happen when the guys were stuck 
 walking into each other. My addvice get the 08 version and wait a little for it. If you really 
 want deal than get 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 was the first Madden game I bought for my Xbox 360. The game looks really good and 
 there are quite a few things to check out that are new to the game. Like I always say its kind 
 of hard to ruin a football game, so this review is going to be quite brief. In reality the only 
 thing that has been changed is the graphics, but I never played 06 on the Xbox 360 so I wouldnt 
 know how far of a step forward this game is. One thing i noticed that was odd was that they got 
 rid of the Madden commentary and now it is just a radio station that follows the home team. I found 
 this quite odd and I almost wished to have Madden back even though he can say some strange things 
 at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _36o-2-dA_MaX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Coming from scotland i didnt really no much about american football, so i decided t get madden 
 o7 to give me an insight into the game. I found it hard at the start not knowing wot any of the 
 plays ment but after a few hours of play i had soon mastered it. The large choice of defensive 
 and offensive makes it realistic but also gives the game more replay value. ea as usual deliver 
 as usual with all official liscences and thousands of players. There is also a large variety of 
 stadiums to play in.
  More game modes have also added to the replay factor with superstar mode giving u the chance to 
 create your own player and get him drafted in to the nfl building his career up until he is a superstar. 
 You also have season mode and franchise mode. on the multyplayer side there is about 7 minigames 
 from weightlifting and sprinting to man blocking and pass interceptions. Graphics wise the game 
 looks amazing with realistic weather affects where weather changes with according to the temperature 
 and cloudcover. pitches flood when there has been alot of rain and are left as mud baths. great 
 commentary and fan chants and team songs adds to the realistic atmosphere tht this game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonlf
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I won't get too detailed but here is a few things I liked and disliked about Madden 07 on the 360.
 
  
  1) Liked the graphics. I thought that they were pretty decent for the 360 version.
  
  2) Wish they would bring in some of the fun stuff that made Madden what it has become today. Late 
 hits should be added back. Some say this teaches kids bad stuff, but Halo you kill people but I 
 don't kill people in real life. If you hit someone late the first time going out of bounds, throw 
 a flag. After the first time maybe you have a player ejected from the game. 3) revamp the challenge 
 system. It seems this was flawed in 07.
  
  4) revamp contracts and that stuff. They should do the same with NCAA football. Some people want 
 to spend hours recruiting and stuff but instead of just having it auto done by the computer, have 
 like an assistant coach feature that you give them some guidelines on who you want to sign to a 
 contract, who you are willing to part with... etc... do the same type of thing with NCAA football 
 and its recruiting. I like to play the games but I don't have time in my busy schedule to sit in 
 front of an xbox for a long time just to recruit players or manage my team's contracts. Instead 
 of all or nothing, let the hard core fans do every detail, while let the more casual player just 
 give some parameters on how they want to manage there team and then do it for them.
  
  5) Player models need work. I am a Manning fan but that looked nothing like him in the game. The 
 same with many other players. If you are going to have the exclusive rights to the NFL, you should 
 make the most of it until the NFL realizes it was a mistake to give you exclusive rights.
  
  Overall, I think it was better than 06, but needs alot more fun and gameplay improvements.... referrees 
 and chearleaders.... all the bells and whistles. I just couldn't really get into it but it wasn't 
 a terrible game. For once I would like to see EA build a complete game and not just have marginal 
 improvements over the previous year's game. Lets get a really good version going EA that will make 
 people like you again. Most people are only BUYING MADDEN NOW BECAUSE YOU HAVE THE EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS 
 TO THE NFL... if you want an NFL game, you have no other choice. That is no way to treat your customers. 
 Instead of being afraid of 2K sports, you should welcome the challenge and grow a pair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  First, it still locks up, but not as often as '06. The last game I played locked up with seven 
 seconds left when I finally had a good game. A good game...
  
  Regular dynasty is great. It's almost back up to the original X-Box quality. There's no Madden 
 and what's-his-name voice over. It's good because you don't hear the same repetitive stupidity, 
 but only having a generic radio announcer isn't quite what I expected. It's hard to find the awards 
 and who's doing what because there's no magazine, newspaper or general awards screen anywhere to 
 be found.
  
  Superstar mode is alright, but it takes forever to get used to. I actually played football and 
 it just doesn't feel right. I think it's because it's too hard to pan the camera around quickly 
 to see the field, and if you fumble or throw a pick... good luck. You can't turn the camera around 
 the other way to see where you're going if the other team runs past you.
  
  The mini-games are alright, but they get old about as fast as the Fight Night Round 3 games did 
 if you consistently go to the performance institute. One bad thing is, you don't choose just one 
 to boost one or two stats. What's worse though, is that you can never seem to figure out the perfect 
 way to do the exercises. The game doesn't explain it well, so I'm constantly running six-second 
 40s with a pro player. I can do better than that in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  So, I like football and I like Madden. Then why don't I like this game. Okay... I wouldn't say I 
 don't like it.. I don't enjoy it. :p
  Anyways... on to the review.
  
  Gameplay: The analog juking stuff really drags me into an 8. It's fun, it's easy, just like the 
 whole other gameplay. But it's still more of the same.
  
  Graphics: This quality really impressed me, how everything is presented, visually and how the characters 
 animate and move is really good.
  
  Sound: This isn't anything special to me. I don't like the new announcer at all and just turn him 
 off and listen to my own music.
  
  Value: This is an awesome game for any Madden fan or anyone who's gonna get it. But hey, this review 
 is pretty old 'cuz 08 is coming out in like what... a month.
  
  Overall, yeah. This is just what I thought of it. And if you like Madden, then get 08. YAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I played this game for about 6 hours one day and it was terrible. When you plat online people can 
 just quit and if you lose to the PC the person that quit can still get the win. Online is probably 
 the worst I have seen out of any Football game for that matter. Single player is ok but overall, 
 it quite bluntly still sucks. You might as well give me a copy of NFL Fever 2002 for $5.00 and 
 let me play that because this game was just terrible. Might as well wait for Madden 2008 because 
 this was the worst yet, hopefully they fix the multiplayer in the next one because that was the 
 biggest disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pankety
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you were even thinking about getting this game you need to reconsider. Just because 
 it is part of the Madden series does not automatically make it a good football game. Yeah sure, 
 it's on an awesome console and the graphics might be pretty sweet, but the gameplay might be the 
 worst I've seen in a long time. To begin with, when you are picking a play everybody and their 
 brother knows what you are going to run. Five plays appear on the screen and a white square is 
 around the play that you are going to run. If you want to be good, you better learn all the audibles. 
 Also, if there is any type of shadow on the field while you are playing don't try throwing the 
 ball, because as soon as it goes from sunshine to shadow it becomes ten times harder to see the 
 ball. Probably the best idea on the game is the Create a Superstar. It is a good idea and gets 
 your attention right off the bat. I have tried and tried to get this aspect of the game to work, 
 but it seems to be nearly impossible. If you try to be a running back, you have no up-field vision 
 and can only see things within a 5 foot radius of your player. How are you supposed to make moves 
 when you can't even see half the people on the field? Same goes for quarterback and all the other 
 positions you can try. Even if you can bare this, it's so frustrating when the games finally roll 
 around because you only get to run certain plays. Some plays may not even concern your player, 
 and you have no control over it. How am I supposed to become a superstar if I don't ever touch 
 the ball? In my opinion, this game isn't even worth renting. Just play it for free at a buddies 
 house and see what you think. I have a feeling you'll be just as disappointed as I was. Hopefully 
 Madden 08 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeTD21
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Good: More features than last year. Keeps the key elements that have made it a solid game throughout 
 the year. Pretty good sound. Online is decent.
  
  Bad: Nothing really new. Camera angles in superstar completely ruin that feature. Graphics do no 
 seem next gen. It is just not as fun as NCAA 07. Still some features missing.
  
  Overall i was disappointed in this game. Yes it is a solid madden game, but it adds nothing that 
 hasn't already been in previous versions. I was looking forward to superstar mode, but I can not 
 play because it gives you a crappy camera angle. Also, the graphics just do not seem next gen like 
 I'm seeing in other games. If you're a hardcore pro football fan, I will recommend this to you. 
 If you just want to play a good football game, I would go with NCAA 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a fair football game because they really should bring new gameplay elements to the Madden 
 games. They are the same game every year, so if you still have the '05 versian, your not missing 
 anything. There is still the tried-and-true gameplay whoch works and is fun. There is alot of frame-rate 
 issues which downgrade the game. The graphics and sound are as good as ever, though. If you really 
 football and you need EVERY Madden game, rent this. It's not worth buying if you have a previous 
 Madden game. If this is your first Madden game, however, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comebackkid1701
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 was a disapointing game because it lacked the features of the last gen like owner mode 
 etc. And the idea of player editing not being allowed should be taken away. I can see why it does 
 need to restrict you from touching the ratings etc but the equipment and the jersey # especially 
 should be accessible because if you trade for somebody but they dont get theyre number it should 
 let you at least put theyre # in the same neighborhood. I enjoyed the gameplay it would have been 
 better with the addition of gang tackling but it was still football. It definately was a let down 
 with features etc but it was still football and thats what it comes down too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  After not picking up a Madden game since Madden 2004 (which I really enjoyed) I undertook Madden 
 07 for the 360. I had heard there was a highlight stick included, a vision cone for your QB, and 
 some other features not previously available. All of these new features prove to be too much stuff 
 for the non-hardcore Madden gamer.
  
  Let's tackle the highlight stick first. This is one new feature that I actually enjoyed as it makes 
 the running game much more exciting. It takes a little bit to get used to but you'll be much more 
 apt to run the ball w/ this feature included.
  
  Now the QB Vision Cone. You can turn this feature on or off, but by turning it off, you are greatly 
 increasing your odds of having the ball get picked off. Try playing with it on, and now the defense 
 can see exactly where you plan on throwing the ball. Try to fake them out you say? You don't exactly 
 have a whole lot of time in the pocket ,so finding the receiver you WANT to throw to, moving the 
 cone to FAKE throw to a receiver, being able to see who's breaking through the offensive line, 
 and then moving the cone back to the receiver you want to throw to makes things much more difficult. 
 On a high note, the graphics and sound are great in this game. The stats work well among players, 
 franchise mode is fun, and there's plenty of content. Despite my above comments it's still a good 
 game, it's just not great. Diehard Madden fans that haven't skipped a single release are sure to 
 love it, but the casual football/Madden fan is going to have a hard time getting into this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badass5_89
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  First I will start by saying that this game has the best graphics I have ever seen in a football 
 game and pretty good sound too. It looks a whole lot more realistic and you can hear the players 
 talking on the sideline and on the field. Then again that should be expecting for a new generation 
 of console. What isn't expected is that this game has taken a huge leap backwards in terms of content. 
 I loved creating my own team and taking them into franchise mode and upgrading the stadium but 
 now that is gone. This is supposed to be the better version because it is on a better console so 
 why is stuff being taken out of the game when stuff should be added to it if anything? Also it 
 seems like the gameplay is lagging a bit. There is a slight delay in the hit stick and at times 
 in the movement. After only one game I plugged my regular Xbox back up because Madden is so much 
 better on it. Whatever you do don't waste your money on this even if it is only $30 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVfalcons83
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g Nice game g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g It is best in series g 
 g g g g g g g g all flash no substance g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g 
 g g g g g gggg ggg g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever experienced a time where you come face to face with a group of giant, burly guys 
 and they were all looking at you as if they wanted to eat your children? If not, then try playing 
 Madden NFL 07. In Superstar mode, you can play as a single player staring into the angry faces 
 of your opponents. If you haven't ever played a Madden NFL game, you're missing out on possibly 
 the best sports game series. It's a classic series that will probably never stop putting out titles. 
 There are many new features in this version, like the mini games and Superstar mode. The mini games 
 aren't like the mini games in other games. They're not cartoon-like little time-killers, in which 
 are things that could never happen in real football games or training. THESE mini games are the 
 kinds of things that actually happen in football training. They include a semi-difficult weight-lifting 
 game in which you move both analog sticks up at the same time and release them while in the green 
 zone. After the barbell icon drops below the green zone and into the blue zone, you push the sticks 
 back up, and so on and so forth. Another mini game is a game where you have to sprint as fast as 
 you can for 40 yards. It's a bit confusing, because it tells you to push down both analog sticks 
 at the same time when the 4th whistle blow occurs for a speed boost after that, you must move both 
 sticks down, but not at the same time. I think my complaint about the mini games is that they're 
 TOO realistic. I'm used to the fun, colorful kinds of mini games, and these mini games weren't 
 so much fun as they were necessary in Superstar mode. Speaking of Superstar mode, it's a new mode 
 that the developers added to give the player a feeling that they're actually playing a real game 
 of football. You start out choosing which position you want to play and you even get to choose 
 the characteristics of your parents! Well, kind of. If you want different parental characteristics, 
 you can only shuffle the information, and doing that will also change the position you play. After 
 completing that step, you then choose the jersey number, types of pads the player wears, and of 
 course you get to choose the name of your Superstar. After making your player, you will start taking 
 interviews from different journalists and sign a contract with the agent of your choice. Then you 
 start the training. So... much... training... If you don't simulate most of the training regimens, 
 you'll be stuck just training for hour after hour after hour... Sure, football players train a lot 
 in real life, but I don't think gamers want to have to do just as much training as the real players 
 do. And if you don't pause training and go to Quit Training , it will NEVER end. That's not a high 
 point of the game. Once you actually get into the games, it's quite a unique experience. When your 
 superstar is on the field, you will have to play with a weird camera angle. It's a kind of close-up, 
 3rd-person chase view. It's hard to play like this, because you can't see everyone on both offense 
 and defense at once. When you can see all of the players, it looks like a piece of cake to be on 
 the front line protecting your QB from getting sacked, but that's not the case in Superstar mode. 
 When you try to keep a guy from getting past you, he does just that. Sometimes you can't even figure 
 out if you're supposed to protect the quarterback or tackle the other team's QB. Besides the odd 
 camera angles, Superstar mode is okay. The interviews are kind of fun and they help form your ego 
 and the way your fans see you, which is a pretty cool feature of SS mode. The e-mails you receive 
 are all from the same people and there are only a few different versions of the people's messages. 
 In short, it gets kind of repetitive. The Madden gamer level is one of the best parts of the game. 
 It makes the gamer want to keep coming back to improve their level. The new level system is also 
 a very good way to get some Achievements added on to your Gamerscore. The highest level is level 
 50. After that, you can't go any higher. I believe that the levels should go up to 100. That would 
 REALLY make the person playing keep playing the game to get up to the ultimate point. Franchise 
 mode is just as good as ever. You can go through up to 30 years of franchise mode, in which you 
 play in the pre-season games, the season games, the NFL playoffs, the Super Bowl and even the Pro 
 Bowl. This mode is probably the one you will want to play the most. However, if you ever want to 
 fully complete the 30 years of franchise mode, you'll need to simulate thousands of games. Even 
 if you don't play in the games, simming the games still gets your gamer level up. The in-game controls 
 haven't really changed, and that's a good thing. The controls have always been good, and this version 
 is no different. The QB vision is a nice feature, since it allows you to get the perfect pass every 
 time you use it, really. The achievements for the game are overall easy, but some of them are more 
 difficult to get. Getting to level 50 gets you 100 points, as does finishing the 30 years of Franchise 
 mode. These are both quite easy to get, but they just take a little while. Probably the hardest 
 achievements are the Superstar ones. If you don't have a QB Superstar, a Halfback, a Fullback or 
 a receiving Superstar, you probably won't get any of the SS achievements. The graphics are very 
 good, but not as good as some other 360 games. You can see the sweat on players faces and arms 
 in all the shiny, glistening glory. The mega-tron billboard effect in the stadiums and on the menus 
 are extremely realistic and detailed, with every little light showing on the billboard the way 
 they should at real sporting events. In conclusion, this '07 version of a classic Sports game is 
 very good, but not quite as good as others in the series. It's worth paying the discount price 
 to keep and play through a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I have purchased the Madden series since the first release. The last two years have just been disapointing. 
 The presentation of this one is much better than the PS2 though. The graphics are great in HD, 
 but the mechanics are lacking and there is no personalization to players. They all look like angry 
 juicers. Coaches have no eyes, which is creepy. Frame rate fails a bit but, nothing to complain 
 about that much. No commentary is a bummer, but player chatter is decent. They could've used a 
 bit more though, especialy coach responses. Or when the QB moves his mouth up on the line he actually 
 says something. The mini camp additions to this one are decent, they just need to be tweaked. Player 
 mechanics are almost robotic in a way. If they would've put more time and effort into the release 
 I think the game would've improved. I think Madden 08 will take care of that. I bought the game 
 used for a reason, thank goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy90
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Ive had this game for a few months now and although have had countless hours of fun, there are 
 still several problems. The lack of owner mode in franchise mode is one of them. Also, you cannot 
 edit players. This means no fixing jersey numbers, gear, attributes or anything like that. Superstar 
 mode is entertaining to a point but camera angles tend to take away from some of the action as 
 its often hard to see things that you need to. see. Gameplay wise, the physics in this game is completely 
 off. Not only do the kickers look like mr. universe. you have players doing impossible moves like 
 going through each other. Defensive ai is horrendous. This game is extremely offensive orriented 
 as defenders are constantly out of position. Running backs are overpowerful as many a time i have 
 seen the likes of warrick dunn TRUCK the likes of brian urlacher. At this current time. if you 
 dont have this game save your money. Look at the trailors for next years game and enjoy a two month 
 wait. Hopefully its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gongory112
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game to me seemed like it could have fixed all of the problems. Hopefully madden 08 will clean 
 this game out. Not only am i talking about bug issues but issues in general. when i got this game 
 i had not played a football game since 2k5 and i couldnt wait. the graphics were great and it was 
 smooth, but then the game literally froze near the end of the 5 min quarter game where i was about 
 to win. the game is filled with glitches and tons of other stuff. the franchise mode is the exact 
 same thing as anything, and its not the AI that bothers me so much, its the online play. But another 
 feature that i didnt like was the superstart, sure it was fun... no rookie of the year award??? 
 what the hell the superstar mode was ridiculous i was given like 5 pass plays out of 15 total plays, 
 yeah i know its supposed to be real but how real is to real... this real is to real and at times 
 kinda trying to be more real than what is real. if you didnt understand, what im saying is that 
 its trying to prove its point by saying players dont get the ball that much just a bit to much. 
 its a game... let me run the ball on 3rd and 15... just let me cause im the one the game is trying 
 to impress not the crap Qb AI. now about the online play... the broke it. the falcons are the most 
 played team why... cause of the fact that each player doesnt fail on any team for that matter unless... your 
 Qb cant move or your OL suck. Vick can move.... vick can damn move while still fitting perfect passes 
 under flailing arms of the CBs and LBs from 60 yeards out. thats impressive seeing as how as his 
 reciever can catch it and break tackles at the same time. hell thats not what impresses me, what 
 impresses me is the wide reciever... cant fail unless your on the cardinals texans etc. it seems 
 that they just put teams into two categories... good and bad. the bad teams fail to be able to execute 
 anything other than slants or curls. come on and give players who like to be their favorite team 
 a chance by addressing what each team has GOOD and bad. it seems the only addressed the bad. the 
 game also has bad controls as the throw away SHOULD NOT be on the click. i have and seen people 
 accidentally click the right thumbstick on 3rd and 4th downs even theough they had a wide open 
 reciever (who of course couldnt miss the ball) throw it away. I think the L button for once should 
 have some... SOME use in a football game.... when i say recievers shouldnt catch the ball it probobly 
 might frustrate ALOT of players who really cant control if the wide reciever can catch the ball 
 or not... but give the wide reciever an ability that the player should use to throw the ball. lets 
 say reciever a can only catch the ball stationary... give him curls all day long. lets say reciever 
 b can only catch high balls... lob him long streak plays... lets say reciever c cant catch at all... pump 
 fake to him and sneak like youve never sneaked before. please EA PLEASE address these issues and 
 stop giving the bare minimum to your consumers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddenite
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2007 returned for another smash season in August. When I first picked up this game I'll 
 admit, I was very disappointed. Why? It just seemed to me that after 1 full year of complaints 
 from hardcore Madden fans like me, they'd get it right. And they get a B+ from me for effort, because 
 you can tell they at least shot for the Moon. But that doesn't mean this game was great. The graphics 
 were top notch, almost realistic. They gameplay, for the first few hours of playing were exciting 
 and cutting-edge. But after awhile, it begins to replay itself. There were no suprising innovations, 
 and they dumbed down Superstar and Franchise modes. Not to mention completely wiping away Owner 
 mode, which I, for one, thoroughly enjoyed. Quite frankly, I was appeased for a short period of 
 time with this game, before I took a good look at this game and realised it was Madden 2006 with 
 a few bells and whistles that didn't necessairily make the game any better, but merely made it 
 flashy. Then there is the disappointing graphics on the menu. Yes, I enjoy watching my favorite 
 players from my favorite team flash across the screen as I prepare to destroy another of my unsuspecting 
 friends with the unstoppable Philadelphia Eagles. But I can't help but notice that it is a little 
 dark. One upside to Madden 2004 that made it a ball-buster of a game was the menu, and the menus 
 following the menus, and yes, the menus following the menus from the menu. It just seemed to leap 
 out at you. Madden 2007 lacks that, and alot more. Also, I'd have to say that the AI in this game 
 is disappointing on a level I can't begin to describe. I mean, I was embarrassing the New England 
 Patriots with the lowly Arizona Cardinals on All-Madden mode! When I play on rookie mode, I rack 
 up at least 230 points on the AI. I'll give Madden the benefit of keeping me under 150 on All-Madden, 
 but seeing as I have yet to lose a game against the AI, I'd say that the developers need to step 
 it up. As for the online play, it's challenging. They did an OK job at setting it up. But even 
 online play has been ruined because of the heavy emphasis on players playing with guys like Michael 
 Vick and completely abusing his running ability because, well, let's face it, they have no real 
 game. Everyone knows this as Vick-timizing your opponent. And take from me and any other actual 
 Madden gamer that doesn't need an advantage to win, it's annoying. All in all, I rate this game 
 with a 7.2, classified as Disappointing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tele_Cast
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 is good to buy unless you already own a madden game. It's basically the same thing 
 except for a few adjustments. At first it's interesting until it gets repetitive. I'm a stat-addict, 
 so scoring the same 70-yard pass to Harrison (Colts WR, I believe) 30 times in a game, sacking 
 the quarterback with Brock 12 times, and running left every damn time with James gives me a sick 
 pleasure. (jhhsptchk! I just spit on myself because I disgust myself.) Anyway... The Madden series 
 gets quite repetitive. It is nice to use the NEW QB VISION to add a challenge and make this game 
 a bit more real. The truck stick comes in handy when running and need to plow through a defender. 
 These new offensive upgrades, the NFL SUPERSTAR mode, and details in franchise made it worth the 
 12 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 is mostly the exact thing as all other football games. It is basically and ok sports 
 game. This game is could 2 play 2 kill a couple of minutes. and its also good 2 play with a friend. 
 Now the gameplay is mostly the same as madden 06. u look with the qaurter back and u press a button 
 and throw a ball. the graphics are good but sometimes it tries 2 make things look 2 real. sound 
 was good though. except 4 the fact that john madden always says the same things. so basically this 
 is a pretty good sports game 2 play 2 kill sumtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 15, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  After not picking up a Madden game since Madden 2004 (which I really enjoyed) I undertook Madden 
 07 for the 360. I had heard there was a highlight stick included, a vision cone for your QB, and 
 some other features not previously available. All of these new features prove to be too much stuff 
 for the non-hardcore Madden gamer.
  
  Let's tackle the highlight stick first. This is one new feature that I actually enjoyed as it makes 
 the running game much more exciting. It takes a little bit to get used to but you'll be much more 
 apt to run the ball w/ this feature included.
  
  Now the QB Vision Cone. You can turn this feature on or off, but by turning it off, you are greatly 
 increasing your odds of having the ball get picked off. Try playing with it on, and now the defense 
 can see exactly where you plan on throwing the ball. Try to fake them out you say? You don't exactly 
 have a whole lot of time in the pocket ,so finding the receiver you WANT to throw to, moving the 
 cone to FAKE throw to a receiver, being able to see who's breaking through the offensive line, 
 and then moving the cone back to the receiver you want to throw to makes things much more difficult. 
 On a high note, the graphics and sound are great in this game. The stats work well among players, 
 franchise mode is fun, and there's plenty of content. Despite my above comments it's still a good 
 game, it's just not great. Diehard Madden fans that haven't skipped a single release are sure to 
 love it, but the casual football/Madden fan is going to have a hard time getting into this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Now i love madden and i love football, and honestly as much as sometimes i wanna smack madden for 
 what he says to my players, Next time he should look before he throws the ball like that. In all 
 honesty though it's much more boring w/o the old hag calling the shots and that's how i felt in 
 this version. We have some guy who says the same things a 5 year old can say with a mic and a brain. 
 The 360 just doesn't feel right as there are way to many buttons for this version of the game, 
 holding both triggers to have a special run in which u can spin while your the Qb, Theres only 
 a handfull of the Qb's who i would do this with one is my favorite Vick, speaking of the man, the 
 ratings in this game have to change, it feels like EA has players that no matter how good someone 
 else is they won't let anyone pass them, big example, Champ Bailey, no doubt in my mind there are 
 corners better than him but every year he's numero uno. Same thing with WR Marvin Harrison. Sure 
 Randy had a year but Marvin has been #1 for a while now. In addition to that Anyone who actually 
 fallows football can agree on one thing, Mike Vick is one of the fastest players in the Nfl, not 
 a 94 speed dimwit try a 97 speed beast. And Randy Moss is still 99 speed. They give players not 
 enough credit or way much, and All-Madden mode is same as always, your CB's couldn't cover a snail, 
 no matter how big your AWN is your QB will still have tiny cone, unless your brady or manning and 
 your WR drop more pass's than T. O. in one game. Running is weird as well, in this version you move 
 real fast to hand the ball off but your running back then slows down even if your holding down 
 sprint when he gets it. Seems like your #1 or #2 reciever are never open and 90% pass's go to your 
 RB TE or slot WR. If you want to pass in this game you have to drop back in singleback 5 WR and 
 then you can pass for 250 Yds a game. Now on the Ps2 i have only lost like 3 games, i put in the 
 360 one and i won only 3 and lost like 8, that's how much differnt the versions are. I'm hoping 
 next year's version is a lot better for this great system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Plays just like every other Madden game which is very well. All of the main features 
 are still there. The Mini games are ok but its not enough to make it stand out at all. The online 
 play is extremely laggy which gives the ball carrier a slight unfair advantage.
  
  Graphics- Looks very good compared to past madden games but its not really up to 360 standards 
 quite yet. Player models are quite accurate. There are some little flaws here and there that will 
 bug you once in a while.
  
  Sound- Instead of Al and John calling the action as they usually do there is a dumbass radio announcer 
 so its like riding in your car instead of watching your tv and the radio guy is repetitive as hell 
 too. But the sound is good otherwise like the tackles.
  
  Value- If you are into football this game has endless value. The franchise mode can take months 
 if you only play occasionally. The online play is basic and once you play a few games it gets old.
 
  
  Tilt- If you like football get it if you dont then I would say take a pass on this one and wait 
 to see if Madden 08 improves on 07s faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 4, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Once again I find myself scratching deep into my scalp with a sense of frustration and embarassment. 
 I'm a very appreciative fan of the NFL plus electronic entertainment and never have I tried to 
 cut corners or either. I buy my tickets legit, I purchase and rent videogames from reliable vendors, 
 I spend my hard earned money with a smile and never think twice about cutting corners or trying 
 to pull a fast one for a cheap buck. So I question Electronic Arts, what makes them think charging 
 full price for supposed new product that lacks serious substance in just about every department 
 seems 
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  The last few versions of Madden have fallen victim to what many use to complain about, traction. 
 In the old versions of Madden you moved slowly, and if you were lucky to have a swift player on 
 the team it would show as they broke for daylight and none could even come close to touching a 
 shoe lace. Thats called REALISM!! Since then, to rectify complaints or amass more appeal the game 
 is a little easier to control characters thanks to context sensitive players who simply do most 
 of the hussle for you. All you have to do is hold the controller and BOOM! you break for 30 yards 
 on a run play. Can't grind it out, chuck it up Randy Moss style and listen to the intense ball 
 moving thru air sound and complete a 70 yard play. Did I mention the pass came from a poorly rated 
 QB?! The various modes in this years addition were a strong point of interest for me and for any 
 wanna be star player or once aspiring athlete who actually played the sport, super star mode was 
 exciting. Key phrase, was. Due to a broken/incomplete mode that was hyped as the next step in football 
 greatness, everything else is basically last years game with updated 
 
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  Now I can't completely neglect this year's game as a reharsh of last year's garbage simply because 
 the game does look good. There are many more animations that display tackles, gestures, celebrations, 
 and the occasional how did he do that?! kinds of plays. Beyond looking a little more crisp and 
 shinier in the eye candy department, many things continue to linger about such as the lagged trasnsitions 
 between plays which there should be NO excuse for on any system, especially on the 360 and offline. 
 The presentation or the major lack of during gameplay is shameful. The jumbo-tron serves no purpose 
 besides showing the same exact 3 to 4 messages such as first down or 2 minute warning and even 
 worse replays are a joke thats not worth laughing at. One thing that has bothered me for sometime 
 now is a majority of the characters on field look very similar in shape and size. You can distinguish 
 a 190 pound RB from a 300 pound line man, but lack of body or facial definition has never been 
 more apparent which leaves a fan wishing there were no close ups to add to the 
 
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  Once again, much praise goes to my guy Sam Spence who continues to make pretty decent NFL inspired 
 music. Bsides the fact that much of it is recycled, you can find some comfort in the various other 
 artist who sadly sing very little about NFL related action. Might as well put that 360 memory to 
 good use and play your own music. As for other effects, nothing really dramtically stands out besides 
 the occasional whomping hit which deflates any runner or reciever. Player chatter is basic and 
 fits decently into who is saying something and to whom they are saying it to. If you were hoping 
 to enjoy the old man football banter of Pat and Madden, think again. Instead you are graced with 
 the presence of the same dude from last year's game who sounds a tad bit more enthusiastic and 
 clearer, yet he's all alone in the broadcast booth, again.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  Somebody must have had a little sit down with the person who distributes gamer points, 
 because this time around you actually get to earn them. Unlike Madden06, you gain team, player, 
 and situation specific glory which is a major improvement and doesn't feel like a waste of time. 
 With super star mode, you have to play amazingly great or use every exploit Madden is known for 
 to even get close to some achievements which may be enjoyable for some hardcore fans, but not very 
 welcoming to any casual players. Last year you were able to go online and duke it out against others 
 which was a nice thought, and nothing more. This time around you can use your profile in a level 
 up system which not only defines the elite players, but sets a pretty good bar for who is worth 
 the time and not. If you can bear the lag from single player offline gameplay, then prepare to 
 see plenty of it 
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  As much as I speak ill of the Madden series, I was very excited about this game and 
 even bought it on day one to see if it could win me back. Sadly, a few tweaks and some glitter 
 does little to merit the full price purchase which is a blatant smack to the face for anyone who 
 continues to support. All together, there has been many minor improvements that help the game feel 
 good to any familiar Madden player, but to any true blue football fan, the series has a long way 
 to go before they can rightfully claim the NFL dominance that so many are under the false impression 
 of.&nbsp; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odie333
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  As we all know, Madden has been the premiere NFL game for pretty much ever. However, the game has 
 been lacking seriously since its introduction on the Xbox 360.
  
  Graphics - When it comes to graphics there is really nothing to complain about, only to rave about. 
 The graphics are unbelievable! I think back to the days of Madden 95 on my PC and how awesome I 
 thought that game was. These graphics make you feel like you are watching a live game. I can't 
 imagine what games will be like in another 10 years.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is still good. I really don't feel like anything has been lost from the 
 gameplay. The addition of the blocking control seems to have gone a little too far for me, but 
 maybe some feel like it is a great add in. I personally just want to juke the defender out of his 
 shoes rather than bother with trying to block him.
  
  Features - This is where I have been really dissappointed witht he Madden series the last two years 
 on the 360. The game was obviously rushed in 06 to match the release of the 360. Many of the great 
 features that Madden has accumulated over the years were left out due to this. This was understandable 
 though disappointing. In 07 there are still great features from previous years that have not made 
 it back yet. Some of the features that are still missing include: - Player editing - while you 
 can create players on Madden 07, you cannot edit existing players. Some may say you shouldn't be 
 messing with the players attributes anyway. To those I say fine, but wouldn't you want the ability 
 to at least change a players jersey number. For example, if you were playing the Franchise setting 
 and controlling say the Texans, and you wanted to correct the injustice of not drafting Vince Young 
 so you trade for him. If someone on your current roster wears #10 then the game will automatically 
 assign Vince a new number. This just won't fly in my book because Vince Young is #10, nothing else. 
 There are ways around it, but that doesn't change the fact that you should be able to just edit 
 the player and correct the crime. - Owner Mode - I thought owner mode was a great feature for Madden. 
 It gave you the ability to move a team to the city of your choosing if you were able to handle 
 your finances properly. Still missing on Madden for the 360.
  
  Regardless of my whining, I still love the Madden series. I am just crossing my fingers that some 
 of great features of Madden will find their way back into the game in years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIPSETNGUNOT
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  It's a madden game you've played it before you loved before. Theres basically nothing except maybe 
 the graphics. There's one addition thats actually really good I don't know if it was in last years 
 game because i didn't buy last years game. But the addition is superstar mode which lets you make 
 your own football player and you get to pick his agent, train, and of course PLAY FOOTBALL. Loved 
 the game. One problem theres glitch sometimes when a player tackles you it likes freezes for like 
 like 10 second then you see you getting tackled. Another glitch is when you run right passed the 
 man with ball sometimes the guy with ball magically gets tackled by the invisible man (sarcasm 
 about the invisible man) (when your on defense) . Great game period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  In Madden 06 the hit stick worked really well but now it seems like it takes 1-2 seconds to recognize 
 that you have touched the analog stick. In some of the PS2 games you could create your own team 
 and then take them in your franchise. Then if you were not good with your money you could move 
 them were you wanted to. You could also upgrade your stadium, change consession stand prices, and 
 stuff like that. I enjoyed stuff like that in my franchise but now all we have for the 360 is just 
 a bunch of simming and the most boring franchise I have ever played for the Madden series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky1121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing Madden 07, but the presentation is still lacking from NFL 2K5. Details, Details, 
 Details... for example, the Ring of Fame at Invesco @ Mile High. In Madden 07, the names of the 
 players are not there. It just says Denver Broncos where the ring would be going around the stadium. 
 In 2K5, you can see the names of the players in the ring. The little things do matter. Also, in 
 the Super Bowl of Madden, the end zones just have the Super Bowl logo, rather than the logos of 
 the Super Bowl Teams, like 2K5 does. This is not how appears when the real Super Bowl is played. 
 The ESPN crew really put a lot of thought into those small details that are in the real game when 
 you see it on TV. The Playoffs logo is painted on the field in 2k5, where in Madden it is not. 
 You can see chunks of turf being thrown up behind the player as he runs in 2k5. This is not shown 
 on Madden, even with the next-gen consoles. Overall, Madden needs to pay attention to the little 
 details. The graphics for Madden on the 360 are great, right down to the scuff marks on the helmets 
 and jerseys, but there needs to be improvment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beesters
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has not came a long way at all from 06'. They forgot to add in Fantasy Draft, my friends 
 and I always used that for fun! This is going to be a total addition if they decide to add this 
 in 08'. But the graphics have improved, and also the game play has improved. This Next-Gen stuff 
 has some issues, but thats always going to happen when a new form of game comes out for a long 
 lasting series of a game!
  
  The Superstar mode needs to go. I do like how you can select the players DNA and go through interviews 
 and do IQ tests, so thats pretty neat. But, the way the camera angle is a pain the arse! Also, 
 the way you can select plays! If you are RB and they throw a dump pass to you, good luck on trying 
 to catch the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel924
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who doesnt give this game a 9+ score is obviously a loser who got beat up by football 
 players in high school. Madden 07 is no doubt the paramount of the franchise, incoorperating what 
 we love about the old games while throwing in some new goodies. The graphics are crisp and sleek 
 like a brand new scooter on a hot summer day. As accurate to actual NFL players as modern technology 
 allow, the state of the art picture allows gamers and fans alike to get as close to playing an 
 NFL football game as they ever will (with the exception of the .000001% of the population who happens 
 to be jacked, skilled, and tricky enough to conceal their steroids to actually play pro) . Wow! 
 However, gameplay is still the best part. An in depth franchise mode, superstar mode at every position, 
 and the new training camp activities will keep anyone occupied for months. This doesnt include 
 the tons of hours of mutliplayer this game provides. The most epic moment of my life have been 
 close madden games, and dont lie, yours are too, Madden is one of the few series, along with Mario, 
 Halo, Zelda, etc. that can be considered legendary. Respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluekatze
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this is a big let down from say Madden 03 or even 05. Sure the graphics and sound may 
 be good, but really its not all about that. The controls are setup in a funky fashion. The lack 
 of camera angles ruins the overall game. Also the lack of modes to, seems to put it in a lack luster 
 way. I was upset with create a player mode. Not being able to edit your roster, like give Ray Lewis 
 a visor, then change their attributes to actual counter parts. This reminds me more of a HD version 
 of Gameday and not Madden. Lets just hope 08 is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DojoKanooJoto
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Great with graphics and sound. This is great problem is when you team in real life has new players 
 you have to trade them to the actual team. I like this game when your playing with a friend. Thing 
 is NO MADDEN CARDS. I loved the Madden cards. Also Superstar mode is fun the thing is the teams 
 you go to aren't the same as in real life. I had a runningback and it got drafted to the Atlanta 
 Falcons when I played a game Atlanta just did pass plays. Not a single running play. The only time 
 when you have an advantage in superstar mode is when you have a QB cause you call the plays and 
 do whatever you want except you can't pick your own plays. Franchise mode is terrible. After playing 
 superstar mode for a while you soon get addicted. Overall if you want a game with good graphics 
 and sound than get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeo423
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  It was overall a good game using the HD portion well with the sound, graphics, and even on gameplay, 
 except the fans. The fans are all the same and are flat. They missed out on the create-a-fan portion 
 back in Madden 2005. They also missed the create-a-team, create-a-playbook, fantasy draft, and 
 many other key elements that I like. The lead blocking and running controls now make more sense 
 making it even more fun. The superstar mode was amazing, except for some of the views, but those 
 don't bother me too much. The mini-games were good and challenging for once, and the franchise 
 mode was improved a bit. I really think this game is good, but not the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacker63
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  First thing's first. This is Madden. It's a great, realistic product that is meant to simulate 
 the real experience of football. Pad popping, jaw dropping hits and diving catches are the name 
 of the game. The stadiums, players, jerseys, grass, coaches, fans, etc look great and feel more 
 real than they ever have before.
  
  However, there is much work to be done....
  
  The game play is still very shotty. There is probably at least one instance a game where a receiver 
 goes up for a pass, get's caught on the defender and stops moving in mid-air, and no flag. There 
 are a lot of missed blocking assignments such as a pulling guard getting stuck on a tackle, or 
 someone missing their pass protection which cause quarterback sacks, even on run plays. Another 
 annoying feature is the ability to commit to the run and pass. Just like guessing which type of 
 play the opposing team will run, you must also guess if you will: 1. actually commit. Sometimes, 
 no matter how many times you click the stick, nothing happens. 2. hope that you're defender doesn't 
 do a hit stick on accident and totally miss the play. 3. hit up to commit to the pass, and all 
 of your teammates start blitzing, INCLUDING THE SAFETIES, and watch a bomb float right over their 
 heads for six. Plus, unless you commit to the pass on a constant basis, and the game actually registers 
 that you are TRYING to commit, you will rarely get quarterback sacks unless you're blitzing two 
 or three extra men.
  
  Also, as you gain Madden Points and increase your rank, you unlock Hall of Fame players, who can't 
 be turned off. So, while they're not in the quick game, it's very frustrating when I'm playing 
 the Colts in my franchise and their offense has Manning, Peyton, Harrison, and Rice. Yes, I do 
 mean Peyton Manning, Walter Peyton (legendary running back) , Marvin Harrison, and Jerry Rice (wrote 
 the Wide Receiver record book) . That's a pretty lob-sided combination.
  
  But, the addition of the new mini games are nice. If you know how to do them. In the 40-yard dash 
 drill, i've ran two sub 4.4 times. And I mostly run it with either Diangelo Hall or Chad Johnson. 
 It's tricky to say the least. The Bench press is not adjusted according to which type of player 
 you're lifting with. To put it simply, I can put of 41 reps at 225 lbs with RT Willie Anderson 
 and with K Shayne Graham.
  
  All of that said, the game still looks good when played. The addition of referee Ed Hochuli is 
 a wonderful touch, and it even incorporates his trademark fist pound . All of the players have 
 their accurate game-day attire, and the way the field gets beaten up is pretty realistic (unless 
 it's raining) . The play books are all accurate, minus most of the trick plays like the half back 
 pass, but other than that, everything is pretty much on par.
  
  Overall, Madden 07 is taking amazing strides to living up to it's previous generation counterparts, 
 but that doesn't mean it's almost there. There are many advancements that need to be made and many 
 problems that need to be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrillo721
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes another great Madden football game! Madden returns for the 2007 season and once again makes 
 a good game. And again Madden comes back with all new features such as a new running system to 
 stuff the D with a run play! The gameplay on this game is great! It is even funner playin with 
 a friend or online with XBL. So far this game no doubt is the best Madden yet! The season and franchise 
 modes are fun to play and with mini-camp make it even funner. And youwont get bored playin on quick 
 game mode. Overall it is a good game and doesnt get boring and has many good mini-games and has 
 mini-camp modes that dont get old. So yeah overall this is a pretty good game i recomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Madden has been a great franchise throughout the years on all major consoles and the PC. Each year, 
 most of the time, the newest game had a new feature or features. Every year, it started to get 
 better and better. But, has it gotten worse through the past couple of years? It seems that the 
 series has decreased in capability and has not reached it full potential.
  First and foremost, Madden 07 on the Xbox 360 is quite irritable. It noticeably lags and freezes 
 up and the game is not smooth at all. If you play previous versions of Madden on the Playstation 
 2 or the Nintendo Gamecube, you will notice a very smooth and consistent game. However, on the 
 360 the game appears to lag and slow up at random times, making it irritable and a bit frustrating 
 to play. The graphics are a disappointment. With the Xbox 360's capabilities and amazing graphics 
 card, EA produced a game with nearly no improvements on the graphics from last years. Plus, the 
 graphics, excluding close-ups, really look no different then other versions of the game on the 
 PS2 and gamecube do. If you have HD, the graphics are of course pretty good, but still not at their 
 highest potential. But, even with HD, when player close-ups are not being shown, nothing looks 
 all that impressive. The sound is pretty descent, with soundtracks at the menus, and the great 
 on-the-field action sounds of grunting and what not. The gameplay is the same, and there is really 
 nothing new except for some updates and new features in the superstar mode that are pretty cool. 
 But, overall, Madden on the Xbox 360 sadly does not reach its full potential and was capable of 
 a much more improved game then what is present.
  For those that have Xbox live, it is even worse then playing offline because the game lags pretty 
 badly. Also, Madden is no longer the announcer. The game is called Madden and there's no Madden. 
 The 360 lacks some features other console versions have as well. What's going on? When you choose 
 plays, its so ridiculous! They make you chose in a whole different format then in the old ones, 
 and its a lot more difficult. If you're playing with a friend, you don't get to hide your play 
 by pushing the button that goes with the play on the screen. Instead, you move a white box over 
 the play you want and press A . Great, now everyone can see your play! Madden 07 is worth a rental, 
 but, not worth the buy, especially at its 50.00-60.00 price range. Hopefully, EA will bring us 
 a much more improved game for the 2008 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out i was like its prob. like another madden game i have played almost every 
 year. I am Sorry but this game is the worse of all of them. Its very confusing and some of the 
 game play is terrible. Yea its still madden and you should enjoy with a couple buddies over. But 
 its def. not as good as lets say madden 06 or any other madden in that fact. The options are confusing. 
 i want to play the franchise mode not accidentally quit or something like that. and the mode got 
 dumb down my favorite thing was create teams and move them. And make my teams in the league in 
 real areas (Orlando Crocs) was my team for an example i even made a Alaskan Team LOL.. but i don't 
 think its in here and i was really pisst. To many flaws mess up what would be a good game
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Hard to play and not as fun as older games
  Graphics: Decent Sound: 
 The announcers are terrible and annoying
  Value: As far as madden goes this is a rip off
  Overall: Don't buy this game unless you really love madden or football 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I was so mad when i bought this game. I wish they kept the fantasy draft in. The game froze on 
 me a couple times. I was almost done playing and i was winning in the super bowl and then at the 
 end of a play the camera switched to the shy camera and then the camera kept going around the stadium 
 looking at the fans and all i could do was turn the system off. Other than that the game was ok. 
 i feel they tried to show off the graphics by making a close up before every play. The gameplay 
 was kind of weird because you cant really cut to the sides that well. The superstar mode wasn't 
 that great but it gave me something to do. I only had fun playing this game against my friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorfulus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Graphics are great. Playability is very good. One of the most innovating aspects 
 is the ability to train your players and improve your team as time goes on. There are some weaknesses 
 in that feature, especially when training defensive players, but I expect that this will be worked 
 out in future Maddens. I would grade it a B+ to A-.
  Some features that need to me improved are the maneuvering through the option menus. Sometimes 
 the game developers spend too much time adding things and too little time enabling the users to 
 manipulate the existing features. For example, training camp should allow you to improve more than 
 three players at a time. Perhaps even training your coaches. Manipulating game plays. And why, 
 on a post play, does your player run out of bounds just because you are too close to the sidelines? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogart69
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  '07 is a major improvement over the disaster that was '06. On the plus side of the ball, it is 
 a beautiful looking game and is a lot of fun to play. The graphics are top notch and the animations 
 are, at times, superb. The gameplay is intense and the passing game is better than ever. I personally 
 find the running game to be more difficult than before ( I play on AM level ) , but this can be 
 corrected with the sliders. The AI is better than ever as far as picking up your blitzes.. I am 
 very impressed with this aspect.
  
  It does take some getting used to if you are a veteran of the old gen Games as the controller set 
 up is quite different as far as game play and play calling is concerned. The menu/ save system 
 is also overly complicated and needs to be re-done.
  
  On the down side, well, there are still a mountain of issues which are all well documented but 
 none that make the game unplayable. Lets see, there's the horrible collision detection, catch up 
 AI, complicated menu system and frame rate issues. The lack of Player editing is also a sore point 
 as the Player Models are overly bulky. I guess they are all Balco clients. :) The defensive backs 
 AI is laughable at times as there are too many moments when the ball will simply bounce right off 
 one of your Players heads without them even attempting to swat or catch it.
  
  This said, it still does not deter me from really enjoying this game. If EA can correct the above 
 issues they may just get back to the glory days they experienced in the '04 and '05 versions.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT-KING92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  About 2 weeks after I recieve it I was plying the Madden game when i Changed the position of the 
 stance then I heard a loud grinding sound. I looked at the cd and it had about 5 or 6 scratches. 
 It was 2 lines of scratches lined up next to each other on the end of the cd circling the cd. and 
 little 1 inch scratches inside of the cd.
  Overall this game has stopeed on me about 10 times and im getting mad. I have games for my PS2 
 like BLACK it has about 30-40 scratches on it and it never froze on me.
  Im in the NfC championship playing with seattle and the last to games it froze in the second quarter 
 with 16 seconds LEFT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weiselma
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you've played Madden on PS2 or Xbox, you will play this once and give back to where you got 
 it from. I can do without some features like owner mode, some mini games, and create playbook, 
 if there gone OK I'll deal with it for now. Graphics 8/10 The graphics are very nice, some animations 
 a little wrong, but overall it's nice looking.
  
  Gameplay 2/10 Horrible, if you are going gut the game you could at least leave the good stuff in. 
 No more formation audibles, highlight stick is atrocious, and player movement feels stiff and unresponsive. 
 I made it through one game, that is all I could tolerate.
  
  Overall 4/10 I like the idea of rebuilding a game, but this is ridiculous. It just feels like madden 
 light, or 2000 Pretty Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriko2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I understand that the people at EA sports are trying their best to make this new maddan experience 
 a great one, and i understand that they needed to start everything from the ground up for the next 
 generation of gaming so im not as hard on them as some people i know because i know it takes alot 
 of time to start everything from the ground up. When i look back at how sorry madden was when it 
 first came out for the ps2 i know why its taking them so long to get it right. We didnt look at 
 the first ps2 madden as sorry because it was the first time we witnessed this new and great to 
 us at the time material. Right now the only things that i would like for the guys at Ea to work 
 on or add would push Madden to a great level. Here are some of my ideas for madden 08: 1. Some type 
 of league or season mode online like a real nfl season to play with friends or anybody around the 
 world. 2. we need the gang tackle back its really hurting not having it. 3. a more in depth franchise 
 mode (which i know they will definately do something about this year) , 4. some new defensive back 
 and wide reciever features,5. the nfl combine, and the it wouldn, t hurt to have the talk show or 
 something as good. Thats not much to ask for hopefully they look at this stuff and atleast put 
 one of these new features on there. Im sure i can think of more but those are my most important 
 thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shank7408
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievably bad. I hate it. With the 360 if you dont have a hi def tv, your screwed. 
 The play calling screen is like a matrix board for god sake. I think we need to go back to basics. 
 I was so disappointed, I almost got sick. I have owned madden games since sega, and madden 94.
 
  
  I knew that this was going to be bad, because it felt wrong when I opened it. The mystique with 
 this game is gone. I was board with it before the first half of the first game I played. Last years 
 madden for the ps2 blows this game away.
  
  sorry
  
  2 out of 10
  
  JMM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeskates5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL on the 360 is... AWESOME! the graphics are amazing in replay mode (if you get a good 
 look) the gameplay will never make you bored If you are a major fan of football or the Madden games 
 you can not pass on this one. Madden 07 is by far the best football game I have ever played! The 
 mini games are fun but kind of hard they take some practice but when you get good you feel great. 
 The all new Madden gamer levels and accomplishments (accomplishments are on the 360 version) make 
 you want to keep playing. Overall this game is great so go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  You know, im not a very big fan of football but i loved the Maddens, but I stopped liking there 
 games with all the missing features and poor gameplay, this game is desprite cry for help. Me and 
 my friend started to play the first 5minutes, we wasted 5 minutes looking for Create A Team! But 
 the soundtarck was good, me and friend love Taking Back Sunday but i hate rap and hip hop but this 
 is game is truly a bad game and I Don't know how you can call this a game, i sat playing training 
 with my created player and it was a waste of time, Then my friend and i did a quick game, LET ME 
 tell you, i HATE football games now, My friend loved the graphics but hated the game, Go ahead, 
 say you don't agree. I Don't care about your opinon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldmenkickbutt
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Madden07 puts in effect some adjustments to the Madden games on other consoles. These changes include 
 the new camera angles for the superstar mode. For example, as a quarterback the camera sits just 
 above the player's back before the snap. During the plays, the camera moves with the superstar 
 which minimizes the vision of the field. Because of that, interception percentages go up. Another 
 change in the superstar mode is the role playing before each drive. You pick a role to play and 
 these roles increase individual stats or teamates stats.
  
  The graphics in this game are incredible compared to other madden games. Also, before a Play Now 
 Game you can alter the weather settings according to what you feel like playing in. You can choose 
 a temperature degree, measure, precipitation options, and the time of day for each game.
  
  This game uses the new version of the kicking system similar to the one in Madden06. It also uses 
 the same hit stick/truck stick system. A new part of this game is the lead blocker system. With 
 this you get the chance to participate as a blocker rather than a running back. This is especially 
 helpful when you are having rushing troubles abd you think you can do better as a blocker than 
 the COM. The mini games in Madden07 are fun to play with friends. The games include, the forty 
 yard dash, bench pressing, defensive coverage, lead blocking, ruching, and passing. The forty yard 
 dash is easier with this updated version. Instead of repeatedly tapping the A button, all you have 
 to do is move the joystick up. Its really easy to get a decent time in Superstar mode during individusl 
 workouts and the NFL combine.
  
  Adding on to the Superstar Mode changes; In Madden06, you were the coach as well as a player meaning 
 that you could choose a play and perform it. In Madden07, you are only a player. You have no freedom 
 over which play, offensive/defensive set, or even your play type. A major downside of this game 
 during a Play Now Game against a friend is the play selection screen . Instead of the Madden06 
 system where each button represented a different play, you have to manually move from play to play. 
 This allows your opponent to see your selected play which gives them an advantage toward countering 
 your move. In conclusion, I think Madden07 is a great multiplayer game and I reccomend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobison708
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 was a fantastic game. The graphics improved from the year previous but the game play 
 was pretty much the same with exception to the run blocker feature. The run blocker feature was 
 a really dumb add-on that I think not to many people even used. The multi-player mode for on and 
 off line was really good. The franchise mode needs improvement with more control over the money. 
 The Superstar mode was descent and it needs many improvements. The Superstar mode is very boring 
 because you don't get to control the team and it fast simulates through the plays. A good suggestion 
 for Superstar mode would be to involve money. Overall, this game was excellent and will give any 
 person some really good old-fashioned American fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QB71
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It has improved a whole lot since the 06 game. This game has surpassed my expectations 
 by a mile. The superstar mode is pretty cool because you can only play as your player, seems very 
 real. This is a must buy for all Madden fans. Franchise mode is not that great but the superstar 
 mode makes up for it. reach certain Madden gamer levels you can create 'FREAK players to add to 
 your franchise team. Overall, I was pretty impressed with the improvements that Madden made to 
 make this 07 game a whole lot more fun than the 06 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gr71
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be very good. The graphics are tight. I wish Al and John were the commentator 
 more often. I also don't understand why they even give you the option of being able to move your 
 controller into four different spots, when selecting a team to play on. Because you can not play 
 four player. You can only play two player. They also should have more mini games in the combine. 
 The game play is great. I like how the elements play a part in the field conditions as you play. 
 The field will get muddy when it's raining. The field will show footprints when your playing in 
 the snow. The sound could be a little more life like. When you catch a long pass the sound that 
 plays is a mechanical thud. I have no idea why they used this sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwin03
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Well here i am buying my X-Box 360 and very hyped about buying Madden 07. Every expectation went 
 down the drain when i started to play the game. Yeah i was happy about the visuals. Good Graphics, 
 but graphics is not going to impress me if the game lacks gameplay and some modes and full feature 
 franchise mode. Lets talk about gameplay. Yes there has been improvements in this area. When you 
 start to play the game for the first time your happy and see the new moves, but then you realize 
 it aint enough and especially for a next gen game. You feel EA needs 2K Sports to come back out 
 and give them competition gain to have them take there gaming more serious. Because this game aint 
 serious enough for me. Playing the game it feels like its too quiet. not enough broadcasting presentation 
 and i just dont feel im in the game if you know what i mean. Hire professional commentators who 
 actually can do the job EA! Create a player does not give you the option to max out your player 
 and also they dont let you edit the attributes of nfl players. Not good EA! Cool idea to do drills 
 to determine create a player attribute but still they should of included the ability to edit your 
 plyer attributes fully. for one the drills on the 40 times is so hard to do great on. Superstar 
 Mode is better. But this is Next Gen and your second year ib the xbox 360 come on add more real 
 life feel to being a superstar in the nfl and feeling your the player. EA just didnt put enough 
 effort in it. I regret buying the game. Franchise mode is just not deep enough as well. if you 
 dont have friends who play games lot or play madden the dont buy this game. You will quickly get 
 bored of this game. Not worth 60 dollars its worth more like 30 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robman5601
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  good game. dynatsy is good but could be better and the superstar mode is missing alot of the elements 
 to make it great. i really like the online play although it can be really laggyt at time and i 
 also like the graphics. i hate that they didnt put in the create a team mode and that the create 
 a player mode sucks and could be alot better. some of the mini games are challengign but add detph 
 to the game. i like the 40 yard dash and the benching is a nice minigame. i also like the train 
 before game feature in dynasty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollTideSEC12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Madden is Madden. Despite the price, despite the same old stuff, we'll still buy 
 it. And why? Because it's still a really fun game. I find on the default settings, (On all Madden) 
 the game just isn't that challenging. But with the All-Pro sliders, every game you play can come 
 down to the wire. I absolutely love this game, and the new Madden Gamer level makes every game 
 important. I definately recommend this game, but it doesn't matter, because you'll buy it anyways. So, 
 if you're looking for a fun Madden experience, go for this, because I gurantee you'll have a good 
 time. The Superstar mode is still boring as hell, but you'll play it just to unlock the achievements. 
 Franchise mode, while virtually untouched compared to last year, is still great fun. And the new 
 Create-A-Player is as innovative as ever, and fun once you get the hang of the learning curve. 
 So go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trukero08
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The new Madden games seem to be just minor updates of the old ones, in graphics, rosters and minor 
 features. They also seem to now be depending on NCAA 07, in which the controls to both are slightly 
 different. Now for the review on the 360 version, still no Madden commentary. HOF mode is added, 
 but not enough features to really want to constantly play it. The gameplay is half decent, but 
 the highlight stick doesn't react accordingly enough and juking is almost impossible since it requires 
 that you move the stick while hitting the a button, causing you to lose precious reaction time. 
 Defense doesn't react well and generally misses the big play. Mini games are better in this game, 
 but are too easy. This game isn't much improvement over the last one for the 360 and you should 
 really just wait to see what happens next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Before you begin reading, I feel it is important to give some context for those of you reading. 
 I've played a few madden games off and on, but mostly off... because all of them have been an infuriating 
 experience that only made me glad that I never actually bought any of them. I've actually had a 
 good time and enjoyed games like NFL Street and Blitz (before it went to pro ) , much more.
  
  The first, last, and ONLY NFL sim football game I've ever purchased with my own money was ESPN 
 NFL 2k5. Why? Because it's the only one that never made me want to break the game in some violent 
 manner because of some fundamentally broken or frustrating game mechanic.
  
  With each Madden title, it seems that one needs to put in for a full-time job to actually figure 
 out the controls and be able to play the game effectively. With each year, one new feature gets 
 fixed, as another (or more) are summarily broken. And with the glaring similarities between even 
 a four-year span across a majority of systems, it certainly felt like all that you were paying 
 for with each year's title were roster updates and increased levels of frustration.
  
  It is sad for me to say, that this incarnation of the fat man's titular football title continues 
 that tradition. And with the NFL exclusivity contract, it seems there is no sign of this ever changing. 
 fan boys will of course each up John Madden's few blurbs like they are gospel, and happily pay 
 an increasingly exorbitant amount of money for it. The rest of us simply won't have any choice 
 in the manner. And as the old adage goes, you can polish a turd all you want, but all you will 
 end up with is a shiny piece of ****. 
  
  First, let's start with the good. This is the first Madden title on the Xbox 360 to actually live 
 up to the graphical intensity and polish that EA had so graciously showed off as Madden Next Gen 
 at E3 '05, two years ago. But that only applies to the graphical details visible on the players 
 and on the field. I've yet to see any moments such as 'live x-rays' where they show players' bones 
 getting broken at the moment of impact like they teased us with in the video, or much of a presentation 
 either.
  
  The sounds are also rather good, with players on the field being rather vocal, and the ability 
 to get the crowd to cheer or quiet it down before the snap actually working very convincingly. 
 That being said...
  
  One of the strongest points with NFL 2k5 was its presentation. With the ESPN license, Sega and 
 Visual Concepts applied it to have two-man play-by-play commentary with Dan Stevens and Peter O'Keefe, 
 Suzy Kolber on the field for injury, weather reports, and interviews at the end of a game with 
 the chosen 'player of the game', and Chris Berman with video highlights during half-time, post-game 
 shows and a weekly SportsCenter broadcast that went well above anything I would have expected in 
 a football video game. In this game, I just have not received that sense of theater, of care, or 
 of attention as if it was being broadcast live on television as I felt entitled after being spoiled 
 with ESPN's offering. What's also sad is that in spite of EA's apparent deal to lock out with ESPN's 
 intellectual properties, this incarnation of Madden opts to then go with the newly created NFL 
 Network. Even then, however, there is no pre-game show to get you into the mindset of the game, 
 no pre-game coverage, no recognizable play-by-play announcers, or even any video highlights during 
 half time or at endgame. It seems that in spite of having the ability to bring in the presentational 
 strength either of these channels could have lent to the game, there is none of it. It begs to 
 wonder just what the hell is someone getting to pay up to $80 for a copy with this game?
  
  And with this year's offering, much like last year's 360 offering, there are many modes that are 
 sorely missing that are surprisingly available on the PS2/GameCube/Xbox 1 copies. So for all the 
 pretty graphics, you're losing a lot of game modes that are a given on the current-gen stuff.
 
  
  Another glaring negative with this game is also the utter lack of provided content on the disk. 
 Why? Because EA would rather nickel 'n dime you on the XBL marketplace to get all the stuff you 
 otherwise would get for free or could just as easily unlock. Alternate uniforms, other stadiums, 
 additional photos are all a la carte purchases... why? The current-gen stuff would obviously have 
 this stuff available for free with the game, so why are 360 owners who are already paying an average 
 of $10 more for the game getting conned out of more money? For lack of better wording, something 
 is very rotten in Denmark .
  
  One thing that turned me off to Madden 06 entirely was a chance where I played a demo of it on 
 the Xbox 360, and find that when my team was receiving a kickoff, my teammates would just stand 
 and watch the ball fall to the ground instead of running over and picking it up. Even when I would 
 run over the ball, they would never pick it up... leaving the opposing team to simply walk over, 
 pick it up, and it be called a first down. To my relief, this doesn't happen nearly as often anymore, 
 but there are moments where the team A. I. would simply ignore a kicked ball that I've observed.
 
  
  Another thing that Madden fan boys seem to harp on about is the inherent challenge in the game... 
 but to tell the truth, I don't know where most of the challenge comes from. If you play an exhibition 
 game, things run fairly easy... the game plays smooth and things generally go your way. However, 
 this seems to lull you into a false sense of security and confidence. Because as soon as you try 
 to play a game in any of the other more specialized modes, you'll find most of what worked before, 
 is sure as heck not going to work again in Franchise mode.
  
  Superstar mode has its own set of wrinkles. Things start out fairly novel with you choosing your 
 genetic parents to set up the traits with which to base your created player. From there, you hire 
 an agent, run some drills and handle interviews until you get drafted. At first, you're mostly 
 participating in the various mini games up until you get drafted. However, things change as soon 
 as you start doing practices with a team. First thing is that you are basically stuck with the 
 same player throughout the career. Secondly, the camera goes from the acceptable default in a regular 
 exhibition game to one that is much too zoomed in. This wouldn't be too bad playing as a running 
 back or perhaps a wide receiver, but this can make running an effective passing play as a quarterback 
 next to impossible, because as you're panning the camera around, you won't be able to get rid of 
 the ball fast enough before you're sacked. Also, in spite of being in the quarterback's position, 
 you can't choose the play you want to run. You cannot go into the audibles and call one up, you 
 cannot flip a run play if you see that something is about to go wrong... yet strangely enough they 
 still allow you to set someone in motion on a passing play or assign hot routes. But if you see 
 the play is doomed from the beginning... that doesn't really help you very much. I can't really 
 speak for the other positions yet, but trying to play as QB in the superstar mode left a foul taste 
 in my mouth.
  
  Next brings up franchise mode, which seems to at some parts resemble the typical season mode that 
 seems to be lacking in this iteration of Madden as well. However, what makes this mode particularly 
 painful is the inordinately ratcheted-up difficulty. Plays that worked fine in a typical exhibition 
 game no longer worked anymore, plain and simple.
  
  Control-wise, Madden has never held any favor with me, for the simple fact that EA seems compelled 
 in making the single most ridiculously complex football controls they possibly can each year. this 
 year, seems to be little different. As the ball carrier, even though there are buttons for stiff-arm, 
 juke, spin, and so on, you pretty much have to abuse the hit stick... a feature that was shoehorned 
 in around '05. At first, the hit stick was pretty much unusable. Now with this game, you pretty 
 much HAVE to use it because none of the other options work.
  
  As a quarterback, you really have your work cut out for you. Assigning a hot route would take two 
 steps in NFL 2k5. In this game, it takes no less than three steps, while that play clock is vicariously 
 ticking away. setting a guy in motion also takes almost as long. On defense, you have something 
 called jump the snap now, which is supposed to allow you an easier time to making a sack. In practice, 
 it only seemed to push me further away. And the complete lack of club/swim moves like in NFL 2k5 
 makes it practically impossible for you to be able to make a sack from the defensive line, unless 
 the offensive line is completely inept. Yet of course the A. I. defense has no trouble sacking you 
 for down after down, after down. Sorry, but it gets extremely old when you get sacked five consecutive 
 times because the A. I. is able to perfectly jump the snap and get to you and yet you're completely 
 unable to do jack. Is it just me or does EA basically assume that everyone that picks up the controller 
 will have been playing their game for the past fifteen consecutive years? NFL Street 2 had a fairly 
 good tutorial mode that helped orient you with the various buttons and what you were capable of 
 doing, such as evading a sack, making a scramble when your receivers couldn't get open or all that 
 good stuff. Why is none of that here? Why must (relatively) new people like me have to suffer and 
 get blasted left and right for not knowing what we're doing wrong?
  
  There are other plenty bad things I could call this game out on as well. The interface for selecting 
 plays is absolutely putrid... I've seen better interfaces in Chinese knock-off TV toys that run 
 pirated ROMs on sale at various malls. Compared to the prior years' offerings, it seems as if EA 
 is purposely trying to make the act of selecting a desired play much harder and chew up those precious 
 seconds of play clock time every single down. By luck I've come across the classic Hail Mary play, 
 but yet I've been able to find a single instance of the Flea flicker, or any other classic plays. 
 And I feel like i need a thesaurus to figure out some of the really screwed up names they assign 
 to various plays. It's one thing to abbreviate; it's another when nobody can understand what the 
 hell it means.
  
  About the only other thing I can possibly say is good is the online play. it played fairly smoothly 
 and with relatively transparent lag. There were moments where I could visibly see a noticeable 
 amount of lag affecting when the player will respond after I press a given button, but that seems 
 to happen at both ends, so it isn't nearly as bad as if one were hosting a game and had no lag, 
 but could take advantage of a visiting player with a laggy connection.
  
  If there were an NFL 2k7, or an NFL Gameday 07, or an NFL 07, I would recommend for you to look 
 elsewhere... but sadly, there is no such thing. With the exclusivity contract in place, it seems 
 football gamers now are only allotted a single choice... the most expensive choice in history, 
 and one that was never very good or satisfying to begin with. On the one hand, I am relieved I 
 didn't pay any extra money for this game. On the other, I greatly regret having it, because now 
 I'm stuck with it. : ( And for participating in the online thing, having to surrender my information 
 to EA thanks to their new privacy policy that lets them sell your information to god knows however 
 many people they want you to get spammed by.
  
  So yea... less game than the current-gen offerings, harder controls than even last year's (whoever 
 thought of the QB vision or to bring it back in this one should be shot) , frustrating game modes 
 and fundamentally broken game play. So tell me again how this game is supposed to be worth $60-80? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Every year I can't wait for the new Madden to come out, and it was no different with 07, but the 
 past two years I've been extremely disappointed with the Madden games, especially 07 for the 360. 
 There are so many game play problems with this game I don't know where to begin... First of all 
 none of the old problems have been fixed such as the offensive line blocking, (or lack there of) 
 the DB ai, or how the officials always make the wrong the wrong calls, and how the other teams 
 quarterback never fumbles the ball when he drops the ball even though it's clearly a fumble. Those 
 are just some of the problems I have with the game personally. Another stupid stupid part of the 
 game is that as you gather Madden points and your Madden level grows, you unlock hall of fame players, 
 this is a good idea except for the fact that when you unlock them any other team can sign them 
 at any point, even if you start a new franchise, that's just dumb. The WR's also drop waaay to 
 many passes in this game for no reason, it's like NCAA. And the game is way to easy, I play with 
 the Raiders and I can pretty much score at any time by throwing deep to Moss on All Madden, the 
 only aspect of this game that is enjoyable is the multi player, other than that don; t bother until 
 they fix the problems.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFT8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say about this game...... well first of all you need to like american football to 
 play it. Well you need to like sports in general to like this game! i like sports so i enjoy it 
 alot!
  
  the first thing i wanna bring up is the superstar mode!
  you make your own caracter and choose parents.... the idea is good but they didnt follow through 
 with enough choises! you have a limited of faces and you can edit them to look like yourself AT 
 ALL! thats a big minus!
  
  when you choose parents.... which parents you choose depends on what possision you want to play 
 with. different parents new possision.
  after that you choose how big you want the caracter is gonna be and so on.
  after that you start 
 your training to the big draft that desides which team you you are gonna be in. if you want to be 
 in example the steelers, you gonna for sure restart it alot of times. you dont get draftet to the 
 big teams right away. myself i was lucky! i was with the buccaneers in one match and i went to my 
 agent (yes you have to choose an agent) and demanded a trade! i was traded to the pittsburgh steelers! so 
 now im the QB of the steelers!:)
  
  when you have got to the team you start the preseson with traning camp and frendly matches against 
 other team. on the match its like preseson. the coach uses allmost every player. myself (with the buccaneers) played 
 the first 2 quarters and then the other QB had the other too.
  
  you got exebition matches and franchise too and minigames.
  minigames are most 40 yard dash and 
 pushups and (depends on possision your playing) QB challange and linebacker challanges.
  
  Final thoughts: This is a very good game but like i said you have to like sports! myself thinks 
 this is the best sport game on the 360 and i know im gonna get some heat for saying that but thats 
 my opinion! if you like football and want a game that lasts some hours on your 360 you should really 
 check this game out! like i said bets in series with out a doubt!!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killermonkey49
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Fairly good for the most part. On an HDTV the graphics are some of the best i have seen yet. the 
 gameplay is fairly good. not too many new huge revolutionary changes from '06 but still worth buying. 
 i just got it today so i havent got much gameplay to be speaking from. the sweat and character 
 facial expressions r very realistic. but this is like the other madden games... so well... if u 
 liked '05, '06 then u should get this imediatly. if u hate madden games u may not want to get it 
 (but u may wanna get ur brain checked cuz who the hell doesnt love madden) . the kicking controls 
 seemed different than the other versions in previous years but with some getting used to u can 
 be just as good as ever.
  
  So, bottomline. If u r a sport addict and love these kinds of games this is right for u. if u just 
 want to sit and not play but simulate all the games and just drool while staring at the graphics 
 thats cool too.. just dont drool on my controller or else this annoying flashing call of duty 3 
 advertisement next to this textbox will gunsmack u too.
  
  OVERALL I GIVE MADDEN '07 an 8.7 / 10
  
  o btw my gamertag is killermonkey9 so send me a friend 
 request if u wanna play me in madden or any other game ive got sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  I love the 360 graphics and how it can play the visuals in this game but i ve never seen such a 
 buggy game. Its fun dont get me wrong but i honestly think EA got cocky for buying the rights to 
 the NFL. Not alot of ppl know NFL 2k8 is coming out in 07. Hopefully they ll fix this wierd funk 
 EA is on! Now lets talk about the game. Like i said 06 had great graphics but it didnt have the 
 key feautures and i love to create my own player and player. 07 was suppose to do all of this and 
 did it but fell short. They did a horrible job on the frame rates, i would lag in the menu. It 
 would randomly crash, i would sit there and wait 5 sec just to go in the roster menu. In franchise 
 the lag wasnt to bad but still had lag spikes in the gameplay, everything was good besides the hall 
 of fame mode. At first it sounded okay but woah. This was horrible, i mean u are so close to ur 
 back to view i cant really see anything. I tried being a wr and had a hardtime seeing the qb throwing 
 the ball. overall it was a decent game but i feel charging for uniforms is really cheap of a company. 
 Releasing games not fully done yet is wrong to charge ppl. Hopefully 2k sports wakes them up now 
 cuz i see them going out of business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bguy9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play, and has some good graphics, especially the stadiums. Some of the player 
 models are off, the big kickers look especially out of place. The 360 version really needs an owner 
 mode to be as fun as the xbox version, but the superstar mode is pretty addictive. Teams also need 
 more than the one throwback uniform that is available for download off xbox marketplace. There 
 is no real feel of a telecast because the announcer is broadcasting over the radio. The soundtrack 
 for the game has plenty of good rock songs. The game is worth the money though, because it's a 
 beautiful and fun game of football. The overall feel of the game is pretty solid, and the A. I. 
 is good except the defensive backs give up too many touchdowns off long passes. This is definetely 
 the best madden to date, and will be enjoyed by any traditional madden fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, this just about the same as any other Madden game. If you played previews Madden, expect 
 just about the same. Game play is good, is a fun game to play and that's just about it. Nothing 
 big added to this 07. Characters look good, fields and graphics look pretty good. The only thing 
 I did not like about the game is that it does not have any creativity. If you like football games 
 and played ESPN 2K5, whether you like the game or not, it has great creativity and makes the game 
 look really good. In madden, there's no half time show, no scores from other teams playing, not 
 even a celebration after winning the Super bowl. Just play a quarter at a time and exit the game, 
 that's it. I would had rather like if they had included some creativity in the franchise. Would 
 had been nice to see other teams scores just as you see in real football. Maybe a half time report 
 during your game. How about a great halftime show during the Super bowl game. The least at least 
 a trophy at the end of the game but they missed all this details. After playing for a while, it 
 can get boring. Adding some juice would make the game a little or a lot more exciting. With a next 
 gen system, they should take advantage and really use the system like it should be used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titanium1289
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I've played Madden for 4 years now and this is the most disappointing one. They have progressively 
 been getting worse I've noticed, and even though I'll spend about 200 hours playing this year it 
 still doesn't make up for all the problems. There's alot of problems in franchise mode and with 
 the animations, and the only truly redeeming quality of this game is if you put it on a High Def. 
 TV in which case it looks absolutely amazing. Too bad it's not as good as it looks. If you play 
 franchise mode enough, you'll quickly pick up on all the problems it has. Yet again EA does not 
 provide an adequate manuel or even in game explanations of what half of the options and menus are. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was a bit of a let down since 06 on the 360 was horrible, i figured ea would fix at least 
 50% of their mistakes but i was wrong. Most of the glitches from previous year were dealt with 
 with but there are still plenty of frame rate issues. The controls are a bit newer than before 
 and could take some time to get used to if the last version you played was on the Xbox. Franchise 
 mode really feels lifeless without the features were used to. First of there is no where near as 
 much detail as before and doesnt help you feel the franchise experience. Same goes for the superstar 
 mode. The online gameplay is alright, its just a solid football game. If you have never played 
 a madden game in about 3 years then this game will seem awesome but if your like me and played 
 every one since 2000 then dont expect much from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrodsly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden is back on the 360, only this time in the form of Madden 07. last time EA released Madden 
 on the 360, it got mixed reviews. but now that i have it, im telling you it's worth the money. 
 lets start with the difference between the regular version and the Hall of Fame version. the HOF 
 version costs $10 more, but is worth it by all means. the HOF version comes with a second disc, 
 featuring bonus DVD content (behind the scenes stuff, interviews, etc.) . as far as the gameplay 
 goes, it's good, but the AI is way too unbalenced. on pro difficulty, i noticed that i was able 
 to blow out the CPU by 40+ points with an evenly matched team facing me. on top of that, if you 
 are a good team and the CPU is a bad team, you might find yourself having to make a 2 TD comeback. 
 sound isnt bad, but not very good. and the graphics look like first gen 360. not so good. overall, 
 i say it's worth it, but it's not perfect. get the HOF edition if you're buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_81108
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Visuals-Madden '07 has some of the nicest graphics out there in my opinion. Maybe they should have 
 spent less time on making the players have cat eyes, the crowds constantly do the wave, and more 
 time on making players look like they should, not everyone is jacked and wears linebacker padding. 
 But overall graphics ARE very impressive.
  
  Game play &amp; Features- : ( This is where I begin to cry. The only thing holding this game back 
 is the game play and features. Two VERY important things in a MADDEN GAME!!! If you've played '07 
 on PS2 or X-BOX and try switching to the X360 version, you'll cry... as I did. No training camp, 
 hot routes, fantasy draft, stiff arm? The fantasy draft (or lack there of) and franchise part killed 
 me the most. Play now mode is good except the fact you can't change quarter length. While playing 
 as a running back in Superstar Mode I noticed the camera angle was off to the side, only showing 
 you the right side of the runner. This was extremely frustrating, because you can get hit out of 
 nowhere. Sound- The sound is awesome. When the players are trash talking during the short cut scenes 
 in-between plays it ALWAYS sounds like a big black dude. Even when it's a white guy, it still sounds 
 like a big black guy, and I'm not racist guys so settle down. I especially liked the breathing 
 of the player during the practices, and footsteps. WHY ISN'T JOHN MADDEN IN HIS OWN GAME. No one 
 wants to hear some random announcer that gets old fast call the game. We want Madden and Michaels. 
 But the crowds... sound overwhelming at times with my surround sound on. Overall-6.9
  
  After playing countless hours of PS2 and X-BOX's '07 with my buddies, I expected a lot from this 
 and now I can't stand more than a couple of hours of this. Usually I brag to them about my X360 
 and how they should upgrade; I can't brag about this game. I hope this review helped.
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflstreet2kid27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  This game has lots of features and no features at all. This game requires confidence and sportsmanship. 
 If your one of those guys who likes to rack up some serious stats in your franchise or maybe in 
 just a regular game. This game isn't for you.
  
  This game has great graphics hard hits and well missed catches. This game is way harder then any 
 madden game on the ps2, xbox, etc. You may dislike the graphics because you may be used to something 
 else then extremely high a definition game.
  
  I would rent this game before you do anything. It's fun but not the fun your used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigWalt211
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I have waited my entire life for a Madden game that takes the best parts of the game, 
 and leave out the crap. And by crap I mean John Madden's repetitive commentary and Al Michaels' 
 uninspired monotone delivery. Most long time players of the game will agree that the commentary 
 should have some excitement and not just repeat generic maddenisms . The actual game play of the 
 game is phenomenal. The movement of the players looks a lot more fluid than other versions of the 
 game. And maybe it's just me, but I don't really miss the extras in the franchise mode from the 
 current generation systems. I would much rather have a game that looks as good as this one. Even 
 the grass looks good!!! That's something that I never really paid attention to on current gen, 
 but WOW, the xbox 360 makes xbox and ps2 look like SNES.
  
  Over all, I would suggest that any fan of the Madden series forget about everything you hear from 
 other people complaining that EA didn't put all the features from current gen into this one, and 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2007 on the Xbox 360 is a major upgrdae from my Madden NFL 2006 on the Xbox. The Madden 
 07 on the Xbox 360 and the PS3 is totally differnt than Madden 07 on Xbox and PS2. Before each 
 play it has camera views as if you were in the game. It shows the huddle then the teams take there 
 formations and after that it goes to the view behind the QB and you do your play. After the play 
 it shows the player who made the play, and you can hear them talk. They might say 1st down baby!! 
 or that was my fault . The graphics look sort of like ESPN 2K but there good. I give the graphics 
 a 10 of 10. The gameplay is the best of all the football games I've played. The gameplay gets a 
 10 out of 10 from me. Madden Nfl 2007 is an amzing game for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a great football video game. Gameplay is excellent in my opinion and is smooth and 
 fast. Graphics are excellent but the players themselves do seem all alike for some reason and do 
 not really seem at all like their real life counterparts. The new radio guy is way better than 
 Madden and Michaels. Superstar mode is great. A few things could be fixed such as some of the camera 
 angles at certain positions. One thing that I certainly miss is Owner mode in Franchise. The mini 
 games aren't as fun as in previous years. Online play is good. All in all Madden 07 is a fun game 
 and I do recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordonsheely
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Look I know that there isn't much said about it ... so I am wondering if im the only one who has 
 this problem. It seems that some of the calls that should be overturned are totally ignored. I 
 have seen catches where the second foot to come down is clearly way out of bounds and the call 
 of complete pass will still stand and not be overturned. I dont see the need in having this as 
 part of the game if there isnt going to be more attention placed on getting the calls right when 
 challenged, I personally dont even see the use in challenging anymore, its actually a joke. I would 
 like to know if anyone else is having this problem? I also find that some of the animation is ridiculous, 
 players will go from a dead stop and just dive over a downed offensive player as if they have just 
 had a seizure that threw them into convulsions or something. and the way some players are characterized 
 as being super men that are totally unstoppable is evidence that the emphasis on making the running 
 game look better to substantiate the run blocking addition is overkill to say the least. Come on 
 guys ( E. A. ) GIVE US A GAME THAT IS WORTH BUYING . I guess we just have to wait until the true 
 competition is re-established by the other software companies ; unfortunately I wont be accepting 
 any corrections at that point E. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papapain1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the 360 is one of the best games that I have ever played. The gameplay is great, 
 the Superstar mode is one of a kind and can attract anyone of the genre, but their does exist one 
 flaw in the game IT WILL NOT WORK ON THE 360 CONSOLE CONSISTANTLY!!! I have spent over 4 days 
 and 20 hours on Madden with at first only experienced minor problems in the beginning. Later I 
 noticed that I had to play Madden for 20 minutes or so before it would freeze up and then I could 
 continue playing it for the rest of the night. Now I cant get past the first half with out it 
 freezing up. This is not just my system ladies and gentlemen, so do your self a favor and buy this 
 game, but for another system. The 360 is just money down the drain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINDWAKER1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Madden is back again in this mediocre game. The game can be lots of fun at times but there are 
 so many little annoying things that make it much worse. The overall gameplay is ok. First of all 
 the normal difficulty level is WAY to easy you really need to play it at all-pro or all-madden. 
 If you don't you tend to break 3 tackles before you go down. Once you get to the harder difficulties 
 it can still be a pain because you tend to either break for a huge run or get stopped for -3 yards. 
 Also, throwing the ball deep can be a little bit to easy which makes the games 5:00 quarter game 
 scoreboards are around the 80s in points. On defense though it can be very hard ,assuming you play 
 on the harder difficulty levels. It is nearly impossibly to make interceptions because you seem 
 to drop 99% of the passes thrown right at you. And it can get very annoying when the comp. breaks 
 tons of tackles and easily runs it back for a TD. The game does have very nice graphics and the 
 sound is ok but nothing special. the only reason graphics isnt a ten is because it is very hard 
 to see black jerseys on the field when the field is covered in a shadow, and the whites can get 
 a little to bright. The game seems to rip you off. You don't have many features in the franchise 
 mode, and to me superstar mode is boring. The NCAA draft used to be my favorite part with scouting 
 and all that good stuff but for some reason the took it out and you go straight to a semi-lame 
 draft. Although on the plus side the franchise can be very fun at times. The game can be very fun 
 at times and it will get you hooked for awhile but once you play it long enough the game gets kind 
 of annoying. The game can get fun for two players which can keep you coming back. The game has 
 some new features like lead blocking and superstar mode, but truthfully i didnt use any new features 
 really at all. On this review I am being a little critical and there are many things to like about 
 this game but i was mainly saying the bad points. This game may be worth a buy but if you are unsure 
 if you want this game, you should probably turn away and NEVER look back.
  
  .... written by cousin of windwaker :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofable16
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is a great football game and is a nice upgrade over the trash that 06 was. The big 
 new features are the highlight stick and the lead blocking controls and there pretty good. The highlight 
 stick is great, but sometimes can work alittle too good that it probably should. The lead blocking 
 controls are nice but there not very fun too use. There is a new kicking meter and its okay I guess, 
 I kinda liked the old one abit better tho. The graphics are amazing, but there are some freezing 
 issues that can become quite annoying. The menu screens can be very annoying at first cause you 
 have to use the analog stick to go through everything to the side. The sound is great, but why isnt 
 John Madden still announcing? I use to think it might be good if they replaced him on the game 
 before, but without him it makes the game seem kinda lifeless. The new minigames are complete garbage 
 in my opinion. Overall its a great football game and if your looking for a good NFL game for Xbox 
 360 then you should definately get this game.
  
  P. S. GO PANTHERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is an upgrade and much much much better then the XBOX 360 Madden 06 game but still the 
 game isn't great. The hometown announcer is also a good addition to the franchise. Graphics are 
 good and gameplay is good but still lacks depth. Mini games are too easy and not much fun. The 
 Hall of Fame feature is a step in the right direction for the series. Superstar mode is a good addition 
 to the game and can be a lot of fun. Lets all hope that next years game is better or the Madden 
 series will prove it's stuck in reverse. Overall this game is decent, good graphics but still not 
 much depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destructiontalk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Well the graphics are nice and thats just about it tho the gameplay and movement of the players 
 is alot faster kinda like ncca 07 but come on man. I want to see more then one coach on each side 
 line. The offense coach def cord etc and and the players on the sidelines look so dull and they 
 do is stand and clap even when theres a bad play for there team. Needs to have halftime highlights, pre 
 game show, post game show and where the **** is the superbowl celebration? you need becuase it basically 
 just feels another game won and nothing special. maybe some player and coach post game show to 
 explain what went wrong what could have been better add all that stuff, basically Nfl coach features 
 into where you get to play the game it self and it less boring and you will have one hell of a 
 ****ing game but without these features its basically madden 2006 with a little bet play buts that 
 it and wheres madden he doesnt even make a appearance in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  i got madden 07 for christmas along with my xbox 360. i was excited to play. the first time i played, 
 i put it on rookie cuz i was new to the xbox controls. till then i had a ps2. i still crushed the 
 team i played (49ers) . a few days later i realize the rosters arent up to date. i like to keep 
 them updated. so i go to roster management and guess what? you cant edit players!!!!!! i was so 
 mad. i like to edit the players ratings cuz some players get better or worse during the season. 
 and i cant this year. that pisses me off. other than that the game is great. the graphics are insane 
 and the gameplay is outstanding. the create-a-player is a little strange however. overall, 07 is 
 a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07, the long running series for nearly 20 years. Makes it's way onto the XBOX360 for the 
 second time. You could definately say this is an improvement from last year, and it is. For sure. 
 The game this year feels a little bit smoother than 06 did. Graphics obviously are getting better, 
 and the gameplay aswell... it may be the near exact same as 06. But it just feels so much easier 
 to juke, spin etc..
  
  Superstar mode is way better than 06. Now offering 3rd Person views. It really adds to the experience. 
 Now you cant just throw or hand off to your character non-stop untill hall of fame.
  
  Franchise mode you might ask? UNTOUCHED. Nothing is new about Franchise mode. The training was 
 a finger prick for EA. They did absolutely nothing to Franchise mode.
  
  Yeah, there's one really bad thing about the Free Agent system now. Rookie Hall of Famers. Great. 
 Now Barry Sanders is playing for the Packers, Doak Walker is playing for the Giants. Now they're 
 undeservingly in the playoffs. God EA who's gonna want Hall of Famers in their FA system?!
  
  If you collect Madden every year, you'll enjoy this. If you get Madden every year to bash with 
 your friends and play on Live. You'll also enjoy this. If you still think 06 is better than 07... You're 
 not far off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is simply one of the best things to happen to the Xbox 360 for anyone into sports 
 games. You don't have to be a huge football fan to like this game; heck, you may not even need 
 to like sports games period. Madden NFL 07 has some of the best visuals, sound, and gameplay I've 
 ever seen in a sports game, period.
  
  From realistic spot-on collision detection, to the high-definition textures, to hearing the players 
 talk trash to each other on the field, the crowd cheering, the dome/statium announcer, and the 
 crushing sounds when players collide, Madden NFL 07 offers high-quality sound and visuals.
  
  That's not to say the game is perfect; it has a lot of shortcomings, but nothing that is going 
 to ruin the experience for you. The AI is pretty horrible. They're able to get an early jump on 
 the higher difficulty levels for about a 50% success rate on QB sacks, but fortunately due to the 
 deep customization, aggressiveness of your AI opponent can be tweaked, plus it has Xbox Live support.
 
  
  The game offers many modes of play, which half of them I've yet to play with, and I've been playing 
 the game for a week now, about 4-6 hours a day, minus a day here and there if I didn't have time 
 to play it and/or didn't feel like playing it that day. The franchize mode is still there, which 
 allows you to play through a full NFL schedule from the pre-season games, to the regular season, 
 then off into the Wildcard games, Play-Offs, Super Bowl, Pro Bowl, and Post-Season match-ups. It'll 
 take you about 2-3 days to play through this mode depending on how dedicated you are, and of course, 
 how often you get mad and turn the console off *cough* reminds me of what I do *cough*.
  
  Then you've got the superstar mode, which is my favorite mode by far. You create a superstar and 
 go through a series of events to try to make it in the Hall-of-Fame with other legendary NFL pros.
 
  
  There's also a Madden Challenge-like mode in there, where you go through a number of Madden challenges.
 
  
  Bottom line: If you're a sports fan, you need to buy this game. If you're not a sports fan, you 
 still need to buy this game. It's easily one of the best sports games of 2006, and quite possibly 
 one of the best sports games of all time. If you're a huge football fan like myself, you'll find 
 yourself playing this game for many months to come. Besides, what's better than hooking up with 
 some friends on Xbox Live and kicking their butt in a couple of games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikoro
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Will there be a madden 2008 or will it be called nfl 2008 or something like that? Because Madden 
 him self is not even on the game any more and the radio guy that they have calling the game now 
 kind of sucks! It looks like to me that they kind of tried to copy the nfl 2k5 and and did a very 
 poor job of it , very POOR! I mean EA has the rights to nfl and espn so no other company can make 
 a football game so I guess they just say what the hell and put any old game togather and throw 
 it out there. I mean back 2005 when NFL 2k5 came out with there game and Madden 2005 came out with 
 theres I was so pulling for the madden to do better but after playing the 2k5 season mode and other 
 modes there game seems like more of a football game to me. You had espn you had NFL Prime time 
 with Boomer doing the half time high lights and high lights to all the other games as well , you 
 had Mel Kiper's NFL up comming drafts you could work out your thrid string qb or any other position 
 and by the end of the year they will be ready for your starting line up next year. How in the world 
 EAsports make a football game with all this new High tech and High Deff tech stuff and put out 
 a football game thats far more bad then the other ones from the last two years. If they do put 
 out another football game out this year which I know they will make it feel like a football game, 
 l like your watching a football game on tv. I wanna see some half time and at the end of the game 
 highlights. mid season highlights mel's draft picks post games interveiws and pregame interviews 
 like they had on NFL 2k5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbeezy1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is so horrid.. i mean the AI is terribe... Ive seen Defensive backs run circles around 
 the recievers.. When you hit the button to catch the ball and your no where close to the ball the 
 player warps into the ball to make the catch... o ya what about the dance where the guy has his 
 hand going through the ball in the endzone... if you have seen it you know what im talking about... EA 
 Sports made the licensing deal with the NFL so The 2k series wouldnt hurt the beloved madden franchise... This 
 game really sucks... what pisses me off is that there is more features in current gen consoles 
 than the next gen ones.. What kinda crap is this??? The Player models are ugly they walk like they 
 are robots... i mean seriously what are these guys smoking?? The only thing i like in Madden is 
 the superstar mode but they could have did it a 100x better... its impossible to be a QB in this 
 mode and a defensive back.. come on make a option to zoom the camerea out... This is sopposed to 
 be Next Gen then why are players still going through eachother??? I mean look at gears of war... 
 that is next gen... the physics are perfect... EA dosent care... The Presentation is AWFUL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heaven326
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a great game, the running game changed a lot and you also dont have to use the QB 
 cone even though I thought that was a good addition to Madden 06. In superstar mode the angles 
 make the game fun I have a better time playing in superstar mode instead of in a regular game. 
 My favorite position is a wide receiver and the angle is great for it. I average 140 ypg over 8 
 games. An nonrealstic thing s that my WR leads the lead in pancake blocks with about 80 other than 
 that its realestic. Also blocking is fun in superstar mode. My second favorite position is a fullback 
 since I get to run the ball and level defenders so my running back can break for a big gain.
  
  Thx thats what I have to say about Madden 07 Superstar mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graaa
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the new superstar mode is great and is the best feature of the 
 new Madden. Not having total control of the team is very enthralling and the new camera angles 
 and controls associated with each position is very fun. Unfortunetly, the game is lacking in many 
 things. No Madden and Al Michaels, no chain gang (what the hell??) , a 20+ Defensive end draft, 
 and repetitive post-play visuals which often times you can't skip are just some of the problems. 
 Also when playing as a receiving character such as a WR TE or RB in superstar mode, being on the 
 same page as the QB is very difficult because the QB often throws to where you are not. I've had 
 Chris Simms throw a 14/42 game once because he always threw 10 yards behind me or threw to me during 
 the wrong part of my route. The on-field sounds are cool but could have been done better. Some 
 of the loops are just guys talking, not even with any enthusiasm, while one of them is a guy going 
 WOOOOOO WOOOOOOO WOOOOOO over and over again.
  
  Franchise mode is an empty shell of what it once was. The Hall of Fame is a cool feature but time 
 would have been better spent improving the other aspects of this game.
  
  I can't wait for Madden 2008 - if they don't add anything new and just fix everything thats wrong 
 and missing with this game, they will have an epic game on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwc0422
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - One of the best things about this game is the gameplay. You can sum it up in one word. 
 Amazing! Sure that the game has it's glitches but it's alright because the gameplay is simply amazing.
 
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  
  Graphics - The graphics are also amazing! The textures on the player's jersey's are awesome and 
 the field-stadium graphics are detailed to perfection.
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  
  Sound - I think the sound isin't that well done. I give it kudos but not that much. Sound : 7/10
 
  
  Value - The value is good because, many people play this game online. Also you could call your 
 friends to come over and play a game of madden!
  
  Value : 9/10
  
  I hope you enjoyed this review and it helps you make a decision to buy/rent this game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. It's got the best graphics for a sports game i've ever seen. They got 
 all my favorite players like Ahman Green, Brett Favre, Reggie Bush and of course Devin Hester. 
 I play football and this game is so much like the real thing. Especially in superstar... I mean 
 you're running and there's nobody in front of you, you think your gonna score and then out of nowhere 
 you get hit from the side. They got the Revolution style helmets which are the best ones I've ever 
 used. The controls are really great. Probably the best in a football game so far. It's really easy 
 to just pick up and play for a few minutes. It's not like you have to finish the level or you have 
 to do this before you can stop. This is such a great game... I suggest going out and getting it 
 if you don't have it already. Especially if you are a football fan or player, you will be amazed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_jicabs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is just unappreciated, period!
  
  when i rented NCAA Football 07 for the 360, i thought it was gonna be great
  but it wasn't... 
 so i just simulated all the games in the Dynasty Mode to export my draft class..
  
  then, i bought Madden 07 and imported my draft class...
  i played it and it was FREAKIN AWESOME!!!!!!
 
  
  *the graphics are superb and the gameplay too!
  *Dynasty mode is good but Superstar Mode is way better!
  *the radio announcer is not actually 
 bad, rather the opposite.
  
  there are only a couple of things that i don't like...
  *no newspapers, e-mails in Dynasty Mode...
  *the performance institute for Superstar Mode is 
 kinda boring...
  
  but anyways, this game is great!
  it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  The Madden series is probably the longest running Football video game series out there. Its existed 
 for who knows how long and is probably the best football series out there. But after playing this 
 game for a little while you'll discover that this game is pretty much an updated version of Madden 
 06. But there isn't much changed other then the rosters.
  
  But Madden is still a very fun game because all of the other versions are also fun. The franchise 
 mode is pretty much the same and is probably the best mode. There is also the Superstar mode where 
 you create a player and focus on making a hall of fame player. There are Mini-Games which are very 
 fun and are used to judge your players stats. Madden Is very fun the core gameplay is fantastic 
 and doesn't get old for a long time.
  
  The graphics are fantastic the stadiums look amazing and the players also look fantastic. The sound 
 isn't very there is a huge soundtrack but it isn't very good and the announcers ae very annoying. 
 The acheivments aren't incredibaly hard to get but for the most part they are a challenge. This 
 game is very good and doesn't get old for a while. Madden 07 is a very good Football game that 
 should be owned by any Football fan.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is what a next gen game should be. It is really a fun game to play especially when playing 
 multiplayer is extremely addicting. It is a must have game for the 360 and you wont regret it. 
 It is a great football experience for the football fan and it is a personal favorite of mine. Here 
 is a break down of some of the pros and cons of madden nfl 07.
  
  Pros: Great Graphics (HDTV easily increases the graphics by double) Gameplay is Different from 
 current gen... but deffinately fun Great stadium sound Realistic franchise mode trade players Unlock 
 some cool achievments Experience superstar mode where you are the player
  
  Cons: Gameplay may take some getting used to Cannot export players from ncaa 07 (no superstar in 
 that) Pro difficulty way to easy (solution: harder difficulty) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11proby
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  For once I have never seen a game that has real bright colors. I had a headach for 3 hours. The whole 
 thing is a waste. I did not know how to play and it took me ten mins to just to play. The game is 
 to much worked on its graphic that you really even got a chance to play. This might be short but 
 do not play this game on Xbox 360. Play it on ps2 because it is much better. Do not play! Do not 
 play! Do not buy it! Do not look at it or you will be blind!!!!!!!!!! If you see it and play it 
 you will see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game play is amazing along with the graphics which by the way shows up the PS3 version.... 
 You can actually see the sweat on their arms.... and game play isn't as fast and uncontrolled like 
 on the ps2... a few minor problems occur within this game but i personally think it is an amazing 
 work by EA.... I strongly recommend just trying this game even if you don't like football a lot 
 but coming from a huge football fan i love it. This is defiantly an improvement from last years 
 madden 06 and if you were disappointed with it trust me you will be much happier while playing 
 Madden 07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfootballkidhbx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Madden Nfl 2007 is one of my favorite games for the 360. It is really a fun game to play especially 
 when playing multiplayer is extremely addicting. It is a must have game for the 360 and you wont 
 regret it. It is a great football experience for the football fan and it is a personal favorite 
 of mine. Here is a break down of some of the pros and cons of madden nfl 07.
  
  Pros: Great Graphics (HDTV easily increases the graphics by double) Gameplay is Different from 
 current gen... but deffinately fun Great stadium sound Realistic franchise mode trade players Unlock 
 some cool achievments Experience superstar mode where you are the player
  
  Cons: Gameplay may take some getting used to Cannot export players from ncaa 07 (no superstar in 
 that) Pro difficulty way to easy (solution: harder difficulty)
  
  Well thats my review of madden nfl 07 for xbox 360. My advice would be BUY IT!!! if you like football. 
 If you are kind of on the verge of huge football fan or you like football play at a friends house 
 first or trust my review and just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudpig77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  First after playing the game for around 30 mins I have yet to hear the color commentary of Ol' 
 Fatboy John himself, that is unless you ask for his help on choosing a play. So Why is this game 
 called Madden 2007? Well it does play like Madden which is a great thing because over the years 
 many people have gotten used to the controls in madden games, they are usually the same with the 
 addition of a few new moves. (Truck stick, Highlight stick ETC.) The AI is also not terribly difficult 
 even though they will occasionally beat you. Ok heres goes the real review.
  
  1. Online play (THE COOLEST THING ON EARTH)
  2. exhibition play - Its still nice just to be able 
 to pick up and play an friend
  3. Superstar Mode - This is neat, Have you ever wanted to be a Hall of Famer? heres your chance 
 to prove your an elite madden player
  4. Franchise Mode - Can you become a real NFL Dynasty like the Steelers of the 70's, The 49ers 
 and the 80's and The Cowboys of the 90's. Go ahead and try for 5. The thumb can be the hardest 
 digit to get a ring for.
  5. Mini Games - This is not a section of the game for me, but none the less challenging to many 
 gamers just to say they beat it.
  
  Either way I dont think you could go wrong if you like Football and you buy this game. Its a win 
 win situation. Go Team Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  -sigh-
  If only Madden were good anymore. EA has lost it with me. I still can't forgive what they did to 
 2k. Anyways...
  Madden 07 is basically the same as all the other Maddens with an updated roster.
  The gameplay 
 is the same. Playing the Colts is the worst thing ever. Payton Manning can never make up his mind 
 on what play to pick. You can almost gaurantee he'll change the play at least once before the snap, 
 causing you to frantically change your defense which more often than not fails to help. WAIT! How 
 could I forget the one new thing.... the lead blocker thing I never use. Next.
  The soundtrack is the same. Whatever is hot in music at the time. There were only a couple tracks 
 I liked.
  The superstar mode is recycled from Madden 06. No additions.
  If you have Madden 06, keep it 'til 08. The only thing you're missing is the brand new ability to 
 challenge plays and create players which sucks, 'cause you have to play annoying training camp 
 games.
  If you're like me you got ESPN NFL 2k5 again which can still be easily compared to Madden 06. Now 
 that Madden is the only NFL game out there, EA will put any piece of **** out there. Thanks for 
 nothin' EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  The one great thing that I like about 07 is not hearing Madden during the games. Also this game 
 looks awesome. The details are very specific, and the gameplay is awesome. This game will make 
 you closer to your buddies, or make you the worst enemies, but all in good fun. Playing on live 
 can make things very interesting. You can play this game against countless opponents online. Its 
 pretty cool. If you are a fan of football games you need to get madden 07. If you personally don't 
 know anything about football, I still suggest that you get this game. I personally was never into 
 football games, but this game really got me involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same as is was last year. They did add some lead blocking, which 
 is nice but doesnt all that much to the game.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are nicer than they have ever been, but still could have been better. On 
 my SDTV the visuals were nice, but really wanna see how they stack up compared to HD.
  
  Sound: Sound is great, which a great soundtrack and fun bone crunching sounds. Some bugs to plague 
 the sound, like background music not play sometimes. ***may be my copy****
  
  Value: This years madden makes a big leap in the value department adding all the old and fun gamemodes. 
 Superstar and Franchise mode will keep you playing for a long time. Online mode is fun, but can 
 lag alot sometimes.
  
  Overall: EA and Madden do a good job and bringing a fun madden to the 360. Just hope they bring 
 even more fun next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  ok this is the last madden football i am going to buy. EA needs to make a new football game from 
 the ground up in my view. the music to me in the game is awful i want to here some football music 
 from like the old days from ABC AND NBC stuff. what is it with this rap stuff. and the game play 
 is the same old same. i think EA every year just laughs away going to the bank. and laughing the 
 public buys the same old football game every year we just add a few things then call it madden 
 2008. play madden 2007 just one player its awful its not in the game. i could take S. F. 49ers to 
 the superbowl. so who at EA plays this then says ok ship it. i want temco back i want sega back. 
 xbox back . 2k sports football. just awful to me what EA has done to shut the door on other football 
 games. should be about having fun and trying to be the best and you have to earn that title of 
 being best. i think EA has got so big they just bought the title then say we know football and 
 its in the game. whats wrong with EA scared of sega football temco football they might top them. 
 sure they are. after all we get the same madden every year just a few little new add on s. then 
 call it 2008 football. well i have had it no more EA i want a new football game brand new all of 
 it. until then EA can keep madden 2008. my views 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigt0071
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  I and a million people i interviewed are furious with the Xbox360 version of this game. I have 
 never played a football game where it lags even if you're offline. The cut scene's are jumpy and 
 it seems as if every kicker in this game is on steroids. I dont know about all of you, but my brothers 
 and cousins get together every year to start a fantasy draft franchise and these last years we 
 haven't been able to enjoy the small things like this in the newer console versions of madden. 
 But there are some good points to this game also. The gameplay is a very fun one and it's very 
 easy to learn, especially if you are a diehard madden fan with previous experience. There also 
 are those amazing in this game where the hits just take your breath away, for instance goal line 
 stand. The first game that i can think of that you can dive over your actual line for a touchdown 
 attempt, but if the D catches you doing this you better watch out. So this game does have it's 
 up's but mostly downs. From a diehard football and madden fan this year was dissappointing. As 
 for this year with my team the steelers and madden, it's over. Bigt010@aol. com
  Fatmanclan. zoomshare. com
  Go Steelers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin82485
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Period, this is the worst game I have played. I wish the Gamespot (not fans) reviewers would get 
 some balls, and give this game the low score it deserves. This series is getting worse and worse 
 each year. Yet people continue to buy it, I don't get it. They are robbing you.
  
  Where do I even start?
  
  Well for one, Madden is not in the game. Oh, his name might be on 
 the box but the only time you'll hear from him is when you need help picking a play. Instead they 
 had the worst radio announcer I have ever heard. It totally takes the excitement out of the game. 
 You can not edit players. They are untouchable.
  
  No use of the ESPN license. EA has it but they aren't using it.
  
  Absolutely pathetic franchise 
 mode. Know what happens after you win a Super Bowl? Nothing. No party. No celebration.
  
  Unplayable Superstar Mode. Camera angles kill what would otherwise be a reason to buy this game.
 
  
  Still doesn't feel next gen . Still running at only 30 frames/sec.
  
  Less features than PS2, Xbox, or GC version for $60. This is literally half a game for $20 more.
 
  
  Ever since getting the NFL license, EA has taken 2 years off and done nothing to improve this game. 
 Save your money, buy some other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatwadMan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks it feels like i am really on the field playing football, ofcourse everyone knows 
 this game sucks on the wii, but on xbox 360 the gameplay rules i will say madden rules for the rest 
 of this review ok: madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules 
 madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden 
 rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules 
 madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden 
 rules madden rules madden rules madden rules madden rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 comes after a failed firsr attempt on EA's part. The game made some improvements graphically 
 and gameplay wise. I wouldnt say this is the best football game Ive played, because its my only 
 choice on the 360....
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game is a typical football game. Hike and throw or run. There are some well done features such 
 as the highlight stick which allows players to either truck their opponent over or juke them out 
 of their socks. Timed well with a powerback and you can be gone for a long gain. Then of course 
 there is hit-stick which allows you to blast WRs and RBs for gut-busting hits, which sometimes 
 are shown with a grusome animation.
  
  The AI is not very good in this game. You can line up any corner in the NFL and exploit them for 
 a deep pass 80% of the time. So with a dumbed down DB system, passing in this game can be a piece 
 of cake.
  
  There are the same game modes as before; Franchise, SuperStar, Play Now, and the Mini-Games (poorly 
 done) . If you get bored of playing the computer in franchise or play no you can select Live Opponent, 
 a new feature for Madden. This searches online for another player through XBL.
  
  The Create-a-Player mode is very flawed. It gives you the chance to create a player with some detailed 
 characteristics except for the ratings part. You have to be successful in the mini-games in order 
 to make your player decent. This is a letdown, because I dont feel like playing throuhg 3 games 
 correctly in order to make my player decent.
  
  You also cannot edit the ratings of any other player, which is unwelcomed. If I feel like a certain 
 player is too overrated and I want to edit him, I should be able to.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS
  
  These feel next gen at first, but after you see them for a long time you realize it almost looks 
 like the same engine as the other Maddens. Granted the player models are very well polished and 
 their face models are exact to their NFL personas. But the graphics still don't have the amazing 
 factor. The close-ups look amazing with rich colors in the jerseys and helmets.
  
  There are some framerate issues with this game. It seems to run alright most of the time, but sometimes 
 can get very very choppy.
  
  The rampant cut scenes, while they look good, can sometimes get annoying because they occur so 
 frequently. Its nice to see my defense ready for the next play, but every play? That gets old real 
 quick.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND
  
  The music is always well-done by EA in the Madden series. But this time there is a bit too much 
 of the emo genre. They need to mix up some classic rock and rap in the music to spice it up a bit. 
 The sounds in the games are done very well. The players say comments which are loud and clear and 
 are timed right with the action going on around them. The hits in the game can sound thunderous 
 and painful which is very welcomed.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  If you are a fan of Madden and football you must get this game. Its a good piece of work with some 
 flaws with some good aspects. There is not much to say other than the fact that it is Madden, its 
 football, and its not 2k7... which hurts my feelings. EA is defintely not putting its best efforts 
 into these games anymore from lack of competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottta
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I believe that the lack of competition for EA Sports in football titles has led to the demise of 
 a once-great football franchise. Madden NFL 07 is easily the worst game in the franchise. The lack 
 of owner mode isn't even a huge deal, as some of the greatest games in the franchise didn't even 
 come with a franchise mode. What is a huge deal is the fact that the game, although pretty when 
 the players are stationary, turns into a stiff robotic mess when the play starts. And even before 
 the play starts, we are treated to a 5 second view through a camera that serves no purpose other 
 than to highlight the ugliness of the character models' faces. The problems don't end with the 
 animations. The create-a-player system is RIDICULOUS. Why do I have to go through all of the poorly-executed 
 mini-games when I'm trying to create a player (such as Marques Colston) who should be already be 
 in the game? What happened to the ratings that could be changed on a whim? For example, Vince Young 
 is doing pretty well in the real NFL now, but you can't change his ratings to reflect that. Another 
 problem with the game is that it doesn't pass the Man, I want to keep playing this game long after 
 I should stop. test. The game isn't like Gears of War or College Hoops 2K7 or even the Madden games 
 on the previous generation of systems, where the gameplay keeps you involved in the game for hours 
 on end. I purchased Madden NFL 07 today, popped it in, and after 10 minutes wanted to stop playing. 
 After plunking down $40 of my hard-earned money, I want to feel like blowing away a few hours playing 
 the game. Perhaps the biggest problem with the game is that it doesn't feel like Madden. If you 
 have played Madden from 2001 to 07 (on PS2 or Xbox) , you have a very clear idea of what a Madden 
 game should play like. This game does not have the same kind of fit-and-finish as those games do. 
 The receivers are slow to respond to your inputs, quarterbacks make terrible throws way too often, 
 cornerbacks make no attempt to bat balls away. In closing, don't buy this game without renting 
 it first. Make sure you can deal with the terrible mini-games such as the 40-yard dash (which should 
 have utilized button presses instead of the analog sticks) . If you can deal with the animation, 
 the mini-games, and the un-Maddenlike feel, then by all means throw more money in the EA trash 
 can. Or better yet, wait until Madden NFL 08 comes out, and pray that particular game is better 
 executed than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morris44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Alright this game is great with the graphics. The field looks so cool when it rains it gets so 
 tore up. You can actually can see the sweat on their arms thats pretty cool. The downside is the 
 elimanted some game modes from the 360 version that the PS2 version had. Like now you can't create 
 your on team now. Now when you create a new player it gives you the stats instead of you giving 
 them. It seems like theres so much more stuff on the PS2 version. The only thing i like now is 
 the gameplay and graphics. Apart from the PS2 version this is a good game it is truly worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this years version of Madden NFL 07. The controls are greatly improved since last 
 year. Guys don't seem to be running on ice anymore. Also, putting the juke moves on the right analog 
 stick makes a lot of sense. They also added lead blocking, but you have an option whether you want 
 to use it or not. The graphics are improved, you can now see the field wear away during the game. 
 The commentary is not really good though. NCAA 07 has great commentary, why does this game have 
 to be so bad? They also have no fantasy draft, which a lot of my friends love to do. No online 
 season, which if they did would make it the greatest football game ever. Online play offers no 
 tournaments. They did add a superstar mode, but it has its flaws. For example, I chose to be quarterback, 
 so the whole career you have to look through the eyes of the quarterback. It is really difficult 
 to see and not fun to play. The training camps are really hard if you try to be receiver or cornerback. 
 Overall, this is still an outstanding football game when you get down to it. Yeah, it misses a 
 lot of features, but great graphics and gameplay make it worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside218
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The 360 version of madden 07 is undercooked. I wanted it well done and they gave me medium rare. 
 The next generation version doesn't flow as smoothly as the previous gen. The camera gives you 
 a lack of depth on both sides of the ball and forces your recievers and defensive backs to jump 
 for a ball that's thrown 20 yards behind them. On defense you think Brett Favre throws a bullet 
 pass when it turns out to be a lob pass thrown into the endzone. This also hinders the passing 
 game.
  
  It's harder to make a tackle on defense. This holds true for the player and the computer. This 
 game is defintiely favored towards offense. It's also annoying when you try to hit the x button 
 to make a tackle and you accidentally hit start. Another thing the non controllable players don't 
 understand is PURSUIT ANGLES!!!! I'd like it if they kept the original controls but those controls 
 don't fit well with the new controller. You can try to fix the controls to madden 05 controls, 
 but you'll just go back to the new controls later on. The best part of the game is running the 
 ball. Once you get ahead behind the defenders it's impossible for them to take you down. Unfortuneately 
 the same happens to you on defense, and it happens often due to the cpu's inability to understand 
 PURSUIT ANGLES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricalpap
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Tackling is great in this game and its very similar to ESPN NFL 2005 but with better graphics. 
 This year in Madden, each players have their own style of running. Bigger players are very good 
 at running defenders over and lighter players will use their speed to dodge defenders. Very well 
 done. There are also newer Touchdown celebrations and they still also keep the old celebrations 
 such as Chad Johnson's river dance. The new run to daylight feature is incredible and helpful. 
 In this feature, you can control the linemen and the fullback so you can open holes for your running 
 back to run. EA also removed the feature saving in the middle of the game which really sucks if 
 you need to leave and dont want to lose your game data. This is the one what disappoint me the 
 most, the create a player. This time in CAP, you cant just make a guy and make him 99 overall or 
 not even 80 overall. You gotta make him run his 40 dash and bench press. Usually, the CAP ends 
 up around the 50 overall just like an undrafted rookie.
  
  Superstars Mode: 8/10
  So far, the superstars mode is good but not great. Its still kind of easy to become a Hall of Famer 
 but in reality its really hard. Each position has their own camera angle which can be hard at times, 
 unless you are the QB because QB's camera angle are still the same like before. Like in Madden 
 06, you will get tested on IQ test and physical test. New in Madden 07 SS mode is the 40 yard dash, 
 and its really fun and bench press. The better scores you get, the higher you will get picked. 
 You then pick your agents, and there is actually a female agent! Later on, you need or you can 
 also skip practices before gameday.
  
  Franchise: 7/10
  Franchise are still the same like the older Maddens but there arent any owner mode. The player's 
 morale are real good, for example Terrell Owens' morale is really low because he makes trouble 
 in the real world. The franchise mode last 30 years and if you finish all 30 years, you can unlock 
 your achievement points and it worth a lot.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Wow, this is great. You can actually see the player's teeth and facial expression. Too bad the 
 players dont actually sweat. The weather is awsome, rain, snow and windy. The stadium are so much 
 better than the PS2 version. The fans are still looking weird but the seats are nearly the same 
 to the real thing. The thing that bug me is the players looks like they are on steroids just like 
 in Madden 05 and madden 06. You can't actually either have a guy taller than 6'11 or a guy with 
 pure muscles. After the game, you also notice that the player's uniform is not dirty enough even 
 though you just played during rain. The dumbest part is there aren't any alternative costumes. 
 You can download them but you got to pay for them, a lot of dollars just for a game uniform.
  
  Presentation: 6/10
  This is worst than you can imagine. You can't watch the NFL draft during 
 the Superstars season mode. No half-time presentation and no post game. Also, after you play and 
 win the Superbowl, there aren't any celebrations.
  
  Sounds: 7/10
  Ok, so the announcers are not Michaels or Madden anymore which is sucks. There is only one announcer 
 in Madden 07 and he kept repeating the same thing over and over. The audibles yelling is great 
 and the fake snap sounds like the real players. They really should bring back Madden and Michaels, 
 I mean the game is called Madden 07 .
  
  Overall: 8/10
  It is a large improvement from Madden 06 but many people is expecting more than just 1 or 2 things 
 added. Buy or Rent? I suggest you buy the original edition if you are a football fan. If you are 
 unsure, just rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thakingk05
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  This years game plays a lot like last years Madden 2006 of last years version. It has the new superstar 
 mode, thats fun at first but gets a little boring down the line. They have the new lead blocker 
 feature in the game that ok, but not my thing. I found the lead blocking feature to only work every 
 so often. It is pointless to use the feature when playing someone right beside you because they 
 would then know where you were running too. This is supposed to be the Next-Gen madden, but I still 
 like playing the Current-Gen a lot more. It just plays better. I also found this years madden suffers 
 from some slowdowns. Especially when there are a lot of lineman pushed up together and when the 
 game ends and loads up your gamer score. You have a couple of mini games but they are nothing as 
 good as the ones in the Current-Gen Madden. 
  I thought the controls were ok. But the Analog sticks not being right directly beside each other 
 will never make this the most best madden on the market.
  
  Graphics They look better than last years Madden, but I still think they could be better. I think 
 having the NFL exclusive licenses is making EA a little careless to improve on them, because of 
 there being no competition.
  The game truly shines on a HDTV, but drops a lot with a SDTV. Animations dont seem as good as 
 they should be. Players often look like a bunch of robots running around. Some players look nothing 
 like there real life counter parts. Like Payton Manning for example looks like he could be a linebacker 
 the way he is built. As well as a lot of Kickers do. I still think EA can still do a lot better 
 in the graphics department. Sound
  
  This is the game fails tremendously. Madden is only in the game when you use the ask madden feather. 
 Whats the point of having Madden as the game name if he has nothing to do with the game at all. 
 The commentary guy for all the teams is some guy who sounds like hes broadcasting live from the 
 moon. Hes just real dull. Players and coaches rarely talk and yell and show any kind of emotion. 
 It just doesnt feel like a real Pro Fottball game should. Vaule
  
  Its still the only Pro Football game out there. So if you are a football fan the go pick this 
 up. You can still play against friends and on xbox live, after you get tired of playing the computer. 
 Theres fun to be had in Madden 2007, it just want last you very long. Tilt
  
  I gave the tilt a low score because we have to pay 59.99 for this Next-Gen madden thats missing 
 so many feathers that this 39.99 Current-Gen Madden has. Heres the List
  1. No 2 minute drill.
  2. Throwback and alternate jerseys are still missing.
  3. Old classic 
 stadiums missing still.
  4. Less dept in create a player than Current-Gen Madden.
  5. Less mini games then Current-Gen Madden.
  6. No create a team.
  7. No create a play book.
 
  8. No create a stadium.
  9. No create a fan. All the Current Gen versions of this game have these modes and feathers. So 
 if you still have a PS2 or Xbox then saves your selves some money and get those versions because 
 there a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pologamer223
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is indeed a great game, despit the heavy load of bad reviews people are giving it. 
 The gameplay is fantastic, from the variety of tackles to the new Highlight Stick and Run to Daylight 
 features. You can now cantrol anyone on the offense before the snap of every down. The celebrations 
 are even something to look forward to, from Steve McNair's moose pose, to Chad Johnson's River 
 Dance, or Lamont Jordan's Banjo. Even the way how many players look unique when running such as 
 how Jamal Lewis runs in a slow, lazy way, and how Terrell Owens one hands the ball. On the graphical 
 side of things, Madden looks quite different from its last-gen little brother. It has better quality, 
 and more detail, from the player's helmets to their jerseys. However, there are some noticeable 
 quircks to the gameplay such as when a player gets tackled, he sometimes may freeze for 2 to 4 
 seconds, nothing too big.
  
  The major factor keeping me from giving this game a solid nine was because of a few key factors 
 that this next-gen lacks from last year's 06. The Fantasy Draft isn't available, nor the Create-A-Team 
 mode or Alternate Jerseys. However Create-A-Player is available, and Alternate Jerseys will be 
 available for purchase in the Xbox Live Marketplace in the near future. Aside from those key features, 
 Madden 07 is undeniably a great football game. I highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
 
  
  MY heart is smilling, i cant go back to your land of gloom where black jagged shadows i eat meals 
 with tired clwns.
  what us smike 
  
  
 
  pe pe pe e pepeep ???? I eat semell i eat smell can you spel smell. please
  sednd snemd me mails emails and love me love m web me and i got ... it ley it u got haens ansn 
 i for iersk sdjdjd irerir
  ansdi fid [err feel fellf fwe fwe feelf feel. feel. fleel. feel. feel. I got what i takes to be 
 a king be it at a king, i know king got bur ger is a a king king kming i got it,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade1205
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The 07 version of this long running franchise offers everthing you would expect. Therein lies the 
 problem. Same modes and features with nothing new except for leat blocker control and a couple 
 other small additions (hardly effect gameplay enough to buy new edition) . Do not get me wrong though 
 this is still a very fun game with the classic gameplay that follows the if its not broke dont 
 fix it scheme. I have noticed a few problems with the game that anger me very much. The running 
 game is increadibly over rated can plow through everything with little trouble even on the All-Madden 
 setting. Also I have noticed that the game freezes from time to time. In conclusion if you do not 
 already own madden and are looking for a good football game this is the one to get (the only one 
 since EA has all the rights) , but if you already own a madden this brings nothing new to the table 
 and does not warrent a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  although last years version of madden failed miserably to redefine sports on the next-gen console 
 madden 07 has helped to make people believe in madden again. the game is still lacking features 
 from the original consoles. Madden does not have any new features, but the gameplay controls which 
 are more comfortable than madden 06. the superstar career is awful it only lets you play the role 
 you pick. like if you pick to play a safety you only play defence and if you choose to be a tightend 
 you only play offense. the game also has lead blocker controls. these controls let you play as 
 fullback. the reason for this is for you to make sure your halfback runs into daylight. overall 
 the game is good and it is defintely better than last years so i recommend this sporrts for the 
 xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboys3
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The things about madden 07 i have a hard time with is the fact that the gameplay doesnt feel like 
 madden, im not sure what it is about it but i just dont enjoy playing the actual football aspect 
 of the game. I also hate the franchise mode, u cant edit players equipment, u cant change there 
 number so u end up signing like an offensive lineman in free agency and he comes to ur team wearing 
 number 0 and u cant do anything about it. Also at the end of franchise mode theres no coaching 
 switching or anything. I always loved offseason in ps2 and xbox but i hate it in 360. I really 
 hope EA fixes some of these problems in next years edition.. otherwise this could be my last madden 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friday04
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I don't really care about Superstar or Franchise modes. I don't really care about all the crap 
 they keep adding to this game. All I care about is the game of football and the Madden franchise 
 has consistently made it better and better. But this Xbox 360 version is lacking in some regards. 
 They show the same cut scenes of players standing around over and over again. After a while it 
 starts to make the game seem rushed, like they couldn't figure out what else to do. The announcer 
 blows. The game play isn't consistent and sometimes there's a collision on the field even though 
 it doesn't appear that the other player is even close.
  
  I hope EA takes advantage of the extra power in the Xbox and PS3 next year. If these things exist 
 in next year's version I may well have to get out of the annual EA Madden contribution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  At first I didn't think Madden 07 was worth, but man was I WRONG. This game has improved in almost 
 every single way. I bet nobody will agree with me on this one. But I don't care. The graphics were 
 phenominal. The players are filled with detail. And the sound is perfect too. You will definitely 
 like this game if you are a hardcore Madden player. Completely new tackles and features, including 
 my favorite new feature... lead blocker controls. In a run you can switch to any player and block 
 for the RB. Then you can switch back to the runner. But this is a great game, rent it first though, 
 cause I seem to be one of the few people here who like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kissfreq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the good. The graphics are great. Much better than the Xbox and PS2 versions of 
 Madden 06 and 07. The game play is also pretty good. There seems to be a balance between passing 
 and running that is better than in the past. Rookie level is way too easy, Pro level is very easy 
 but All-Pro is pretty hard and All-madden is darn near inpossible. I like that the passing cone 
 is off by default but wish that the new blocking was on by default.
  Now with the bad. Even though it doesn't change the game play, the fantasy draft is absent from 
 this version. It appears on 07 for Xbox and PS2, but they continue to leave it out on the 360 version. 
 I think that this is a big detractor. Another downer is the fact that unlocked HOF players are 
 put in the free agent pool when starting a new franchise. You can't design plays or playbooks to 
 use with a franchise. That is probably the worst for me because part of the fun has been designing 
 plays.
  I have barely messed with Superstar, but it seems pretty cool. It is odd seeing the game only from 
 your SS's view.
  The mini games are cool and more fun than on the other systems.
  
  All in all it is a pretty good game. I just hope that EA listens to the gamers and fixes the next 
 gen games to be atleast as good as the previous gen games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimepirate
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Madden is the biggest football selling game out there. EA just took exclusive rights to football 
 games, so they hold the power to create the game from now on. Madden looks decent on the 360. The 
 graphics are decent, nor are they the greatest. Online play lags a little bit and creates opportunites 
 for your opponent to make the big play.
  
  The modes are nothing new compared to Madden 06. No alternate jerseys is one of the bigger let 
 downs in the game. Of course, you can purchase them via the Marketplace, but it shouldve been included 
 in the game. If you have Madden 06, then wait for Madden 08. No drastic improvements occured in 
 this years edition, except for the training mode that doesnt seem to do a whole lot. Player fatigue 
 doesnt coincide with gameplay, so all your players seem to have 100% playing level.
  
  Madden is worth a play if you havent played the 06 edition. If you dont own the 06 edition, then 
 pick up 07. Football is always a good game to have in your collection of games and they never get 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  madden 07 is a great game for the 360 i mean good old gridiron returns in wut is supposibly an 
 upgrade from its preddecessor however.... madden 07 is a down grade. lets start of with the problems. 
 the superstar mode is back but it is terrible u cant even control urself or ur team! they even 
 pick plays for u! however it is deeper with mini games like the 40 yard dash and the bench press 
 but it doesnt help. create a player is also different cause instead of makin him a 100 overall 
 u have to make him do tests like u guessed it the 40 and the bench!. franchise is still solid and 
 enjoyable but im still dissapointed about superstar mode. the gameplay is still as enjoyable as 
 ever it also includes the new lead blocker option and refined its play selection to that of ncaa 
 07. the graphics are mindblowing on the 360..... thats it breathtaking. the sound track is also 
 a very good mix of pump up rock and rap songs featuring atreyu, cartel, underoath, matchbook romance 
 and many more. the game will last u for many hours of fun with ur bros online. overall madden 07 
 is a lil dissapointing however its still a great game that i can recommend to anyone who loves 
 the gridiron. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lantermanc
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  So many things wrong with this game.
  Too many long plays, too many replays, too much waiting in superstar mode.
  Superstar mode sucks, 
 you can't see anything in the mode you're in, if you only want to play as yourself, the computer 
 stuff takes to long, there should be a fast forward button, and the menu of rookie or team leader 
 pops up in the middle of the first play sometimes instead of before the drive
  Graphics are pretty good, but the gameplay is horrible, usually you have to learn how to do offense 
 before you score, but its the opposite in this case
  if you just run back with the qb and then launch it, that'll generally work.
  Just an overall 
 bad game, I don' t like the menu system at all
  The game isn't as good as the xbox version, the only good thing about it is that the music is better 
 with newer songs like the is it any wonder song by Keane
  Oh yeah, the xbox freezes a lot too, which is dumb
  Don't waste your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  New Madden, next gen console, i ran to get it, my bad...
  
  great intro, but all the good stuff is gone!!!!!! gone!!!!
  
  Create a Player, yeah right... 
 do you want an all-mighty player??? BLEED FOR HIM!!! you have to go through stupid mini games to 
 crack up your player. and you can't handle the team like you use to. now is all confusing.
  
  the superstar mode is a joke, pathetic little game... you can't call the plays, you can't do 
 squad... is all wrong. and to kill it for good madden voice is gone, go is like you listening to 
 a radio transmission of the game. the graphics are not next-gen.
  
  the EA people should with until 2009 to launch another Madden, a good one, do not buy this game, 
 i will with for BLITZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilomez238
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was on my to-buy list for very long untill it accually came out. i was totally excited 
 about this game coming out i went to a madden 2006 tournament at game crazy to get the game on 
 launch day at midnight. I couldent wait to play madden 07 so i put the disk in and as my first 
 action of playing the game i wanted to create a franchise which a fantasy draft. i look and look 
 and come to the conclusion that there is no fantasy draft.. ok im pretty dispointed but hey lets 
 start a superstar. ok a WR is always fun. lets start the first pratice.. why is the camera zoomed 
 in on my superstar.... wheres the ball? IDK!!!!! terrable game and a total let down.... even user 
 picks arent wht they used to be..... ughhh better luck next year i hope 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Last year when madden came out there was alot of hype for it. Of course most of you know it fell 
 flat and was a really bad game. This year i was hoping for it to be like the ps2's but once again 
 it wasnt. There are a couple of additions like gamercard, superstar mode, and minigames. Which 
 all make that game really really good. But the things that are missing out of it like training 
 camp and owners mode just make this less attractive. It might have just been my game but when i 
 tryed drafting someone I COULDNT it just said simulate i couldnt pick which makes me very very 
 mad. The new features in this game is lead blocking which can help in some situations but not most. 
 The sound in this game is pretty good. The graphics on a npn-HD tv is still amazing in my opinion. 
 Gameplay is lacking ALOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslade12
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  being a madden fan i know my game and these graphics are amazing. very very realistic. but the one 
 thing i was disappointed with was the features not many features to play on. but of course the 
 brought back superstar. another issue for me is the things you dont focus on in a game but when 
 you do its . disappointing for example the stands they continue to clap even when your down 41 
 to 3 (ever been to a dolphin game well its not like that its more like booo! you suck ) well i 
 also think the sidelines need to be more into the game. very few people on the sideline when in 
 a nfl games is packed with coaches, media, ball holders, refs , players etc. well thats my review 
 i hope this helped you make your game buying decision! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  OK well the NFL Madden Games have been great on the PS2, and even this years 07 is much better 
 than the xbox360.
  but i like the great graphics, the sounds of a great hit, players talking, it feels like your there.
 
  
  ok there maybe less play books, but theres enough for the average jo.
  
  online, well? in the UK unless its my broadband it doesn't want to work, but saying that, I haven't 
 really tried enough times to comment.
  but all the mini games, customisation is there if you know what the hell your doing.
  
  the 
 franchise is always great.
  
  good NFL game
  
  Kithooton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Im not the biggest mainstream sports fan. As such, Ive never been into the Madden games much. 
 When Madden 07 came out, I passed me by like all the other ones before it. Then my nephew (who 
 owns Madden 03 on the GC) , requested that I download the demo from marketplace so we could play 
 together. I was instantly hooked to the point that I bought the game.
  
  GAME PLAY
  The big feature in Madden 07 is the improved running game, and EA did a fantastic job with it. 
 The controls allow you to switch to a lead blocker that can push open holes for your running back 
 to jump through. Its a great idea, and for the most part is implemented well. My only complaint 
 is that when you switch to the blocker, the AI takes control of the RB, and he doesnt always run 
 to the hole that you make for him. The opponent AI is also as cheap as ever. Even playing on the 
 default settings the AI will never let you blow them out, but will never cut you slack if theyre 
 walking all over you.
  
  Theres also some problems with collision detection as sometimes a player will run right in to 
 the ball carrier, but wont tackle him. Other than that, you can expect pretty much the same game 
 mechanics that have been in past Madden games. And thats a good thing.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals in 07 are just as good as 06 if not a little better. The crowds react to every play 
 you make. The players are very well animated, and have high rez textures. The outdoor fields will 
 change over the course of the game, and will even get muddy or snow covered the longer a game goes 
 on. The only downside is the players have generic faces, and arent based off the real players. 
 But at least the coaches look their real life counterparts.
  
  SOUND
  This is another strong area for Madden. The announcer is easily the best I have ever heard in a 
 sports game. He gives great audio queues, and just sounds very life like. The roaring crowds are 
 nice, and they will even become quiet or boo if you give up a big play. The only thing thats really 
 lacking is music. Youll hear some forgettable licensed tunes in the menus, but it would have been 
 nice to import a custom sound track, or play music during a game.
  
  VALUE
  The biggest complaint about 06 was that it didnt include all the modes that were seen in last-gen 
 games. While there are some features still missing in 07, they arent missed all that much. New 
 this year is the Super-star mode. Its a great concept, but isnt implemented well as it could 
 have been.
  
  It basically amounts to a career mode, but you cant pick your position. The only thing you can 
 do is re-roll your stats, and hope the position you want comes up. And since most positions are 
 available, this is needlessly frustrating. Once you get into the mode, its laid out like a calendar 
 with things like training, press conferences, and games on the schedule. It would have been nice 
 to simulate some of the events since training gets old fast.
  
  Overall, theres a lot to see and do in Madden 07, but youve probably done it before in previous 
 editions. The achievements are better balanced out this time, and playing online never gets old. 
 If youve played Madden before, 07 is a step up from last year, but dont expect anything like 
 a killer feature. Madden still maintains its high level of quality, but if you own last years 
 version you might not find enough new to warrant buying it this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeleton1789
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  much better than madden 06. Enhanced graphics and sound. Best football experience on the x box 
 360 so far. If you have an xbox 360 you should definately by madden nfl 2007. I love the detail 
 and work put into the game. great for multiplayer game and the experience of extra fun on the xbox 
 360 and maybe better than on any other console!  
 nstebnsobntbobntn (this is all gibberous) This is the kind of gibberish you would talk when yuo 
 played madden 07 on the 360 for the first time. you would be amazed. so buy it now and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillings24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  There are so many problems with this franchise I don't know where to begin. I have played each 
 year of Madden since it's inauguration in the early 90's. It is sad to say that the best days of 
 Madden are behind us. Madden as a franchise is similar to Jerry Rice in 1999: Good, but no longer 
 great. The gameplay is lame, players don't react realistically to what is happening on the field. 
 It is nearly impossible to play robber as a free safety in this game, because the defense doesn't 
 go to the highest point to make a play on the ball. Spin moves are unrealistic and work too well, 
 juking isn't realistic and stutter-stepping doesn't work in the open field as it should. Screen 
 passes that are caught force the player to run towards the sideline instead of having an option 
 to move where you should. While running with the quarterback there is no possible way to make a 
 move on the defense without passing the ball. Returning kickoffs has never been easier. A bad return 
 puts you at the 30 yard line if you return it from the endzone. Blindsiding the quarterback rarely 
 results in a fumble. Unrealistic aspects of a simulation add up and make for high scoring games 
 which tend to not be fun. Blowing out a friend in the first quarter sends the controllers flying 
 by the second half. Everyone I play wants to be Michael Vick, and not the Falcons. So when I switch 
 to a dollar defense and send the corners they get mad and quit because they can't run all over 
 the place. So at least the game isn't 100% idiot proof. Madden needs an overhaul of his game, he's 
 ruining his legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is an improvement over the previous year's version, yet it is still a few marks short 
 of a great game. The gameplay is solid, but there are alot of features, options, customizations, 
 etc. that are not available.
  
  For instance, teams only have home/away jerseys, no alternates are available. John Madden's voice 
 is non-existent in the game, you get to listen to the generic PA announcer whether it's an exhibition 
 or a franchise game. The frame rate can be choppy at times, yet when things do run smooth, the 
 game looks great. The stadiums look more life-like than its predecessors and the player models 
 are vivid. Yet, it's hard to believe that the kicker can have biceps just as big as the tight ends, 
 so I think EA could do a better job of differentiating the various positional player models. The 
 soundtrack is amazing, personally, I enjoy the classic NFL films tracks the most.
  
  Thus, Madden is still a fun football game to play, but if you are looking for an in-depth and long 
 lasting football experience, you'd be better off waiting awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Not that saying this is anything new, or anything that hasn't been said many times before, but 
 Madden06 for the 360 just plain stunk. I don't feel there is any two ways around it, or any other 
 way to say it. Despite being let down by a series that has traditionally pleased this long-time 
 fan, Madden bounced back this year and offers us something better.
  The one good thing that could be said about last year's game was it's look. The boys at EA did 
 an even better job at polishing this years edition, as the potential of the 360 continues to be 
 better shown by titles like this. From the player's expression's changing in the middle of a play, 
 or the relflections coming off of the helmets, or the always gorgeous stadiums, Madden delivers 
 the goods in the graphics department. Lots of new player animations also greatly help the presentation 
 during the plays.
  If there was one thing that stood out more than anything last year, it was the gameplay. A dirty 
 running game met with with an ever-so-stupid passing AI made long sessions of playing feel like 
 more of a punishment than a pleasure. Again trying to overcome last year's shortcomings, EA brought 
 back the solid running game, which is helped slightly by the new lead blocker option. Although 
 rarely used and difficult to pull off, it can be succesful if ran properly. The passing AI has 
 gotten better, but still lacks the intelligence of the old Madden games. Still yet, the game has 
 that fun feel this time around, as it has in previous titles.
  Another big complaint from last year was the lack of options or game modes. Well, EA is working 
 on it, but there's still little extra to be found this time. You can play in a fairly deep franchise 
 mode, a tough on-line battle, or maybe some of the new mini-games, but the bottom line is, if the 
 gameplay doesn't keep you around, there's not much else to ask you to stay.
  While it's leaps and bounds ahead of the only option for football last year, Madden and EA have 
 much work to do to win over the fans and support of the non-traditional crowd of sports gamers. 
 Overall a solid game of pigskin can be found, but you have to really want to play football to enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harnalien
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I really don't like this game. It makes me sick to think that this is the only garbage to play 
 until the nightmare is over, unless the license is renewed. The game disappoints on so many levels, 
 it's not even worth it to put the effort in to write about it all. The main thing I am dissapointed 
 in is the lack of presentation of the game. Where is the pregame/halftime/postgame show? Where 
 are the announcers, not that retarder radio prick i don't care if it's joe blow and jim joe, get 
 somebody to record some sort of conversation about the game. And please tone down the excitement 
 for every pass over 5 yards. Every year since they have been the only game in town, i hope to get 
 a good game. I fall into the hype, and go rent it as soon as i can hoping i will go back and buy 
 it, but nope, i don't even keep it the whole rental time. it takes about 1 quarter of play to know 
 what recycled crap has been put out again. the worst part about this, is that noone can do anything 
 about it. What i don't understand is how this got a 7.9, and splinter cell gets an 8.5. kiss my 
 butt. maybe i'm not seeing the negative symbol in front of the score. oh well, my 360 is broken 
 anyway, and bill gates won't fix it for free after 2006, so i'm stuck playing gran turismo 4 on 
 ps2 until i get raped for the $140 they want. i wish legitimate game websites would make some sort 
 of formal push for an investigation into the real numbers on how many systems are jacked up. anyway, 
 this will do nothing. Madden sucks. Go buy a sega genesis and get nfl 95. i wish i could score 
 negative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is alsome. EA just keeps making madden better. This game is so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so
  Good. It has a great soundtrack great controls sweet online. Cool game modes and alot lot more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  I have played Madden games since 1993 and every year they get better and better. This being said... this 
 is by far the best Madden ever. The gameplay is true to life and the graphics are awesome. Sure 
 they may be no madden commentary in the game but after playing through about 4 games I really didn't 
 miss it. In fact it was kinda of nice being able to just play with your teams broadcast radio playing. 
 The ammount of options in play calling are great. You can pick by formations, key players, and 
 others. It really brings alot of the coach in you out in the game. I have read alot of reviews 
 bashing this madden game but it is by far the best in the series. If you don't like this 07 version 
 you must not be a true football fan. It has everything I want in a football game and more. I love 
 football and I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  Last year's Madden for the 360 was a joke. Sure the graphics had been upgraded, but like all of 
 EA's games of last year it was lacking most of the features of the current-gen versions. This year, 
 EA did a good job bringing back most of the features missing. The problem is that it really doesn't 
 bring much new to the table, is still missing some things, and there are some noticeable bugs that 
 hamper what boils down to a $60 version of Madden '06 for the original Xbox.
  
  Pros: Brings back most of the key features missing from last year's 360 version; very nice graphics, 
 of course; the stadiums look gorgeous; videogame grass/turf has never looked this good; there are 
 tons of cool animations for the players; the game is still very fun to play; online play over Xbox 
 Live is very fun, depending on your tastes; Hall Of Fame players are a nice touch; Ya gotta love 
 the 'Madden Gamer Level' and I wish more games would adopt something like this feature; Franchise 
 mode is still a blast to play through; the addition of the 'Lead Blocker' feature is fun to use 
 for awhile; nice quicksave feature is a blessing; thankfully the horrid cone-vision passing is 
 turned off by default; using a draft-class from the NCAA game is still really cool; while they 
 took out the feature to scout players yourself before the draft, every player is automatically 
 scouted for you and the info is right in front of you during the draft; decent selection of tunes, 
 as usual; no more Tony Bruno or his stupid 'radio show'!!!!; I do like the fact that in Superstar 
 mode you only play as your created player, but.....
  
  Cons: Superstar mode is still boring, in my opinion; there is still no 'Owner mode' feature; no 
 historic teams; while Madden's commentary had always stunk, the new play-by-play guy isn't much 
 better; no training camp mode; once you unlock the hall of fame players, they show up in your franchise 
 mode as free agents (very annoying) ; strange pauses during gameplay feels like the disc has problems 
 loading; EA's new menu systems in their games is annoying at first; achievement points don't involve 
 the things they should, so they are frustrating to get; the CPU AI is still completely idiotic; 
 why does every player model in the game look like he's on steroids?; the new mini-games are more 
 annoying than they are enjoyable; why does EA expect us to PAY $ for downloading classic stadiums 
 online?!!; the 'highlight stick' is overrated; tackling in this game is a joke; not having the 
 option of a fantasy draft really stinks, as that was a really fun way to play through 'Owner mode' 
 with your buddies; if you played Madden '06 for the original Xbox, there isn't much new here which 
 is obviously disappointing.
  
  The problem with this year's Madden is the same problem the series has had since the '05 game came 
 out: they bring hardly anything new to the table. Sure this is way better than last year's 360 
 game, but that's not saying much. Obviously this game is going to sell like crazy no matter what 
 (obviously I purchased it) , but I am really getting sick of paying top dollar to get what boils 
 down to last year's game with new rosters and some stupid new feature that EA is over-hyping. If 
 you didn't play last year's 360 version, this game may make you forget it's bad points for awhile 
 because you will be impressed by the graphics. After a few games, however, you will start to notice 
 that this game has the same problems the series has had over the last few years. Too bad EA doesn't 
 have anyone to compete with anymore, or maybe we would have a better game each year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the xbox 360 was a total letdown but 07 actually lives up to the series' reputation. 
 The graphics are sweet and the gameplay is tight. AI seems to be a lot smarter overall and this 
 is a good thing. The new lead blocker control is plain awesome and really adds to the whole running 
 experience.
  
  Some people have complained about the lack of playmakering on D and how the current gen versions 
 offer more content. As far as playmakering goes, I really like not having to do all that pre snap 
 BS to stop anyone. AI is just better and smarter so you dont need the patch of playmakering - it 
 just works. The rest to me is moot point. With online and multiplayer as well as franchise modes 
 this game has plenty of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrrcoker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Ok I'm not the type of guy who goes out and buys madden every year actually this is the first time 
 I actually bought the game! After a few hours of Gaming I really love this game yes I can get frustrated 
 with the some minor glitches but overall its a decent game. The Franchise mode - Is about the 
 same as always if you left out the Madden Points which is a pretty good idea. But what I disliked 
 about franchise when u make it to the Super Bowl it nothing real special all that changes is the 
 arena says Super Bowl XXI or whatever I mean its kind of lame and dull! There is no big celebration 
 after the game or even Half time! I understand that they focused on game play and stuff but I mean 
 come on it's the Super Bowl! The Superstar mode - Is eh... Boring! The camera view sucks and you 
 can't change it. No matter what you say to the press they say youre big headed I mean it's pretty 
 lame. If you let the computer play until it's your time on the field they usually suck pretty bad! 
 I had a team sit there with 25 seconds left on the clock 4th quarter down by a field goal and the 
 CPU just let the clock run out! So I usually just play for the CPU also. Superstar is a good idea 
 but they need to work on it ALOT!
  
  Online - I haven't really played online allot yet but from what I can tell so far there seems to 
 be a considerable amount of LAG! I dunno if anyone else has experienced this! I like how you can 
 risk Madden Points its an awesome incentive to play online! Multiplayer - This is the main reason 
 I bought this game. My friends all love to play madden and I have a 360 and LCD TV with HD and 
 surround sound so all my buddies come over and just play for hours this part of the game to me 
 is probably best! No real big problems here I noticed some minor glitches and some weird things 
 go on but nothing that would change game play.
  
  Lead Blocker is fun and easy to use! Highlight stick and Hit Stick both are great additions to 
 the game. Overall pretty Innovative. Multiplayer probably wont get old for a very long time with 
 my crew. Franchise is pretty fun and will stay that way for awhile. Superstar will be old in a 
 day.
  
  Sound is awesome when playing with panthers you can hear a ROAR! When they score a touchdown! Music 
 has a pretty good selection as always. Crowd noises get kind of old after awhile. The announcer 
 repeats his self every game so!
  
  Awesome Graphics with HD the player look real you can see sweat and breathe in the cold weather. 
 Grass looks awesome and Stadiums are the best yet! Very awesome game visually! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saintz_Row_666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  w33t this game owns everyone who loves nfl buy it its awesome, im australian and i love nfl and 
 i bought it!!! holy moly! oh i need 100 words err its fun to play and oakland raiders rule!, randy 
 moss owns and erm i love wide reciver position its great hurray greaty great hurray but it get 
 it now
  awesome still need 100 words oh jeez um thanks for readin my top review i hope u liked it and um 
 madden 07 is a good game for all hardcore nfl fans!
  
  erhm thank you
  
  w33t this game owns everyone who loves nfl buy it its awesome, im australian and i love nfl and 
 i bought it!!! holy moly! oh i need 100 words err its fun to play and oakland raiders rule!, randy 
 moss owns and erm i love wide reciver position its great hurray greaty great hurray but it get 
 it now
  awesome still need 100 words oh jeez um thanks for readin my top review i hope u liked it and um 
 madden 07 is a good game for all hardcore nfl fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Another rental of another EA game. You know, if you've been reading my reviews, you'd think I liked 
 EA or something.
  
  Well, I don't. That's why I rent EA games before I buy them. To me, they are too risky to purchase.
 
  
  But, that's a whole different story onto itself. Now, for the review of this game you want to read 
 about:
  
  So, first impressions mean a lot in a game. And in that area, it felt like deja vu, because the 
 menu designs are identical to that of NHL 07. That kinda bugged me, cause you'd think that with 
 all of the development time EA had to make this game, they would at least make original screens. 
 It's being very knit-picky, but I just had to say that up front.
  
  The gameplay is very strong. It's the Madden you all know and love. It feels very realistic and 
 very solid. It still hasn't changed a ton in quite awhile, besides lead-blocker controls and the 
 such, which are very solid. Offence and defence are both lots of fun to play, which in some sports 
 isn't the case. It's very solid and very fun.
  
  Visually, the game is also very impressive. The players are lifelike, the stadiums look great, 
 and animations aren't bad. A complaint I have is the fact that it doesn't seem to be very scaled 
 on the field. When the football is flying through the air, it looks too big in comparison to the 
 players and other things on the field. It really looks unfinished in that sense.
  
  The franchise mode is pretty deep, which is nice. Again, very comparable to NHL 07, as it is very 
 similar in style. You also have Superstar mode, which I haven't worked on much yet, but it has 
 potential. The idea is you control one player all game long, every game. Either a wide receiver, 
 a running back, etc. It's fun, but I still like the standard Franchise mode better.
  
  On an audio front, it's OK. The crowd sounds great, but the commentary is lackluster, and a lot 
 of the soundtracks come from, you guessed it, NHL 07. Why all the similarities, I don't know.
 
  
  Online, the game keeps up with EA standards: Functional. Not outstanding, not completely broken; 
 functional. It's sickening that EA doesn't take a risk, and, I donno, work on some of 2K's online 
 features. Also, why doesn't EA use their ESPN license to the fullest? It has a lot of potential, 
 but as of now...
  
  A quick note on achievements. Thankfully, EA decided not to make them as laughable as they were 
 in 06. Now you have to work for them, but are still kept withing a reasonable reach. Thanks Madden! 
 Now, you make think after reading this review that I don't like the game, due to all of the criticisms. 
 It's quite the contrary. I like the game so much, that the things I don't like really stick out 
 to me. I do believe that Madden 08 will be spectacular if EA works on the little things, but for 
 now, 07 is definetly worthy of a purchase.
  
  Positives:
  + Solid Madden Gameplay
  + Good looking visuals
  + Crowd Sounds
  + Franchise Mode and Superstar Mode are both great
 
  
  Negatives:
  - Too many similarities to NHL 07 (Besides the hockey part)
  - Online is still boring
  - A lot of little things that need to be fixed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglesno5a
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  When I got my game I loved it sooo dearly, and I still think that it's the best game I ever played 
 on 360. AMAZING graphics ( Graphics ( (10) ) ) , OK sound, everybody sounds the same, but the hits 
 sound brutal as anything (sound ( (7) ) ) ! The Value is OK, but mine broke, the XBOX spun it so fast 
 and stopped it soo hard it cracked down the middle. Im a little dissapointed at Microsoft, because 
 all I get is PGR3, and Im already on my 3RD! YES 3RD xbox 360. (value ( (8) ) on Madden 07... Xbox 
 would be a 2 or 1) The Difficulty is rangable, the All-Madden Is way to easy, my first game played 
 i beat the opposing team (Colts) with the Eagles 28-0... but i've had every single Madden to Date. 
 Xbox Live is OK, it Laggs sometimes, it may lagg so much that you can't even call HIKE! but i've 
 had silky smoothe expierences too, and that'll make some Memories for ya. If you love football, 
 this is TOTALLY the game for you, and you have to have money waiting when that one breaks. GOOGIN 
 says (Peace Out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remizzle
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is the most over-hyped game I have ever seen. I know i just made a few people mad, 
 because they actually believed the hype but if you want the game for what's inside and not what's 
 on the cover, then you need to read this review. Madden has always been a good sport series and 
 a popular one too, but since (i think) the 2004 madden, it's gone downhill from there. They took 
 away a lot of the things that we knew and liked about madden and didn't even bother to replace 
 most of them, for example, in franchise mode you can't move your team or create a team or do pretty 
 much anything other than make trades and re-sign players... I've never thought the same of EA ever 
 since they bought the NFL license for videogames, i think that was pretty low. But now, let's talk 
 about what Madden has to offer.
  
  graphics are pretty alright, although you may notice that after every single no-huddle that you 
 do, madden will do the same exact animation, every single time.
  
  gameplay is pretty much what you would expect from madden -- the same as the year before, except 
 they added the new highlight stick which really isn't anything too special, also note that if you're 
 buying this game because of superstar mode, then DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. there are so many flaws 
 that ea has overlooked, i don't have the patience to write it down right now.
  
  sound is surprisingle good actually, when you play mini-games, you actually hear the player breath 
 and its kind of a neat thing, but everything else is pretty much the same as the previous years' 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuspendMEimBAD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was mesmerized by the graphics and wasnt really paying attention to 
 the new features or the actual gameplay. After I spent a while with this game the awe from the 
 graphics wore off and the real game became apparent. What I found was a very solid game of football, 
 the gameplay is solid and well balenced, the commentary is energetic if at some times unnecessary, 
 the graphics as i have mentioned are amazing, and the value is great because it is a sports game 
 and cant really be beat. The running controls this year are pretty solid, the spin move is much 
 less effective and more realistic than it was last year, and the highlight stick makes for some 
 immpressive runs and the lead blocker controls make opening a large whole feels just as good as 
 completing a bomb. The passing controls this year are pretty similar to years past, the vision 
 cone is kinda missing which makes for more options in the passing game because you arent as stuck 
 with the reciver you chose before the play. Defensive controls are pretty good this year, the jump 
 the snap feature is kind of silly but kinda cool if you get it right by luck. The tackling this 
 year is the one severly dissapointing facet of the game, There are no gang tackles and very few 
 times will more than one player be able to interact with the ball carrier at once. This bug makes 
 some plays where you would get a tackle for a loss turn into a huge gain because the runner will 
 break one tackle and by that time all you other guys have slid off him. The Db controls and AI 
 are pretty good this year but the safties are alwasy a lil too shallow to stop a long pass from 
 turning into a td. The new guy replacing madden is pretty good especially when its just you playing 
 and he says biased stuff liek that puts the good ghuys ahead by 10 The Value is pretty good this 
 year with Franchise and Superstar modes to master, franchise can basically be seen in one season 
 but to experience all of superstar mode you gonna have to do it liek 10 times for all the positions 
 but it is only ok because you have to watch the CPU play when your palyer isnt on the field which 
 is a bummer. Overall this game is a solid improvment to the madden franchise and i recommend it 
 for any sports fan especially Football ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Maybe because it was the first time I ever played the game on an xbox. maybe it was the fact that 
 the control layout was different than that of the PS2 version. Either way it was numerous things 
 that made this game less wanting where as the last couple years, one could not live without.
  
  gameplay - the added more features add something different to the game. They will either add 
 new packages to your arsenal playbook, or nothing at all since most have a game plan and have been 
 successful with it and dare not change it. added feature - the block scheme added allows you to 
 choose a lineman or FB and ensure a block is made to reach max potential from a play. for those 
 who run the ball a lot is just a different way to run the ball and probably won't use. those who 
 pass the ball will use this since not all can run the ball.
  
  overall - over the pass years there was never much to be said about the madden game. most who play 
 the game have a fair knowledge of the game and embrace ourselves in it. for those young one who 
 just start, it's a lot to handle since a lot wasn't available over in the early years. one absolute 
 conclusion is you should enjoy this game for some time, fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leathal0Sniper
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is the next game in the long series of NFL games by EA sports. After a horrible attempt 
 at a launch game last year for the 360, everyone was hoping that this years installment was going 
 to be much better. Even in light of many improvments over last years game, unfortunetly they havn't 
 acheived anything special.
  
  If you have played previous games of Madden you might agree with me in saying that this years version 
 comes across as lazy. Something just seems like they are delaying putting in certain features so 
 they will have something to put in future games.
  
  When you first enter the game it will look fairly differant as far as the menu goes. Looking a 
 bit more next gen than last year. Alot of key modes and features are still missing from this game.
 
  
  Some gameplaygripes I have with Madden are as follows.
  
  1. Forever I have had a problem with the way you run in the game. Running the ball in madden just 
 isn't any fun. Even with the new lead blocking control (Which can be a bit more powerful than it 
 should.) and the highlight stick it still feels bad. An example of a good running system can be 
 found in ESPN NFL 2K5 by 2K sports.
  
  2. One of the biggest problems with this years version of madden is that the cornerbacks (CB's) 
 are dumb. On a good percentage of long bombs (especially play action fakes) the cornerbacks will 
 always get burned. Resulting in much too many long gains during the game.
  
  If your looking for a football game for your 360 than this is the game for you. Mostly because 
 it is the only next gen football game available. If you can bear to go back to the original xbox 
 for a football game, than I highly reccomend ESPN NFL 2K5. I find it much better in almost every 
 respect except for graphics. (Which are still suprisingly good for two years ago.) You can even 
 download updated rosters from the web from sites that have contined to support 2K5 since it came 
 out.
  
  Madden is not exactly a bad game. Just one that seems almost like it could be much better than 
 it is. Since EA has the exclusive rights, they don't have competition on the market. If you plan 
 to play casually or arn't a freak about realism, than Madden is the game for you. But if you play 
 alot, or care more about realism, than you will be disappointed by Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a prime example of a boring franchise can turn itself over with little changes. Theres 
 new player animations a new interface a new superstar mode that increases playability factor for 
 the game. The game itself is rather easy if u use the new highlight stick feature. Running through 
 tackles and cutting between blockers has never been so easy. The AI is somewhat improved from previous 
 games but still needs major help when it comes to the defensive backs coverage AI. almost everytime 
 u throw it downfeild u can get a TD. Overall madden is a good game with much material to cover. 
 The franchise will need new things if it wants to keep gamers happy
  
  -Joe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnPraser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, there's good news, but some bad news at the same time about this game. There are several 
 features coming back to Madden after missing in the 06 version (Xbox 360 version) .
  
  There is perhaps a lot of good news about this game, and the good news overshadows the bad news. 
 One of the good news is, you can finally challenge plays again. That's not all, but Create a Player 
 has also made a return to Madden, and this time, it's more in-depth, but not exactly in a good 
 way. After you create your player, you have to take drills to determine it's attributes, and this 
 is perhaps very bad news. The reason why this is bad news is that once, you were able to make the 
 attributes all by yourself, but in this version you have to take drills, and if you do poorly on 
 the drills, it can make your player bad. And what I mean by bad is that your player can go all 
 the way down to the 20's range in attributes, and this happened to me. So this is simple advice: 
 If you want to create a player, you have to be not just good, but you have to be a master at mini-camp 
 drills in order to make your player an All-Star.
  
  And this is more good news. Superstar is finally back, and this time, it makes it's debut on the 
 Xbox 360. Although Superstar on the 360 isn't as detailed and in-depth as the current-gen console 
 versions, it has enough to at least make satisfaction. In the 360 version of Superstar, the camera 
 will go up close to your player, and even if you play WR, RB, CB, etc., the camera is always up 
 close to your player. Some of you may like this feature, while some will not. And during games, 
 you're able to edit your player's attributes over the course of the game, and this includes gaining 
 stamina and toughness. But don't be fooled: The attribute gains during games are not permanant. 
 And 1 final feature on Superstar mode is the influence level, and influence is determined by how 
 well you play, but it can also be affected by how the other players on your team perform.
  
  Last but not least, the other good news add-on to this year's Madden is Mini-Camp. Some of 
 you may not care about mini-camp, but without mini-camp, Madden can be a completely different game, 
 even without you realizing it. Mini-camp this year doesn't just include QB and RB drills, but it 
 also includes 40-yard dash, Bench Press, Coverage (WR drills) , and Blocker (lineman) . The mini-camp 
 drills in this version of Madden aren't the city-to-city drills like in the current-gen consoles, 
 but it's an all-in-one mini-camp. But this version of mini-camp is actually more fun than the current-gen 
 versions, as there are add-ons in the next-gen.
  
  The franchise mode in this game isn't as good as you expected it to be. The owner-mode option is 
 this game remains absent, and you only play franchise games, and the off-season. Since this game 
 is without owner-mode, you aren't able to fire coaches, hire coaches, make add-ons to your stadium, 
 move your team to a new city, etc. Still, franchise mode is pretty decent, but it's not the best.
 
  
  The achievements in this game are harder than you think they are to achieve. An example of an achievement 
 in this game is Season Record-Sacks and even that will only give you 20 gamerscore. The rest of 
 the achievements are off of Superstar and Franchise stat records, but they're also on Madden Gamer 
 level.
  
  One final add-on to this game is Madden gamer level. Madden gamer level mainly tracks everything 
 you do in this game, but the increasers of your gamer level are games, mini-camp, Superstar+Franchise 
 games, etc. The ultimate goal in Madden gamer level is to reach level 50 (the highest level) , but 
 this level will take a lot longer than you think it is to reach. Madden gamer level mainly builds 
 up slowly over a long period of time.
  
  To be honest, this game is underrated. In my opinion, it's argueably one of the best football games 
 I've played in years. Combined with next-gen power along with returning features, it's really positive 
 that you'll be satisfied with this version of Madden until next year's version comes out. But with 
 some of you that want everything, not just most things, but everything, in a football game, you 
 might not be completely satisfied. For the conclusion: If you enjoy football games just for the 
 football games and want a good amount of features, I would recomment this Madden easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best madden made.... so far. 07 has everything the running game is so much more 
 realistic than before you dont break a 15 yr run everytime you attempt and the cpu actully tackles 
 you in the backfield. The running backs actully have to hit the hole that the play is designed 
 to run. and coming from a college lineman we finally get some well deserved respect from the lead 
 blocking adition to madden. the only flaw i see in the game is the superstar game camera views. 
 if your want to be a running back you cant see anything but whats directly infront of you. no side 
 vision at all, in fact all the positions you have a very small view of the field. other than that 
 ill be playing madden for a long time to come... anybody wanna challenge hit me up my gamertag is 
 michael5076. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonnercyn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing football games on many different platforms. Highlights included the classic 
 Tecmo Football and, perhaps my favorite, the Front Page Sports Pro series on the PC. Of course, 
 in more recent years there has been Madden and the 2K series.
  
  Back in the days of Front Page Sports, my interest was more managerial. My friends and I would 
 draft teams, adjust playbooks, and watch the games play out as the computer controlled the action. 
 Things got more hands-on with the advent of the Madden series. When that seemed to get a little 
 stale, the 2K series offered a fresh dose of gameplay. Then, my interest in football titles waned 
 and I managed to miss quite a few iterations of both series.
  
  Then, along comes the Xbox 360. You can't have a console without at least one football game, and 
 with exclusivity being the cause, I knew Madden was it. Unfortunately, everything I read about 
 Madden 06 said that the game simply wasn't that good or complete. So I passed. When the word of 
 mouth on Madden 07 started to build, my interest did as well. Ultimately, I ended up picking it 
 up on launch day.
  
  Though it had been a number of years since I really played a football game, I found I was able 
 to pick up Madden 07 and achieve some success pretty quickly. I will admit that at first I had 
 no idea how to kick the ball, so there were a lot of dealy of game penalties called. Once I did 
 figure it out, obviously the game opened up for me.
  
  I have heard it said that the Madden series lost its way at some point. Given the exclusivity, 
 I could imagine that the lack of competition would result in a mediocre game. Well, maybe it is 
 because I did not play much of those other games, but I find Madden to be an entertaining football 
 game. Graphically, the game looks very nice. I don't think people would mistake for real life, 
 but it does look great on an HDTV.
  
  I started the game on Rookie level and soon found that I was winning games handily. I went ahead 
 and moved to Pro and found the challenge a bit harder. Offense still seemed to come easily, but 
 my defense no longer stopped the cpu as often. I ended up taking a break from the game to do other 
 games, but recently came back in a quest for achievements. I returned to Rookie level and played 
 a franchise. As expected, the game is easy. I routinely score 80-100 points and hold the cpu to 
 two touchdowns or less. I don't hold this against the game as it is on the lowest difficulty setting 
 by my own decision.
  
  So, what drops the game down to an 8.5? Menus for one thing. Yes, they look nice but they are not 
 the most intuitive design I've encountered. And to be honest, I can't give a game this easy a much 
 higher score. I will say that the game is entertaining, but if you want a hardcore football sim, 
 you'll probably have to adjust the settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilcapone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing madden 07 on the 360 now for a few months. I love the create a player mode and 
 superstar mode but still some flaws as far as that goes. Gameplay is awesome the graphics unbelievable. 
 The franchise mode needs work but theres plenty of things im sure i havent found out about. As 
 far as the game goes as a whole im a lil dis appointed but not enough to call it a bad game this 
 game is still amazing......
  If your a true madden fan you should already know and shouldnt have to read this review but i wrote 
 it just incase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia_Hitman2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Bias: Steelers/NFL fan. Fantasy Football fanatic. XBox 360 Newbie.
  
  The Good: Lead-Blocking controls are great! Franchise mode is the clincher for me save for some 
 probs, see below. Superstar mode is fun but the combine is hard for beginners. I can't wait to 
 play on-line but I am not setup with wireless yet (hopefully by EOY) .
  
  The Bad: More of an inconvenience of having to save both the Franchise and your Madden Level after 
 each Franchise game. I know I don't have to but see The Ugly below as to why I do.
  
  The Ugly: Madd07 has frozen at the end of at least (3) Franchise games so far forcing a reboot 
 and replay of the games... Ouch!
  
  Final thoughts: This game is probably not for you hard-core gamers and owners of previous Madden 
 games but is a must-have IMHO for anyone new or coming back to the franchise such as myself. This 
 is a dream come true for Steeler fans as the team is great having won the Super Bowl last year. 
 My one Steeler complaint is that Duce Staley is the top RB on the depth chart, which everyone knows 
 is Fast Willie Parker. Finally, the last time I owned Madden was on my Sega and you can imagine 
 how much better this version is... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercyHigh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great . I have never played a madden better . The superstar mode is by far 
 GREAT. It is really realistic. It's not blow out evrey game. It's win by very little . The franchise 
 mode is really good. It's not increadable but it will keep u busy for a week or 2 . I really like 
 the fact that your friend can sub in and play as the cpu in franchise mode . All in all it's a 
 Great game and a must buy if u are any kind of football fan. I would highly recomend this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AC305
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I will say one thing: It by far surpasses the pathectic Madden 2006, but still does not meet my 
 needs. First, I want complete control. Madden 2007 did not give it to me. Next, I want next gen 
 graphics. I was not impressed. Come on, the background looks like a psp! I at least want good sound, 
 and I got it with the hits and throws. Once I tried the Superstar mode, I was utterly confused. 
 How can you play this mode for a least an hour? I was also frustrated with the mini games, since 
 the instructions are unhelpful. But, its the only football game around and it still has the best 
 multiplayer to me. Only for football fans, but if you're looking for fun find it somewhere else. 
 Hint: playing football is better than playing Madden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krlos_castillo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Cuando jugue por primera vez este juego, pude apreciar que diferentes caracteristicas no habian 
 sido bien acabadas, las transiciones entre las pantallas se ralentizan de forma exagerada, las 
 texturas de los jugadores no son las mejores para un juego next-gen, la movilidad de estos ultimos 
 y ciertos aspectos del gameplay dejan mucho que decear. Sin lugar a duda nos encontramos ante un 
 juego que salio antes de lo que debio y se dejaron muchas cosas sin pulir. A pesar de todo esto 
 brinda la sensacion de jugar un partido de futbol americano. Creo que una futura version de este 
 juego podra mejorar esos detalles porbremente trabajados. uno de los aspectos que me llamo la atencion 
 es como el pasto se gasta por los sectores donde se transcurre mas. esto por lo menos no lo habia 
 visto en otros juegos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titanraider1389
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing madden for a few years now, and I play quite a bit each year. I probably put 
 in about 200 games per madden. This madden has quite a few (major) problems with it, especially 
 if you're interested in the franchise mode. I'm just going to go through the many problems I've 
 experienced:
  
  - No owner mode.
  - No referees on the field, no first down markers on the field, and no net to catch the football 
 when it gets kicked between the posts. The crowd terrible looking.
  - Players aging randomly. (My first round draft pick aged 4 years after a week 7 game. What is 
 going on there? Deangelo Hall hasn't aged in 3 years of franchise play, and another player went 
 back in time and turned 23 a week after being 26.)
  - Lack of explanation of any of the features of the game. (What is train for a game and why is 
 it so poorly done. It says I need to get a certain score but even if I underperform it still rewards 
 me with the points?)
  - Inability to move you're team anywhere.
  - Inability to do anything related to coaching staff moves. This despite me getting messages at 
 the end of every year saying this coach or that coach got fired. Why not my team?
  - Only one player can tackle the ball carrier at a time. Other players are sent flipping and flying. 
 Also, while they are in the process of breaking one tackle, no new tackles can commence so you 
 will see defenders going through the ball carrier as he slips by 3 players for a 70 yard run.
 
  - Absolutely impossible for any players to progress, especially on defense. It seems only tackles 
 count towards progression. Gone are the days where you're 7th round draft picks awareness skyrockets 
 20 points because he played a full season. Why should my corner with 16 interceptions go down in 
 awareness because his tackles were not up to par?
  - The QB vision is not active unless you press random buttons the game never explains to use and 
 if it did it's muddled in all this other garbage.
  - Absolutely no playmaking ability on defense makes it very very hard to adapt on the fly against 
 an all-madden AI Peyton Manning. Also, it's very difficult to quickly call hot routes on offense. 
 No longer can you simply memorize a combination of buttons and have players going everywhere just 
 the way you want them. There's a slow and methodical (annoying) new way to hot route. Also, not 
 all routes are available and you can't change them as in previous maddens. The lack of a deep post 
 route cripples deep threat receivers such as Randy Moss and Terrell Owens.
  
  There are FAR too many flaws with this game at the current stage. This is next-generation madden? 
 I am unimpressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buccy
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  The only thing saving this game is gameplay. The franchise mode is horrendous, the glitches are 
 so obvious and INSULTING. EA has the rights to NFL and it shows, they could care less. It will 
 be a wait and see approach for EA on ANY game from here on out. It is incomprehensable to think 
 they would offer a game this poor and expect people to like it. I find it amazing how gullible 
 and how much CRAP people will take, its sad. The game is incomplete, PERIOD. anyone who rates this 
 higher then a 7 needs to eb deleted because they are absolutely clueless about the game. They play 
 it once, love it and put it in the cupboard. First year without madden in 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-Another Madden. The gameplay in Madden has pretty much never changed, except for a few 
 minor adjustments to sell the game. The new gameplay addition this year is that when you are doing 
 a running play, you can switch to a blocker and control the blocking, so your backs have room to 
 run. I do not personally use this feature, but it is still a nice addition, and can make offence 
 easier. But besides that, its same old, same old. But it is still very fun. All the modes you are 
 familiar with are here, including the new superstar mode, and you can now create a player, which 
 is pretty cool. So all in all, the gameplay in Madden still holds up, and provides great fun for 
 football and non-football fans.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are pretty iffy. I mean, there pretty good, but I think people think theyre 
 good because its so shiny, which in my opinion is pretty annoying. But the character models are 
 good and the stadiums are great to look at. The graphics could have been better.
  
  Sound-The sound is probably the best part of the game. Everyone loves to hear the bonecrunching 
 sound of tackles and the collision of helmets. Its pretty atmospheric in that respect. Its cool 
 that players chatter on the field and stuff like that. But the soundtrack is very unremarkable. 
 Unpopular emo rock and stuff like that. It could have been more arena rock to fit with the game. 
 But the sound effects and the atmosphere of the game is great. Good sound.
  
  Value-Its Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game like I said is better than what people think. The franchise mode is very good as it always 
 is. And the superstar mode is much improved with the drills like 40 yard dash, bench press, and 
 positional drills plus they didn't even have this mode on the 06 version. The graphics are very 
 good and detailed. The gamer level is awesome too and gives you a chance to show off a little with 
 friends. And like in the 2003 version of the game the historic players are back to unlock which 
 I think is great. So overall this game is much improved from the 06 version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaPrince23
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  First off yes EA is known to half-ass alot of their games lately. And this well isnt much of an 
 exception. The game is good, dnt get me wrong but. . . alot of things could be done better
  
  1. the in game commentary is probably the most dissappointing thing for me. all you hear is 
 a man talkin on a radio. and they need to have some kind of broadcast teamm! 2. The dynasty could've 
 been improved. Things like a weekly newspaper (madden 06 for ps2) and ea radio would have been 
 very good additions.
  3. Superstar mode. . . ahh where to start. its a great idea but for me its extremely hard with 
 the new camera angles. When your a QB you can barely see.
  
  on the good side, the highlight stick and lead blocker controls are very very good additions. graphics 
 are very good. soundtrack is pretty cool. online is good too, i didnt experience much lag. mini-games 
 are nice (well the ones i did play) so its a good game. . . but EA has so much at their disposal 
 and they're spittin out mediocrity they really need to stop slacking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonbeams
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The Bad: I've played Madden since '92 and for about 10 years, it was the gold standard in sports 
 games. I couldn't wait for new releases. I now have Madden '06 and '07 sitting here collecting 
 dust. They both SUCK on 360! Create-a-player mode is pointless - who really wants to create a player 
 with crappy attributes? Why bother? What was wrong before? If someone wants a team with all 99s, 
 so be it! I use the mode differently, but whatever. I wouldn't even mind if you could work to build 
 up attributes, but the mini games barely allow this are there is no other way - no cheats even! 
 Who the fuk was in charge of this year's game? EA should fire him or else risk losing the key to 
 their prize franchise. Speaking of franchise mode - no fantasy draft? Oh, and have you tried to 
 figure out how to create multiple profiles, rosters, etc.? My 20 gig hard drive is going to waste. 
 WTF was EA smoking when they made this game? Didn't the '06 disaster teach them anything? Oh sigh... 
 Next year, I'm waiting months to read the reviews before I drop another dime on this garbage. An 
 by the way, the music is annoying too, but maybe that's cuz the game reeks so badly.
  
  The Good: If you just want heads up, basic football play like the original Madden, this game is 
 great. Graphics are amazing too. The nucleus is there, but they need to get some people there who 
 know what consumers like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GWS004
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow EA you've really out done yourself this time. Overall the game is alot of fun, the superstar 
 mode is great and the graphics are amazing. My question is who tests your games out though? First 
 of all football games back on SNES had the first down markers along with the line of scrimmage 
 marks, other than that yellow line there's nothing to go off of. And how come the refs only show 
 up on the screen when they make a call, but are no where to be found ANYWHERE on the field? Also 
 the lack of half tackles takes alot out of the game, when your MLB hits the RB and another player 
 comes up to make a 2 person tackle and the animation just allows him to spin off the MLB and run 
 for 80 yrs kind of puts a kill on the overall game. And I'm not sure who's idea this was but allowing 
 RETIRED HOF PLAYERS to be picked up as free agents in Franchise and Superstar modes was a brilliant 
 idea... sure let me play against the Colts with Barry Sanders as their RB... Since it is the only 
 football game and you dont have a choice till 2010 for anything else you might as well get it 
 but if you are planning on buying it look for it on EBAY or wait until someone gets a clue at EA 
 and puts out a patch to fix these problems. As for football games bring back the 2K series, and 
 EA stick to making MVP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wvjohn2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  My personal experience is that this is a game that is a work in progress but is still the best 
 madden game I have ever played. The controls are smooth and the hit stick function works most of 
 the time. I really don't have any issues with the game, except that the hit stick could be a more 
 responsive. The on-line functions are an improvement over past maddens on Xbox. Its way easier 
 to find a game with someone who on the same level. This is huge for people starting out considering 
 that the 360 has only been out for almost one year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-MAC1992
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  madden nfl 07 has the finest gameplay you can ask for on in a madden nfl game this game can just 
 not get any better. the graphics are really up to sratch it looks like it could have the best graphics 
 on any 360 game thats going to exist. the minicamp games are just amazing they are so well thought 
 of and they really add a spark to the game. the only thing about madden nfl 07 is that on superstar 
 mode you only control your man on defence or offence depending what postion he plays. for example 
 if your man is a QB you can only control him on the offence, so as soon as you pass the ball to 
 HB or WR the computer controls them and this is a bit of an annoying thing because on madden nfl 
 06 you could control every one but madden nfl 07 is the start of an amazing period of american 
 football next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Madden 2007 is the new game from EA. Well the only football videogame you can buy. So you think 
 EA would get this one right. Well lets see.
  
  Well overall they did a great job at this. There new game modes. And the game play has been changed 
 a bit. The lead blocker helps a lot. Where you can take over a FB/OL/TE and open a hole up or make 
 a block for your RB. It's nice. The passing game seems the same. But the deep ball is different. 
 You can't just throw all over the place and get away with it. The DB's are just a little smarter 
 this year. Defense has a few more options but stills needs a lot of work. Mini camp is back. The 
 40 yard dashes, bench press, are all cool to play. And the superstar is nice. Make a player out 
 of High school form the start and get him into the NFL to try and make something of his self. Good 
 mode, but the camera view sucks. When your player is playing they have a different view from the 
 main game. And it doesn't feel smooth. EA and xbox live just don't work together. There severs 
 seem to always be slow and laggy. The game also shipped with a glitch. None of the players get 
 fatigue. And there hasn't been a patch yet. And knowing EA it might not come till next year. There's 
 also no online leagues. This should be in all sports games. Overall the online portion of the game 
 is mediocre.
  
  Well Madden is here and we can only take it as it is. Overall the game still plays good. And it's 
 fun to play. If youre a NFL fan get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KtWTupac
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  So i got the game at the midnight release and was so happy and couldn't wait till i got home. So 
 i got home put the game in and the first thing i wanted to try was the Franchise....... and i love 
 fantasy drafts so i go to turn it on..... and its no ware to be found. so im like ok maybe some one 
 online knows how to turn it on....... no one did case ITS NOT IN THE GAME. So i got over that and 
 decided to try Superstar Mode. Made my guy and started playing my first game. The idea was great 
 but the view was BAD. I was a Running back and i kept getting tackled from off screen from the 
 right and left cause its hard to see. so i lost my first to games and i wanted to try something 
 else so i played a regular game and realized with out madden the voice acting sucked. So over all 
 the game could have been great but it fell short.... since this is the ONLY football game out i 
 play it ALL the time it grows on you. SO its could have been great but its just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samanlove
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Im very disappointed in the game play of this version. I would much rather-ed kept my Xbox 06 
 version as the game play made up for the lack of the 360 graphics. The AI has no real AI except 
 on All-Madden level. And whats with the running though players? Wish I had a nickel for every 
 QB I ran through. The other thing is the way the play selections are laid out. As long as you pay 
 attention you know what play you opponent is using and can audible to adjust. What kind of junk 
 is that? Maybe 08 will fix all of thisor EA wont be rushed to market by Microsoft.
  
  There is always the wait for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1vgfan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  I had gotten 06 about 3 months ago because I saw it on sale for 20 bucks. Then, I saw this coming 
 out. Am I going to spend 60 bucks on this, even though it could be similar to 06 in every aspect?! 
 Yup. Madden 07 is a great game, one of the best football games out there. The new features in here 
 will keep you entertained for hours. I believe that it is totally different than 06. New gameplay 
 styles, new controls, new game modes. This is just overall a great game, and not a repeat. Gameplay: 
 Amazing, exactly what you'd expect from a Madden game.
  
  Graphics: Finally, Maddens got some next gen graphics.
  
  Sound: Great, the music is awesome, 
 and the effects are very realistic.
  
  Value: Although you will find some stuff very similar to 06, still worth paying full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  The first thing game developers have been doing lately is jumping all over the graphic portion 
 of the 360, taking away from the gameplay value. EA has been the best example so far in my opinion 
 of this, especaily from an experienced madden player. Superstar mode is fun the first season through, 
 although I hate the close up player view in superstar mode. I understand that EA wanted to make 
 it so you could only play as you're player, but to zoom up on him like that makes it much much 
 more difficult to play. The QB Vision is still in the game.... sadly. If they guys at madden sat 
 down and really thought about this, they would understand that adding the QB vision is making the 
 gamer literaily, look twice for a open reciever. People who have been playing madden since '04 
 on the xbox, like I have, they will find it to be a hard transition from current gen, to next gen. 
 Rent it first, and play well into it, before you decide to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cotexrp
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE the superstar mode, I realize that you only play one side of the team but I usually use 
 this time to get a drink, grab a bite, etc. I like the point of view and realistic feel to it. 
 The Madden gamer level gives you a bragging edge over your friends. I have only three problems 
 with the game:
  
  1. When you fumble on offense, as soon as you recover, they blow the play dead and you pick you 
 next play. There's no getting up and running with the ball, this is kinda crazy.
  2. You can't challenge bad calls online which gets frustrating when your opponent CLEARLY caught 
 a ball out of bounds
  3. You can't play the mini-games online against people, I'd like to see this added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Where madden last year went wrong was buying out ESPN and the next game they made (Madden 06) was 
 a bomber on all systems. Well, surprisingly they change it up. This game isn't even close to being 
 what it was before, its more improved, more slick, solid and overrall a great game. Of course you 
 got the ever popular franchise mode that has some new tweaks to your likings. But the more anticipated 
 was the SuperStar mode, which is when you create a player by choosing his parents by a random pool 
 and that creates you. It is a very interesting experiment that is easy to get in and out of. SuperStar 
 mode focuses only on your characther and no one else. So when you pass, the pressure is on you, 
 not the team but you. Create a player is finally back after a recent absence in the last game, 
 it is back with some new fix ups in equipment but overall nothing to shine a pretty penny at. Online 
 plays is alright, there is alot of lag and the rooms aren't that really well put together. But, 
 atleast we got a decent online service.
  The graphics for this game are phenomenal, the players and physics ARE OUTSTANDING. The sweat and 
 jersey look almost real. Last year it looked awesome, but there movements were kinda androidish. 
 This year, when you break a tackle, you really see you break a sweet tackle by a bear, and not 
 automaticly glitch somewhere else. The enviroments are stadiums are nicely design and look exactly 
 how they do in real life. The sidelines are well, the 2D sidelines we always remember, its the 
 same guy repeated in a different color 67,000 times. Pretty amazing if you ask me. The snow effects 
 in the game make you almost chilly yourself, due to the realism, your gonna need your mom to slap 
 you in the back of the head. The menus are well designed and the backgrounds (selected by your overrall 
 favorite team) look pretty nice. The sound entertainment level is pretty low in this years Madden 
 edition. The soundtrack is nothing to sweat at, its very very well done. But the sportscasters 
 are the same people, and sentences repeated in a different way 1,000 times to the point of yer 
 insanity. The crowd noise is amazing and really gives you a sense of you being there.
  Achievements in this game aren't hard. Some of them include 30 years of franchise, SS record for 
 Recieving, etc. All these are so easy and the points you get are unREAL! Not to mention, this year 
 you have a madden overall gamer level, when you play a game or a minigame you get madden points 
 that go to your overall score. That later on a game, you can bet to win stuff, such as hall of 
 famers, etc. Very very nicely done in that area, and no doubt is a great addition to the game. 
 The market online content is limited, there mostly picture packs and back grounds for a small amount 
 of Microsoft Points (90) .
  Overall, Madden doesn't disapoint us this year, but we are still missing some puzzle pieces, but 
 Johnny is finally worth 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankunc23
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a huge improvement over last years game but still lacking in many areas. The gameplay 
 is lagging over current gen games and the 360 version is missing the owner mode and fantasy draft. 
 The graphics are amazing and the detail is right on the money but I don't think the gameplay should 
 sacrafice. Granted, this is the first full version of Madden on the 360 but with over a year to 
 develop this game, it could have been better. The players running on the field seem as if they 
 are turning a circle on defense instead of planting thier foot and cutting. All in all, I like 
 the game and I look forward to seeing the improvements next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidenseven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  i have been off the EA bandwagon for 6 years with one year going without a football game just because 
 i was pissed at EA for taking it away from the best football devs ever. anyway i heard good things 
 about this game and in the end it actually holds a candle to 2k5 (i will always prefer 2k5 gameplay 
 but i needed an graphics upgrade and yeah new rosters.... ) so yeah first graphics, great amazing, 
 but there is a few things the devs either rushed on or just thought it wasnt worth it. its pretty 
 bad when something as simple as the field goal net going up and down or actually being there in 
 many if not all football games isnt in this one... hmmm even worse no refs during the gameplay 
 running oround the field????? cmon i knew EA do half-@$$ work but that is just plain lazy... animations 
 and surprisningly physics are pretty solid, best hit detection in a football game. gameplay standard 
 madden affair im affraid to say. well for me its bad, for others great, i cant believe how different 
 madden is to 2k5, its harder to do hot routes audibles everything but i got use to it eventually. 
 and once i did it was pretty fun, the lead blocker you can go without and the menus can get confusing. 
 but once you figure it out and learn the game its fun. sound- the radio guy whoever he is is 10x 
 better than madden he is so alive and its so refreshing hearing someone excited when a touchdown 
 is socred or a big play is done this guy is so much better, i mean he has so much more life compared 
 to madden when he says he turns jukes.. another JUKE... OMG HE CAN GO ALLL THEEE WAYYY TOUCHDOWN 
 AMAZING!!!!!, now madden is- he juked... another juke... i need more money to say juke again... 
 the 20 ---- 10 ---- 5---- goodie touchdown.... so yeah sound is much better in 360 version. value, 
 good MP online and off you cant really go wrong there in a football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgolden85
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought Madden 2007 expecting to have an awesome football experience. Though it isn't too bad, 
 I can definitely say I'm disappointed. I much prefer Sega's 2k5. No, I'm not an NFL 2k5 fanboy, 
 but I must say the gameplay felt much tighter in that game. I even liked Madden 2005 for Xbox better 
 than '07 for 360. Graphically, '07 is better, but only really looks good when you aren't actually 
 playing. During gameplay, things don't look that impressive in my opinion, and the cutscenes where 
 the game DOES look good just get really annoying, as you have to keep skipping through them to 
 get to the gameplay. They also make the game lag in between plays, and just slow everything down. 
 I don't hate the game - it's fun, but I'm not very excited if this is really next-gen . If I had 
 any other choices for 360 football, I would definitely try them out and likely sell Madden 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in madden 2007 are excellent, but at the same time can be irritating. The 
 player models are good, but some fine touches are missing. The star players look real. But the 
 not so recognized players dont look as real. On the other hand you dont see the players faces 
 during gameplay but only in replays, which a lot of gamers like to watch. The most nerve-racking 
 part of the graphics is once you start playing, you will start stumbling across the npcs not colliding 
 but passing through one another. The stadiums look great! The grass is the best looking it has 
 ever been. It looks 3D but could be slightly improved. The fields deteriorate over the course of 
 the game! Referees are nowhere to be found in gameplay, or replays, they only appear during penalties. 
 The nets behind the field goal posts are gone, and the cones marking the corners of the endzone 
 arent interactive, meaning you go through them when you dive into the endzone. Dont forget the 
 player models are excellent though. Their helmets and jerseys develop dirt and scratches.
  
  Gameplay: Some new game innovations have come about, including lead blocker control that is 
 very fun, having the ability to take the role of a blocker, you can lay some jacked up hits. The 
 best feature added is the highlight stick it is intuitive and balanced. It is an offensive alternative 
 to the defenses hitstick with a flick of the R-stick. It is also balanced because consistent use 
 will cause fumbles and it keeps noobish abusers at bay. The highlight stick is jam-packed with 
 all new animations; every time you play you will see a new animation making each game unique. The 
 players you use have unique skills that actually retain accurate representations of the players 
 real life skills containing the sense of realism. EA, after last years game said they would put 
 challenges into this years game. Well they did it! They also did it carelessly! The A. I rarely 
 challenges. (Ex. I was up 4 points 4th quarter 5 seconds left, they are on my 5 yard line they 
 throw he catches it clearly out of bounds they call it a TD, no booth review. I look at the replay 
 he got no feet in, 5 yards out of the endzone. I lost that game when I should have won.) The fatigue 
 meters dont work but EA will release a patch. Sound: The sound in the game is alright, the tackles, 
 crowd, and everything is good. But, occasionally the commentator says,  The deep return man fumbled 
 the last punt  Even when its the 1st punt of the game. The sounds of grunts, play calling and 
 everything is good but nothing we havent seen.
  
  Value: Madden always has great replay value. This game contains all the modes abruptly missing 
 from 2006. Superstar mode is one missing from last year in which you make a player and edit every 
 aspect of him. You play just as your player and not the whole team. The only positions that are 
 intriguing are QB and RB. The rest of the positions are hard to control and have clunky camera 
 angles. Another mode added is live opponent. This is where you can have a person from live take 
 the place of the team youre playing against in your franchise. This keeps your franchise games 
 fresh and mixes it up. The achievements are much more difficult compared to madden 2006 but manageable. 
 Tilt: Madden is still the undisputed champion of party sport games. This years installment of madden 
 improves on quite a few aspects which needed to be touched upon. Simultaneously leaving itself 
 open to flaws. EA has its work cut out for 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWdarkJedi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 was an excellent. This was the second version of Madden released for the 360. After 
 a pretty disappointing Madden 06 for the 360, EA Sports bounced back to deliver Madden 07. The 
 game was very graphically sound, not many glitches. The gameplay was solid and responsive. There 
 were many upgrades to the well known Superstar Mode, as in more positions, and different camera 
 angles. There are also many new Mini Camp games that are playable. Unlockables are a very big part 
 of this game also. The commentary was ok, but not the classic voice of John Madden. The game had 
 a couple problems, such as non-updated rosters, and some players were not very realistic looking. 
 But overall I thought Madden NFL 07 for the X-Box 360 was a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  After all of the endless sport games that EA has produced they finally have something to show off! 
 (Besides BF2 on PC and FNR3 on 360!) Madden 07 is back and is well worth the wait that we suffered 
 through! $60 is well spent to own a game this fun. It has a few bugs but, it shouldn't be missed!
 
  
  + Superstar Mode is back
  + Online updated rosters
  + Mini-games
  + Lead-blocker control is extremely helpful
  + 30-year francise
  + All 32 NFL Teams with all 
 the rookies
  + Can make some close, and exciting games
  + Great new kicking meter
  
  - Superstar mode is nearly impossible on defense as a CB, FS, or SS on any difficulty besides rookie
 
  - Some bugs online (some frame rate issues)
  - Too many ATL Falcon people online (YES YOU!)
  - Opponet AI goes from as Tards to Superstar 
 Hall Of Famers
  - Can get many people frustrated (since when does Marvin Harrison drop a pass?)
  
  ? No cheerleaders? 
 Come on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedbrooks
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you Madden 07 is not that bad, although it is still missing a few features like 
 gang tackling and Owners mode. They were able to add the 40 yard dash and bench press mini games 
 into the game. Superstar mode is back also, which is better than ever. The Franchise mode is back 
 with their usual 30 seasons. The visuals in the game are better than ever, which is also a good 
 reason to buy the game. Many people are saying the PS3 version will be much better because EA had 
 more time to work on it. I am pretty sure the Playstation 3 version of Madden will be missing some 
 features also, so I do not think there will be any difference at all besides maybe a small detail 
 or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Lauren-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  While Madden 07 is still a fun game, it's stripped of so many features that all the Last-Gen Madden's 
 had. Gone is Situation mode, The ability to save a game or replay, Owner Mode, Create-A-Team, and Create-A-Fan. The 
 only thing that seems new are the graphics. And I think I speak for all of us when I say: BRING 
 BACK THE SLIDERS!
  
  The Gameplay:
  Is still surprisingly addicting and fun as it's always been. But it's still the same gameplay we've 
 seen from lots of other Madden's in the past, and it hasn't really been improved upon.
  
  The Graphics:
  Are great, but not as good as they could have been, and they are also inconsistent. For 
 example: Afternoon games look pretty nice, while evening games look like a pile of crap, NFL 2K5 
 for Xbox had better looking graphics than that.
  
  The Sound:
  Is most definently the high point in this game. The on-field sound-effects, and commentaries are 
 top-notch. Honestly, I think the sound is the only thing that's next-gen about this game. The announcer 
 could be forgotten. But he does do a good job of capturing the enthusiasm of the game.
  
  Overall, Madden tried to be something big... well actually, it didn't really try to be anything special. Maybe 
 that's because EA had no competition, but they only have themselves to blame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  If Madden 07 were a football player. It'd be a very strange one indeed. Every year, we hear about 
 how EA Sports has made little improvement on its predecessor, but every year the number of copies 
 sold just grows and grows. Is it because football fans don't care what's changed, they just want 
 to buy the new Madden every year. (i. e. myself) Is it because it's the only professional football 
 game out there? Who knows. Who cares. I am happy to say that this year's Madden is an extreme improvement 
 over last year's. Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 was pitiful. This year's is much better. The biggest 
 improvement of this year's version would have to be the Highlight Stick feature. This year, big 
 backs won't have an advantage over the little backs. Franchise Mode has also improved somewhat. 
 You now have the ability to import draft classes and create players to put on your franchise team. 
 Create-A-Team is a no show yet again this year, which is kind of a bummer. Superstar Mode has also 
 improved, but not by much. The dumb sponsors and what not have now been taken out of the game, 
 but now the position-specific cameras have been put in. It is very difficult to create and dominate 
 with a defensive superstar however. The kicking has changed this year from the double A kicking 
 meter to the Right Thumbstick kicking meter. It's still an improvement, but can get a little tricky 
 when trying 50+ yd. kicks. The game does also have it's little glitches when entering the playcalling 
 screen. Franchise mode also has this glitch I call the Day 29 glitch where when you simulate the 
 free agent signing period with 29 days left, the simulation box will stay up there, causing you 
 to restart the game. I also enjoy the Xbox Live games. There is always someone to play, and it's 
 always fun to play with people all around the world. But mostly, the good outweigh the bads in 
 this year's version. But the one thing that troubles me still are the Hall of Fame Players. There's 
 no getting rid of them, and you can't not unlock them. IT has its flaws, but Madden 07 is still 
 the best (and only) NFL video game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning visuals, play mechanics work well, tons of modes to play. The Bad: Kicking still 
 sucks, it's just not as much fun as ESPN NFL 2K5.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Let me start this review by saying that this is the first Madden NFL game I have ever owned. I 
 previously owned NFL 2K3, then ESPN NFL 2K5, which I still own, and haven't gotten an NFL game 
 since. It's nice to get a new NFL game after a long break, but I have to say that it isn't as fun 
 as my older one is.
  
  Because Madden NFL 07 is the only NFL game on the market, it's the one and only option for NFL 
 fans to get some pigskin action on their consoles. It's a well done game, but it still isn't as 
 good as the perfect ESPN NFL 2K5 was. The biggest improvement over the previous version of Madden 
 is the visuals on the Xbox 360. The game looks fantastic, and the atmosphere is also incredably 
 well done, but the presentation isn't as good as 2K5 and the gameplay isn't as fun or addicting. 
 There are tons of modes in Madden 07, including Superstar mode, where you make a player, then take 
 him through the draft process and work your way to becoming an NFL superstar. There's also the 
 franchise mode, which isn't nearly as good as the ESPN NFL 2K5 version, but it's still well done. 
 Other modes such as Hall of Fame mode and the Online modes I haven't tried yet, but I'm sure I 
 will.
  
  Aside from the visuals and all of the modes of play, it just doesn't have the same feel that 2K5 
 nailed so perfectly. It's much more serious than 2K5, but it's presentation isn't as good either. 
 EA has an partnership withg ESPN, but my feeling is that they made that partnership so nobody else 
 could, because they sure haven't used it much in this game. There's no half-time and post-game 
 show, which 2K5 had. There's no Sportscenter episodes featuring your team. There's no create a 
 team mode or fantasy draft option! The fact is, EA has gotten stingy with the features simply because 
 they can. They don't need to add all of these features in their game, because it's the only NFL 
 game on the market and people will buy it anyway. I have to say that I am disappointed with this 
 game's lack of presentation and some features, but it is the only NFL game out there, so I guess 
 it will have to do. I wish it was better, but it is still a solid game of football.
  
  Gameplay: Solid football action, but it lacks some features I really wished it had.
  
  Graphics: 
 The game looks fantastic, but it still isn't like that trailer from 2005's Super Bowl. Sound: The 
 noise and effects are also outstanding, but the commentary is bland and there is no half-time and 
 post-game show.
  
  Value: It's $60, which is a lot of money to spend on a game that will be out of date in July.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: An ESPN NFL 2K7 would have been better, but this is still a very well done NFL 
 game that you should get if you need some football on your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4XC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  While Madden 07 is still a fun game, it's stripped of so many features that all the Last-Gen Madden's 
 had. Gone is Situation mode, The ability to save a game or replay, Owner Mode, Create-A-Team, and Create-A-Fan. The 
 only thing that seems new are the graphics. And I think I speak for all of us when I say: BRING 
 BACK THE SLIDERS!
  
  The Gameplay:
  Is still surprisingly addicting and fun as it's always been. But it's still the same gameplay we've 
 seen from lots of other Madden's in the past, and it hasn't really been improved upon.
  
  The Graphics:
  Are great, but not as good as they could have been, and they are also inconsistent. For 
 example: Afternoon games look pretty nice, while evening games look like a pile of crap, NFL 2K5 
 for Xbox had better looking graphics than that.
  
  The Sound:
  Is most definently the high point in this game. The on-field sound-effects, and commentaries are 
 top-notch. Honestly, I think the sound is the only thing that's next-gen about this game. The announcer 
 could be forgotten. But he does do a good job of capturing the enthusiasm of the game.
  
  Overall, Madden tried to be something big... well actually, it didn't really try to be anything special. Maybe 
 that's because EA had no competition, but they only have themselves to blame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianone24
Rating: 3.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  To start off.... I'd like to say that I was a madden fan..... WAS!!!! Than came the xbox 360. Alot 
 like many other people, i'm sure, I went off to my local video game store and traded in all my 
 regular xbox goodies for the BRAND NEW XBOX 360!!! Got home popped in madden 2007 and was immediatly 
 impressed with the graphics. Than after playing the game for a few hours I found that I made a 
 mistake. should of just purchased madden for the regular xbox and save myself the money! EA sports 
 got scared when sega came out with a football game that not only was better than the madden series... 
 BUT ONLY COST 19.99!!!! So they went ahead and purchased the NFL license. And than sat back and 
 said to themselves, ok... now we can relax..... nobody can beat us now. They gave us the next gen 
 graphics with the sega genesis gameplay. So that being said here is what I consider the good and 
 bad of this so called next gen football game;
  
  GOOD: The graphics. the details of the players and the stadiums and the field are great. Couldn't 
 have been done better. But thats what we come to expect shelling out over 300 dollars for this 
 system!
  
  BAD: Tackling. EA seems to think that only one person is allowed to tackle at any given time! everyone 
 else just seems to lose their balance around the would be tackler and everyone falls to the floor. 
 Most of the tackles look like the players accidently collided into eachother! The defense is horrible... 
 and i mean HORRIBLE!!!!! All you ever need to do to win a game is drop back wait a couple seconds... 
 and than bam! heave the ball as far as you can throw downfield and its cought.... unless the reciever 
 manages to drop the ball. and 90 percent of the time the defender will not react until after the 
 ball is caught. Not even a shut down corner like champ bailey can stop the deep pass.... and even 
 though he is a shut down corner back... 99 percent of the time... he'll keep up step for step with 
 the reciever, he may even pass the reciever... but he has his back faced to the reciever until 
 after the ball is caught! I pay attention to the small things.... like.......... There are NO referees 
 on the field at all. The only time you know of a penalty is because of the announcer. They took 
 the coaches off the sidelines during all gameplay. there is no play clock at the end of each field.... 
 you know.. the one that counts down the time you have left before a delay of game is called. Every 
 stadium has one in real life and all the other maddens had it (except for madden 06 on the 360) . 
 I'm just sayin that it helps to have that instead of a tiny tiny clock on the bottom right corner 
 of the screen. (for the online mode) The defense cant make any audibles until after the other player 
 presses a button after picking a play. Also you cannot challenge any play, whatsoever online.
 
  Controlling the player is sometimes difficult from the fact that one.... they get stuck on eachother 
 alot.... which sometimes turns them in the opposite direction that your pressing and when the get 
 tackled they sometimes run in the opposite direction of the endzone, two... when you pass the ball.... 
 sometimes the player will take 3 or 4 steps before you control him. so if you are ever passing... 
 and the player is running toward the sideline... and he catches the ball with no one on him... 
 it's a little frustrating that after he catches the ball he keeps running and doesnt respond to 
 your controller until he's stepped out of bounds instead of immediatly turning into the open field! 
 Well enough is enough. I guess you all can tell that I am no longer a madden fan. Not until they 
 come out with a decent game at least. Everyone... and i mean EVERYONE.... do not buy this game. 
 Rent it first and you will see all about what i've written. I hope that I've saved people their 
 hard earned cash. HERE'S TO ANOTHER SCREW UP EA!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimescene45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I'll admit, I wasn't anticipating 07 to be this good. They did a good job on improving the 
 graphics when spinning/ juking/ trucking. The Highlight Stick and Lead Blocker controls are absolutely 
 amazing. It makes it almost too easy- which, if gone too far, can be a bad thing. The trucking 
 feature on 07 makes it extremely easy to blow past defenders with ease most of the time. The Lead 
 Blocker Controls make it much easier to pick exactly how and where you want to make your block. 
 It is not as easy as using the Highlight Stick- which is good. Because I find 07 to be very easy- 
 on offense that is. Rushing is easier compared to passing. On defense, it is just a little bit 
 harder than offense. Harder to break free of blocks, but easy to intercept/ block/ tip passes.
 
  Of course, it has glitches. Just the other day, I went flying right through the ball carrier. 
 I wasn't expecting to miss, so, he made it pretty far. This has only happened once, and I hope 
 not again. This has always been a problem on previous versions of Madden, but you can't expect 
 any game to be absolutely perfect. I love 07 and always find myself playing it- sometimes without 
 realizing it..... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtfandyk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Overall it is a good game, but I feel that the presentation could be allot better. I am a person 
 that really likes how a game looks. When you are playing the dynasty mode there is no hype within 
 the game for regular season games to playoff games or even the super bowl. They could have added 
 more. Allot of people when they get the game want to just add themselves to a team and go with 
 it, but don't count on it this year it is a pain in the a$$. Overall the on line play is pretty 
 decent. Graphically this an amazing game. There is just some things that EA should have boosted 
 and made the game seem more in depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqblackjesus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth this is the first madden game that I have owned since Madden 2004 which I 
 consider to be the greatest of all the madden games, and it is the first football game I have bought 
 since NFL 2k5 which I consider the greatest of all football games. I like EA Sports, I think they 
 are a very good gaming company but with that said they just don't get it. Madden could have been 
 great but it isn't, it is a step forward from Madden 06 for the 360 but that wasn't hard. This 
 game would be so much better if there was owner mode, if there was an easier way to create players 
 than to have your madden gamer level be a certain level. I don't care about all of that I care 
 about playing the game and having it be fun. But when I play this game it just feels incomplete 
 and like they could have done more. It is a fun game to play with a group of people but Im not 
 reviewing this on that basis, I'm reviewing it on its solo aspects, and in that area, they have 
 some work to do. I wish EA didn't have the NFL exclusive license because with competition is the 
 only way to true greatness and it would keep EA from pushing out incomplete games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skorm177
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Game was supposed to be the madden to end all maddens, well its not. I got it yesterday and 
 man was it fun cutting people up with shaun Alexander and tackling people with Ray Lewis. Well 
 Soon did this fun end. I was getting a little bored of playing as real people so i wanted to make 
 my own guy. And what i found out was pretty gay when you make a guy you cant even customize his 
 stats. You have to do 3 intense drills that are so hard yet easy at the same time. When you think 
 you got top notch scores your stats are overall 27. Its almost nearley imposible to get an above 
 60 average and then franchise mode every single linebacker or cornerback is only out to get you 
 not any of your team mates. Not to mention You cant Make your own team. You cant have alternate 
 uniforms, you can customize the weather but it aint tht great it all looks the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing sports games for 20 years now. I've been praying for a realistic football game 
 year after year. If you've ever played the board game Strat-o-Matic you know what I'm talking about. 
 If someone could incorporate the Strato into a video game they would be in my books a genius. One 
 that makes you say this game is so much fun and so close to a real game of football. With all the 
 supposedly technology we have today. Why can't someone figure out how to create a football game 
 that you can play 4, 15 minute quarters and get a realistic stat line, realistic total plays per 
 game and a realistic amount, and type of penalties called. I've had the penalties turned up all 
 the way and I'm on week 8 and theres been zero holding calls. I rented this game and for the 1st 
 year in a long time I don't think I'm gonna shell out the moola for this one. It seem that year 
 after year, after a few games, I'm bored with it, and it feels like more of a job, than fun, to 
 complete a season. I'd love to see a game with no AI to set. 15 minute quarters. A real game of 
 NFL football right out of the box.
  
  The paragraph above was my honest opinion, but maybe a bit premature. I did end up buying Madden 
 07 and it did become quite addicting. The Biggest key with Madden to be enjoyable for myself was 
 to get all the settings right. I managed to do that, and have had quite an enjoyable season. I 
 am looking forward to drafting players from NCAA 2007. Don't get me wrong this game needs major 
 refinements, and big time improvements, but it does feel the void for football at this time. Which 
 doesn't bode all that well. I just hope next year that EA will take a bigger leap that it has in 
 the 1st two seasons....... We're paying good money for this title, so how about giving us a good 
 game in return, instead of the nickle dime game, will add a little this year and even less next. 
 So in 5 years will have a game that we should of had in 2.............. Please Cut the Crap............. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cn31672
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  I love Madden, but I will no longer be playing it, or any game, on my Plasma TV. Madden's logo 
 and scorebar at the bottom of the screen has caused a faint burn in on my plasma TV. There's nothing 
 I can do about it now, and the manufacturer won't replace it, even though the TV is only 3-months 
 old. BE CAREFUL, and EA, start making your logos clear like they should be for HD display. I hope 
 this helps other people. BE WARNED!!!!!!!! Has anyone else experienced this problem???? Has anyone 
 experienced this on LCD TV's. Now I have an XBOX and no TV to play it on.. UGH!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untamed_russ
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  360 version of this Madden is a sad excuse. Yes the game will look nice and pretty for the televised 
 Madden Bowl's. However, I would like an explanation as why the next gen version lacks the features 
 of the old shool systems? I shelled out $400 for my 360 in hopes to have the ultimate Madden experience. 
 I have been playing video games for nearly 30 years and this has to be one of the biggest letdowns 
 versus my expectations. If the NFL hadn't sold all rights to EA then ESPN or Sega could have put 
 out a better game for the 360. I know it's just a game but it is my alone time, my stress release 
 and my hard earned money. EA you have soured me on Madden. At least you didn't screw up NCAA 07 
 as bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonee
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Instead of trying to reinvent the wheel, EA should've just gave us the current-gen version with 
 polished graphics. Instead, 360 owners get this weird hybrid of a game, which lacks features, has 
 commentary more annoying than previous iterations, and plays a little broken, like the PS1 days. 
 After a little while, it dawned on me. All the extra cool stuff like, different uniforms, stadiums 
 etc... will probably be sold on the X-BOX live marketplace. That is what I and others like me fear 
 the most. Sell a half assed game for $60 then nickel and dime your customers afterwards. I heard 
 a 1up. com reviewer once say, don't charge us for stuff, that should've shipped with the game anyway! 
 I just hope that 360 owners boycott MADDEN stuff on the marketplace. If you buy this content, you'll 
 never see a complete version of Madden again. If you boycott, EA will have no choice but to add 
 it into next years version. Don't give in.
  P. S. The HOF edition is not worth the extra $10 bucks and that's the sort of thing they should've 
 sold on the Marketplace. Other than that, I'm a season in and have put it away for good, because 
 there isn't enough back end features that make me want to play anymore. Every game starts to feel 
 redundent after awhile, and playing against other people stinks, because there are a couple of 
 good CHEAT plays, like the TE3 HB dive play. You'll be pulling off 80 yard runs a play in no time. 
 I rushed for 395 yards with Corey Dillon against the Vikings on All pro mode. After going a broken 
 16-0 with the Pats, with all the glitches, its not worth playing anymore. Inexcusable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  We all remember the game that was released with Madden's name last year, the shell of a football 
 game with a pretty face but not a whole lot of depth. This year EA has stepped up and fixed a lot 
 of the things that we missed last year, but game depth-wise, it's still a better game on the xbox 
 or ps2.
  The superstar mode is back, and in my mind the best mode of the game. I like the new superstar 
 creation mode with the mini games, even if I can't bench anything and run a solid 5.4 time with 
 just about anybody. It makes you feel more like it is your character. Being a parent of a 3 month 
 old child, I can't play for an hour solid. Even when she is resting I need to be alert and ready 
 to pick her up. That can make a football game last hours... and that's not always a good thing. 
 There is an option in the superstar mode that lets the cpu control everything when you are not 
 on the field. It gives me the time to take care of the baby and still enjoy the game, even if I 
 can't call the plays.
  The franchise is as it always has been, nothing exeptional there. I prefer the owner mode and hopefully 
 it will show up in next years edition.
  
  Gameplay - Pretty good, but not quite up to Madden standards yet. The new modes and minigames add 
 a little to it though. A strong step in the right direction.
  
  Graphics - This is the best looking sports game I have played outside of FNR3. The animations are 
 smooth (most of the time) and the faces show the pain of the game. If only they could improve the 
 crowds...
  
  Sound - I still prefer the local radio announce to Madden and crew, but on his second year things 
 are starting to repeat a lot more. I know there are only so many things to scream when  
 TOUCHDOWN! is pounding in your head. The music is a better variety, but somehow we lost the option 
 to knock songs of of the Madden soundtrack.
  
  Value - If you are looking for a better football game then last years, here it is. But unless you 
 are a graphics junkie, the ps2/xbox versions are a better value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandoc2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  i bought this game - i wanted an nfl game on my 360 so this is the only one - the graphics are 
 excellent - worth buying --- the little mini games in which you train players seems a little pointless 
 as their not that easy to work out - franchise is gr8 - im on pro and its not too hard i won my 
 first match 42-26 so... but yeh there are mized reviews go on hmv and i bought it on the 360 for 
 &pound;29.99 with codes so i got myself a bargain of a game ---forget onlin its too laggy but thats 
 ea' rubbish servers -- but yer the game is deffo worth a look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I really won't bother to get into detail about the Madden series by now most of you know the basics 
 lets look at this years features.
  
  Lead Blocking. This is where you can hit the LB button and select any player on the offense and 
 block for your runner. While I thnk this is cool its just a revamp of the blocking scheme the had 
 2 or 3 years ago when you could hit the right thumb stick toward a defender and the nearest player 
 would block for you.
  
  Mini Games. I love the Mini games because this year they have the 40 yard dash Weight lifting, 
 Runing back, WR, Lineman challenges that are all difficult to a degree and fun.
  
  Hall Fame Mode. This is where you create a character and play that postition only through out this 
 players career in hopes of getting to Canton.
  
  Overall I would say I love Madden I just wish the would step up and keep the winning formula and 
 add to it not take away something one year only to come back and add it 2-3years later in a different 
 form Keep what works add new things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcansk8
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The game was good, luckily my roommate had it so i didn't have to waste my money on it, and thats 
 exactly it, waste my money. It's a good game but isn't worth $60, i would maybe pay $30 for it. 
 The gameplay is ok and the graphics are excellent but its the same exact game as its predecessor 
 Madden '06, if you can get on a deal on it or buy it used, then maybe you should buy it, but in 
 no way should you go out of your way to spend a ridiculous amount of money on this mediocre game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMCorso
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  it's a decent football game but there are some areas that could use some help, maybe some quicker 
 play actions, some better blocking in the open field, the computer does a terrible job at it, but 
 its understandble there are some holes with a new system and its first real big release of a type 
 of game, i'd imagine 08 will be better, they'll realize the things they did wrong and see some 
 things that could use some tweaking. i haven't tried the regular XBox and PS2 if they have similar 
 problems but the 360 does have some holes. and i'm just a casual player i don't know every little 
 thing about football there may be more problems but those are the obvious ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  We all know that EA has the only rights to the NFL football names, as it seems since this has happen 
 the games have lacked a bit. I mean dont get me wrong these games have been a good addition to 
 the collection, but they could have been better and they were before this whole deal with the NFL 
 has happen. The additions to this years game are great but to me its more about the things that 
 were in last years game that are missing in this years. When you go backwords in a game and lose 
 something you had before its never good. For example there are no on field reffs, no field goal 
 nets, no alternet uniforms online, no online minigames theres just to much they took out. Though 
 none of this has much to do with actually gameplay it just takes away from the realism, making 
 you feel like your in the game. Also I wasnt to happy with the crowd, every year in next gen they 
 keep saying you will be able to see the crowd get up and leave, but i never see this, they all 
 seem to move as one. But what everyone really cares about it the gameplay, and thats where the 
 game is really solid. Its much more fun in my opinion throwing the football, no more do the d backs 
 get a sudden burst and jump in the air to knock your ball down. You have to really cover the deep 
 ball, one on one coverage is not going to cut it here, just like in real life. Also the blocking 
 system is great, at times it feels like it works to well, but if you play your cards right on d, 
 you can slip right by and make a tackle in the backfield. The play calling system is also better 
 in my opinion besides when your playing someone on the same xbox 360 because then they can see 
 your play, but its much easier online, all your formations are laid right out infront of you. In 
 this years game its actually fun to return punts and kickoffs because your blockers block like 
 they would in a real game making it much more fun to read your blocks and look downfield. You also 
 actually have a chance of blocking field goals and extra points which can make the game much more 
 interesting.
  
  Well the gameplay is good on both sides of the ball and on special teams, but there are two main 
 problems I was very disapointed in. One as in last years game, no John Madden commentary. Im not 
 sure whats up with this but what is the point of calling the game Madden if Madden himself is not 
 in it. I mean the new radio commantary is very good, and in someways better then Maddens has been 
 for the last couple years, but its just not Madden without Madden commentary. The other thing was 
 the SuperStar mode, I was a big fan of it in last years game, I know many people didnt like it 
 but i loved it, it had its fair share of problems but i loved entering the draft and becoming a 
 star. In this years game they have all that and more, but the thing that made it little to no fun 
 was the camara. I tried playing QB and DB I couldnt see anything, leading to getting burned and 
 throwing to the other team. If there was someway to change it it would have made it a lot more 
 fun. Besides the fact that you cant play as anyone else, you can play d if u want if your QB, but 
 you still cant play as the RB or the WR. So overall Madden 07 is a solid title and a great addition, 
 the only reason I can really see buying this game is the online experience, the online is a lot 
 of fun, and addicting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice is the big MADDEN 07 planted across your screen which means you 
 have just purchased, and are about to play the next instalment of Madden. A successful series that 
 has taught me more about football then any real game ever could have.
  
  Now, the menus, they've gotten a massive overhaul and at first they were confusing and annoying. 
 Instead of the conventional menu where if you enter a certain mode you would have to press B until 
 you were at the main menu, not any more. They have introduced Vista sort of glass transparent menu 
 that can go over everything. Whether you're setting up your roster in your franchise or working 
 out a schedule for your superstar. Like I said, at first they were confusing and weird, but they 
 have grown on me with their amazing convenience and it allows you to choose exactly what you want 
 straight away, instead of going through every menu.
  
  Another good addition to the Madden series is the Madden Gamer Level. It tracks everything you 
 do and has specific achievements that you can work towards through each game, season or career. 
 The achievements are split into four main categories; Mini-Games, In-Game, Franchise and SuperStar. 
 This is a great way to challenge your friends, see who can reach the highest level first. There 
 is one massive flaw, the Hall of Famers that get added to your roster as you gain levels. Once 
 these HoF are added there is no way to get rid of them unless you download the online roster. Just 
 make sure you don't start a season with them in your roster, it can take you another few hours 
 to get it all right again.
  
  The first thing you notice when you play your first game is the graphics; the players look good, 
 the coaches look good, but the reserves and crowd still look very outdated, but what can you expect. 
 The play-calling menu is the same it was in 06 on 360, but I still prefer the previous Maddens. 
 Although the new screen gives you a lot more clear options, you can't get over a classic. The game 
 plays alright, the runs can be spectacular and passing is no longer frustrating. Once again I am 
 disappointed with the tackling. There are very little dual tackles and there is no way of joining 
 one after it starts, this means no assists. Never the less its football, its fun and its addicting.
 
  
  Franchise mode, the one we all love, has returned for another season. The menus have been revamped 
 as well. It as also lost many of its original charms; newspapers, radio and just the regular view 
 of the roster. Honestly I would prefer the old menus, if you couldn't have guessed. The menus still 
 bring the old charms of player progression, injuries and the pro-bowl. Unfortunately it has lost 
 owner mode, one of the many things that kept you occupied when you didn't have enough time to play 
 a full game. Overall franchise is still is addicting as it was last year and you will still want 
 to get all your players in the pro-bowl.
  
  SuperStar mode has received a massive revamp and has improved on a somewhat successful idea. The 
 training regime is different and the answer you give in interviews is no longer just about you. 
 The IQ test is now that little bit easier as well. One massive change to the mode was the introduction 
 of player influence. Everything that you achieve on the field affects your influence which in turn 
 effects how you and your team play. Unfortunately you cannot pick the plays and if you are not 
 involved in the play and it goes wrong, your influence gets knocked way down. Sometimes there's 
 nothing you can do and you want to hope your team can play as well as you (not always the case) 
 SuperStar mode is a nice change for franchise and only having to worry about one player in first 
 person mode is fun and relaxing.
  
  Overall Madden brings a lot to the table but also forgets a lot of the side dishes. It's an extremely 
 fun and addicting game as always, but some of the changes you want will have to wait till next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breckcowboy25
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d dd d dd dd d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d dd d dd d d dd d d d dd d d dd d d dd d dd d d d 
 d dd  
 d d d d d d d  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin5454
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  madden 07 is a buy. madden 07 is a lot better than madden 06. 07 has new min games and a new way 
 to play the game for those of you that have a xbox360. like in 06 you only got super star mode 
 on the xbox and ps2. but now for you 360 owners you can play in super star mode as well. super 
 star mode is were you only play as on guy on the field it makes the game feel more real like you 
 are a player. so i will give madden 07 a 9.9 out of 10 p. s. this is the last madden they are making 
 so if u want to play it get it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Madden is back for the, umm, I can't remember how old this series is but, who cares?! Madden 07 
 will grow on you for a great game to just hang out with friends, and if you don't have any friends, 
 this game is still great for you, too, ya' loner! Superstar mode is the most fun I've had creating 
 myself in a game in 6 months (Oblivion) I am now the top player in the NFL and you can't bring 
 me down or my muscleman virtual self will use his lawsuite and tackle powers on you. Franchise 
 is still here, there is Hall of Fame, Create-a-Player, Superstar, Play Now, Mini-Games, Practice, 
 and NFL Nation, and with a payed subscription, you can play Fantasy Football! You can get real 
 scores of real games or PGA, MLB, NFL, NHL, NBA, and other stuff. Madden 07 has some solid online 
 play and real potential to become a great game. Blue 42, Set.... HIKE!! Madden NFL 07 gets an 8.7 
 score and a 15 yard gain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett20
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  There is a lot wrong with the 360 version of madden. The first huge thing is the absence of the 
 fantasy draft. That is one of the best features of madden in the past. The second is the absence 
 of John madden in the game announcing the game. The game name is Madden. I don't understand how 
 you can not have him announcing the games. Third, when you are playing the game, almost after every 
 play the screens shoots to the score board and you can't press a button to hurry threw it so you 
 are stuck watching it. This after the third time gets really annoying. Fourth, when you are playing 
 multiplayer, the person on offense can force the person on defense to not be able to call coverage 
 audible. Here is how, when both players are done calling their plays, the screen then will go to 
 the players walking up to the line. it will stay on this screen till the offensive player clicks 
 X, But if the offensive player does not push X till the play clock is almost at 0 then hikes the 
 ball the defensive can't call any sort of audible to adjust to the offense. The cure for all these 
 problems and more is to buy a current gen version of this game. I don't know how you can mess up 
 so bad on one version by releasing it with more then a few glitches and then have the other versions 
 being so much smoother. The only conclusion I have come up with is that they rushed it out to meet 
 the August 22 dead line, that was stupid and I hope they realize this. I would rather it come out 
 in December and be great then it come out in August and have it be miserable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numberonejigga
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game you will realize the flaws in it. Secondary is will piss you off at times. 
 Players will be in position on defense, and when the ball is passed they just won't make a play. 
 Not saying it sucks, it's still a nice football game, and the only football game. It's just feels 
 like they added some more animations, and didn't really dig into the gameplay enough. As much as 
 I hated madden they need to bring his fat ass back, because the radio guy just doesn't make it 
 feel like the nfl. The replay system is severly basic, and you never get that atmosphere like you 
 had on the xbox and ps2 maddens. Graphics are nice and the superstar mode is fun, but the core 
 gameplay needs to be overhauled next year. EA needs to stop worrying about adding the new game 
 play features, and go back to the basic things that need to be addressed. AI being the main subject. 
 I would still buy this game, because if you love football like I do, then you need your fix. I 
 must say it makes me sad that EA has the liscence all to themselves. Stiff competition makes for 
 better football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin0330
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I think the classification I chose for this game describes it very well. Madden 07 for the Xbox 
 360 is "Solid". Yes there are problems here and there but the solid gameplay is what keeps my interest 
 in this game. I was disappointed with last years Xbox 360 version and didn't even bother to finish 
 a season with that game, but 07 is in my mind the first next gen NFL game. One of the big additions 
 to this game is the Superstar mode. This mode allows you to play through a career only controlling 
 one player from your position of choice. I think this a great mode and it adds a lot of replay 
 value to the game, but some of the positions are more enjoyable to play than others. My favorite 
 superstar position is QB. I like the low camera angle and the fact that I still feel like I have 
 some control over my team with this position. Yes I do like this mode but I absolutely hate how 
 they offer you the screen to adjust your attributes after going to the line of scrimmage!! This 
 is ridiculous and just slows the flow of the game. Why not put this on the play calling screen?? 
 This definitely gets old having to adjust these options on every drive when it seems to get in 
 the way and make the game stutter. Overall, some tweaks are needed to the Superstar mode but I 
 think this is a good start.
  
  The franchise mode on this game is almost back to what it was on Madden 06 for the original Xbox. 
 This is my favorite mode to play and the biggest problem I had was deciding on a team to play with. 
 While franchise mode is great, I would like to see the return of the Tony Bruno radio show and 
 also the return to more intuitive menus. Maybe next year the 360 version will be complete with 
 all the features? Lets hope so since this game does cost more than current gen versions.
  
  My only other big problem with this game is that the graphics seem to stutter here and there. I'm 
 not sure exactly how to describe this but it just doesn't feel like they are always flowing smoothly. 
 Other than that, I think the game looks great. My final issue is that fatigue meter of the players 
 never drops. I think this is supposed to be fixed in a patch but how in the world does this get 
 past testing?? Honestly, I think the option of adding patches and downloadable content is making 
 game developers even more lazy.
  
  Aside from all the criticism this is a solid football game and the only option for an NFL game 
 this year so I definitely recommend the game. A few fixes here and there would earn this game a 
 score above 9 but for now I give Madden 07 for the Xbox 360 an 8.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately the Madden series is now emulating NCAA and not the other way around. This game does 
 not have as many bugs as NCAA and is a better value but just barely. If you are like me and have 
 been playing the Madden games from the beginning this will be a highly disappointing release. For 
 those who are new to the Madden series I imagine this could be considered a great game. Ill Give 
 it that. I did not play the 06 release as I was still running the regular XBox 05 otherwise I would 
 have realy been disappointed. I also was also eased into this crap with NCAA. My hope now is that 
 EA has a long range plan to re-work this into a great title. My understanding is thats it has improved 
 from 06.
  
  Ok, so whats the deal?
  
  The good:
  Great Graphics and thats about it. Superstar mode is improved a little bit. and no more droning 
 Madden comments (not sure if thats good or bad) .
  
  The bad:
  No alternative to EA football titles. The navigation system sucks. Poor collision detection (not 
 as bad as NCAA) , Commentary via radio announcer sucks, Many detractions from Franchise mode which 
 I hear were removed in 06... I could go on but why?
  
  What I dont know:
  Well, a lot actually :) but as for Madden 07 I have not gone online with it nor have I played anything 
 other than a QB in Superstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire619_199
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  It is a game worth getting. every one that says that the superstar mode is horrible must not have 
 played it for to long becuase after you get used to the camera it is really fun. the only thing 
 wrong with this is they took out john madden and whats his face. i forget the other guys name o 
 and the graphics arnt G. R. A. W but are still amazing. This still isnt 100 words! God damn it just 
 exept it arg 20 more words to go this is bull s*** i dont really have anything else to say about 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundesligaBM
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Flash back one year, Madden 2006 was anything but good. The game felt rushed and very incomplete. 
 This year Madden has kept up with its older brother on the xbox with many of the same features. 
 The graphics are running off the same engine but are more polished and life-like at times.
  
  The game grows on you, I would recommend this one to any football fan, and this being the only 
 real football franchise left to buy.. it leaves very little choice.
  
  Its got room to grow but its still a great game that offers much of what got madden where it is 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL returns once again, this time with a handful of new features. Improving the gameplay 
 factor is the ability to set the man in motion pre-snap, and to control a blocker and then switch 
 to the runningback to drive a massive gain.
  
  But, the series still lacks some realism. The incorrect yard-gain estimates of the announcer get 
 old fast, the crowd still looks like a cloning facility, and at times the opposing team seems to 
 always catch you right before the end.
  
  The physics system is greatly improved, one of the best ever seen in a sports sim. Gone are the 
 days of watching players' feet pass through each other as you gaze at the awresome replay of your 
 TD run, but after the plays end, the players all act like robots again.
  
  One thing that definitely needs work is the roster customization system. Though you can trade every 
 single player to pretty much anywhere, the menus you must navigate to do so are clumsy, and need 
 work for 08.
  
  One other improvement from the prvious installment is the fact that the Patriots are no longer 
 gods of the field. In 06 you could toss Hail Marys downfiel to your heart's content, but if you 
 try that here, you'll have more interceptions than a drunken rookie quarterback in his first pro 
 game.
  
  All in all, Madden needs some work, but this one will keep you busy until next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is probably one of the better madden games out. It is fun to play with a friend, and 
 the single player is just like any other madden. Theyve added a couple of new modes that arnt all 
 that great. The graffics and stadiums and sounds have improved over the past ones, but one thing 
 that really annoys me is the announcer and how they make it to sound like hes over the radio, it 
 just doesnt seem like a real game without madden announcing. The controls are great, and the new 
 lead blocking can really help in running situations but is hard to master. The challenges are fun 
 and help you to get you player ranking up, and if you good enough you can get up to 50 and get 
 that achievement which is really hard. This game is probably the most fun playing it with a friend 
 or on xbox live if you can get into a game without lag. overall this is a great party game with 
 friends, and improves over past games in most areas, but still doesnt mean you should pay 60$ for. 
 Its definatly worth a rental and a definate buy if your a madden/ football fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 was released for most platforms this past week with much fanfare surrounding it. 
 The consensus on last years offering was that it fell well short of what most of us consider next-gen. 
 Has a years difference changed things? What is new in this years release besides the oft joked 
 about updated rosters? Well, quite a bit actually, and while this still might not be the Madden 
 we all hoped for on the 360, its a very good football title nonetheless.
  
  Gameplay & Fun Factor
  
  Obviously, the core of Madden this year is little different than any 
 other MaddenNFL football simulation. New features include the Lead Blocker Control, the inclusion 
 of the Superstar Mode, the Highlight Stick control for runners, and Mini-Camp, to name most. 
 These are pretty interesting and largely useful, adding to the game in different ways. For example, 
 the Lead Block Control feature is something that you do in game, on offense, for running plays. 
 Before the snap, you can choose any player on the OL (or another running back or fullback, for 
 that matter) and then after the snap, you control that player. Its your goal then, to create a 
 hole for your running back, which the CPU is controlling for you at this time. So if there isnt 
 a hole for your runner, its not all the CPUs fault this time around. Switching back to the runner 
 is as easy as pressing the switch player button, B. So if you can learn to create that opening, 
 you can really exploit it and I think its a good thing that EA decided to add more depth to the 
 running game.
  
  
  The Highlight Stick is another new addition that you will either love or not use very often. Right 
 now, at my skill level, I prefer to not use it a whole lot, yet. What the Highlight Stick does 
 is allow your runner to make jukes and cuts and have the sweet-feet that more experience Madden 
 players can often already do with the standard juke and spin controls. The Highlight Stick can 
 work well for you, but just like the Shot Stick in NBA Live 06, it can either work for you or against 
 you a lot of times. Still, Im glad to see it included in this years Madden.
  
  Hall of Fame Mode or Superstar Mode is something that I have previously no experience with. From 
 what I have read it was something that was left out of last years Madden for the 360 due to time 
 constraints on getting the game out for launch. While other console versions of the game have enjoyed 
 this feature for a year already, Madden 07 represents the first time this deep, interesting element 
 is brought to the 360. Basically, you create a player, a very detailed player at that. You control 
 off the field action almost as much as in game action. You begin as a rookie, be it a loud mouthed 
 rookie or a humble team player, its up to you due to the choices you make on and off the field. 
 Interviews with reporters, choosing an agent or going it alone, making a huge play in a game, not 
 being selfish in a gameall of these various actions affect how your character will fair as a potential 
 hall of famer. You can keep track of how well you are doing (as far as getting into the Hall after 
 retirement) by observing a meter in the game that will fluctuate depending on actions on and off 
 the field. You can also unlock a lot of Hall players, and add them to your roster. Some big names 
 like Montana and Joe Namath arent there, but others like the late Walter Peyton and Barry Sanders 
 are, I dont know why EA wasnt able to round up more of the big names and most desirable stars. 
 Anyways, having not seen or played this mode before, its a side to a football game I didnt expect, 
 and I thought it was a clever, good way of introducing a whole other dimension to the series while 
 adding a lot of depth at the same time.
  
  AI in Madden 07 seems maybe slightly improved from what I played and read about in 06; its good, 
 but questionable at times, both in offensive and defensive decisions and actions the CPU takes. 
 I was pleased that my Madden experience in 07 seems slightly easier, yet still challenging, than 
 what it was for the 06 version. Ive developed only slightly better Madden skills since last year, 
 but the game, at least for this casual Madden player, has gotten a bit easier and, admittedly, 
 more enjoyable.
  
  When I go back, just for comparison sakes and load up John Madden Football for my 3DO, its astounding 
 how far the series has come. On the other hand, when I drop in Madden 06 for the 360, its clear 
 that this series, while having moved forward, still has a lot of growing room in this, the start 
 of the next generation of gaming.
  
  
  Graphics & Audio
  
  Madden NFL 07 still doesnt look as good as the early screenshots that were released prior to the 
 release of Madden 06. Many of you probably remember those screenshots, featuring McNabb barking 
 out orders in the snow. While Madden NFL 07 looks good, its not tremendously better than 06. If 
 you were expecting a massive difference, well, hopefully well see that in Madden 08 in a year.
 
  
  Furthermore, there are still what seem to be a high number of graphical glitches and shortcomings, 
 like clipping and robotic looking players. The presentation in between plays is okay but looks 
 decidedly okay, not outstanding.
  
  In terms of audio, we once again have the usual hash of crappy EA Trax that will make you immediately 
 locate the Menu Music volume slider. Whats so wrong with some in house instrumental game music? 
 I dont know, but for years now EA has gone with the generic rock/hip-hop/pop stuff that I really 
 wonder how much of their faithful audience enjoys. Commentary is actually done by an unnamed radio 
 announcer, and wow, its actually kind of fresh and exciting. The enthusiasm the announcer shows 
 is commendable. Other SFX in the game are fine, with little variation from last year.
  
  
  Depth & Replay Value
  
  Naturally there are plenty of modes from Franchise to Superstar 
 to Exhibition even to keep you coming back for more. Online play is available and performed well 
 under testing. Mini-Camp and the ability to upgrade your players skills is something for the long 
 term, too. Furthermore, the inclusion of 140 or so Hall of Fame players that can be added to your 
 roster is nice, and will add another dimension of interest and replay value to the game.
  
  I think Madden NFL 07 has about all of the depth you would expect from a Madden title, and probably 
 far more than what most gamers will actually use. Personally, being a more casual Madden gamer, 
 I dont foresee doing much more than a season or two before moving on; obviously, Madden 07 can 
 handle that just fine.
  
  Overall Comment
  Madden NFL 07 is a solid football game but one that, with all of the hype and the letdown from 
 last year, would have had to have been near perfect for it to be considered great. If you have 
 a 360 and HD, and want a very good football game, Madden 07 is a good choice, and well, one of 
 the extremely few choices you have at this point. For consistent Madden fans, I believe 07 has 
 enough freshness in it to make it worth serious consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanos1960
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  The hype, the wait, the lines, the preorders, and the game itself; it's all here. Now I know we 
 have some disappointed gamers that are still complaining about the 40 yard dash, the weight lifiting, 
 and being bowled over by a running back while in practice mode and the mini games, but all in all 
 it is an improvement . There is still some glitching and sometimes it seems like the creators pour 
 more effort into graphics prior to pregameplay sequences than the actual gameplay itself. Some 
 of the QB's are still as big as the linebackers and create a player mode is extremely frustrating 
 when trying to make someone that will compliment a teams ailing backfield or special teams. Why 
 is the strength level always so low after completing the drills? Any answers? I need a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamin_EaGLes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  last year's madden was horrible, so horrible that i decided to sell that and buy a madden 06 XBOX 
 version. this year's madden, great upgrade!!!! love the visuals and sounds, stunning graphics and 
 detailed sound. one thing i love are the rookies, the rookies of this game are great to build a 
 franchise around. i mean you got reggie, vernon davis, matt leinart, vince young, mario williams, 
 etc. although most people said this game is the same as last years and the year  
 do you expect?!?!?!?! its football, either like it or get the hell out!!! lol madden 07 is a great 
 buy, i mean i get hyped up to play this after i watch a game of football on tv. they rated the 
 players very fairly.
  you should buy this game if you want a good football game that you can play throughout the season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a game is a way better game than last years poor excuse for a football game. I really am 
 glad it plays like what we would expect in this series. There are so many things that I could say 
 about what I like about the game. So what I'm going to do is tell you what sucks about it. Because 
 everything else is great! One thing that pisses me off is the fact that you can't change individuals 
 defense assignments like in the PS2 and Xbox versions. Answer me this..... how can the old gen games 
 have a critical feature like that in it and the current gen doesn't! Also the game is hella choppy 
 when navigating through the menus and some loading screens. The servers for online play can't handle 
 the load of all the activity. There are a few thing that I would like to see in the game:
  1. The ESPN ticker should be going when your playing the game not just in the menus.
  2. In practice 
 mode make it easier to change plays w/o backing out... change the defense for the team your not 
 even controlling etc. Other than those things...... I really love playing the game! Like I said 
 it's the only game I've been playing since it came out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  one very good game ton's of fun not bad of a diffculty ton's of modes it is forsure best in seires 
 it will most likely be hard for some one that just started palying the madden NFL seires but for 
 those how played the games before it shouldent be to hard for them it's warth every penny you pay 
 very good online good 4 player game i think 4 player or maybe it's 2 but what ever it one of a 
 kind game best foot ball game ever made that for sure it has some of the best Graphics thare is 
 it's way better then madden NFL 06 on the 360 that's for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket22
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Game is bugged and freezes EVERYTIME I PLAY! I'm not kidding. Word on the net, is that there is 
 a "BIG" bad batch of disc out there. I've tried all the fixes:
  
  1. I'm on my second copy.
  
  2. Suspended the Power Supply
  
  3. Cleared the Hard Drive 
 Cache
  
  4. Disconnected my Hard Drive.
  
  5. Cleared all files on the Hard Drive.
  
  Believe me nothing works, I've tried it all. This is what happens when a "POS" game company 
 buys the exclusive rights to the NFL. I would rather have them hold on the release date then put 
 this "CRAP" on the shelves. This is the only game I have problems with, it is not a heat issue. 
 It has frozen after being on a whole 5 minutes. People have even reported there system going dead 
 after playing the game and hearing there DVD DRIVE sound louder than normal. It is possible for 
 bad media to put bugs in the system or burn out your drive. PLEASE DO NOT BUY!!! IT'S NOT WORTH 
 IT. STOP LOOKING AT THE PHONY RATINGS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is the first REAL Madden to grace the xbox 360. The game includes a good amount of 
 new features (from madden 06) like Superstar mode, create a player, madden gamer level, highlight 
 stick, lead blocker control, hall of fame mode, mini games, improved franchise, and better online 
 play. The game is addicting and fun to any football fan out there. The graphics are great and the 
 best from a sports title thus far. The gameplay is soild and the highlight stick really adds depth 
 to the game. The lead blocker also adds another deminsion to the game and lets you feel more in 
 control over the running game. The game plays smoothly but does have some bugs here and there. 
 Superstar mode is great fun and can be played multiple times in different positions. Overall this 
 is a great buy for a football fan and a madden fan as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cberic3
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  another year, another demo disk for the EA monopoly.
  
  Missing simple game play features while incorporating BULLSH_T like superstar mode is a travesty.
 
  
  no fatigue
  online fair play
  formation subs
  playmaker
  fight for yards
  poor online framerates
  neutered mini games
  unchangeable controls (online)
  servers crash 
 every night it seems giving you DROPS and LOSSES
  the list goes on, and on, and on, and on.....
  
  Don't waste your time. The PS2 and XBOX versions 
 are surprisingly good by comparison. For the first time in years, the XBOX and PS2 versions have 
 ALMOST caught up with NFL2k5, a game almost 3 years old.
  
  -Santoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaluaj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  If you are a madden lover then of course this game is a must for 360 owners. It is without a doubt 
 better than the 2006 version on the 360, but something is still missing about it. The superstar 
 mode is great, how ever some of the positions you can play have really bad camera shots. The specials 
 and mini games are a great addition. If you are not a madden fan this one isn't going to bring 
 you into the series any more than the last. The sound quality is as good as ever and the graphics 
 are stunning even to last years model. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richiedbond
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  After being so disappointed with Madden 06 for the 360 I was pretty apprehensive about even looking 
 forward to this title. But seeing as I have owned every year of Madden (yes I love the series) 
 I decided to give it another chance. So here is what I think: The AI is not bad but it needs some 
 work, like in almost every Madden there are plays that just work it does not seem to matter what 
 the defense is doing they just work. The game play itself is fun, I really like the lead blocking 
 feature, it allows me to actually block the right people. The graphics rock and the sound is classic 
 Madden. Overall I say this title is awesome and totally worth picking up, I mean is there any other 
 choice in NFL games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szitzma
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Much better than last year's X360 effort. Superstar and Mini Games are nice. Just wish you could 
 change the view in superstar mode. It's tough to see the field and your recievers as a quarterback. 
 Running back zoomed in isn't that bad, though.
  
  They've fixed a couple of the most annoying problems in the '06 version, like the lack of coaches 
 challenges (what's the point of showing the red challege bubbles if you can't challenge a play) 
 and the quarterback not dropping back after a snap.
  
  There's still some improvement to be made. I miss the pre-programmed controller configurations 
 that are on the XBOX version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 4.1
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  First off, if you're the only game in town, you need to come strong. Having Madden as the exclusive 
 NFL licensed game has not only squashed good open competition between developers, it has also made 
 it impossible for me personally to buy this game. I rented it and actually want my $8 back.
  
  Graphically, the game does look nice. It even plays a little better than last year's horrid 
 offering. The problem I have is that it's too much like last year's game in that it seems to be 
 missing quite a bit of content that made Madden the "1,000 lb gorilla" it claims to be. In 2004, 
 the series introduced Owner's Mode in which the player was able to control the entire franchise 
 from top to bottom. Ticket prices, food prices, advertising dollars, even relocating the team. 
 That's what made Madden the best football game ever made. To see the last gen consoles still get 
 that feature while the 360 version is stripped and bare really makes me wonder if I'll ever consider 
 buying another EA title. The controls are tighter than last year, and I do like the fact that the 
 buttons can be mapped to a customized layout, but the bottom line is that this just doesn't FEEL 
 like a Madden game. Mini camp drills are back this year, but more as fluff rather than having them 
 mean anything. You can play them, and even score points to use on advancing player stats, but overall 
 it just falls shorter on the 360 than any other system. You can finally draft imported players 
 from NCAA 07, which I suppose is a step in the right direction. The problem I have is that Madden 
 07 isn't interesting enough to keep playing long enough to get to the offseason. If you're looking 
 for a mindless football game to play head to head or even online, I suppose this one will do..... (it 
 is the only choice for NFL license) but my friends and I took it out after one game and really 
 don't plan on going back. It's immediately apparent that this game is just a poorly done, over 
 rated, unintersting steaming pile of garbage. EA should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrawn55
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm not an avid madden gamer, I get the game once every few years so this year i broke down and 
 bought it. Well crap what a letdown. The gameplay is good and its fun to play just a 1 on 1 against 
 somebody but when you go deeper into the different modes, it becomes clear that this game just 
 plain sucks. The superstar mode is probablly fun, but I just cant get past that horrid unchangeable 
 camera angle. The difference between difficulty settings is night and day. The difference from 
 Pro to All-Pro is night and day. It wouldnt be so bad if they made a difficulty somewhere inbetween. 
 I know you can tweak the AI but, who wants to do that. I want it quick and snappy!
  
  Franchise mode is usually one of the more fun aspects of the game but I just hate it for one reason. 
 OFFSEASON! The draft is computer simulated and I dont think you can change it. (I want to pick 
 who I WANT!) The computer will sign players you dont want... etc.
  
  For the crappyness of 06 (i rented it) , I expected something better from 07 as they've had a year 
 to mend their mistakes. Well.. I hope EA comes out with something better for NBA Live and for Madden 
 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OSNAPANTHONY
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Has anyone else out there have there 360 stop working after playing madden? Mine froze up on me 
 three times before flashing three red bars. I had to wait three months to get my 360 and now 5 months 
 later it's shot. Let me know if anyone else experienced this same problem with madden07. I was involved 
 in an online game each time it froze up on me so now I have an 0-3 record and I was winning all 
 three games at the time of the freeze up. I'm pissed off! Now they tell me it's going to cost $129 
 dollars to look at it since my warranty ran out jul 28th. I'm s. o. o. l I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlyrealbrew
Rating: 2.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I got a 360 this weekend. I have to say I don't care for Madden at ALL that system. There are some 
 major flaws: a) For instance, when playing head to head, I can see the exact play my opponent calls, 
 and vice versa. Not just 3 on the screen like before. This is a fatal flaw, really for an experienced 
 player to know their opponent is calling a running play or passing, well u see the issue. b) Also, 
 why did they have to change kicking, it wasn't broken. They also removed some of the main fun options 
 from franchise (owner) mode, for all intents and purpose they removed owner mode (no tickets, no 
 financials, no advertising, no relocation) - c) I cannot put two controllers on one team, meaning 
 no two players playing co-op, I cant figure out why Id buy two more controllers, when I couldnt 
 play with 4 by this token. d) NO audio or video features. I cannot change screen views or audio 
 options. they just are gone. e) Playmaker control has been removed. This was how you could blitz 
 or screen just one guy. So are hot routes. f) Alternate uniforms have been removed. Including throwbacks. 
 Overall Id rate this version of Madden an F. I am going to trade it in and get 2006 back, and update 
 my rosters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjswooosh
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  After playing yet another Madden game that feels like a re-hashed version of last years game, one 
 thing is perfectly clear: EA Sports needs some competition in the pro football market. While not 
 a complete disaster like the 06 version and a marked improvement over its predecessor, Madden 07 
 is arguably an even bigger disappointment. Expectations for this year's version were high. Last 
 year most fans in the know realized that EA was going to rush their 360 sports games to market 
 in order to catch the "Next-Gen" wave, so we partially forgave them for its many inadequecies. 
 This year, however, armchair quarterbacks far and wide felt they deserved more. And with a full 
 extra year to develop the 07 version, there really is no excuse. EA should have been able to give 
 gamers something truly worthy of being called "Next-Gen". Unfortunately, what we have here is simply 
 yet another re-hash of the old EA tried and true football formula with some spiffy graphics, sub-par 
 animations, missing features, retarded AI, and onfield gameplay that is badly in need of a major 
 overhaul. In other words, this aint worth $60.00 boys.
  
  The game is pretty much the same old Madden and comes complete with all the old AI flaws and holes. 
 All games are total shootouts as the defensive AI is a joke and even the best CBs in the game are 
 utter "toast". Superstar mode is great on paper but ends up being pretty lame in practice. There 
 are numerous gameplay features missing from the Xbox 360 version, which is unforgivable this year. 
 Graphically, this game is fine, but hardly what I would call truly "Next Gen". I don't consider 
 pretty still shots to be the only factor to take into account here. Animations also play a part, 
 and the bottom line is that the animations in Madden are still very stiff much of the time and 
 feel robotic and not very realistic. The same can be said for the collision detection and the physics 
 engine. It feels "canned". The sound is the same old, same old. The announcing is totally lame. 
 Although I'm not a huge Madden fan (he is, after all, the "king of the obvious" when it comes to 
 his announcing style) , I do think the game lacks personality and if there is one thing Madden and 
 Al Michaels have together is personality and chemistry. Why they even bother promoting this game 
 with the Madden name and then pretty much leave him completely out of it is a total mystery. The 
 radio style announcing just doesn't fit. Go back the drawing board EA... the sound sucks. Given 
 all of the missing features that should be here, the value of this game is relatively poor compared 
 to the PS2 and Xbox versions, especially since it costs $10 more. Having said all that, what is 
 even more sad is that 2K Sport's NFL 2K5 is still superior to this game from an onfield gameplay, 
 animation, physics, and AI standpoint... and that's an almost 3 year old game running on 6 year 
 old Xbox hardware. I'm not really sure how EA Tiburon sleeps at night knowing they are producing 
 such mediocre products in comparison to their supposedly out-dated and obsolete competition, but 
 I'm really beginning to understand why EA went after that NFL exclusivity contract: they took a 
 look at 2K Sports gaming engine and then took a look at their own and realized real quick they 
 simply would not be able to compete on equal terms using their current technology. All I know is 
 that someone at EA Tiburon must have some serious sway with the EA execs, because if I was in charge 
 heads would be rolling at Tiburon for one simple reason: they are NOT giving the gamer the best 
 possible gaming experience for their dollar. Period. Apparently no one at EA cares.
  
  Our best chance for a truly innovative Pro Football game that is worthy of being called "Next Gen" 
 will not come until next year when 2K Sports releases the rumored "Total Customization Pro Football" 
 game. If and when that occurs - and if we are truly able to download authentic NFL licensed team 
 and player names as well as jerseys and stadiums after the purchase, then EA could be in trouble 
 even despite their exclusive agreement. Maybe with a little competition EA would finally produce 
 something worthy of our gaming dollars for a change.
  
  My recommendation: rent it first and/or wait until you can find it used or on sale for $35 or less. 
 It's a fun game at times if you put your brain in neutral and force yourself to forget this is 
 basically the "same old Madden" (with a couple additions and some unfortunate subtractions and 
 the same old horrendous defensive AI flaws) , but it is simply mired too deeply in its numerous 
 problems and absolute lack of innovation or gameplay improvements to give it an unqualified recommendation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcmonroe2004
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  OK, like everyone else I think I have been playing Madden since the days of Sega and Nintendo and 
 for the most part you got what you paid for. For us unlucky XBOX 360 owners, its seems that a few 
 companies obviously cant read when it comes to building a game engine to meet the capabilities 
 of this awesome system. In a word this games sucks and in the review I am going to go "there"
 
  
  1. Whats up with the whack angles in superstar mode, cant see anything, no QB with that kind 
 of field vision would be playing anywhere in the NFL. On top of that whats up with the ridiculous 
 sized players, all these cats on the game would be on 4 week suspension for roids faster than Barry 
 Bonds can swing a bat!!
  2. Whats with the defense, man when you brought superstar mode in as this new experience I was 
 hyped, I made a QB and I let the defense handle defense, I am in a shootout every game, the D just 
 sucks, the opposition completes over 90% of there passes and they almost always break a big score 
 on the second possession or when they are down as a half expires and the need a score. there is 
 no way the Bears pass on a High school team for 350 yards so I know they should not be doing it 
 to an NFL team, every team I have played is like this. The D gets tromped by every team I play 
 and I only win because I bomb the ball on streak and know the pass balanced playbook like the back 
 of my hands. The running game is crappy also, you hand it off and the running back has about as 
 much cut as kids on crutches often leaving his blockers and getting smoked for a loss (however 
 every running back I have faced is running like Reggie Bush in college) . The AI in superstar is 
 just rigged in favor of the computer, also there is a stupid amount of encroachment and off sides 
 by my team mainly, I have tried this with several different superstar teams with the same result.
 
  3. whats up with the audible system, I change and try to save my audibles, I get in the game 
 with the same profile and they audibles are gone, also I think your AI coach calls some of the 
 dumbest plays ever, down by two scores, 2 and 15 on your own 45 and the AI coach is calling a HB 
 smash? This is just an example but it is pretty close to on point here. 4. Franchise mode is stupid, 
 no owner control, and I have said it once and I will say it again, why do you allow people to make 
 coaches in NCAA and then not allow those dynasty making college coaches a shot at being imported 
 into Madden like the players are, throw him in the free agent coach pool. Better yet bring the 
 dang owner mode back in the first place, I will cover that later. There are too many glitches to 
 mention in the off-season mode but this needs to be fixed.
  5. Finally, 360 owners paid 60 bucks for this game what did we get, Crappy Franchise, Crappy Superstar, 
 Crappy audible mechanics, no before game analysis like we see until we turn purple on real life 
 game days, everyones dang pre-game show!!! and most of all even though I personally dont care 
 for the guy, how in the F#$* do you put Madden all over the game, brag about his induction, find 
 another reason to overcharge us for this game and then the dude dont say ONE SINGLE WORD on the 
 game, his bus rides cant be that long!!! To me that almost false advertisement, "Madden 07" with 
 no Madden pictures no Madden voice no nothing of Madden, nothing at all. I know the real NFL stars 
 and legends that went and peddled this games on talk shows and stuff are either really embarrassed 
 or very greedy because this game is a disgrace and I cant believe that the fine people at EA 
 Sports gave this to us!!! Stop with the lies, stop with all the hype and just tell the truth, the 
 geeks you got building the game dont care about nothing but a paycheck. I hope 2K comes back and 
 wipes the floor with you next year, just like they have for the last 4 years with the NBA 2k series. 
 Stop with the "Its In The Game" slogan, you make a fool of yourself every time you claim it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I took a long time playing this game before writing a review because i felt guilty for writing 
 about last year's debacle with limited gameplay hours. With the prologue out of the way..... here's 
 the review.
  
  I stepped into Madden expecting a very large improvement over last years shorted 360 version. And 
 in many respects It is much better. The game modes are there, the depth is there, and I could instantly 
 tell the graphical tweaks and effort put into the game. Madden 07 looks and sounds awesome. It 
 really makes the HD TV and 5.1 surround sound seem worth it.
  
  The game modes in 07 are very nicely done. I personally found superstar mode very addicting and 
 a wonderful compliment to the regular franchise or season modes which are haven't really gained 
 a whole lot in recent years. Superstar mode is an awesome idea and deserves at least 20 hours of 
 play from any football or gaming fanatic. It is truly a step forward in football console games.
 
  
  Now that I've been nice, I'll cover the weak points. As I've come accustomed to with EA I find 
 a reoccuring lack of improvement in player physics and animations. Tackles look good then look 
 terrible. Players run awkwardly at times and quarterback drops and throws look stiff an awkward 
 as well. Superstar mode does suffer from bad use and lack of camera angles as well as a 40 yard 
 dash that really needs tweaking so I dont develop carpel tunnel. I'm once again stuck with a game 
 from EA that has enormous potential but hits a brick wall nearly 80% of the way through with the 
 same nagging injuries. I really want to say that I would buy madden even if 2k sports put their 
 version out, but certain things in madden lead me to believe that i would pay $80 for their version 
 which, two years previously on an inferior system has more natural and fluid gameplay and physics. 
 EA could do so much better and I hope they do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Madden NFL 07 is a very good game of Football or as those englishman call it, ballfoot. The main 
 focus of Madden 07 was implimented on the blocking aspect of Football, using this you can now block 
 for the runner. It doesn't sound all that fun on paper but it is fairy enjoyable. EA Tiburon also 
 focused on the funning game, you now have whats called a "highlight stick", to use this you press 
 up on the right thumbstick, now with larger backs like jamal lewis you will still be using the 
 truck stick to plow down defenders but the highlight stick is for more of the elusive backs.
  
  Graphics:
  Madden 06 on the 360 sure looked great and Madden 07 looks even better, the stadiums 
 are huge the uniforms are very detailed and most of the faces are spot on. There are also alot 
 of new tackle animations that look nice as well, I did notice that sometimes when a defender is 
 going for a hit they will kind of just run into the guy causing both of them to just go flying 
 which looks a bit off.
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack in Madden NFL 07 is actually not bad, you have your usuall emo and punk and all 
 that crap, but some of the hip-hop and rock is pretty good and the NFL Films music always rocks, 
 the announcer in the game is the same Ea radio announcer that was in the game last year for the 
 360 and I find him alot better then John Madden and Al Micheals.
  
  Value:
  The game is a much better value then 06 was, you have your superstar mode which is actually pretty 
 fun this year, your franchice mode is still pretty bare boned but its still pretty good, you also 
 have this all new madden gamer level which tracks your progress, im a level 11 because I accidentially 
 deleted my profile 3 times on 3 seperate ocations, It's a really good value this year.
  
  Tilt:
  The game has always been very entertaining, the online play this year I found to be pretty 
 lagy but wasn't completley unplaiable, I found that I had alot more fun this year with the game 
 then I did last year.
  
  Overall:
  Overall if your jonsin for a football game this year then look no furthur then Madden NFL 07. It 
 has alot more to offer you then 06 did and any Football fan has to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucs2nine
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  GREAT GRAPHICS!!!!!..... GREAT GAMEPLAY.... which are the backbone of ANY game, BUT,
  
  there are 8 things left out you can find on the previous-gen games that are simply left out to 
 make us a whore to the industry.... a GEORGE LUCAS- Release as many different versions as possible- 
 type WHORE.
  
  the BIG 8:
  
  1) NO FANTASY in 360
  
  2) NO coach mode in 360
  3) no adjustable minutes ( at least no one has explained in detail yet how to do this .... it is 
 not simple!) in 360.
  
  4) NO MADDEN-Michaels TEAM!!!!! ( radio announcer SUXXXX!!!.... and is static-radio sounding!!!.... if 
 madden is unwilling to lend his voice at least make the play by play like TV and clear!!!) .. in 
 360.
  
  5) Where can you adjust the coaching philosiphies in franchise!!??... in 360.
  
  6) Why is EDIT player mode not available for each player in roster mode??? ( skill levels, name, 
 etc) ... in 360.
  
  7) WHY, OH why... can you not set the controller icon in the middle of the CONTROLLER TEAM SELECT 
 SCREEN and let the game play out by itself in a TV style presentation with TV type cameras in MADDEN 
 2006 and before that??????.... in 360.
  
  8) Managing menus.... having to hold down two buttons and having to look at three diffrerent places 
 on the screen to figure out how to retrieve stats, etc... RIDICULOUS!!!!!!... in 360.
  
  BASICALLY... NEW great graphics and gameplay have to be ported with the old menus and ALL of the 
 FEATURES that are absent in 360!!!!!
  
  COME on EA... don't just wait for the cancellation of madden for the old gen to give us what we 
 want.
  
  Do it now.... and we will respect you in the morning... and not dump your ass when 2K comes out with 
 a fully customizable PRO football game next year as planned!...... you can edit everything to make 
 it the NFL.... which for you EA ,stands for Not For Long (NFL) if you keep GEORGE LUCASING are butts! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weber182
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Madden 07... the title really sums it up as a whole. It's just another Madden game, plain and simple. 
 If you own a 360 you probably should own this game just to round out your collection. It lives 
 up to its namesake and improves on many aspects, but the weaknesses and flaws are still there.
 
  
  2007 is the best looking football game on the market right now, and if your into that kind of thing, 
 then you'll enjoy the visual aspect of this game. The gameplay is better than any previous Madden, 
 and better than NCAA. The physics are the best I've seen in any game to date, but being an early 
 360 game, that will change. Multiplayer is, as always, fun especially doing tournaments with friends. 
 Superstar mode is very fun, but very hard, especially at QB. Unless you're an amazing Madden player, 
 Superstar will be a struggle.
  
  This game does have some flaws however. Rosters first and foremost are an obvious flaw. If you 
 don't have Xbox Live to download updates, then you're pretty much screwed (or in my KC Chiefs case, 
 helped with Willie Roaf) . I've also always had a problem with defense on Madden, as its way too 
 easy, especially on multiplayer, to score on every drive and complete 40 yard passes like its nothing. 
 I guess that's just video games though, not really interested in realism. Franchise is a waste 
 of time. If you've played dynasty on NCAA, Franchise mode will be extremely boring and tedious.
 
  
  Overall, this game is just Madden. Plain and simple. Everything you expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I love this series. Ever since they introduced the QB vision, I have been amazed of the ideas that 
 EA are comming with. This still exists in Madden 07 and still keeps on improving the style of play. 
 The graphics itself are great and the sound are ok.
  
  Bad notes:
  1) In franchise mode, sometimes, the playmaking book doesn't appear. This is very very frustrating 
 since this always happens at the end of the game, the worst moment ever.
  
  2) In franchise mode, sometimes, the kick meter doesn't even appear also. What's the deal EA? Are 
 you trying to kill me!
  
  3) After plays, mostly succesful plays, sometimes you ear random loud cheering from players.
 
  
  4) The game sometimes freezes. Now I know this ain't my Xbox with all these issues since all the 
 other games don't have this issue. Now now EA, I'm so close of just throwing this game out in the 
 garbage. Imagine, you just ran 82 yards with your HB and boom, the game freezes. Happened to me! 
 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endocrine
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Madden is still as fun as it has ever been. If you have not owned a football game in a few years, 
 it is a good buy. The graphics are the best yet and look very well done. However, most of the gameplay 
 mechanics that have really never felt right in football games are still present.
  
  These mechanics are blocking, tackling ,and collisions. Blocking is still done 1 on 1 and face 
 to face. I have yet to really see and true 2 on 1 situations or any bocking thrown with an arm, 
 and in my 15+ hours of playing, I have only seen 1 holding call.
  
  Tackling experiences some of the same problems as blocking, basically a one on one situation. Lastly 
 collisions in this game are awful, especially when audibles are called. Players try to run through 
 each other and will even stand on the same spot. This mostly becomes problematic when a wide receiver 
 runs through an offensive lineman and pushes him forward. Even though he moves the defense is called 
 for encroachment (a rather overcalled penalty anyways) .
  
  Goal line defense is still nonexistent in the sense that there is no pushing match between offensive 
 and defensive lines. There is no jumping over piles, just finding the always existent holes.
  
  As far as the good things go, online gaming and superstar mode are excellent. The superstar 
 mode offers many hours of addicting and unique gameplay. While there may not be as much depth in 
 the 360 version, it is generally things you will spend little time using. There tends to be some 
 lag when first starting a new set of downs, but other then that it runs smoothly.
  
  Madden still offers gameplay you would expect from the series and has a very nice graphical makeover. 
 If you have not purchased a Madden game in a while, or are looking for a next gen version, you 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game will probably have to grow on you like it did me unless you are a diehard Madden fanbpy- 
 but grow on me it did and thats why I waited for my review. Starting out the game had a few graphical 
 and gameplay imperfections that really hurt me trying to enjoy the game but in reality they were 
 only minor complaints that bothered me much less over time. There are also a few slowdown/laggies 
 between certain menus and between playing calling/replays that shouldnt be there but all of which 
 do not hurt the game play at all. My biggest gripe with Madden is the speed of the game which is 
 a bit too fast to really enjoy like I could but again this is in the long run a minor problem that 
 seems less once you play the game more. There are a lot of little improvments over the 360 version 
 from last year that were really a welcome to me. One of my biggest complaints last year was when 
 I zoomed out from my offense/defense to get a look at things it didnt zoom back. This hurt the 
 gameplay a bit and also wasted some pretty graphics. But that is all fixed and I am happy with 
 the changes. Also last year the game had a lot of rushed glitches with decisions/rules and other 
 elements of the real life game that really hurt the game. The biggest of these was a problem with 
 the collision engine that made a lot of MORE than questionable calls about roughing the passer. 
 The collision and roughing the passer problems are still in the game (but to a much lesser extent) 
 but most of the other problems have been addressed pretty well. The ai is much smarter and doesnt 
 resort to cheating as much as it has in times past. Safies and corners defend better against the 
 pass (sometimes in an uncanny unlooking way but still a good change) and there is a lot more attention 
 to the running game. Not only do they give you the option to block for your back but even if you 
 opt out of that the CPU does a better job of actually bhlocking for you instead of just standing 
 in the way. Franchise more is great with all the usual bells and whistles and of course there is 
 the superstar mode which I honestly could care less for myself but it is there for those who desire 
 it. I like the ahll of fame addition but am courious as to why certian players are missing. I want 
 Dan Marino. They evidently couldnt even add the names of certian retired players to the stats since 
 they were no longer part of the players union contracts... at least that is my guess. Personally 
 I would pay for A Marino downloadable content- but thats probably just me. As much as I got tired 
 of Maddens voice in years past I wish this game had more traditional announcers- maybe the crowd 
 from Espn hint hint. I also wish they would add some half time like show like 2k had in their last 
 outing again with their espn option and also a bit more attention to "player of the game" other 
 than a quick snickers add on the boards in the game. Again an after game interview like 2K did 
 would fit well. Its a good game but you had better give it time to grow on you because it is not 
 perfect. I would have loved to see a 2K version as well competing against it but this isnt a perfect 
 world and I think EA tried hard to give a good product even though they have all the rights to 
 the NFL so I say good job- Madden is worth buying and playing for many a long night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimP0222
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is truly the best Madden ever. the whole game is defining. Starting with the graphics 
 you feel like you really are seeing the players in real life. other than the occasional slow down 
 because to much is going on during superstar mode it is extremely smooth. Camera angle is redefining. 
 As a QB you really see it as if you were the QB in a real game. making it hard to just throw it 
 out there. game play is so much better and even the computer makes it a challenge. sure there is 
 still room for improvement but it is getting better every year. i love the hall of fame part the 
 little highlight reels is a great way to bring back your old favorite players. Madden moved up 
 with the Next generation system hopefully they will continue on these great strides in gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cripnocide
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  omg I thought this year was gonna be like last year but they gave me what i wanted Current Gen 
 Game play And Next Gen... Graphics they have all the cool motion captures and the game is so smooth 
 some of the rateings are messed up tho . glad they didnt make reggie bush unstopable. Good Game 
 , I play with the Falcons saddly but fairly they didnt make Vick unstopable (unless you know how 
 to use him like me) i Practice 30 minutes a day seeing what works . Oh and hall of fame edition 
 is great since thet have the madden nation vids on there fun to watxh when your not playing madden. 
 I play madden then watch a episode its fun hope you guys had/have fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidet22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am an incredibly big fan of Madden. My days of playing Madden stem from Madden 
 95 to present. I was incredibly excited for this year's installment, and was probably willing to 
 defend any of it's shortcomings in a bias manner. I love it so much. However, when all is said 
 and done, and I look at it objectively, I just can't help but be somewhat disappointed.
  
  Let's look at the pros, first.
  
  *The game looks GORGEOUS! Hands down, this is the best looking 
 NFL game ever made. I play it in HD on my computer screen, and it looks better than live games 
 on my SDTV. That's just the truth. It's outstanding graphically, and EA deserves their props for 
 this.
  
  *The kicking game, although never that bad to begin with, is easier and user-friendly.
  
  *Lead 
 blocker, in my opinion, could not have been better. It runs smoothly and is a joy to play. Great 
 job, EA.
  
  *The crowd looks great and reacts well.
  
  *The highlight stick is fun, easy, and seamless. Outstanding!
  
  *Returning punts is more realistic 
 now. In previous installments, the cpu seemed to always have nothing but the user controlled player 
 in front of it. It seemed that the rest of the team simply got pancaked. Now, you have a mix of 
 returnable and nonreturnable punts, as does the CPU.
  
  *Challenges - runs very quickly with the hit of a button.
  
  *Fake snap - I know it's run like 
 this in previous versions, but it seems to run smoother in this year's installment. Admittedly, 
 I've jumped offsides a few times. Good job here.
  
  *Finally, the screen pass works great! This is about time for this. Finally you don't have to wait 
 for 3 seconds while your back catches the ball and tucks it away. He usually just catches it and 
 starts to run. Beautiful. I've been waiting a long time for this.
  
  Okay, now let's get into the ugly. I don't know if EA's testers simply didn't notice this stuff, 
 or if EA simply couldn't get this in the game, but certainly there are several things that are 
 not "IN THE GAME.!"
  
  *Challenges - The cpu has NEVER made a challenge against me. Even when the cpu CLEARLY didn't fumble, 
 yet I pick it up and run it in, they don't challenge. Second, when the player makes a challenge, 
 it doesn't ask you what you'd like to challenge. It automatically runs the challenge as if it assumes 
 it knows what you want to challenge... annoying.
  
  *When there is a fumble (legitimate or not) sometimes when you recover it, it automatically calls 
 you down. It doesn't matter if your knee, elbow, or butt are on the ground. I picked up a fumble 
 with Ahman Green on the run, and the play was called dead as soon as I touched it. This happens 
 frequently.
  
  *No substitutions - this SUCKS!!! You can't go in and change your packages manually. You have to 
 either hope there is a defensive package you want, or really get tricky with the depth chart. In 
 other words, I can't have A. J. Hawk as one of my nickel linebackers unless I do some shifting in 
 the depth chart... this is simply inexcusable.
  
  *There are NO first down markers.
  
  *Fatigue doesn't work (well, technically it does, however, the meter that shows the level of fatigue 
 is maxed out all game, regardless of how fatigued the player actually is - so, you have no way 
 of telling how fatigued anyone is at anytime) .
  
  *You can't save the game during the game! This sucks a LOT. I like to play for about 30 minutes 
 before I leave for work in the morning. Unfortunately, I can't play a franchise game because I 
 can't finish a whole game and there is no way to save it! I don't want to bring it down to 3 minute 
 quarters either.
  
  *When players call for a fair catch, they don't waive for it - the announcer simply says they do.
 
  
  *Before EVERY play, there is a slight freeze in the framerate. So, there is always about a half 
 second hic-up... not annoying at ALL.
  
  *Occasionally, the game decides randomly to turn on the passing cone. When this happens, your qb 
 also doesn't drop back automatically. This can happen at anytime. This is usually good for at least 
 1-2 sacks a game.
  
  *When you unlock a member from the hall of fame, they are automatically added to your franchise 
 roster. I discovered this little fact when Brett Favre's consecutive start streak was interrupted 
 by the magnificent comeback of 92 year-old Sammy Baugh!!! He took up about 13 mil in cap space, 
 too. I couldn't release him cuz of the cap hit. That sure was pleasant. WTF?!?!?!
  
  *No Gang tackling
  
  *When the cpu is running the 2-minute drill and a play has just ended, 
 occasionally they are INSTANTLY back up to the line of scrimmage. So, for instance, if the Saints 
 complete a 15 yard pass with under 2-minutes. The SECOND the play is whistled dead, you will see 
 everyone back to the line of scrimmage a nanosecond later.
  
  *Superstar mode is simply a disgrace. The camera angles are TERRIBLE and is not adjustable. The 
 controls are a nightmare. Also, I understand they want you going to the NFL like a regular rookie, 
 but this is a game, I just want to play for my favorite team. That option could have been put in 
 there. This was easily the biggest disappointment for me.
  
  Bottom line, I noticed that this installment of Madden has sold more in the first week than any 
 other Madden has in it's first week. I actually see this as possibly being problematic for EA. 
 Considering that the game basically is worth a 7 out of 10 (as observed by many other raters) , 
 I think gamers (including myself) may be much more willing to rent before buying the game in the 
 future. EA screwed me in 2005 (long story - not related to the gameplay, but a shipping error that 
 overcharged me that they refused to take care of) , and I, therefore, did not buy 06. I'm not saying 
 that I will NOT buy '08, but I am saying that it will be rented before I buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The NFL Needs to Revoke the Exclusive Contract with EA.
  This is Pitiful. $60 for a version of the game with less Features than the other console versions.
 
  Check the Scores across the board between 2005 Pre EA Exclusive and Now.
  The Scores from just about every review site available, they are all down.
  I don't know if it 
 is just me, but the Characters look Freaky. I remember when the PS2 hit the stores and Madden2001 
 was what was on every store display. I remember crowds around the displays, I remember everyone 
 including myself commenting on how it was like watching a TV Broadcast.
  Well now Madden07 for the Nextgen XBox360, in my opinion looks crappy.
  Additionally EA is releasing 
 buggy games, as the Gamespot Reviewer called it "Quirky" aka Sloppy Programming. But with no Competition 
 there is nothing to worry about for EA because you can't look elsewhere...
  
  One complaint about the Gamespot Reviewer, PLEASE DO NOT complain about the AI Being to Easy on 
 the "EASY Setting"
  I want the Easy setting to be easy. I could see listing easy to beat DBs if they were easy to beat 
 on the Hardest setting, but not on the easy setting.
  This is why they have Different Difficulty settings, so different people can tailor their experience 
 to their own taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Very good football game, it is my first madden game on the 360. i like it a lot.
  
  first of all, im a huge football fan and so i love playing footaball games and trying to get my 
 players good stats and stuff and thats what keeps me entertained. i play dynasty mode and am already 
 in my 3rd season. making trades is much more realistic and signing players is fun. i like the tackle 
 animations but the biggest knock off the game is that there are no group tackles whatsoever which 
 bothers me and is a huge loss in the game. graphics are very good and the sound is awesome especialyl 
 with surround sound. the menu music is ok but it has all the sam spence songs which is awesome. 
 running the ball is freakign sweet, especially the highlight stick which allows u to break tackles, 
 juke, power move, and cutback. lead blocker control is useful, but doesnt really add much difference 
 into the game or innovation.
  
  superstar mode is fun and improved and the mini games are very kool. especially the 40 yd dash 
 and bench presses. but they are hard.
  
  i dislike the kicking in the game because it just seems really pointless to use the analog stick. 
 and i also always come up short no matter where im from from the field and i dont know why. i could 
 be 40 yds away or 50 but i always come up short with maximum power.
  
  suggestions for next year- restricted free agency, more mini games, deeper franchise mode. GROUP 
 TACKLES, and a better way to defend the receiver on a pass. better graphics i guess. graphics- 
 pretty good, shouldnt be the focus on the game in my mind if they want to improve over the next 
 few years in the game.
  
  sound- great, keep it up madden, makes me feel like im in th egame, i also like the fact u can 
 hear them breathe when running.
  
  gameplay- good, defense is what needs improvements, better way to defend the pass when ball is 
 in air and block passes. also, this game needs group tackling to make it a realistic footabll game. 
 overall tho, good gameplay for madden.
  
  Xtras- enough xtras for me, superstar HOF mode and franchise is all i need.
  
  value- worth 
 my money, because i just love the nfl and seeing players get stats and signing players and such. 
 i luv getting my players the best stats they can, its fun.
  
  overall- a very good game and am satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clevelandrox23
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was getting a lot of hype with the comericals and xbox live market place, and gamespot 
 as well. The addition of the hit stick is good if you know how to control it but the game is still 
 lacking in several things. On the 360 version it lags causing players to run through eachother. 
 They didn't spend time adding the little things that make a game great overall, , no alternate 
 jerseys, and EA is still has not perfected live like 2k has with their sports games.
  I think having two diff baseball games and two diff football games is for the best, competition 
 only would produce better games. It seems like EA believes the name of the games "Madden" will 
 sell them plenty of games and it does. The NFL being the most popular sport in the US causes millions 
 of people to buy this game and most who bought it on the 360 are disappointed.
  I took my madden back where it came from, it was not worth the 60 bucks maybe 40.
  
  Overall 
 its a "ok" game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the 360 is a grat improvement on the 06 version of the game. Thats not saying mutch, 
 by the way. Madden 07 gameplay plays as advertised and the controlls are nice and smooth. this 
 is a solid football game and when it comes down to it thats all it is. My biggest gripe about this 
 game was the lack of the little things. I assumed that EA learned from its mistakes with the rushed 
 madden 06 last year but I was wrong.
  
  The most notable thing i found missing was John Madden. once again madden is missing from commentary 
 and the 360 gets stuck with the annoying Jim Ross stye radio commentary. Even though Maddens commentary 
 is annoying and repatitave, but i miss the guy. This was by far the biggest dissapointment. Another 
 huge dissapointment was the absence of owner mode in the franchise mode. This was i nfuriating. 
 The Franchise mode is just a copy paste version of last years version which was horrably boring. 
 Plus their is no fantasy draft ( which i loved btw) . what the hell is that about. i cant switch 
 teams in the offseason and the only fun part of the franchise is importing players from NCAA 07.
 
  
  The Superstar mode is a unique experience but it gets real old real fast. you really have no control 
 or not if you win games or not. If you get drafted t o the Texans or Browns than dont expect to 
 be a Super Bowl MVP. the mini games are ok but id prefer if they just used the old mini game from 
 previous version. the controls are weird and in the end its just not worth it.
  
  The graphics are up to standard and face models and expressions are accurate. the sound of the 
 game is great with exception of the madden announcer subsitute. Other than that this is a decent 
 football game but its nothing more than decent,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  For my review, I want to just break it down into points.
  
  Gameplay-This is another area were Madden shines to me. Playing just feels right. It is just old 
 fashioned football like it has been for years. The passing game is ok, but thankfully deep balls 
 have been cut down a lot to prevent cheesing. I have really enjoyed the running game with the Highlight 
 Stick. It is awesome breaking tackles and throwing around stiff arms. Defense is a mixed bag however, 
 it really depends on the team you play with. For example, I play with my Chicago Bears and I am 
 able to get good pressure with my strong front seven, but with weaker corners (look at last years 
 playoff game) , it can be a chore stopping the offense on 3rd and long. But I guess it is realistic.
 
  
  I like the franchise mode and that is were I will spend my time playing this game. Yes it is simple, 
 but all I really want is to play the games, draft new kids, sign free agents and repeat. The Superstar 
 mode made it to the 360 this time around and is a nice addition, but doesn't really excite me. 
 Yeah it is cool only playing as yourself, doing workouts, working with your agent, but it just 
 isn't for me.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are amazing and show the 360's great power. From the holes in the jerseys 
 to the real life stadiums, it is all here. I like the scoreboard images during the game and other 
 real-time effects like helmet scuffs and grass stained pants, the game is polished quite well.
 
  
  Sound-I don't mind EA Trax. I just turn off all of the rap and turn on the rock songs and the NFL 
 Flims classics. I think that it adds excitement to the package, but it is easy to toggle it off, 
 if you desire. Previous versions of Madden, I always played the game with the sound off. Let's 
 face it Madden sucks at calling the game and Al Michaels or Pat Summeral are awful as well. Well 
 that changes when you add the radio announcer into the mix. He is a lot more exciting and his "homer" 
 attitude is really quite cool. Until it is possible to have each teams real crew call the games, 
 this is the way to do in game sound. Player and stadium noise isn't anything new, but doesn't hurt 
 the package.
  
  Value-Well I feel like any 360 game, $59.99 is a lot of money for a game so it is important to 
 buy wisely. Now it is a good thing that this version is more than just the bare bones, but it is 
 still missing pieces that need to be downloaded like the extra jerseys and stadiums. It is a nice 
 package with the main play modes (play now, franchise and superstar) , a few mini games, the extra 
 cool hall of fame and the madden gamer level. For next year I would like them to ditch the create-a-player 
 because it sucks and just bring back to old system were we can pick the stats. In conclusion, it 
 is a little over priced, but not by much.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt-If you are a football fan, buy this game. The only problem with that statement, 
 is by now, must football fans have bought this game if you look at the sales figures. I think it 
 is a fun game that plays well and it might not win over the masses, but if a great Madden fix.
 
  
  Oh yeah, the NFL Flims music on replays is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  1st of all i fell very cheatied out of my money .the game has alright graphics, but thats about 
 it the control is still kind of wack ,on d it seems as if your still on skates .also thers no d 
 against the running game very fake, just run up the middle and you will win 4sho. also where is a 
 halftime report online and offline, coach chall online ,super star mode is very boreing ,also whats 
 the deal with that jumbo tron .ive been to plenty of chiefs games and ive never seen any thing 
 like that playing on the jumbo tron ,very thrash 16bitish. also since when does 4 to 6 fumbles happend 
 in one game and about 3to4 int ,very very fake. also where is the line of scrim'the blue line"..! it 
 just semms that e. a. realy doesnt have what it takes to keep it real anymore cuz to me and my friends 
 the game is very arcadey not a sim football game .also since when does a 5'10 lb run and keep up 
 with an wr and jump highier than the wr to catch the ball after hit fat azz runs down the field, very 
 very fake .E. A. you guys realy suck .youneed to scrap the crap you broight out and go out and find 
 the espnnfl2k5 crew and put them on the game cuz the people you have on it now realy dont know 
 football. just watch a game of football than play your game you will see how missrep your game realy 
 is .for 75 dollars i got the same glich azz game from 2006 pluse new 1s thats a damn shame. but 
 about 3 years ago and for 20$ i got an almost perfect game of football from 2k sports .PLZ HELP 
 US FOOTBALL GODS IF THERE IS ONE !!!!!!!!!! PLZZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celev
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  the AI sucks, the graphics are bad ingame, the music is boring/reptitive, the controls are either 
 counterintuitive or overly complex, the load times are annoying, the highlite stick is a joke, 
 the cpu controlled players are either HOFer's 24/7 or blocking dummies, the playbook is tiny and 
 completely unreprisentitive of the real playbook that's seen on gameday, the play on the field 
 is unrealistic, the game experience is frustrating and not worth it.
  
  friends of mine convinced me to try this game out ... and i wish i hadn't. i thought the brief 
 experience i had playing madden 06 on a friend's xbox was a better game ... what happened? it's 
 a waste of time, and football on the console hasn't changed in the last decade. i had more fun 
 throwing a real football against a wall than i did playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I bought the game at the 12 midnight sale at gamestop and quite frankly I do not regret doing it 
 because I played that entire night. Thorought that night I took notice to some flaws in gameplay 
 as well as other glitches in the game. Not only was I disappointed in the glitches in the game 
 yet I was more disappointed in the missing features of the game including no fantasy draft in franchise 
 mode, 2 users cannot play on the same team, no create-a-team which I was looking foward to, no 
 coaching mode, no media such as newspapers or ea sports radio included in franchise mode, cannot 
 scale create-a-player's face instead you pick from list of random computer generated faces, and 
 some more. I think that my feeling of disappointment is laying upon the fact that EA Sports really 
 hyped this game on Xbox Live as well as this site and other places online. They really dug on the 
 fact that this new madden wouldn't have the flaws that madden 06 had because they wouldn't rush 
 07 out yet I believe they actually lied in a way and did rush 07 out. Well if you read all of this 
 crap and still don't believe me then go and get yourself a copy because even though it's missing 
 all of this mombo-jumbo it's still a Madden game and thats the only reason I see that you should 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fruntin
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Why can't EA just make them like they used to? I love the madden series and all, but since they 
 got the exclusive licence they have been slacking. I have played a lot of the Mini-Game (Camp) stuff 
 and been through the Franchise once so this review is based off of that. Here are my pros and cons 
 for the game.
  
  PROS: 1. Blocking Control. Love taking control of the blockers. A very innovative gimmick to be 
 true, but when used correctly can lead to big gains for your runner and you (at least I did) get 
 a much better feeling when your RB breaks a long one for a TD because of your block then actually 
 running it yourself. 2. The Training Camp. But only certain ones. I liked the QB and RB challenges. 
 Bench Press works in small doses. Lineman challenge definitly is frustrating at first but kinda 
 gives you an idea of how and when to block in game situations.
  
  CONS: 1. AI. Wow especially defensive. Either alot of the RB's got better at breaking tackles (even 
 the sucky ones) or defense can't tackle. Way to many long runs. 2. The Training Camp. 40 Yard Dash 
 I may just suck at but why use the analogs for this??? Just me or is that stupid? No matter how 
 fast and good i do it with my fastest guy I still only get 5's. Coverage challenge I completely 
 suck at. I can never get open and I can never cover. I'm more of a guy who takes control of the 
 DE or DT. I am not good at DB unless i pick him right before the pass gets there so I can intercept 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimboni
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately this game is the result of a company not feeling the pressure to come up with a game 
 that is superior to it's competition. I was hoping to see some features that made me sit back and 
 take notice. Unfortunately, it's the same old game, with nothing that makes me want to brag about 
 it to my friends. All of whom used to get together to play online. Unfortunately I was the sucker 
 that had to be the first to buy it. I'll never get that money back, or the hours I played hoping 
 to find something that made me forget how much I paid. It's pretty sad for those of us that love 
 football games that the highest score EA gets out of this is a 7.9. C'mon guys, get your act together 
 and think of the customer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puck_stopper71
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful. From the toned down boring menus to the utter lack of features, to the horrible 
 button mapping, this is by far the worst Madden year I've ever wasted my $60 on. First off, the 
 menus. No flair to them at all. The first game of the "current-gen", Madden 2001 had at least decent 
 clean looking menus, and was appealing graphicly. This has none of that. I know, I know, I'm nitpicking 
 the menus. But scince the menu screen is the first thing you see when you load up the game, it 
 should at least draw you in. This game pushes me away.
  
  Now the features (or lack thereof) . No dynasty mode? Hmmm, when is EA going to stop regressing 
 this game. Also, once you start franchise mode, there's no Create-a-player? What is the deal with 
 this? I hate this in the NHL franchise and now they've brought it to the NFL game. If I'm paying 
 60 bones for a game I want to be able to throw some created players in the mix too and not have 
 to do it before I start my season. Graphics are this games only bright spot, but bring in some 
 bugs as well. The first game I played I set up SF vs. Oakland in SF with rain. After a while the 
 field starts to get torn up like it should, then when the rain collects in the puddles, there are 
 some nice reflections. However, when tackling in said puddles, the road teams white jerseys, STAY 
 WHITE!! WTF? And on a side note, what is up with NO alternate jerseys. That was one of my favorite 
 features in 2005, numerous alternates, and the ability to make custom jerseys. Lastly, in gerneral, 
 this is a bad game. Having not played a Madden game scince the 2005 (Ray Lewis ed.) the new SuperStar 
 mode is lame. I was created as a CB and when playing a game, the camera is right on your back, 
 so if you get beat deep or a play is going on where you can't see it (like a running play) good 
 luck making anything happen. Another change that sucks is the button mapping. Being used to the 
 05 controls, the changes here are totally confounding and virtually impossible to get used to. 
 Short story long, SAVE YOUR MONEY!! Recycle and play any version of Madden (except 06) besides 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my FIRST ever review on a video game. I've been a football video game fan for a long time 
 and playing madden nfl series since 1992. I miss those days alot! I've been playing madden nfl 
 07 for a week and it's good. This game is 50 million times better than last year's Xbox 360 version. 
 It was rushed, didn't have mini-games, Tony Bruno show or anything else on that game! The game 
 was a major disappointment and should NEVER made it in the first place! Here's my pros, neutral 
 and cons about the game.
  
  PROS:
  Gameplay is off the charts
  graphics is good, but not the greatest of all time
  offensive playbooks are huge and have 5 key 
 players from different positions. Major Plus.
  
  NEUTRAL:
  Run Blocking gimmick is good, but it can turn out to be a hit or miss, if not use right. I haven't 
 play superstar or franchise mode yet. Therefore, I can't give you the answer on those two modes.
 
  I also haven't play online mode as well. If I ever buy this game, I want to find a real madden 
 gamer opponent who won't cheat to pile up stats!
  
  CONS:
  Defense A. I. is broken and EA Sports need to spend some time fixing it.
  No alternate jerseys 
 for 32 teams?! Wake up EA Sports!
  No Owners mode! What's up with that?!
  Second biggest mistake of all is not having AL Michaels and John Madden for the game. I'm very 
 unhappy with you EA Sports!
  Lack of ESPN material on the game. MAKE IT LIKE ESPN NFL 2K5!
  The biggest mistake of all is exclusive license. EA Sports are getting lazy with football games 
 and chasing away casual football gamers.
  Where's create a fan, edit players, training camp, and madden football 101 go?
  No Super Bowl 
 presentation and two team colors on each end zones?!
  Highlight stick is dumb!
  6 mini games is not enough
  What happened to the camera angle option? There's only two in the 
 game!
  
  I'll keep playing madden nfl 07 for the gameplay and online, but I'll NOT pay $59.99 plus tax for 
 it! That's downright stupid! I'll wait until next year to get it. Everybody thinks I'm a madden 
 hater, I'm not. I want to see Madden NFL series live up it to the hype. Alright EA Sports, ya'll 
 created a high standard for the series. Make Madden NFL 08 better next year or you'll lose alot 
 of fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak8228
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for awhile now. I have tried most of the different positions in the 
 superstar mode. The defenses can be hard in most places. Also i was surprised that the QB position 
 can be hard too, because you are unable to have any depth perception. It's hard to see how close 
 the defender is to your receivers. I think the receiver and the runniing back positions are good 
 ones to start out with. they are pretty easy to do to get use to the view of being right behind 
 your person Another disappinting thing is the view when you are running. It's hard to see to the 
 side or behind you. They should have put something in so you are able to look around without turning 
 your whole body. Besides those there are also some good things in the game. The graphics in the 
 game are pretty good a step up from 06. Also the animations are pretty cool when blocking, getting 
 hit, or breaking tackles. Another thing is the lead blocker. Which i have not tried personally 
 because you cant i dont think in the superstar mode, but it sounds pretty cool. The last thing 
 is the mini games, for some reason i like the mini games alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToniteWeFade
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Seriously EA, when are you going to get it right ? This game was so boring and substandard it makes 
 me angry. You have a lot of feedback as well as a lot of time to create a simulation Madden football 
 game. The 360 version frame rate is embarrassing. The player models are extremely stiff and they 
 don't feel free. The tackles are the same old boring tackles; the run blocking gimmick is oh-so-boring. 
 Give me a game that I can play day in and day out. Charging for uniforms and stadiums over xbox 
 live? WTF are you thinking? Stop being so greedy from people ages 12-35. Start putting out a quality 
 game and stop thinking of profit for a change. Yes, profit rules all, sure, however, no one will 
 continue to buy this garbage game if it continues to disappoint. You've gotten so much feedback 
 from people about how lousy this game was in '05, and yet you still put out a sub-par product and 
 have the balls to charge $60, well done, scam artists. This game isn't even fun. The main menu 
 is totally confusing; the game is extremely boring; the player models are too stuff; the animations 
 are the same as always; this game gets old so fast you will kick yourself for wasting money on 
 it. I'm just angry EA can't do a better job. Every year the quality of Madden has dropped. For 
 me, it has dropped for the last time. RIP MADDEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertPerk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Madden. Just the name of the game is intriguing. With record copies of this game sold, it's pretty 
 hard to not imagine what the video game world would be like without this game. With that said, 
 this is one of the most incredible football games I have ever played... but it still feels like 
 something is missing.
  
  The superstar mode is unbelievable this year. It totally makes the game. The modified camera angles 
 (although can be tricky at first) bring a near first person view from your specific position on 
 the football field. But this mode also has a few negatives. I have personally encountered a few 
 bugs in superstar mode dealing with the calendar while simulating through practices, games, etc. 
 (contacted EA and their tech support is HORRIBLE) And also, the influence level of your player 
 gets kind of annoying as you have to adjust it every time your superstar takes the field. This 
 seems to slow down the pace of the game. But otherwise this game is on point.
  
  I can't judge from franchise mode because I have yet to play with it yet (still messing around 
 with superstar mode) but from what I heard it's just the same as the franchise mode in Madden 06.
 
  
  But there seems to be something missing from this game. When EA got the exclusive rights deal to 
 the NFL they also made a deal with ESPN. So what a lot of people that I know are looking for... are 
 in game highlights. Where is ESPN Sportscenter in this game? Maybe they aren't allowed to have 
 anything like that in this game due to NFL 2k5 had it in their game... but Madden 07 needed to include 
 ESPN a little more in this game. And it seems like they release 1 major update to the game every 
 year... teasing us. And we bow down every year and buy the game.
  
  It's a good game... don't get me wrong. Go out and buy it. But like I said in the beginning, there 
 is definitely something missing from this game to make it great, or superb. It's a good game... but 
 it's not great. Not yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm not exactly a big Madden fan. I really loved ESPN football, and still mourn it's 
 demise. And the Madden game for 360 last year was a joke. But I have to hand it to EA, they have 
 really poured heart and soul into this game, and the result is the greatest Madden of all time. 
 I mean, the gameplay is near perfection, the graphics are perfection, and the computer AI is very 
 skilled, and worthy of the challenge. I could go on and on, especially about the outstanding animations 
 , as well as little things like how a ball carrier actually runs. What stops this Madden from a 
 10? What else, the achilles heel of Madden: presentation. While it has made improvements, I want 
 tv style presentation, stat overlays, a smart announcer crew, and a pregame and postgame show. 
 If they can come through with that, next year's Madden could be the perfect game. As it is, it 
 is still the best installment so far. And if you still have friends playing that washed up PS2, 
 show them this game. There simply is no reason to play something like this on a current gen anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickthegreat87
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  the missing of some great featues which are on the xbox and ps2 versions make madden just a gameplay 
 videogame with no depth to play a franchise or superstar mode, which also lacks depth.
  
  featues missing:
  
  1. owners mode- set ticket prices and etc., move a team, stadium upgrades 
 and build your own new stadium, ads, money controlling, coach contracts, tv contacts, change your 
 team jerseys etc.
  2. draft your own players
  3. better depth and complex franchise mode like before.
  4. the AI is terrible even on all madden 
 easy to pass and run agianst
  5. create a team
  6. teams additional jerseys
  7. no john madden or al micheals talks during pregame or the game
  8. no create a fan
  9. no 
 camera changes or camera shots during the game of the fans upclose like before
  10. hard to sign players contracts
  11. superstar mode lacks depth and isnt as complex as in 
 the past
  
  EA give the 360 verison its fetures back and make the AI better and you'll earn the greatest football 
 video game title back, if not u will see a decline in your sales and bad reviews agian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlburnett88
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  How can EA rip off its fans like this, thisgame is garbage 06 and now 07 on all consoles but mainly 
 this 360, this game is an embarrassment to EA sports many things wrong to bad EA wont read this 
 and do something about it.
  
  listen EA mostly real football fans buy this game to have a real like football experience, while 
 the football season is going on and we struggled to play last years game and anticipated this one 
 and you disappointed us real fans again.
  
  This game needs a whole new overhaul start fresh and start by putting John Madden back in the booth
 
  
  make game play smoother and more real no sliding and non control of runner
  
  stop making the players all look like buff super hero's no quarterback on earth looks like that 
 with all those muscles and Randy Moss and all the wide receiver's including Marvin Harrison wish 
 they could be that big in real life if they were they would be wrestlers, that sucks get the players 
 profile right no more muscle bound monsters this aint NFL fever
  
  and PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE SPEND TIME ON THE SUPERBOWL the real fan plays to see the superbowl 
 at the end of a franchise season and it should be different from the regular presentation, it should 
 start with a media day before the game of the two participating teams and the stadium needs to 
 be colored with the two teams colors and the end-zones should have the two teams names and colors 
 JUST LIKE THE REAL SUPERBOWL !!!!!!!!!!! it really sucks to get to the end of the game and see 
 the same boring presentation
  
  where is the broadcast camera view, that s more real for those who want to really see a real football 
 broadcast
  
  totally redo the presentation and get rid of this radio fool that really sucks
  
  and the edit 
 player needs to be on this game and not this drill stuff, PLEASE JUST PUT THE GAME THE WAY THE FANS 
 REALLY WANT IT AND STOP JUST TAKING OUR MONEY WITH LIES AND DECEIT i TELL YOU AS A LONG TIME MADDEN 
 FAN I REALLY THINK WE NEED TO BURN THIS LICENSING CONTRACT SO YOU GUYS CAN GET OFF YOUR LAZY BUTS 
 AND REALLY PUT TOGETHER A REAL FOOTBALL GAME OR JUST BRING BACK ESPN.
  
  I QUIT !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eagleballer44
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I am one of those who personally loved madden 06 for xbox. I thought that the superstar was amazing 
 and graphics were pretty good.
  
  When i got my 360 i was already excited to play the next madden, but after renting NCAA 07 and 
 not letting me and my brother play on the same team i decided to rent it. Best thing i have ever 
 done.
  
  I rented Madden 07 on monday and created my superstar, which is more fun with the combine, and 
 was sorely disappointed when i could not have my brother or my friends play with me. I was also 
 disappointed with laggy online and terrible QB views.
  
  Overall the games graphics are the best in any football game i have ever seen and it is challenging 
 but i feel as though it is nothing compared to last year's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Lets kick tis sh*t off,
  
  Gameplay, good controls, fun game, you know how madden works
  
  Graphics, 360 graphics areof course good, nothing special, not a oblivion
  
  Sound, i still 
 miss madden voice suddenly grow louder as he talks, the announcers set the sound back, all though 
 the SFX are still great
  
  Value, fun madden style, i love superstar mode, its very unique, great gameplay
  
  Tilt, its 
 football, good ol football, notin new
  
  I would DEFENTILY buy this game if your a madden fan, lotz better then ncaa 07, i trarded that 
 in for this. good game, better features then 06, underappriciated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starsky14
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  When I got the game a day after realease, and saw all the bad reviews people were giving them and 
 i was appalled. After i played the game though, i come to realize that they were right. This game 
 is really shining when it comes to gameplay and graphics i believe, but there are many parts that 
 need improvement.
  
  My first game i played i had won the game 104-14. My friend i was playing it with was blown away 
 on how bad i beaten him and was ashamed haha. I had gotten all these gamer points too and was about 
 to quit until the game froze on me and lost all my stats. After that the game kept having frequent 
 malfunctions and really dissapointed me.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous in my opinion, minus the jerseys not getting dirty. Graphics don't really 
 make a game though and thats where gameplay comes through. The gameplay for the most part was good 
 except when it came to superstar mode. At first i was dissapointed on how you never got to do much 
 extra events like in the last ones but thought gameplay should be good enough that i would forget. 
 As soon as i saw the SS mode camera for my HB i was dissapointed. It may seem smart at first to 
 do it but the camera gets so bad at some points, that i didn't know where my guy was going. YOu 
 also never got to choose the plays, and in my first game i got to rush about 3 plays for only 23 
 yards. This game is really dissapointing in other ways, but i have to go and return mine now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessyMarv
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is without a doubt one of the most disappointing games released thus far for the 
 XBOX 360. Ive played every Madden since 98 and participate in online leagues and tournaments, so 
 Im not just some schmuck who is running his mouth. This game is bad.. flat out. Sure there are 
 some redeeming qualities. But the mere fact that the severity of the bugs, problems and glitches 
 exists, not only confirms my suspicions that EA does not care, but I now know, that EA's strategy 
 for the Madden series can be summed up in 2 words :
  
  exclusive licensing
  
  You know the old saying, competition is good for everyone? Its completely true and especially true 
 in this case. There are so many glitches, bugs and problems with this game that its just not enjoyable 
 anymore. Do you think that EA would release this pile of garbage if competitors still existed? 
 EA flat out does not care about their consumers on this front. Dont get me wrong, EA is a great 
 company and they can make a great product when they care, but in this case, they dont. They have 
 the licensing for an NFL product, and they know they dont have to work to earn your loyalty or 
 business. We all know that Madden 06 for 360 was horrible. There was no depth, no features and 
 it just plain sucked. I foolishly thought that EA would not allow this to happen again, and blindly 
 put my faith in a bunch of greedy corporate executives who care not about you and I the consumer, 
 but rather, milking our wallets, getting rich off of our stupidity and stringing us along with 
 one successive shoddy game after another for Madden 360.
  
  Graphics look nice, and all I ever heard about was new polygon this, and x amount polygon that, 
 and great looking new entrances.. my response? WHO CARES IF IT LOOKS GREAT AND PLAYS BAD. Lets 
 go over some points here :
  
  Superstar mode? what is the point? the new camera angle and lack of involvement makes superstar 
 mode supersnooze mode. Mini camp games are no fun, poorly explained and not worth doing. 40 yard 
 dash, bench press, who bought a 70 dollar game to do this stuff? After 2 seasons, most players 
 only progress but a few points, why even have this in the game?
  
  There are a number of different glitches, bugs and performance issues with this game. Crashing 
 the line, and bringing the D in to stop the run, results in a offsides penalty every time in over 
 50 % of the formations available. Quarters 3 man deep sets when blitzing off of the corne, and 
 crashed down to stop the run, the cornerback sits in the opponents backfield. Animations, tackling, 
 collision detection all have moments where you scratch your head and go "huh???" and then proceed 
 to slap yourself for thinking 07 would be any better than 06
  
  Menu navigation is spotty and choppy at best. Live Opponent just does not work. Ive logged at least 
 100+ hours in this game, and have NEVER found a live opponent I could connect to.
  
  XBOX Live Ranked games are absolutely embarrassing. Lag is bad, Menu navigation is bad, There is 
 a friendly quit glitch that can be performed at any time during the game. What does it do? give 
 you a loss and ups your disconnect rate if you are the honest player. Doesnt EA have quality control 
 for this kind of stuff?
  
  Fatigue? there is no fatigue.. again.. Completely embarrassing that EA does not test their games 
 before releasing them.
  
  Defensive playmaker? Nope. Fantasy Draft? Nope. Individual Defensive audibles? Nope. Corrected 
 Defensive AI? Nope. On the fly defensive shading? Nope. And most of all? Worth your 70 dollars? 
 NO NO NO NO NO!
  
  In closing, this game is just not worth it. In a BEST CASE scenario, this is NCAA 07 with different 
 jerseys, players names and without the option. This series of games has taken a horrible step backwards, 
 and its clear that the normal XBOX 06 Madden is ultimately more polished and refined than this 
 horrible excuse of a game. Some people might find it entertaining, some people might disagree with 
 my opinions. But ask yourself if EA would release this game as is, in its current state, if there 
 were other companies still making NFL games. The answer is no.. Then you have to ask yourself.. 
 What am I really paying for?? We are paying for EA's licensing fee to the NFL. And if people continue 
 to buy this series, without standing up and letting their voices be heard, EA will continue to 
 make trash after trash after trash games, until the consumer finally comes to the realization that 
 they are being ripped off, and as a result sagging sales and support will force them to actually 
 care about the game they are releasing. Until then, nothing will change. 08 will be the same as 
 07 but they will fix one thing, maybe even 2 if they feel generous. Dont buy this game. Save your 
 money. Help make a difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JollyJake
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The day the reviews for Madden '07 started popping out, I started to look at them. I saw mixed 
 reactions: some complained that the game was full of bugs and some said that the sound wasn't good. 
 But I never, ever found out if Madden '07 was better than '06, in gameplay.
  
  I kept looking through player reviews and I saw the game getting trashed. I wasn't sure about getting 
 the game. But I decided I would, and went to Costco and bought it.
  
  It is a good thing I did!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game play is so much better than '06: it 
 is sped up and not as slow as Madden '06 was. You can now challenge plays (Thank God) and you don't 
 get called for roughing the passer every time you bump in to the QB after a pass play. Superstar 
 mode is fun, if you can find a position that you like to play. I am a QB that can both throw and 
 scramble, so I get to pass and run. The influence system is cool, except when you lose influence 
 for something that isnt your fault (For example, a teammate fumbles the ball: you lose a little 
 influence) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  They are quite good, but there is a slow down every once in a while. When the camera pans over 
 the stadium you will notice it getting jerky, but when you are playing on the field (What really 
 matters) I didn't notice any lag. Animations are very good, but they arent totally smooth. I have 
 seen some bugs, but nothing game-breaking.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is great. I have been playing superstar mode as a QB, and when you get hit you can almost 
 feel your players pain! They have a lot of chatter from the on-field players, which adds to the 
 immersion. The crowd noises are great and the announcing is nice: nothing to complain about here.
 
  
  Value:
  
  You can keep playing this game until '08 comes out. Thanks to Superstar mode, which adds to the 
 replayability and the great gameplay, this is a Madden that you will be playing for quite a while.
 
  
  Madden 07 is not just a step above 06, it is leaps and bounds ahead of 06. If you like football 
 games and have a 360, get this game! You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Everyone thought this would be the next great madden game a next gen. console but, unfortunetly, 
 fans will have to wait one more year. Because Madden decided to create an all new game engine, 
 it took up most of their time and they happen to leave out some fan favorites like a deep franchise 
 more or a fantasy draft. By no means is this a bad football game, the graphics and gameplay are 
 terrific, but it resembles last years game a little too much.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent. I especially love the highlight stick and how they copied the NCAA game of 
 last year (all juke controls are right on the right analog stick) . The player animations are much 
 more real as there are more of them and they are more realistic. There are less animation glitches 
 and gameplay glitches compared to previous years.
  
  Graphics: Better last year. I may be the only one to think this but I think Madden '06 graphics 
 were much more impressive. Don't get me wrong, this looks like a next gen game but its frustrating 
 when you know there is more potential that has not been reached.
  
  Sound: nothing spectacular. it sounds like a football videogame and not like a football game. The 
 annoncers, like all other games, tend to repeat themselves and the crowd doesn't bring anything 
 new to the table.
  
  Value: With no 2K football this year, this game has a very high value.
  
  Recommendation: For 
 the football fans, buy this game. if you have not played Madden before and/or not a big football 
 fan, wait til next year because that will be the year to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Sure EA may have left out some stuff, but this is still by far the best football game on the market. 
 The controls are very responsive and the graphics are top notch. I love the field degradation, 
 especially in the rain when the water begins to pool on the field. Lead blocker control is a nice 
 addition, there is a framerate hitch when you switch from the blocker back to to the back, but 
 this is actually helpful, because it gives you a second to check out what's around your back so 
 you don't get drilled as soon as you get control of him. Superstar mode doesn't impress me as much, 
 just because of the fact you only control the one player, I'd rather have control of whoever I 
 want as opposed to not even having a choice for most plays. Other than that I have no complaints. 
 I really enjoy the feature they add that allows you to play your franchise games online, it definetly 
 adds a higher degree of difficulty to the game. This game is 100 times better than Madden 06 on 
 the 360. If you love football, give it a try! If you are more of a casual gamer, then NCAA may 
 be the right football game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  I recently bought the Xbox 360, and Madden 2007 was right there at the top of games to get. Great 
 graphics and some new enoyable and interesting features, is all I can see from playing this game 
 than that of playing others on my PS2. Is it awful for me to expect this brilliant change after 
 playing Madden on the PS2 for all those years and then playing it for the first time on the next 
 generation console of the Xbox 360, I believe not. Yeah, the graphics are crazy good, I mean wow, 
 but I can only play against my buddy when he comes over to game, WTF. I mean, I didn't really look 
 into the game at all before buying, because its Madden, it could have had exact same features as 
 last season's game, but been way better because of the graphics. We set it up, put it on All-Madden 
 of course, Miami Dolphins Vs Pittsburgh Steelers and then a mighty letdown as we see we can't play 
 on teams together. I thought maybe we were doing something wrong, as if maybe they made it so you 
 had to do something special to get on the same team. I was digging through the manual and posting 
 on here at Gamespot, all to find out that we couldn't. If I hadn't spent $60 on this game I would 
 have then trashed it. That alone really pisses me off, but as bad as that is the single player 
 game is what it always has been but witih a little ump on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piggyhigh69
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Hi all!
  I'm a big madden fan I have played them all...... The nintendos to the xboxs I have to say this 
 madden 07 game is so far the best that I have played!!! I like everything about it... But..... 
 No John Madden nd al micheals.. But you got to admit John Madden does get boring most of the time 
 al we can live with....... All I'm sayin is you people are making this game look like crap nd it 
 really is not..... I just got it two days ago nd I can not put it down everything was made perfect 
 in this game!!! So all you people that have not got it yet..... GET IT!!!!!!! It is so far the 
 best madden game you have played if not then..... Shoot me lol jp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albanatter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is really good i dont know how it got less then a great its a way better imrpovement 
 from lasts year and also graphics are amazing just that its a little stripped down in superstar 
 mode they just took that stupid stuff off like movies and stuff the menus are very good and i love 
 play ing people online in franchise mode this times anouncer is way better and more extiting the 
 madden my only problem was the plays lets say you play two players your friend can see what plays 
 u pick other then that a very good game must buy for this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief2828
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  
  The Graphics this year are amazing. The lighting really makes the jerseys, helmets and what not, 
 stand out greatly. It may be the lighting that makes the player models look better but they have 
 changed a little and do look better. Last year was pretty dull, this is a lot more prettier to 
 look at. The grass also looks much better and wears out during the game. In rain they also form 
 puddles. Looks best on a HDTV, but still looks great on a SDTV - 
  
  The Gameplay this time around is a lot better and smoother. When you check your play, it doesn't 
 stay zoomed out anymore. Playing the game is a blast, and the superstar mode is great! There are 
 mini-camp drills which can be fun, competetive, and boost your players abilities. The Gamer Level 
 is actually a neat feature since it shows your skill overall in Madden. A great ranking system 
 too for other Madden Players to watch for. The Highlight Stick is a very nice addition and I have 
 used it to avoid tackles numerous times. A lot of new features/fixed features have been added in 
 this game. While it still needs a few more features to be back to the old Madden's. The Gameplay, 
 Graphics, and new features make up for it. - 
  
  I played a few games. The ones I played with friends ran nice and we had a good time. There are 
 also other challenges you can do which makes it fun. However, when I went to play with random people, 
 the gameplay was slowed down. Almost laggy. I really hope EA fixes their servers. - 
  
  It's the same radio announcer last year... it's actually a bit better and I don't mind him too 
 much, but it could be much better. Players on the field make comments and yell to each other a 
 lot in the game and it's great! When you throw the ball for a long bomb, you get a nice whoosh 
 as it flys over to your receiver and a bang as he catches it, making it a very thrilling and tense 
 moment. Collisions sound nice and the crowd is more exciting then last year's version. - 
  
  [u] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderman1966
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports has ripped us off again..... every year they try and mess with a good thing and take 
 things away that are good and in return give us the same old boring "improvements". Where is the 
 fantasy draft option, player editing..... you can wrap up a piece of crap in a shiny bow and make 
 it look pretty, but in the end it's still a piece of crap and that's what this game is again this 
 year. Go back and add the features from Madden 2005 and put the graphics into it from this year 
 and you will have close to the best football game ever made. Monopolies are not good for the everyday 
 consumer and they are not definitely not good for video game football fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about this game. It's well done in some areas but falls short in a lot of 
 areas.
  
  Here are some things that annoy me about the game:
  
  Graphics are so, so.. NCAA 2007 seems better. Play against Seattle at home on a sunny day, it's 
 very hard to see them when they are in the shade.
  
  No cpu vs cpu... again ?? This is the most bizarre thing in this game. Why the heck would they 
 deliberately remove this ??? For petes sake somebody tell me! It will go into demo mode if you 
 let it sit, but you can't do it !
  
  How many penalties are there ? 3 ? I get pass intererence, offsides and roughing the kicker. I 
 have played about 10 games and have yet to see one holding call, encoachment etc.
  
  Twice I have had the ball on the ZERO yard line. WHAT????? Isn't that a touchdown ?
  
  What' 
 s with Cincinnatis field, hurts my eyes to look at it..
  
  Run blocking is clunky and not very useful
  
  WHY THE HECK CAN"T I SAVE THE GAME BEFORE IT"S 
 COMPLETE??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBears45
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the game gives you a great first impression. Then, thud. Superstar mode is cool, but it's 
 not "NEW!!!!" like EA says it is, including practice. I'm pretty sure Practice mode has been there 
 since 2000, at least. The gameplay is still way to easy on the default level, and Vick is still 
 above a 90. They left out other features present in the current gen version, and EA's laziness 
 shows time in and time out.
  
  Couple that with online play that hasn't changed since 2004. and you have an EA masterpiece; all 
 hype and no substance.
  
  EA has been regressing since 2006. I liked both Madden and 2K, both for different reasons. I yearn 
 for the day we get another chance to play 2K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43disaster
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  To me madden has always been crappy simply because of the lack of control of the player your supposedly 
 controlling . The men always used to seem to be sliding to me ... yeah sliding no real stop and 
 cut power like I have in games like 2k5 or even like I do in real life even (I used to be a running 
 back) .. this year I think you have the most control over the players than in any other games but 
 not much witch takes away from your running creativity if you have any... In other football games 
 , my running game would be Highlight type runs foreal , in Madden the runs are just weak , weak 
 , weak, even when you do score with a juke move .... Wak running game, Wak defensive player control 
 WAK WAK WAK ..... BEST in series, which aint sayin' much ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox-360-Gamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I just can not believe how many people on here rated it below a 8.5 cuz thats where it should be 
 8.5-10 this game Rocks. Best sports game I have ever played to this date. I give it a 9.7 it would 
 have gotten a 10, but the franchise mode is not like it used to be and how you can't edit players 
 and etc. But overall this game blows me away. Highly addictive, and highly reccomended to any football 
 fan and xbox 360 owner. I can't wait till I get my hdtv to play this cuz it looks so great on sdtv 
 I just can't imagine what it will look like on hdtv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theprays
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL O7 is a pretty good game. The graphics are nice, the new highlight stick woops tail, 
 and the superstar mode is suprisingly fun. There are a couple of bugs, like when the referees don't 
 call some penalties. Or when players get stuck between each other. The main problem with this game 
 is that is so easy to fumble in this game. There has never been a game I played where I didn't 
 fumble at least three times. This is a decent game to play by yourself, but a great party game. 
 I never did like Madden, but its the only game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tucker1-2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  the last madden game i played was madden 2005 for the ps2. This game in my opinion is better then 
 2005 madden. It is really fun and has really great graphics. There are some things missing like 
 Fantasy Draft which I really liked. But now there is superstar mode which is awesome. The reason 
 i dont have too much playing time is because i got it not too long ago. I was really looking forward 
 to this game and it is everything I expected. I dont know y some people dont like this game it 
 is trually aawsome and u should go get it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  EA basically tried to focus on this game being visually appealing. From all the screens, yes it 
 looks good. It's nice to finally have player faces in a Madden game. These are about the only good 
 aspects of the game. The gameplay feels well at times. This game suffers too much from poor collision 
 detection and heavy clipping, two things that cannot be an issue in a football game. The lead blocker 
 feature is nice and it does work well most of the time. I notice sometimes i go into make a block 
 and my guy just flat out misses his assignment. A lot of the animations look horrible because of 
 the clipping issue. Superstar mode looks good on paper, but just doesn't play like it should. It's 
 definately no First Person Mode which is something I miss. The camera focuses on you the entire 
 time, which sounds good, until you play it. It might depend on the position you choose. I decided 
 to create an Outside LB. The camera is off constantly so you can't see what angle to take. I've 
 also tried to make tackles numerously and the result is either to dive right past the ball carrier, 
 or i'll run into the ball carrier and nothing will happen. B can be pressed to follow the ball, 
 but you can't hold it down, it has to be tapped constantly to follow it. Also when the ball is 
 in the air it's hard to judge the defender, especially if your in zone coverage. I haven't created 
 any other positions, just the LB. I also seem to never get by blocks. I constantly get knocked 
 to the ground. Franchise is simple and teams don't hesitate to sign players in free agency. Training 
 players is a nice addition before a game, but it doesn't affect too much in game. Defensively, 
 they finally added some position specific audibles, rather it be for blitzes, coverages, or DL 
 moves. In NCAA, it shows you what control does what for the defender coverage, however Madden only 
 tells you in the instruction booklet. The game's A. I. is not too bad. There still seems to be computer 
 cheapness sometimes with catchup A. I. Presentation factor is horrible, no ESPN integration, and 
 a dull radio announcer just take away from the experience. Hall of Famers is a nice addition, but 
 the bug is annoying. It doesn't autosave the profile for you which can be annoying. Madden looks 
 good, but is hindered by lack of features and bugs and issues with collision detection. Still better 
 than 360 '06, but not near as good as NFL 2k5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opothis
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  I would run down all the reason why madden this year is so bad but i think everyone else just about 
 covered it. From no depth in game play to parts of the gaming not being completed lol. (good one 
 EA) . But i think the saddest part of it all is that there is nothing we can do about it. I saw 
 a few ppl say lets not buy next years madden to prove a point. Yeah that could work if everyone 
 did it but for everyone who knows what a good game is there are hundreds of others who blindly 
 give games like this 9.0 and higher. I'm not saying they don't have their opinion but nobody who 
 plays this game can honestly say this game is worth even a 8.0. With EA owning the Nfl market all 
 we can do is hope they learn from their mistakes but seeing this years game isn't much better then 
 last years i'm guessing not. Gone of the days of having options on how to play Nfl football no 
 Gameday, Fever, or 2k and even if they weren't better then madden it gave ppl options if madden 
 wasn't what they were into. So if you are one of the ones who think this game is a classic then 
 well you must be seeing something i'm not. But i think most reasonable gamers can see when a product 
 is being watered down. But ppl will get angry and run back to madden next year lol hoping for it 
 to be better. I say don't get ur hopes up but you never know EA might actually do some work and 
 improve it. Also we could have peace on earth and everyone become billonaire's. EA if you want 
 total control fine but don't take advantage of that by screwing ur buying public. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBD247
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt in anyones mind that the first outing of the famous Madden franchise for the 
 Xbox 360 was less then steller, graphics aside the gameplay, options, and modes were actually worse 
 then the established Xbox, PS2, and gamecube versions. Fans and critics alike bashed the "next 
 generation" outing of Madden and this year EA has listened, somewhat, to what fans want and with 
 a basic groundwork settled have now started building the features around this new model. The first 
 thing players will notice when starting a new game are the improved graphics. Player models are 
 even more detailed then before as has the crowds. But the standouts are new improved animations 
 for players and the ground, yes the ground, grass now degrades throughout the game. In a clear 
 day the grass will be torn apart through constant abuse, and if it is raining puddles will form. 
 It seems like a small effect but adds that much more realism. After playing through several games 
 you will notice that the onfield play has improved as well. If it wasnt evident by the cover athlete 
 then you should know by now that the running game has been vastly improved, almost every play you 
 will gain positive yardage. Better push from your lineman and more options to evade the defense 
 with the new highlight stick make the running game an option now on offense.
  After improving the running game EA seems to have decided to make the passing game slightly more 
 realistic as well, passing is not a sure thing anymore, more recievers seem to drop the ball, weather 
 covered by the defense or just out in the open passes will be dropped. While frustrating I guess 
 I can handle this annoyance with the ability to get more then negative 4 yards rushing. Improved 
 graphical appearance, improved gameplay, and for the icing on the cake more options of play! Newly 
 added mini games, improved franchise mode, and the sophmore appearance of Superstar Mode from last 
 gens debut have all been added. You start Superstar mode by creating a character , taking him through 
 new training drills such as the 40 yard dash, bench press, and a drill suited to your position 
 on the field. Although these modes beef up the game my favorite type of play style from the past, 
 Owner Mode, has yet to make an appearance. Madden has obviously improved in several aspects but 
 it still lingers just behind past offerings on current gen consoles. If you were one of many dissapointed 
 with last years offering rest easy this is a much improved offering although still not the juggernaut 
 it will eventually become. Better visuals, better sound with more player chatter and better commentary, 
 improved gameplay, and more ways to play help sell this new Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  For any Madden fan or gamer, the Xbox 360 edition of Madden NFL 2006 left a sour taste in their 
 mouths. The lack of features and horrendous gameplay brought down the only redeeming thing about 
 the game: the graphics. With 2007, EA decided to actually incorporate some features into the next-gen 
 iterations of the popular franchise. A new and fairly innovative Superstar mode has been added 
 to the Xbox 360 version that was on the past-gen versions of Madden 06, but never made it to the 
 barren Xbox 360 version. In the superstar mode, you take a randomly generated player fresh out 
 of college and try to build him up to be a Hall of Famer at end of his career. Sounds pretty simple, 
 eh? The computer assigns the player parents and a position, you do the rest. You name the player, 
 give him certain attributes such as his skin color and bodily features. And then you try to impress 
 the college scouts at different tryouts for an assortment of NFL teams. Each tryout consists of 
 three mini-games. The first of which is the 40-yard dash. By toggling both analog sticks, you propel 
 your player to the finish line as fast as possible. But dont jump the gun or you wont get to 
 try again. You then move on to the weight lifting. You have a bar thats filled with different 
 colors. The objective is to lift your weights as many times as you can before your endurance runs 
 out. You push up on both analog sticks at the same time to lift the weight. When the weights drop, 
 you have to push both triggers repeatedly to keep your endurance up. The endurance is represented 
 by a green portion of the bar. The third mini-game is based around your player. For a wide receiver, 
 you will run your routes and try to shake the defender and score touchdowns. If youre a running 
 back, you will try to get a touchdown as quick as possibly by outrunning three defenders. Other 
 positions have their own similar games. The biggest improvement/addition to Madden NFL 07 is the 
 run to daylight feature. This feature allows you to take control of any blocker except the quarterback 
 on a running play and make a hole for your runner. After youve made the whole, you can either 
 switch back to the player and bust some tackles for more yards or watch the computer do the rest. 
 EA has also adjusted the truck stick and renamed it the highlight stick. Certain types of runners 
 will run with different styles. Warrick Dunn wont run over a linebacker the same way a power runner 
 like Mike Alstott would. The new animations and moves add a new depth to the running game, inherently 
 making it a better option than passing. The menu system has been revamped for Madden NFL 07. While 
 that might not seem like a very big thing, it is. It flows more smoothly and has easier access 
 to all of the options. It can be confusing at first but youll get the hang of it fairly soon. 
 The graphics have received an apparent update compared to last years edition. More players have 
 had their likenesses added into the game. The jerseys all look crisp and nearly realistic. The 
 grass on the field looks more realistic than past years and will degrade over the course of the 
 game. When the grass starts turning to dirt, the colors look off, but its a step in the right 
 direction. The animations are perhaps the biggest advance graphically. Gone are the boneheaded 
 fake tackles and stiff animations that have plagued years past. There is no gang-tackling in this 
 years edition, but the animations all look crisp and lifelike. The celebrations have also been 
 adjusted and many have been added. The only problem is some players who dont normally celebrate 
 in real life like Tiki Barber, celebrate in some of the dumbest ways on the game. And where are 
 the famous Steve Smith and Chad Johnson celebrations?
  Madden NFL 07 isnt without its flaws. The most noticeable of which is the fatigue glitch. EA 
 Tiburon contends there is fatigue in the game, and there is. I ran poor DeShaun Foster six plays 
 in a row and he fumbled the last time and fell flat on his face. The problem is there are gauges 
 on the play selection screen that are supposed to show how fatigued the player is. Due to some 
 apparent glitch, they never change. And unless George Romeros Night of the Living dead has come 
 to pass, having hall of fame players on other teams in the franchise mode is another glitch. After 
 your Madden Gamer level goes up, youll unlock hall of fame players. These players will then be 
 added into the free agency pool of your franchise. EA is working on a patch that should be released 
 soon.
  All in all, Madden NFL 07 is much better than the 06 edition. The Xbox 360 lacks some features 
 including the owner mode where you could dictate many political aspects of the team. The fantasy 
 draft is also not in the Xbox 360 version. Die hard Madden fans wanting a reprieve from last year 
 should definitely check Madden NFL 07 out. And football fans looking for their realistic football 
 fix can pick the game up and not feel disappointed. The only people who will feel disappointed 
 will be the ones looking for the added features in the next-gen version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanberry
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  My review may be biased, because I've been a long time 2K sports football fan, but I was actually 
 excited about Madden this year. To my disappointment, the next-gen Madden is not even close to 
 approaching the quality of Sega's last football game NFL 2K5 (Xbox) . I have to admit Im not the 
 type to spend a lot of time in the franchise mode, Im very happy with a single season of play 
 without all the tedious RPG elements of a franchise mode. So the mini-games and franchise mode 
 extras are just fluff to me that I dont care about or use. What I do care about is how the game 
 plays! And let me just say, the game play controls feel sloppy to the very precise controls of 
 the 2K series.
  
  The radio announcer for the play-by-play is another thing that I dislike about the next-gen Madden. 
 I definitely prefer the typical TV style commentary. One thing that I always enjoyed about the 
 2K5 game was the half time and end game highlights with Chris Berman. You would get replays of 
 the games key plays with Chris Berman adding his typical commentary flare. It was great! Madden 
 has nothing like this, and its supposed to be next-gen? The one next-gen aspect that Madden 
 executes well is the way the weather affects the field conditions. Its pretty amazing when your 
 players come up to the line and you see reflections in the puddles of rain water collecting in 
 player created depressions. Other than this, the graphics dont feel that next-gen to me.
  
  I still hold out hope that the 2K sports football franchise makes a triumphant return! But 
 in the mean time, maybe I just have to learn to like Madden again and get accustomed to its less 
 than precise game play. Overall, I was excited to play the new Madden, but in the end I was very 
 disappointed! I think Id have more fun, and be more satisfied playing NFL 2K5 on my Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyw32
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The running game has greatly improved, but the passing is pretty much the same, with the QB vision. 
 The controls are also different, but you will get used to them. I would say that this is a good 
 game to buy if you like football games, but this game wont convert you. The game doesnt have a 
 tournament mode which isnt too bad, but it also doesnt have a fantasy draft which is absolutely 
 crazy. That was a bid mistake. Hopefully next year there will be some improvements on the game, 
 but im pleased right now, but ill see how long ill keep playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is improved from 06, but its still missing a lot for me .This game definitely doesnt blow 
 me away like Ghost recon ,Call duty 2 of nfl 2k5 for (the xbox) . Why i gave the graphics and 8 because 
 it seems a little less polished from last year, the textures are are pretty good but i couldnt get 
 it confused from watching a live nfl broadcast or something like that and i know im kinda of stretching 
 it, but look at metal gear solid for ps3 or G. R. A. W.. Animations are excellent but repetitive you 
 tend to see the same animations alot.
  Gameplay 7 why ,because i like how they added the lead blocker control, now you have the ability 
 to play each position in the game, defensive options are kinda limited compared to present gen systems, im 
 let down about that and DBs A. I. is kinda stupid even all pro, anyway they need more options on 
 how to cover receivers and what ever happened to man lock and all that waz up ea. I do like the 
 highlight stick ,because players do what there real life counterpart would do instead of trucking 
 LBs with warrick dunn, but im ticked off about the absent fatigue it makes a big difference and 
 makes this game very unrealistic and unexcusable for game developers on perhaps one of the most 
 popular videogames in history. They probably got 100 some people working on this game and they missed 
 that ,very poor job EA. But the game does kinda play like pro football but the controls still seem 
 a split second unresponsive.
  Sound im very dissapointed in the hits and sound effects sound realistc but thats the only excellent 
 part about the sound and audio. Commentating is absent why have Madden as your coverboy and dont 
 have what he does best in the game, no game impressed me more as far as commentating and presentation 
 than 2k5, the radio dude is accurate but kinda whack for a high profile game and sport this is. I 
 thought this was next gen it seemed like it went back to joe montana football days as far as commentating 
 goes. Presentation of this game sucks no pregame, no broadcast dudes, no big deal about T. O. from 
 media, no superbowl or playoff type of expereince for the superbowl and playoffs, its so Arcadey 
 ,but at least you get a prerendered ending in arcade games when you beat them, the game is so dead 
 and doesnt give you no type of N. F. L. experience, no excitement, no drama ,which adds to the game 
 alot, ask 2k sports they need a lot of improvement in that area. Overall its a decent game ,but if 
 2k sports developers was doing a pro football game it would of crushed this hyped up rich ,heavy 
 promotion lazy effort for a N. F. L. game called Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  After ESPN NFL 2k5 came out I have been taking a second look at Madden. I never bought Madden NFL 
 06 because even being released a full year after ESPN, the game was not even up to par. Madden 
 07 might look pretty and has certainly received over the top hype... but dont believe any of it. 
 EA made a good call buying the rights to all that is NFL and ESPN in video games because if not 
 they would be eating dirt as people would go for the competition. As a football fan, I am sad at 
 the fact that John Madden's great name continues to be disrespected by such lazy ass development 
 by the Madden NFL team. Just a damn shame. Sorry EA, I really wanted to like this game but you 
 failed horribly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChudleyCannons
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a fun game, but major improvements could have been made with the lag and franchise 
 mode. I was a big fan of fantasy drafts in franchise mode and bought the game expecting to create 
 my own fantasy team. I was greatly disappointed in the absence of this. The game often lags and 
 I feel if I dont save after everygame then i might lose all my hard work. I don't no if it is my 
 360 or the game but my achievements and progress/ madden level get erased or only record some of 
 my games played. Overall it is a fun football game and i don't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would just like to say that this game gets WAY too much crap. IGN gave it the best 
 score at 8.5 and that's about where i would put it too. Anything less though is just being nit 
 picky!
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics, period. It's a beautiful game and the animations are AWESOME! There is 
 nothing like throwing/seeing a chop block or a running back get flipped! It's awesome!
  
  Gameplay: Very fun game. Running is GREAT in this game! Passing is also good in this game. The 
 only knock I have is that the DB's still suck! I have yet to find a football game that does well 
 with DB's besides Tecmo Bowl! It's not a huge deal because the computer doesn't throw it perfect 
 everytime but it can get annoying when your teammates don't put there hands up and let a ball go 
 half a foot over there head instead of picking it.
  
  Sound: Very good sound. The crowd is great and the on field chatter really adds to it. I also like 
 the commentator since he is a home-team fan because it makes it that much more fun to listen too. 
 Fotball sounds are there normal good self.
  
  Controls: Solid is the term I like to use. I don't think it could be set up any better.
  
  
 Overall it's a solid offering. There are some issues but what games don't have things they could 
 improve on? None. So please, ease up on this game, it's very fun and the Superstar mode is straight 
 SICK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Why buy the 360 version when you can get the PS2 or XBOX version for $10 less and it has all the 
 extras. A lot seems missing out of Madden. I got it well, because it was madden. Yes its an okay 
 game and it does have sweet graphics, but its not worth $60. I talked to my friends who have it 
 for PS2, and who happened to play madden at my house for the 360. The only better part was the 
 graphics. Madden has too many things missing unlike to PS2 and XBOX versions. Trust me, save the 
 $10 and get it for PS2 or XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay first of all the game is good not great but I good, I mean I think it is better than what 
 people rated it on here. I gave it a 8.5, which i think is a fair rating. A couple of problems 
 I have with it is that I can't assign my linebackers (LB) to blitz, drop back into coverage, or 
 play the flat. I hate the way they have it step up where the can either have all your LB blitz 
 or drop back into coverage. Honestly I think it is a dumb idea. How come they didn't make it like 
 the PS2 and XBOX? All in all the game is good but I have it on both systems PS2 and the 360, I 
 play in a lot tournys and I get most of my practices on the PS2 and I just use the 360 for personal 
 use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seidevol
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  We are gathered here today to bury an old friend of ours...... a friend we have grown to love.. respect... and 
 honor... for so many years. This friend that we have known over the years as madden... is no longer...... This 
 game is bad. Now before you get all angry and upset... and if you play madden like i play madden.. then 
 you will understand that this game is either for newbies to football... kids... or the arcade bunch. 
 But for those who.."play" madden..... let me tell you... its terrible. EA has got this all sewn up 
 and i have to guess that they just don't care anymore. I knew the writing was on the wall when 
 the NFL license was signed. This is a genre that HAS to have competition... because without it.... we 
 get this type of product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlemc6969
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been buying madden games since it was with super Nintendo. They were all great games but 
 this year and last year were really bad on the 360. The defense is too easy it just doesnt feel 
 like it made a next-gen jump. Sure its got more animations and better graphics, but madden 07 for 
 the Xbox 360 is nothing but a ps2 version of the game with some 360 polish on it. Its like the 
 old saying says, you can put a 1500 dollar suit on a pile of crap it will look good but the truth 
 is its still crap. If you have an Xbox or ps2 dont waste your 10 bucks and just buy that game. 
 I love madden games I really do but I think that it needs the NFL 2K series. EA is getting lazy 
 when it comes to next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wallace2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why so many people are bashing this game. It's football, JUST FOOTBALL. If you 
 were expecting to see something NEW then you should choose a different genre. This year's Madden 
 was last year's Madden just like this year's Madden is next year's Madden (if that makes any sense) . 
 What I'm really trying to say is this: quit complaining about Madden 07 not having any new features. 
 You should actually be glad that EA didn't change anything. Since they are the only company allowed 
 to make a licensed NFL game, they pretty much could have put whatever they wanted into the game. 
 This year's Madden has everthing a Madden game should have. It has great graphics, good sound, 
 and great gameplay mechanics. The only problems I found were the menus and the save system............ and 
 John Madden, but that's beside the point. so you should be happy that you got the same old Madden 
 because EA could've just sold you a blank disc in a brand new case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisher54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game disapointed me. They need to go back to madden 05 and put all of those features into 
 this game. I like the fantasy franchises, the drills in franchise, and in the main menu. And I 
 wish that they would allow the gamer to customize the players to what they really are, and be able 
 to edit them if need be. I was highly disapointed in this game, NCAA was better, not by a lot, 
 but it was better. And with a name like madden you would think that he would be in there, somewhere, 
 however he is no whereto be seen, or heard from. If only EA would make the game that we all know 
 they are capeable of making every one would be much more happy. I'm really pissed off at this game 
 for the unlockable HOF players. That is the most retarted feature that they could add, it completly 
 throws off any franchise that I try and start, I HATE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelJPL
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  From reading reviews and the boards it seems that this is a love or hate kinda game. I dont think 
 so though. As much as everyone wants to hate EA for stealing the license from 2K, you kinda have 
 to just live with it until the contract runs its term and hope for NO renewal. But about the game... 
 Its not the best entry in the long running series but its not terrible either. The graphics on 
 the 360 version are actually quite nice. I do play on an HD tv so they may be different on a regular 
 monitor, but in HD its nice. The game is not as cut and dry as last years but its not bursting 
 at the seams with features either. The franchise mode is not too bad considering there is no owner 
 mode, which does suck but I can deal. The new mini-camp games are fun but nothing amazing. The 
 superstar mode is IMO the best feature. Ideally it is the same as b4 as far as choosing your parents 
 etc. It is cool now with NFL combine and team try outs b4 the draft which is just minicamp w/ your 
 created guy. Fun stuff tho, even tho the AI is totally retarded sometimes because they "coach" 
 calls plays and you just run them. This can be a bit trying when it is 3rd and 12 and he decides 
 to run a HB Slam up the middle. But besides that its fun to play. Online play is your normal deal, 
 nothing out of the ordinary. Overall not a bad game just not quite to the peak that Madden very 
 well could be. Give it a few years and like everything they do maybe EA will baby step their way 
 back to greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickrep1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Initially I wasnt going to buy Madden 07 based on the premise that the gameplay wasnt going to 
 change that much over 06. Football is football and season mode in 06 would do me just fine saving 
 $60.
  However as I read more about Superstar mode it peaked my interest enough to fork over the money 
 hopping that it would give me hours of enjoyment.
  
  Im happy to say I wasnt disappointed. Superstar mode is a blast and since purchasing it I havent 
 been able to put it down. Superstar mode is basically a RPG inside a sports game. You start off 
 having to pick your character flipping through attributes until you get the position you want your 
 star to play. Once competed you start off right out of college (you decide which one you graduated 
 from) and start your workouts with various teams. You need to hire an agent, give interviews with 
 the media and then cross you fingers and get ready for the draft.
  
  EA left nothing out when it comes to the Superstar mode giving you plenty of options outside playing 
 the actual game. They included a fake email account where youre sent e-mails by everyone from 
 your agent to mom. Plenty of interaction with your agent being able to do everything from complain 
 about your coaches, demand a trade or just talk to the media about youre next opponent.
  
  When playing the game the view is great with the camera set right behind your player. Ive been 
 playing as a WR so the view is right behind him with me in full control. The coach calls the play, 
 which youre shown how to run the route and its up to you to get open. The goal is to have a great 
 enough career to end up in Canton.
  
  Overall for me Superstar mode saved the day and made my $60 a good investment. Without it would 
 have been Madden 06 with a new roster. If you just like playing football and wouldnt be into micro 
 managing one player, 06 would do you fine and you should spend the $60 on another title. However 
 if youre into character building here is you chance to package it into the best sports game ever 
 created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Its another year and another Madden NFL game. However, this is an important year for Madden fans 
 as it marks the second entry in the series for the XBox 360. A lot of people were really let down 
 after playing the 06 edition of Madden. Due to a lack of features comparable to the current gen 
 offerings, Madden next gen seemed anything but next gen. Is this year's game a huge leap forward? 
 Truthfully, no it isn't. However, it is definitely making some big steps in writing wrongs from 
 last year's game.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics look really nice in most areas of the game. The stadiums are beautiful once again. 
 Watching the field degrade over time is also a great realistic bonus. You definitely won't have 
 any problems distinguishing this game from an XBox or PS2 game in the visuals department. Once 
 again, most of your bigger stars look good in close ups, however there are still a lot of generic 
 looking models for the more underappreciated players. There are a lot players to work with, so 
 I'm sure that this will be updated in the coming years. The menus screens look nice as well.
  
  Sound:
  The stadium and game chatter is great. I always found joy from hearing the constant 
 banter of the players on the field. It really adds to the realism that EA was going for. The radio 
 announcer is back again, and Madden is left only for game title credits and Ask Madden play selection 
 options. If you didn't mind this last year, you won't mind it this year. If you did, well, you 
 get the idea. The EA Trax are always a mixed bag every year, so put in and take out what you wish 
 to make it better for yourself. Control:
  Control is pretty much the same here as it was last year with only a few tweaks and improvements. 
 So, if you're already a vet of this game, then the learning curve will be very small to pick up 
 on the new things here. Lead blocking controls and highlight stick options are welcome editions 
 to this game and make running the ball more fun and strategic than before. Gameplay:
  Here's where Madden games usually make their money. However, the next gen version is still playing 
 catch up from a features standpoint. Missing once again are Owner Mode, EA Sports Radio, and Everyone's 
 favorite Fantasy Draft. All is not lost however. Franchise is back again, and although it is as 
 bare bones as it was last year, you are at least able to train a number of players before every 
 game to help get their stats up a bit and rehab injured ones. Create a player has also returned, 
 so that you can add your own creation to any roster you choose. However, instead just jacking up 
 stats for your character, you must first play his respective mini games in order to determine his 
 stats. Make sure that you are skilled in the mini games first, for if you are not, your stats can 
 turn out really low in certain key areas, making your player worthless overall. Superstar mode 
 is also new this year to the 360, and it adds a lot of depth to the game that was completely absent 
 before. Trying to take a player from all positions to the Hall of Fame could take eons, and is 
 definitely something to look into if you get bored with Franchise. SS Mode will be either loved 
 or hated.
  
  Final Words:
  In a nutshell, Madden is back on the 360, and it is going forwards instead of backwards. Because 
 of this, Madden fans can rest easy. Yes, some things are still missing, but it is getting better, 
 and it still plays pretty well. If you're really looking for some Next gen football, this is the 
 only place to find it right now, and buying it wouldn't be a bad idea. However, if you are still 
 on the fence about the game due to missing features, go ahead and play it first before giving this 
 improved game the cold shoulder.
  
  What I like:
  Looks good, plays good
  Mini games are interesting
  Lead blocking controls are a blessing to the running game
  Superstar 
 mode has a lot of depth possibilities
  
  What I don't like:
  AI can be hit or miss at times as usual
  Zoomed in camera angle for SS works good/bad depending 
 on position
  Still No fantasy Draft
  
  Madden lovers will live or die by this game, and 2k lovers will continue to hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate_n8
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this a few days ago. I love the madden series, but this game feels incomplete. After 
 playing this game on PS2 and Xbox, I feel like this game is not a finished product. They don't 
 even have the chain gang on the sidelines, and the game play is not as smooth as it is on the current 
 gen consoles. I also noticed that there are way too many dropped passes. I was playing on Live 
 and the person I was playing against had 2 passes dropped back to back by the tail back on short 
 screen plays. And speaking of Live I have started playing about 4 games on live, but have only 
 completed one. The game keeps saying that the connection was lost even thought I was still able 
 to continue a conversation with my opponent. The main point is that this game still needs some 
 work for before it will great on next gen consoles. If graphics are not a big thing to you, I suggest 
 that you get it for PS2 or Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Well madden 07 did not get the credit it deserved this is a great new madden game and I dont know 
 why gamespot reviewed it so harshly. I found myself playing madden 07 for hours every day as I 
 did with madden 05. I played some matches online and had nothing but nice smooth lag free game 
 play. I especially love madden 07 because im a big football fan but the graphics in 07 are great 
 as well.
  It may be missing some features such as saving replays saving during games or creating your own 
 team and which I thought was the dumbest thing not being able to watch computers play each other. 
 but it still has the most important game modes such as franchise mode superstar mode and mini games 
 and of course play now. But as I was playing the franchise mode I noticed that teams that are supposed 
 to be doing really well were doing very bad like the cowboys 1-10 and the Bengals 1-11 or the browns 
 1-13well no surprises there but most of the other good teams were doing bad like the dolphins 
 too. But still this madden game comes out on top and is a huge improvement from madden 06 which 
 sucked. But this game is one game that every sports fan, football fan, or gamer should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fashizzle13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  about a billion times better then madden 06. i am a huge football fan so i would probably like 
 it no matter what but this is actually good.
  
  gameplay: this is where it beats the madden 06. the decided to scrap the qb vision which i believe 
 is for the best. i understood how to user it but it was such a nucience. the plays are alot easier 
 to to pick because it shows more than 3 at a time so you can choose your play alot faster.
  
  graphics: the graphics are revolutionary. there is no comparasion almost completly life-like. 
 the audence looks a little like cardboard cutouts but the players look absoulutly amazing.
  
  sound: it sounds exactly like an actual football game. from the croud noises to the the echo 
 of the ref it couldntbe much better.
  
  value: cant put a price on greatness. nuff said.
  
  please pardon the typos i am the worste speller ever. and this is only my second review so 
 i still dont really know what to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  When it comes to Madden, reviews are rather hard to keep unbiased. There's some people out there 
 who would love this game no matter what it offered. Then there's those who would hate it no matter 
 what simply because it has the EA logo on it. Me? I'm a big EA fan.. and Madden fan as well. However, 
 this is no Madden. This game is the result of having a monopoly on the NFL license. And with no 
 competition, EA decided to rehash this one yet again for '07. I, for one, will no longer be purchasing 
 Madden games. Why you ask? Well, here's a Game Breakdown for this one.
  
  Graphics: Great. Sickeningly great. What do I mean by that? I mean that I'm sick and frigging tired 
 of companies making games that look good, but play like total crap. Ninety-Nine Nights = good example. 
 Madden '07=even better example. The character models are very nice, but because they tried to work 
 so much damn shine into the game, it suffers from some SEVERE framerate drops. Stadiums look decent, 
 but the font used to identify your active athlete looks too big and blocky. 
  
  Sound: Horrible commentary. Where's Madden? I buy Madden to hear Madden. This game has some guy 
 on a radio broadcast doing all the commentary. What a freaking joke. I bought this game to hear 
 some exciting play calling, but you won't find it here. Impacts sound ok, but man.. zero innovation. 
 Probably due to zero motivation.....
  
  Control: same, same, same. There's nothing new here. Same hit stick, same everything. I wish there 
 was something to say, but there's really not on this topic.
  
  Gameplay: I bought this game at the same time as the god-awful creation known as MLB 2k6. I played 
 this game for five minutes, literally didn't even finish the first quarter, and shut it off.. went 
 back to MLB for the love of god. Seriously, wow. Anytime you complete a pass its a touchdown. The 
 A. I. is absolutely horrible, and half the time you'll score even rushing. It's just sad all around. 
 I'd like to spend more time on this review... actually.... no I wouldn't. This game doesn't deserve 
 more of my time. More stripped features on the 360 version this year, more of the same junk, once 
 again polished graphics... Madden has really jumped the shark with this edition. Rental? Nah.. save 
 your money. Purchase? Definitly not. There's just no REAL NFL game out there right now on 360 and, 
 thanks to the monopoly of EA, there won't be anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game glitches, pauses, and has pretty bad looking player models. If you like NCAA 07 enough 
 to buy it, this game should be in your collection also. I was hoping for a "NEX-GEN" experience 
 and once again I get flat out put on my face for another year of MADDEN. This game had promise 
 due to all the hype it was getting... but it has alot of errors that needed to be taken care of... and 
 they left all the bugs in it. This game is worth $30 max. If you are a real gamer and know what 
 I am talking about.... GRAPHICS should be the last thing to make this game good. The game looks 
 good... but... the same look as MADDEN 06, the same way the game is called... the same game as NCAA 
 07 with the NFL player names... is not what this game should have been. They even copied the idea 
 of the kick meter.... I mean come on now... where is the original beauty that this game was supposed 
 to have. Due to the NFL license buy out for the next few years.... we are stuck buying a copy product 
 every year... and that is not cool. I am sorry MADDEN FANS.... if you say this game isn't average... I 
 guess I have no clue what I am talking about. All I can justify in saying... The ACHIEVEMENTS are 
 the only thing this game offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me get something straight, for all those who bashed or bad mouthed this game, you have not 
 given this game a chance. Simply put Madden 07 as a big improvement over last year's version, a 
 statement that's been repeated over and over again. After all, I was one of the bashers when I 
 rented this game, comparing it to 2k5. I am a 2k fan for life and proud of it, and when I played 
 Madden 06, I thought to myself, how can people still be buying this series, and although Madden 
 06 didn't live up to people's expectations, I personally thought it was ok for a quick play, but 
 still didn't like it enough for a purchase. Now I tried Madden 07, and the more I play it, the 
 more I like it. Yes, this game is much better than last year and to all those who bash the game, 
 give it time and be patient. The game will start to grow on you as you put more time into it. You 
 now have a lot of features that wasn't in last year's game, like the Superstar mode and the Franchise 
 mode, and with other add ins it gives the game more value. The graphics at first didn't give me 
 the wow feeling, but as I play more and notice the details on the charcacter models, of course 
 on a HDTV, they do look realistic, especially in closeup shots, plus, the animations and stadiums 
 improved over last year's version. On the negative side, the overall atmosphere needs a lot of 
 improvement, the game sometimes feel so out of place and with the lack of a color commentator and 
 disc presentation, it feels bland. One thing I do have to say is, It's hard not to compare Madden 
 with 2k and for the reason that 2k's football has always been a great series to contend with, time's 
 a changing. I've lived and breathed 2k, especially 2k5 for the past two years when it comes to 
 football gaming and still do, but I gave Madden another chance, and although it's no where close 
 to 2k's standards, it's still a good game. EA is known to always leave features out year in year 
 out, but at least they're going in the right direction and adding key features when needed. There's 
 still a ways to go for the Madden series to live up to peoples standards, and it's comming slowly 
 but surely. To all Madden critique, we're playing next gen games now, so get used to it. As hard 
 as it is to believe, for the first time I'm buying a Madden football game until 2k comes back. 
 Besides, I need an accurate Reggie Bush model to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSUDuff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I would like to first start out by saying that the differentiation of superstar mode and franchise 
 is a step in the right direction. Although some people don't like the behind the player view in 
 the superstar mode, it adds another element to a game that continues to grow better each year.
 
  
  The lead blocker feature is also a good addition to game where the running game to me seems ridiculous 
 in blocking. Offensive Lineman in the NFL should know where to go just about everytime and get 
 manhandled by Linebackers or Defensive Lineman many of plays. At least now I can put some ahead 
 to gain a few extra yards instead of gaining a very few or scoring a touchdown.
  
  Everything else is really Madden revamped from another year.
  
  Although not that important 
 to most, Madden 07 features a good soundtrack of songs to listen to while in the menus. It is refreshing 
 to hear new songs rather than what songs I play during games that are on my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gretzky_99rockz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is really better! Now i'm not saying that its perfect since you can't edit player atts 
 and there isn't a franchise mode. But its a really good game graphics are awesome, the gameplay 
 is really great, and EA added a couple dozen more tackles and catches! This is a most-buy for football 
 fans. The sound has recording of all the starting QB's but the announcer isn't as good as i would 
 like. This is a fun game to play by yourself, with a friend or online. If EA just learned to keep 
 all the features in then we'd have a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maustin5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that i hated 2k5 football for the ps2. I bought both madden 05 and 2k5 
 just to see the difference. Maddens gameplay was way better.
  
  Now for the Madden07: The Good - Great gameplay, updated rosters, franchise mode is back (a little 
 watered down though) , graphics are fantastic, great value.
  
  The bad- Online play is a complete waste of time, you will get droped from the server and recieve 
 automatic losses (ive played 20 games and ive been dropped from 5 of those games) and ps i have 
 high speed cable. Franchise mode is really watered down: no fantasy draft, no stadium upgrades 
 or the ability to move your team to a new city, Hall of Famers appear in free agency and their 
 is no way to get them off. Game glitches: Their is no fatigue in this games. In superstar mode 
 most camera angels make the game unplayable. AI is lacking... In fact i think to make up for the 
 bad AI EA put some thing in the game that makes you drop a lot of wide open passes and fumble alot. 
 Also no John Madden, he should at least be the anouncer on MNF games and playoffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adompe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  this game looks great on the 360. the bigger the tv, the better (you've got HD, right?) . yeah, 
 some of the players faces look a little weird close-up, and there's weird stadium views between 
 plays sometimes, but the game play and repeatable play factor is well worth it. this game is deeeeeep 
 too. franchise, import draft class, unlock oldies but goodies, create a player, and unlock achievements 
 on 360. so much fun. so much ...
  
  i love the deep pass scud missile sound effect. that''s so awesome. be prepared to get knocked 
 off the sofa the first time you land one of those for a 40+ yard pickup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman_eddie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  The games alot of fun but it doesnt feel like a different game, i have played this game before. 
 i really like the new kicking feature cause it reminds me of tiger woods, i feel like i have control 
 of the power of the kick. now the downside its the same madden i played last year, nothing big 
 in "new" department. the superstar mode is no different, (except for the mini-camp, which is not 
 fun) the best thing in it for me is the contact control, nothing goes through anything, the ball 
 bounces off things, including hemits and hands, anyway all in all, its a good game for live and 
 with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MinerAvatar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  I notice the reviews that gave this game a high score spent less than 10 hours playing it so they 
 havent found all the glitches in it yet. Strange things like adding players to your roster from 
 the free agent list all of a sudden as one example. I don't understand how a second year next gen 
 game like this could have so many flaws (disappearing kick meter, a player fatigue meter that never 
 moves, ECT.) . What a horrid idea to add the Hall Of Fame players to the free agent list automatically, 
 nothing like having a bunch of great players for your opponents to sign because your gamer level 
 increased, way to go EA. I also can't understand why they couldn't include all the options of the 
 current gen titles, wasn't that the number one complaint from last years edition of Madden on 
 the 360 EA? Why the lame training games, I mean come on, the 40 yard dash, whoopee. How come you 
 run with the analog sticks when in the game you can hold down the sprint button to run? I like 
 the idea of training every week, but give us something relevant to the game play in game, not crap 
 like weight lifting that is way to hard to control. Maybe it's just me but I don't see why a guy 
 with a 90 speed runs the dash in 5.14 or 4.98 because of the way you have to control the drill. 
 On the plus side I do enjoy the new blocking controls, and the in game controls are tight when 
 the game is running correctly. The game does look great when in action at least. I am a huge fan 
 of the Madden series so I hope they come out with some patches soon to fix the ungodly amount of 
 bugs in this pig and they better be free. Fans Madden please buy the PS2 or X-box version, or better 
 yet don't buy any version and maybe EA will put out a quality title next year with the complete 
 game intact on ALL systems and maybe it will work this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanparker2134
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Here we are again. Another year, another football game, and ever since ESPN NFL 2K went bye-bye 
 thanks to EA Games' imperialistic exclusivity deal with the NFL, the only NFL game you can play. 
 While this year marginal improvements are made over last year's installment, this is still the 
 same old simplistic, idealistic and crappistic football game to ever make its name in the realm 
 of "real football." Yes, I think this game is better suited for arcade machines. It is the most 
 obscenely easy and "arcadey" (is that a word?) football games (not counting "real" arcade games) 
 I have ever played. Gameplay: Simple, confusing, NOT difficult.
  
  Graphics: Technically superior, however totally unrealistic.
  
  Sound: Eh. Soundtrack sucks. 
 The effects are however fantastic.
  
  Value: Very little for anyone who has played ESPN NFL 2K.
  
  Tilt: I'll be fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specialk90
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  This game is, if not the best xbox 360 game out, then it sure is the best sports game to date!!! 
 Me personally I love this game for various reasons. First of all, the graphics are phenomenal. 
 The tacking system is done very well. In my opinion the superstar mode is alot better this year 
 than the previous (current-gen) version. This year, if you did not know, you play your position 
 only ,which brings a cool feel to the table:) Probably the only thing that wasn't done great was 
 the franchise mode. This year it just seems kind of dry so to speak. Its not as well done as the 
 current-gen version but its still kind of cool. So if you have a xbox 360 then you should go pick 
 up your copy of madden today. It wont let you down if your a football fan. I PROMISE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, my intent is to keep this short and sweet.
  
  I was one of the ones who got "burned" by purchasing Madden 06 last year on the X360. I am usually 
 against buying any new EA sports game because I boycott their practice of purchasing the exclusive 
 rights to such things like the NFL, NASCAR, NCAA etc.
  
  However, I made an exception at the launch of the 360. I thought, what the heck, I bet it will 
 be an outstanding football game to show off my 360, and well, we know the rest.
  
  This year I decided to rent the game before I actively go out looking for a used copy. I am glad 
 I did. My expectations were high given how badly they dropped the ball about six months ago on 
 '06 because I thought anything would be better. In a way I was right. Anything is better but I 
 expected a little more than one added feature. But should I have expected more? I mean, they are 
 the only ones able to make an NFL game so I guess they really have no motivation (apparently) to 
 make an outstanding game. They have no competition driving them to go above and beyond. Instead 
 I feel like I am playing a "this is good enough for '07" title.
  
  To get down to it, this is quite simply, Madden lite. It is everything of the current gen Madden 
 game but without most of the features. But we have heard all of this over and over again, havent 
 we? Well, apparently EA is not listening. And also, I do not understand why OH WHY do they insist 
 on keeping the one solitary radio announcer that sounds like he is talking from the bottom of a 
 clogged up toilet in the game? Last year I thought it was some temporary thing that they would 
 fix but he IS STILL THERE! The reality is, and you can quote me on this, EA purchased the exclusive 
 rights for ESPN presentation so they appear to be in the process of transitioning over to it. However, 
 in the mean time they stick in this poorly filtered radio guy (in the year 2006 we have one single 
 announcer!) to hold everyone over until they actually get to completing the ESPN presentation. 
 But really, they seem to have no real drive to replace it. Again, a product of the exclusive rights 
 deal.
  
  Again, how bad can a game based on football be? They don't have to do much to have a playable game 
 and earn a fair score as long as the game functions, but I expect more. So I concentrate on the 
 details, because it is the little things that kill you. That said, it is more of the same as before, 
 the player animations are quirky. Again we see the same issues; some deformed players, the QB, 
 that looks like he has been beaten with the ugly stick, walks up to the line of scrimmage between 
 each play apparently shouting commands but looking more like an angry fish flapping his mouth wide 
 open and closed. After each play we see the defense standing around doing what? Nothing? They just 
 stare in different directions facing the camera. Shouldn't they be moving or talking or, well, 
 something? It really looks silly. I missed this about the old NFL2K series that had excellent cut 
 scenes between plays.
  
  I will say that the superstar mode is fun. However, this only goes so far in to the same extent 
 of the "fun" in most EA games. Specifically, EA takes a formula, usually tried and tested before, 
 and just repeats the process. After a while it just becomes the same old thing. The same practices, 
 the same training camp, the same game earning the same "influence points" just playing a different 
 team. How about giving the "superstar" some kind of freggin' "crib" that allows you to buy and 
 populate it with "stuff" to give me some feeling like I am accomplishing. I mean, accomplishing 
 something "fun" besides just simply filling up that hall of fame meter.
  
  Well, again, there are the same nagging issues in the game that truely keep it from being great 
 anymore. Taken alone they do not amount to much but when you put them together it has the effect 
 of steering me from investing $59.99 into a game with so little changes every year. So, my recommendation 
 is to rent the game first, especially if you, like me, were burned on Madden '06 X360 already. 
 I would say if you stick to the policy of actually buying a new copy of Madden every three or four 
 years then you won't be missing much.
  
  One last observation. I find it funny that missing from EA sports game boxes is the phrase "Exclusive 
 License" that was on all of their titles last year. It is funny how they used the phrase as more 
 of a "you better buy this because it is the ONLY" -- kind of bragging comment, but they have inadvertantly 
 turned it into a taboo phrase they are now trying to avoid. Oh well, it seems that we, the gamer, 
 who speaks with our pocket books are making our voices heard. Hopefully, about four years from 
 now, we can go back to the eutopian world of having more than one sports title to choose from each 
 year and competition is alive and well again in America. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Credecrew24
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Madden spiralling downward since 04 Not the best football game now personally i think NCAA is the 
 better game passing man its to easy you can throw all night get TO, Chad Johnson, Plaxico Burress, Hines 
 ward, or steve smith have them go Long lob it up Touchdown. Superstar mode terrilble horrible your 
 a rookie but alike a 92 dont get to pick your postion you have to shuffle dont let up for a postiongfet 
 Hall of fame QB or postion its just terrible you have to run routes i hate the camera. Franchise 
 once you unlock Hall of famers they go into the franchise giove NCAA a chance it is much better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexidog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Games cool but not that great if they would have put in 1st person view for superstar , 2004 franchise 
 features and 2005 newspaper feature and these graphics this game would be the best madden, but 
 its not so rent it and you might like it, I do but its not the best madden.. I need a hundred words 
 lol so hoiws was your day?? good... unless it was bad... Even if they would have taken some things 
 from espn 2k5 like the crib and the profile feature where the pc would play like that person does 
 from reading stats and stuff. Espn gone so why not make madden a game where both audiences would 
 enjoy?? EA come on add more features, I rember in 2004 they had a similar lead bocker control but 
 it was with the hitstick... So lead blocking is not really new... oh well have fun with my $60 
 dollars that I could have spent on 2004 :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is broken. The disk you receive in the Madden 07 box is a fractured list of half-baked 
 concepts, notably missing all of the best ideas from the franchise's past and a serviceable single 
 player football game. If this is the new face of an unchallenged EA football franchise then I will 
 just go back to the old ones that worked. Let us begin with the interface. Part of what has made 
 first party Nintendo games such an enormous success is the ease and intuitiveness of the menus 
 and controls. In the past Madden has been fairly consistent with menu interaction and layout from 
 year to year. Also in the past the fairly simple process of going deeper into a menu and then backing 
 out of it was akin to an Internet browser and most likely made sense to the general public. The 
 new menu system is something like a flow chart with a main menu's branches leading off into different 
 sub menus. On the surface it seems like a good simplification of the old menu style however the 
 handling is awkward, a bit confusing, inconsistent and slow. This is a minor gripe in comparison 
 to the features that have been removed form the game entirely.
  
  I am beginning to understand that the shining feature of the Xbox 360 is going to be the live functionality. 
 For the record I did not test that function on Madden 07. Normally I play a co-op franchise with 
 friends where we create a bunch of players, a play-book and all play on the same to team to try 
 and reach the Superbowl year after year. This only became possible because years ago Madden introduced 
 franchise mode. You could build a franchise from the ground up, make all the decisions and play 
 all of the games. It was a huge leap forward in re-playability and depth in football games and 
 I switched from the (at that time) 2K series and moved back into Madden.
  
  While EA dropped functions and tweaked the franchise mode year after year, the playability remained 
 the same. I could address the little changes one by one but for the sake of getting to the point 
 I will say that as time went on and EA clipped the player options slowly causing the game to become 
 less fun. Features or tricks you had last year would disapear bit by bit the next year. Why would 
 a game designer want to limit the play experience of the gamer? Are we fighting with EA? I thought 
 we were paying them for an entertainment experience. They should be expanding options instead of 
 limiting them.
  
  The last straw nearly came last year when they removed the players ability to use created play-books 
 in a franchise. That coupled with the poor special teams blocking programs made Madden 2006 the 
 weakest version since the Franchise mode was introduced. The co-op gameplay controls had not been 
 fully tweaked for Madden 06 and would occasionally result in switching one player to the other 
 team or the inability to snap the ball. Overall a disappointment but not an unplayable experience.
 
  
  Finally we get back to the current edition. Beside the menu change, player creation has been changed 
 from the old method of point distribution to a series of mini games that are supposedly designed 
 to define your character's attributes. In theory this is a great idea. In execution it is a nightmare. 
 The mini games are a one shot experience. Any mistake and that's it, you're character is going 
 to be miserable in whatever category they are supposed to define (this is not known to the player) . 
 There are 3 of them for each character - the 40 yard dash, the bench press and the positional drill. 
 With the notable exception of the Coverage drill (for safeties or cornerbacks) the mini games are 
 serviceable. The problem is that when you are finished and your created character has earned a 
 rating of 12 you'll have to abandon the character (are you sure?) , name him, set his appearance 
 again and do all of the drills again. There are no other choices. This execution of this idea is 
 just broken. Why not give players a best of three on the drills, the ability to restart them, progression 
 information or the option to do it the old way? Is EA mad at gamers for making superstars for their 
 own enjoyment? Moronic.
  
  There is no capability create plays whatsoever. No play creation at all. In any mode or any format. 
 Why are we limiting the play experience on a next generation platform? Lazy.
  
  Superstar mode offers a unique way to play through one players career from just their perspective. 
 The player plays only one position that they choose at the beginning (through a very flavorless 
 and apparently useless parent selection process.) The catch to this mode are the role playing elements 
 (answering interview questions, demanding a trade etc.) and that the player plays ONLY ONE POSITION. 
 If you are the running back you will only control the ball when the plays that the computer selects 
 have the computer controlled quarterback giving you the ball. In preseason games you will only 
 control any aspect of your team while you are in the game. That's maybe two or three series, four 
 or five snaps. If you're a quarterback (unfortunately the best choice) you'll get all 12 snaps 
 but might just be handing off for 6 of them. Then you get to watch the computer play itself for 
 the rest of the game. The players move faster giving you the illusion of the computer controlled 
 game moving in fast forward but the game clock runs at the same speed. This is just plain broken. 
 You can switch the options to user controlled games but you still have no control over play calling 
 and when your character is in the game will only see the game from his perspective. Again this 
 is an intriguing idea that is simply broken in it's execution.
  
  The last break that I will address in this already lengthy review is that EA has removed the option 
 of co-operative play. This makes the game completely unacceptable to me because it is how my friends 
 and I play it to begin with. EA has stripped this game of all the elements they have collected 
 through the years that made it good, sometimes great and replaced them with half-baked ideas and 
 sloppy, fractured execution. The menus are needlessly complex for what they ultimately deliver 
 and the presentation is dull. When you score a touchdown during a game, the camera zooms up to 
 a rendering of a stadium big screen with crappy graphics reading TOUCHDOWN! What? What is EA doing 
 with the power of a system like the 360? Emulating crappy stadium graphics? This game is infuriatingly 
 bad and does not deserve anyones hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Well after madden 06 was released on the xbox 360 many fans of the series were left scratching 
 there heads. There is still hope for football fans that own the next gen console. Madden takes 
 a big step in the right direction. The gameplay is great and adds to the fun of this game with 
 new features added to the game like highlight stick and lead blocker control. The super star mode 
 has also been added and is actually pretty fun taking main control of your player and selecting 
 the role that he will play. The game does lack some features available on the other platforms. 
 The defensive AI in the game isn't the best I've seen but you can adjust it and raise the difficulty. 
 Sometimes after a play the players that have been knocked down freeze for a second of somehow rotate 
 180 degrees. The tackle animations hav been updated and look great with some pain staking hits 
 and the animations that come along with the lead blocker control and highlight stick look great 
 aswell. The new kicking works well but i think the game designers have something against kickers 
 because none seem to be able to make a kick over 45-50 yards.
  The graphics of this game are good they are standard madden graphics with a few touch ups and the 
 small in game cut scenes look great although they are very repetitive.
  The sound in the game is also very good the soundtrack in the game is great and the sounds of the 
 game are good. The commentary is decent but you can hear the same thing a few times a game.
  
  If your a true football fan this game is a decent pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonpa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Madden since its inception and believed every year the games got better and better 
 until last year with the first Madden game for the Xbox360, and here we are this year with the 
 second edition and the only difference is a couple of modes and minigames. I am deeply dissappointed 
 in this rendition of madden. I expect more from EA Sports and I do not feel they delivered on what 
 they've promised. The graphics are good but they are not what next gen should be. Don't get me 
 wrong I dont think the players should like as real as Fight Night because with everything on the 
 field being rendered at the same time I doubt that would be possible, but it should look alot better. 
 I mean if you look at Oblivion and Graw and Prey with their character models they seem to be a 
 step ahead of Madden. Sometimes I wonder if the lack of competion has caused little motivation 
 to make a better game. Only tme will tell, and when I mean time, I mean when Madden 07 debuts for 
 the PS3. For the last two years its seemed as though Madden was better for PS2 in 05 and 06 compared 
 to the xbox and 06 for the 360 was not that much better except in the graphics department. To me 
 it seems almost as if they're helping sony out by making their games better for sony's product 
 rather then making them as great as the system allows them to. Madden 07 for the 360 should be 
 far better, by leaps and bounds. I'll play Madden cause I like the gameplay and it is a good football 
 game but unless they make significant improvements for next year I doubt I would consider buying 
 madden again. There are too many problems with this years version and not enough wow factors to 
 make you want to play it. I am utterly disappointed and feel cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TB0NE10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The Madden series have been so great, its often hard for the series to meet the high expectations 
 set. Madden 07 for XBOX 360 meets those expectations and almost exceeds them.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 - Gameplay is excellent and very very realistic. Franchise mode is still very enjoyable 
 experience. The new mini-games are cool but I still miss the few old ones that are missing. Superstar 
 mode is awesome and innovating. Yes there is a few things missing here but the stuff that is there 
 makes up for it and then some.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - Graphics are very tight!! Especially in HD. The grass is crazy good. Best looking 
 football game ever. Stadiums look excellent and the crowd looks even better. My only complaint 
 is how buff the kickers look.
  
  Sound: 7/10 - The main reason for the somewhat low score here is the radio style broadcast. I want 
 the TV style presentation back with Madden and Micheals. That was great. Game sounds like a football 
 game and crowd reacts well to big plays. Also a nice touch is the players breathing hard while 
 they are running and the trash talk. One complaint though: Please get rid of the cannon sound on 
 a big catch, its so stupid.
  
  I'm a huge football fan and enjoy Madden a ton! I really don't see why such harsh reviews on this 
 game. Trust me this game is excellent!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemedic_gamer
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 vs. Madden 07= almost a wash. Game seems daker in terms of shading, can't hardly see 
 the ball in the shadows of the stadium. XBOX Live is a joke w/ all the lag makes you want to toss 
 your controller at the screen. ( I have a very good connection) Seems like they can't wait to get 
 a cut scene of the stadium you are playing in or a cut scene of the team on the field to wow us 
 w/ the graphics and it ends up slowing the game down some. Don't get me wrong the stadiums look 
 great but after seeing the camera pan down from the rafters the billionth time it gets old. All 
 in all the game has some improvements over last year but for $60.00, i don't know. With no competition 
 out there, why would EA have to improve after last year? If you want an NFL game, which most of 
 us do, then you will buy it. They only way the game gets better is if they have to try to outdo 
 the rival companies. Maybe if we all boycott one or two years that would force them into making 
 a 'next-gen' game. Sorry, but with the 360 I couldn't wait for the games, and Madden has always 
 been a favorite. The first 2 'next-gen' Maddens have been less fun then what I had for the Gamecube. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmelo15j
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Its great, but somethings missing. I thought it would be much better than it actually is. I mean, 
 dont get me wrong i think its the best in the series, its just missing something. The addition 
 of the mini camp with the 40-yard dash, and the weight lifting test is definetly cool, but that 
 kind of stuff was expected from Madden. The graphics are definetly a plus. The way the dirt shows 
 up on the field is cool but is a litle over dramatic. The celebrations that people do are pretty 
 interesting. The running backs do have their own personal ways they run, not everyone runs the same. 
 The blocking ontrol is a decent update to last years edition. Players look more themselves then 
 last year. All in all this year is a step up from last year, but i think the Madden world was expecting 
 two more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappyredbeard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I found the gameplay and graphics to be improved and an overall better experience than any previous 
 madden game to date. I found the biggest problem of this game lies with the defensive AI. If the 
 game creators are going to continuously give the offence more and more weapons they definitely 
 need to beef up the defense. On any difficulty DB can be continuously dominated by subpar WR on 
 the deep pass. I also find it very difficult to stop a talented fullback rumbling up the middle 
 even if i play 46 and bring everyone into the box. For beginners this game will not be fun online 
 until they can better their stick control on the defensive side of the ball. This is a great game 
 but it will take some time to learn how to stop some of the new money plays that seem to sneak 
 into a madden game every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This a very good game of football. The gameplay is the same fun gameplay
  we've grown used to over the years. The game runs smoothly. The graphics on the 360 are excelent. 
 The best graphics ever in a video game. There is not much of an improvement of graphics on the 
 older consoles. Every teams roster is correct. Ther are new mini games this year. they are all 
 not the much fun. there is a 40 yard dash which really sucks. You can also lift weights but its 
 dumb. The superstar mode has improved on the 360 . But not so much on the other consoles. the 360 
 version puts a very close camera on your created player . It gets confusing. it also sucks that 
 in the 360 superstar mode you can't pick your own plays. During gameplay you can choose to be a 
 blocker so you can open an hole for your running back. But sometimes they will run right into coverage 
 instead of going through the hole you just made for him. The stadiums all look great. EA went out 
 and really spent some time on the graphics in this game. the guy that announces is the best ever 
 in a football game. so much better than Madden and Michaels. if you can only get one version definitely 
 get the 360 version. the other versions are great but the 360 version is better. this is another 
 solid effort by EA. If you are a fan of the NFL you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RivalBattousai
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 is an upgrade from last years game but is still not all that great. The game lacks realness 
 and is very slow. What I mean by realness is the players. The player animations are still the same 
 as Madden 06. Why does peyton Manning look bigger than some of my linebackers? The facemasks are 
 just rediculous. Brian Urlacher has a diffferent facemask on in real life. In Madden 07 for the 
 Xbox and PS2 I know you can edit people. What the hell happened to that? When creating a player. 
 You have a choice to have a visor on. What is the difference between the clear visor and the dark 
 visor? Its the exact samething! And what the hell is up with the roster? No updated roster? Come 
 on! If you and the NFL have a agreement with one another to make a football game why would yo update 
 the roster? If they couldn't do that because the game came out then update it like they did in 
 Madden 06 via online! When I unlocking hall of famers because i leveled up they go to my roster. 
 Why the hell would I want them on my team? Evertime I make a new Franchise I have to sign out of 
 my account and sign on to another just to get my old roster back because i don't want other teams 
 to sign those hall of famers that are rated 99. The A. I. in the game is really stupid. I can throw 
 to Randy Moss everytime and he'll catch it. Overall this game should be better. EA had over a year 
 to develop this game. For madden 06 I think they didn't. They better get it right for madden 08 
 because i want a real game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorge_16
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  this year madden is a whole lot better than 06 on the 360. the graphics and presentation is a lot 
 better this year. there is alot more to do in this game. the lead blocker works well except sometimes 
 when you land the perfect block the runner doesn't follow the whole you just opened. but when the 
 runner does follow your whole you get a huge gain. the mini games kinda suck this year. i should 
 be happy they put mini games this year at all but it would be better if they brought all the old 
 mini games from the old consoles. if you love madden and was dissappointed last year, you won't 
 be this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeeman07
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is the first madden i have purchased since 2002, and the first 
 football game i bought since 2k5. I am going to college in a week, and i wanted a game i could 
 play with a few people in my dorm. unfortunatly, in that respect, i can only play 1 on 1, since 
 EA took out any cooperative play. The graphics in this game are incredible. aside from their freakish 
 monkey arms, the player models look pretty good as well. player animations are fluid and look really 
 nice. the atmosphere created by the fully 3D crowds and ambient noise is really pretty cool. the 
 only problem is the ESPN Radio announcers. i hate how they made it sound like you are listening 
 to the game while driving through the lincoln tunnel. The only part of the game that really matters 
 in the long run is the gameplay, and on that front, this game is slightly above average. the defensive 
 AI is great on the first 2 downs, but always, and i mean always, gives up a long 3rd down play, 
 causing another 1st down. i have only been playing superstar mode lately, and it really is awesome. 
 my superstar is a WR, so, on offense, all i do is run my routes and hope the ball comes my way. 
 at the end of hte day, this game is fine for any football fan, just don't expect too much from 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 had a great superstar mode i love how it brings you low to the filed like you are 
 are the person out there who matters. This year you can only control yourself so no one else matters 
 but the rest of the team seems to suck out there and you always seem to wind up loseing. John Madden 
 not announceing is a let down because i like to hear him talk. The Graphics are great espechially 
 how the filed tares up though the game. Haow could I forget the mini games 40 yard dash and bench 
 press make the game longer lasting amd madden level ther is so much to do this game will last right 
 up to the 08 Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanar2007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Great solid game, probably the best madden so far, i used to play the 2k series till madden took 
 over, i head no choice but to get this game, it's been good so far, learning curve isn't to long. 
 plus you dont always have to use the dumb qb vision ne more, so that makes things alot easier. 
 The running is alot funner and the new hit stick is sweeeeet........ u see some crazy tackles. The 
 only thing that has upset me so far is the lag offline and online, the menus are very slowly and 
 its very slow to go from play to play, other than that love the running game, and the passing game 
 is much better than before........ its the only game out to get, so y not.. so far its worth the 
 money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Once again here we are, wondering what the !@#$ EA have been doing all this time, because if they 
 say working on a football game I think I will have to call them a lair. Madden 2007 look and 
 play pretty much like last years football game, with the controls of the much better NCAA 2007 
 Football game. Being closely tied with the NCAA Football game isnt a bad thing, but what is bad, 
 is that there are so many missing features I couldnt believe it when I booted up the game for 
 the first time. YOU CANT EVEN EDIT THE PLAYERS, which you can do in the NCAA game. The old saying, 
 Flash but no substance was meant for just this sort of game. The game has pretty good, but not 
 awesome graphics, lots of cut screens of players running around talking and boasted about the great 
 play they just made. The presentation is ok, but just ok, nothing that couldnt be improved on. 
 Other then the total sparse features in the game, the one totally disaster is the radio announcing. 
 The game is presented to us as if we are watching a very cool televised football game, but then 
 the audio from the announcer is straight from the radio! Why, who the hell knows? So I have this 
 awesome 5.1 surround sound system, and what the hell do I hear a freakin radio broadcast!? That 
 is about the gayest thing I think EA Sports have ever done, and thats saying something considering 
 that Im talking about EA here.
  The rest of the game is typical EA, if you have played any of the Madden series in the last 10 
 years, then you know what you are getting into.
  The game isnt all bad, there is a good football game somewhere in there, but because its the 
 only football game available we are pretty much stuck not knowing what a GREAT Xbox 360 football 
 game is. Once again, this game is a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingThrax
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game dont get me wrong it has its faults. But the best part about this game 
 is they did not just take last years piece of crap and add a crappy gamemode. They tuned it and 
 tweeked it till its on its way. Let me first off saying that if they had not bought out the rights 
 to the NFL this game would be much better! With the rights EA doesnt have to any thing revoulutuinary. 
 And they still get the die hard Madden fans to by next years same game with a few tweeks .But if 
 they had competition... who knows what we would be saying again today.
  
  Pros: Graphics- Players who look like there real life counterparts. Entrances- I love how the players 
 get their names called and colleges Celebrations- You see the riverdance and the roll on and you 
 go wow Pregame Training- No Minicamp but pregame training will do. Rookies- This is in every madden 
 but i still love it. Live Oppnents- Playing in your franchise with live opponents. Hall Of Fame- 
 Clips and Stats From the HOFers Better Rating System- Self Explainitory Cons: No Editing- No Player 
 Editing!! Hall of Fame- On free agents list... BAD!!!! Laggy- At times in the menus are a tad laggy 
 No owner mode- Come on the main part of the past years game arnt in here Bottom Line: Good Game... 
 Some Problems But i recomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrkinsey1
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Two new features (blocking assistance and madden level) . Few old features; however, nothing new.... save 
 your money.
  
  Last year, I purchased two versions of Madden 06 (PS2 and Xbox) . There is nothing like having Madden 
 ramble about football, food, and birds. Al Michaels did a great job. The graphics and action were 
 intense. The superstar mode was increadible. I could only wait for Madden on the 360. Dreams of 
 how they could improve on the franchise that spans three decades (Yes, I'm including the 1989 Madden 
 for the Sega Genesis) .
  
  When November came........ yes, I was the first in line...... Madden 06 for the 360 was in my hands. 
 I promptly ripped open the box and a can of beer. They both were flat..... I assured myself..... It 
 is only a first generation game... they will get it right next time.
  
  A lot of news from EA lead to this assumption. First, Madden extended his deal with EA. Second, 
 ESPN signed with EA. Third, EA promised a better game. Like every true Madden fan, I popped the 
 game in and jumped into Franchise mode. Very little modification was needed to be successful with 
 this version. Usually it take a few days to adjust to the modified play mechanics..... not with 
 07. It looks like they used the same engine to power Madden 07. The play mechanics (excluding the 
 run blocking option) is the same as Madden 06. The same announcers were used..... Not Madden and 
 Al Michaels. Almost all of the players look the same. How knew that Alex Smith and Trent Dilfer 
 were twins. All quarterbacks have a gun like Manning. They play's are identical to 06 and the menu 
 is identical to NCAA 07. In EA's second attempt at madden, they get an F for effort. Lazy Bums! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shauwn
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say I've been addicted to Madden since 1990. I tried NFL2k, Gameday, etc but 
 Madden always won me over with its realism and energetic atmosphere..
  
  This years Madden for the 360 is just atrocious.. Don't get me wrong, If this was the first ever 
 Madden game, I'd give it a 10 only because there would be no other Madden game to compare it to 
 from previous years.. I'll go over the pros and cons of this years game..
  
  Pros: 1) Lead blocker system is actually pretty cool and different.. This is one feature I actually 
 liked about Madden whereas alot of other people hated.. 2) The new highlight stick is also a gret 
 new addition.. When running, I normally have one finger on this stick and one on the turbo button.. I 
 absolutely love it. 3) Superstar mode has some nice new minigames added which help your players 
 attributes.. Very nice indeed 4) Graphics are the best I ever seen in a Madden game.. The animations 
 and cut scenes are breathtaking too..
  
  Your probably wondering If the two new features EA introduced was a total success in my book, how 
 could I possibly give Madden 07 a bad review.. Well please allow me to get into ALL the Cons Cons: 
 1) No more fantasy draft?!?! Why would EA leave this out?? This is one feature I loved doing ever 
 since it was introduced several years ago.. Theres no reason or excuse why this is not in Madden 
 07.. I didn't have Madden 06 for the 360, I had the ps2 version and I know the 360 didn't have it 
 last season either.. What a shame. 2) Superstar Mode left out alot of of features from last years 
 ps2 version. I absolutely hate the camera angle for the superstar mode as well. CHANGE IT BACK NOW!!! 
 They took out the crib, mentor system, and voice emails.. Also when u get drafted, it just tells u 
 who drafted u. Theres no actual draft like in last season.. WHY? 3) Hall of Fame players need to 
 be removed from Franchise mode.. Who the heck thought of this?? That person needs to be fired NOW.. 
 What a dreadful feature. I don't want to see a bunch of 99 rated OLD guys from the 1950's.. I want 
 a realistic franchise.. While it is pretty cool being able to unlock hall of fame players, they 
 should only be accessible in Play Now games,, not franchise modes.. 4) CanNOT alter the stats on 
 created players anymore.. I understand why EA did this, and its not really that big a deal since 
 idiots used to create themselves as 99 rated guys.. I normally created a player and adjusted his 
 abilities based on his real life abilities.. But this is something that should have been left alone.. 
 5) Online play is to laggy.. Better try to get lucky finding someone with good Ping.. If not, its 
 feels as If your playing in slow motion. So far I've played 10 games online and 3 of them were to 
 laggy to play.. It forced me to quit the game and take a loss..
  
  Overall, I'm probably going to return my 360 Madden for the regular Xbox version which is pathetic.. If 
 the 360 version had the fantasy draft and some of the other features the ps2 and xbox has, I'd give 
 it a better review.. Hopefully EA will patch the game up soon and give us back our fantasy draft, 
 and change other things holding this game back from greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Lead blocker sucks and QB vision still sucks (yes I know how to use it and still don't like it) . 
 The only worthwhile thing that they added in this years version is the juke stick. This is basically 
 the exact same game as last years. The computer AI is stupid even on All-Madden (never get a punt 
 return of any kind unless you use punt block constantly and even then you only get maybe 6 yards) . 
 I have been a hardcore Madden fan for many many years and this is just a complete and utter let 
 down. EA Sports needs to pull their heads out and actually make a good game instead of basically 
 re-releasing a so called new version of the exact same game from the year before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrip73
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  the hype was DEFINITELY not worth it. the gameplay was okay the camera angle didnt bother me. the 
 player graphics were okay not much improvment from last year. the stadiums looked good, but what 
 is up with the stadium turf. you couldnt tell if you were playing on grass or field turf. they 
 managed to figure it out in ncaa 07. speaking of the fields, the way the grass degrades over the 
 game looked terrible, 2k5 looked better. there was way TOO much concentration on graphics and not 
 enough on the overall game. the presentation is terrible. no commentators, no post or pregame, 
 no sportcenter, no playoff logos, no super bowl celebration. the list goes on and on. i let ea 
 slide last yr because it was rushed, but to come back with pretty much the same game is rediculous. 
 i am so glad i rented this abomination and didnt buy it. and because theres no 2k around i am stuck 
 with the xbox version of the game. its a little better and it least it has MADDEN in the game. 
 i still dont get why the old gen is better than the 'next gen'. i think good old microsoft screwed 
 up with having dvd format for their games. the discs probably dont have enough space, but even 
 so ea should be smart enough to compensate. i think i woiuld rather lighten up on the graphics 
 and pay more attention to details. maybe the PS3 can save ea, but in my opinion i hope 2k can get 
 back in the ring again someday, ea is just going to put out the same crap every year otherwise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkill4200
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  For every one who gave it at least a 7 or under are crazy. Its the best i have ever played. Yet 
 still no fantasy draft or an edit player opinion which sucks. Then again they did a pretty good 
 job on the ratings anyhow. A few bad animations but not many. The mini games are a little hard 
 to get used to but still look great and the 40 yard dash and lifting are great additions. The celebrations 
 are the best yet everybody who does something in real life they do it on the game, and yes Chad 
 Johnson will do his river dance its good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlearn721
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Lets start out with naming the obvious. Madden 07 has great graphics theres no doubting that and 
 the gamplay is still fun. Now to name the mistakes EA have made that make this game a really big 
 let down. First of all the fantasy draft was takin out of the franchise mode which was undoubtable 
 one of the more fun aspects of the game. Second they left out the whole start of the season training 
 camp which was pretty fun as well now they do have training for each game but its just not as fun 
 as the start of the season training camp. Theres a few of bugs for example the fatigue meter doesnt 
 go down so your players are never tired and some of the in game movements are a little scetchy.
 
  
  Final Verdict: I agree with mic21x in that if you have the choice of getting madden on one of the 
 other older consols then i suggest that you do. Like mic21x I too got rid of my xbox becasue of 
 my 360 thinking why should I need this I have a "next gen" console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mic21x
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me usher in the good comments first: this game has the greatest gameplay, in my opinion, that 
 i've ever seen in a madden game. the game is indeed a little offense friendly in the passing aspect, 
 but the gameplay is still fantastic. The gameplay alone garnered a 7 rating from me. Plus, in franchise 
 mode you can select an option to play a game in your franchise season against an online opponent, 
 extremely cool. Now the bad in no particular order: you can't edit a player in the player management 
 section, not even change the color of his gloves. owner mode is missing, and franchise mode is 
 very different. there is no fantasy draft, the trade block makes you go back and forth between 
 your roster and the trade screen ( i know it seems like i'm nit-picking but this is just part of 
 how the entire user interface has become very un-user-friendly) . As you keep playing the game, 
 Hall of Famers are unlocked, and man there's a whole lot of them. This is great because it's cool 
 to play w/ HOF's and this game gives you a great many. Here's the problem though: when you unlock 
 them they automatically jump into your free agent pool, and if you save your profile (which you 
 will do of course) they will ALWAYS be in your pool. So you'll start a franchise and after the 
 1st week someone will have Paul Warfield as their wide receiver. And you can't reverse this, absolutely 
 infantile move by EA. You can fix it by making a new profile, saving that roster, etc., but having 
 to do that is ridiculous. The superstar mode is much better, though it's not extremely exciting. 
 You get to do the 40, bench press, individual drills, go to training camp and scout drills, but 
 still it gets somewhat boring. Oh yeah, and there's no John Madden commentary durring the game. 
 The guy isn't even in the game. Play-by-play is by some guy that's supposed to be on the radio 
 (and sure sounds like it) . I had no idea how much it would take away from the game if Madden wasn't 
 doing his commentary thing. And. of course, the other consoles have him. Big freakin' surprise.
 
  
  My Final Take: If you've still got your ps2 or your Xbox I suggest you get the game for either 
 of those. I would do the same, but of course I got rid of my old systems when I got my "next-gen 
 console," so I'm basically screwed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is a very good game of football.... some of the other peoples reveiws are just ridiculous... now 
 i hated last years game, i rated it on this site and i gave it a 2.1,, it angered me how bad it 
 was.. i really did. but this years really shows what ea is capable of.
  
  graphics - much improved over last years. more faces are on, the shoulders arent huge. and the 
 grass looks amazing, especially wen it rains cause puddles come up. the only think wrong with the 
 graphics are that some people are a little bigger in muscle mass than they are in real life.. but 
 its not to the point that some of these people make it out to be.
  
  gameplay - the gameplay makes last years version look like it shouldnt have been made... the new 
 animations are great and people can actually catch passes unlike last year... its also a plus on 
 how good some of the running animations are.. all the running backs run just like they do in real 
 life.. it looks excellent... the highlight stick is fabulous.. you can make some pretty sick moves 
 with some of these running backs.. the animation of some of the moves are excellent also
  
  features - the superstar mode is really good and very realistic.. its unlike anything i've ever 
 played.. whatever position you are you get a camera that is always just on you.. it really gives 
 you a feeling of realism of playing football.
  the franchise mode though is pretty simple and boring.. all you can do is play games and sign people 
 and what not.. there is no fantasy draft and no mini games before pre season.. so thats why i just 
 stick with superstar mode
  
  this is my real review, other peoples reviews are just crazy.. i dont understand some the other 
 scores that i see on this site and others,,, people giving it a 1, now that is a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  The game is much like NCAA football 07. The playbook is the same and the they still have ask Madden, 
 but Madden isn't even commentating the game. It is this annoying EA radio guy who is way more annoying 
 than Madden. They did finally put in the superstar mode and the precision passing is optional. 
 if you want to use it in a game, you just have to move the right analog stick and the precision 
 passing is displayed. EA finally made the achievements harder to get because last years got you 
 an easy 1000 points. One last thing, the mini games seem pretty pointless and boring. It is just 
 like a practice, like a 40 yard dash and lifting weights. Don't believe all the hype, it is good, 
 but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonxman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This years madden is a great addition to an awesome football legacy, and definately takes a step 
 in the right direction. Madden 06 was glitchy, lacked very important features, and left a bad taste 
 in all of our mouths. A lot fo problems have been corrected right off the bat. There are a couple 
 nice new features including the highlight stick, lead blocking controls, 'Tiger Woods' style kicking, 
 and very smooth/stunning graphics. If you have an HDTV and your xbox display settings are at 1080i 
 instead of the defualy 480p, you are guaranteed to be blown away. The game itself is very smooth 
 and definately does a better job with the frame rate than last years madden, which isn't saying 
 much. The online play is solid and in the 10 games I have played online only one was lagging a 
 little, and that was clearly due to my opponents connection (not to mention he was playing from 
 Washington state and I was playing in PA) . The franchise mode is fun, although it still lacks a 
 fantasy draft and some sort of weekly recap (WHEN IS EA GOING TO INCORPORATE ESPN INTO THE GAME???? 
 ISNT THAT WHY THEY BOUGHT THE RIGHTS IN THE FIRST PLACE.... WOULDN'T SPORTCENTER BE UNREAL!!!!???) . 
 Besides that the franchise is fun and EA has done a better job of evaluating the true value of 
 rookies and other big-time franchise players than last year which keeps you from making a complete 
 powerhouse without giving up a lot. The CPU is not very difficult, and all serious Madden players 
 should play on the All-Madden level. Superstar mode is a nice addition to this console, especially 
 since you can play whatever position your created player plays from their point of view (1st person) . 
 YOU CAN CHALLENGE PLAYS NOW!...... but you still can't online, or see replays online for that matter. 
 Basically, while there are flaws in EA's ability to trasfer from features from the PS2/XBOX versions 
 of the series, the new game engine, new rosters, and GRAPHICS make this game very fun especially 
 for the avid football fan. This time of the year right before the season starts is always fun anyway 
 just because of the new team rosters that get you actually evaluating NFL teams chances by playing 
 the game. Just because it is not a perfect game yet, it is incredibly fun and a huge step in the 
 right direction.... not to mention the fact that it crushes the other console versions in actual 
 gameplay. Pick up madden and see for yourself... THIS GAME IS NOT A 7.9..... I think it is a solid 
 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adomaeo
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I've been playing madden ever since the first was released. I've never switched to NFL 2k Series 
 even once because madden was ALWAYS the best game. What happened??? I've only played Madden 2007 
 for XBOX 360 but there is NO EXCUSE for EA sports to put out this GARBAGE. I'm not at all pleased 
 by the graphics (like others believe this is the best part) . Yes football players are strong, but 
 in no way no how should DAVID AKERS (a kicker) look like GOLDBERG (a wrestler) ... These players 
 are HUGE and the muscles are crazy and overdone, very arcadish, reminds me of NFL BLITZ!!!! The 
 nfl pro bowl.... WOW!!! I mean, now players can't even represent their team with the correct helment. 
 N -for NFC A for AFC... this was not cool. The 40? Was it really so bad the way it was before when 
 you could just choose the speed. Small font. I have 20 20 vision on a 60inch TV and I still find 
 myself sitting 5 feet away from the tv to read! Why are hall of fame player on the free agent list? 
 Superstar mode is STUPID. You father shouldn'd have to be a Hall of fame QB for you to be a average 
 QB, nor should your mother be an all world sprinter, for you to be fast. please take superstar 
 mode out. In fact EA, Get started NOW in the developement on MADDEN 2008 from scratch!!!! take 
 nothing from this game when you create 2008. You know what, the most satisfying part of this game 
 is when I ejected it from my XBOX 360 and broke it into tiny pieces. Yes that was a thrill!!!! 
 I know I could have taken it back to the store and recieved store credit or maybe even cash back 
 for this game, but for the fact that this game is so horrible I wouldn'd want to contribute to 
 the distribution of this game to anyone else... there one less madden out there now, EA..... GET 
 IT  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wootcolors
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a lucky person to be able to rent this game considering all of the craze over 
 the game. In the end though I learned that this massively overhyped game is a massive piece of 
 crap. Im sorry but this is just wrong. Ever since the exclusive liscensing deal EA has been making 
 a mockery out of themselves by releasing horrible sports games and unfortunately its the only choice 
 of game for that sport. But im not here to complain about that. Im here to review Madden 07. Thankfully 
 the game plays pretty well. Its madden football and as always its a solid game to play. The online 
 mode is pretty good though sometimes it gets old considering that in my first full online game 
 NOBODY punted. Still if Madden has one thing to credit itself for is that they managed to keep 
 the game mildly fun. The graphics though pretty look very very weird. The players sometimes look 
 extremely unrealistic and some are downright UGLY! When it comes to sound I was extremely disappointed. 
 First of all the play by play is now this weird radio thing and guess what? NO JOHN MADDEN? WHAT 
 THE? Overall this game lacks any redeeming values whatsoever. The franchise mode has been dumbed 
 down and the Superstar mode is an obvious last minute addon. Im sorry but this just disappoints 
 me in every way. If you really want a next gen football game there is no reason not to just buy 
 last years version which is now 50 dollars less expensive than the hall of fame version when you 
 buy it used. Stear clear of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pup55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  As far as football goes this is a pretty good game. I expected a little a little bit more since 
 they have the espn license, but I wil tell you my likes and dislikes...
  
  Likes.....
  I like the graphics of the game. They are definitely next-gen player models are nice great texturing 
 and if you look closely you can see sweat. The Stadiums and fields look nice you can really tell 
 the difference between the current gen and the 360 when you look at them. The new running game 
 feature is nice but you have to get use to it and it helps to know the blocking scheme before you 
 take over a blocker but when done right its a thing of beauty. (Don't let the computer control your 
 running back too long they are not that good at finding the hole you created.) Gone are Al Micheals 
 and Madden in the both but now there is a generic announcer. He is pretty good and get pretty excited 
 about the play on the field. It sounds like a radio broadcaster some people don't like how he sounds 
 and the fact that there is no color commentary but thats fine by me I just like to play football.
 
  Dislikes....
  Players sometimes move pretty awkwards moonwalking across the field. No gang tackling. No refs 
 or first down marker to make run out of the way in fear. Although the field gets chew up (nice touch 
 done in NFL2k5) it would be nice to see players get dirty accordingly if they get tackle on the 
 frist play and they land hard on the right side with white on I should see and immediate grass 
 stain that would make his mother pissed. (This is nex-gen you could atleast give me that..) No pregame, 
 halftime, or postgame rap-up by anybody from espn that would have been a nice touch with highligts 
 of the games. Well I guess EA is trying to get use to their new game engine which promises to be 
 able to carry some good games in the future but boy I wish the future was now....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RohitV
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay.
  Its the same game that we all saw last yr. That was a big let down. This yr its a little less let 
 down but a let down none the less. (ok.. that sounded weird) . Some new enhancements like the highlight 
 stick and the control the blocker feature will be entertaining for a few games but will fade out 
 soon enough as you would realise that being the RB is anyway more fun than being the blocker. The 
 gameplay is smooth but the AI is down right easy to beat and is no fun playing against.
  
  Graphics.
  OK.... so the graphics are great... It's next gen, we all have high expectations and 
 thats how how it should be. If they messed this area up then i don't think we would have any hope 
 left for madden anymore. Everything looks amazing. Period.
  
  Features.
  This is the area where EA needs to work on. Why would they ship out a game on a next gen console 
 which lacks in features when compared to current gen version. We paid alot of money for these consoles 
 and the spent another load on this game, more than the current gen version and get less out of 
 the deal. How is that fair.
  No Fantasy Draft and owner mode??? AGAIN!
  Is EA kidding us. That is quite simply the life of a madden game. Millions of people play fantasy 
 football online. This feature was what gave us the long nites when friends get together make a 
 fantasy league and experience the rush of owning, playing and experience the true game. I would 
 rather go back to my current gen just for this feature. What a big let down. This game can't survive 
 on the superstar mode. That game mode is too monotonous.
  This is strike no. 2 in 2 yrs.. one more and its all over.
  Next gen is supposed to look great 
 while giving us the same great madden experience that we all ahd 2 yrs back on current gen. This 
 is going in the wrong direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbiznat
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Well the hype was there, and just like Ryan Leaf, the game was a let down. Where's the fantasy 
 draft? Why can't you play on the same team as another player? Where on earth is John Madden?!? 
 This game is not worth 60 bucks and definitely not worth 70 for the hall of fame version. It's 
 a DVD fullof stuff you may watch once and thats it! EA's monopoly over the football sim world has 
 given them the ability to create a mediocre product because there is no alternative for its consumers! 
 Its a shame, EAcould have put together a great product for the next-gen consoles, but they instead 
 went the Ryan Leaf route. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick044
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  NO fantasy draft, No editing players names like your favorites coming up from College. They have 
 added hall of fame players to the free agent list that you can't take off and they control all 
 the games and awards! They charge you more for less features. Worse thing I ever did was purchase 
 Xbox 360 and Madden 07 for it. 2K sports is needed back in the worse way! Ea sports has let the 
 football fans DOWN with this 360 version! There is NO scouting the college players. No Depth in 
 the draft. This version of Madden is absolutely the worse yet.. Why pay more for a game with less 
 features!!! It's absolutely ridiculous to make a gaming console as nice as the 360 and then completely 
 cheat people with the EA Sports games they have made for it. And the game play is so easy . The 
 computer is no match for any one who knows football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flea_1983_jay
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Madden to Me is not the greatest game but i keeps you entertained enough to pass time.... i plaay 
 madden at least 5 hoousrs a day and thats about all i can handle... i mean some of the defaults 
 are the tackles. the tackles ainta ll that great. but different from all the other madden games. 
 Some of the advantages are the grphics (if u have 360) and the ways to catch the ball and hte dives 
 into the endzone are pretty entertaining... And the superstar mode is abiut the only thing that 
 keeps me from selling it... so i guess thank god for that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyd2004
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better then ppl say it is it has alot of good features and amazing graphics but 
 to get these great features they had to take away other great features to make madden 07 better. 
 This game still lacks in alot of stuff such as the game lags alot and some key features that needs 
 to be in the game arent such as fantasy draft and rating players and other stuff, and it doesnt 
 have those little details that would make this game even better such as when u kick a field goal 
 the net doesnt go up but thats all right i can live with that but the part that bugs me the most 
 is when i play this game it just doesnt feel completed it feels as him am playing a game thats 
 still needs alot of work with it but all around this game is fun and injoyable so if u dont buy 
 it at least rent it it deserves that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all, no I am not a diehard Madden fan. I actually like NFL 2K5 more than Madden, but that 
 is just my opinion. The graphics are awesome. Yes, the gameplay is traditional, but there's nothing 
 wrong with that. The highlight stick and lead blocker control are great. Sadly, the online mode 
 is laggy on a regular basis. (and yes, my connection is good) . As you probably know, key features 
 are missing such as edititng players and the franchise mode is very limited. The mini-games are 
 pretty neat but really, you shouldn't expect anything other than traditional Madden. For some, 
 like myself, that's a great thing. For others, it's something to complain and whine about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyq
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Since the NFL Put a bid up for right to game development, and EA wisely payed for all the right 
 to NFL player logos etc... They Have released another Madden game which is disappointing to me. 
 Even with the new engine on 360 it still has some of the same crappiest physics, for instance Im 
 playing a buddy of mine and he is on offense he hikes the ball and I charge through the line only 
 to bump shoulders with him and he goes flying as if I tackled him. VC 2k5 will not allow this because 
 they know it is almost impossible given that in their game and in real life mostly all QB sacks 
 are from tackles not because I so happen to to bump sholders with him. Let me remind you that I 
 never push tackle via either the hit stick or the X button. This is just to name a few, those who 
 have given it the correct rating know what I am talking about. Bottom line when I played madden 
 all I could hear in my head is its just not 2k5 football. No players out of the helmet, no interviews 
 after the game, some big hits, no player talking on the phone, players get stuck on other player 
 and I mean running in place stuck, impact stick was stolen from 2k5s idea and sucks, not half time 
 show, no Team 2 man tackles, on 2k5 if a player dosent bring help to take a RB down he could risk 
 touchdowns. EA seemed to have missed stealing that idea. Challenges are weak and you cant challenge 
 online, also u cant choose what you want to challenge. Roster are good though. LOL. By far 2k5 
 was ahead of its time and the best game ever. NOW I WILL SUPPLY YOU WITH WHY I SAID ALL OF THIS. 
 REMEBER: Madden NFL 94 and 95 well I stumbled across an amazing discovery. IF YOU LOOK AT MY REVIEW 
 DECK AND THIS LINK TO WIKI YOU WILL SEE SOMETHING VERY STARTLING.
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Visual_Concepts VC MADE MADDEN 94 and 95
  ALL the people who love 
 madden from day one never new that the ones who really know how to make football was the one that 
 made some of the first of its series. This show that the hype only lasted because of your first 
 football exprience was by the company you think sucks. Now thats a trip.
  IF VC was able to make a 2k6 it meant disaster for EA. Now just imagine that look at NBA live 07 
 and look at NBA2k7 look at the videos, physics look at the jerseys move look at the game play. O 
 and dont let them make a boxing game EA better buy the rights to that to. LOL Be Good now piece!!
 
  P. S. Every year it gets harder and harder for EA to make a Good football game QB vision, wow. 
 Just call VC and say look man we need u guys back, we are sorry we had to buy the rights we knew 
 that you had the original idea of football and how it should look and progress over time. We are 
 sorry. Also guys check the review on madden 94 and 95 submit one lets see what cha think. All opinions 
 count!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjurgens24
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  What up yall,
  '
  
  People who review games should review sports games for the simulator factor, graphics, playablilty, 
 and fun. Madden is probably one of the top 3 this years most addicting games for the 360. Being 
 dissappointed with last years rendition, the so-called nic fit factor was definately high. Finally 
 someone got to see the light and not the bottom of his or her personal couch pad. Obviously Madden 
 07 is alot of fun, but with everything we imperfect humans create, we create imperfect things. 
 To expect perfection from human created videogames is impossible. Madden rocks. Thanks once again 
 EA, for reevaluating my opinon about your sports lineup. Oh by the way........ Fix you D&*M servers. 
 Multi-million dollar company, you'd think your servers would be better, guess not. Thanks for your 
 time
  
  
  Rob from Crystal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berserker85
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  While the game is pretty good, it is the same as last year's version. This makes a little bit of 
 sense, as the game of football is the same as it was last year, too. There are a few tweaks this 
 year which are interesting, but not necessarily in a good way. The changes to Superstar mode and 
 the highlight stick were definitely over-hyped.
  
  Superstar mode is more realistic this time around, as you only have control over your created player. 
 Unfortunately, it is too realistic to be fun. In-game, you have absolutely zero control over the 
 play call, unless your player is either a quarterback or is not on the field, and even then you 
 have to choose between the computer coach's usually terrible play call and one of the few audibles 
 you choose before the game. As an example of how bad the computer is at calling plays, the computer 
 often calls plays which have my QB run the ball. You may ask yourself, "what's wrong with the QB 
 scrambling?" Well, if you have to run the ball with Brian Griese (about 50 speed) you will know 
 how bad of a call that is. The computer's poor choices do not stop there either, it is totally 
 normal for the computer to call a Play Action pass, which commonly results in a big sack, then 
 follow that call with the exact same play. Did the computer really think that a play action pass, 
 at my own 10, right after another failed PA pass was the way to convert on 3rd and 19? Alas, the 
 bad play calls are not the only problem with playing a game as a superstar. One more than one occasion, 
 the computer has messed up on calling challenges. Once, I audibled to a run play, and got about 
 15 yards, more than enough for the first. My brilliant computer challenged the spot of the ball, 
 which resulted in the wasting of one of my timeouts. It works the other way, too, though. Once 
 the other team caught the ball near the sideline, put both of his feet clearly out of bounds, and 
 gained a crucial first down. My computer coach neglected to challenge this, even though it was 
 obviously not a catch, leading eventually to a touchdown for the other team and a headache for 
 me. While I'm on the subject, why does a video game need replay challenges anyway? They were put 
 into real life football in order to eliminate human error, and to make the game more realistic, 
 Madden added computer ref error, then added more computer ref error for when the refs even blow 
 the challenge. I suggest just letting the computer refs make the right call every time. Unlike 
 real life, the computer does not have to make mistakes.
  
  Madden 07 is realistic in these ways which I have just listed, but too much so. When a real life 
 coach sends his team out on the field with a terrible call, that is bad for them. With the new, 
 "improved" superstar mode, now it is bad for you, too! Sometimes, too much realism really stinks.
 
  
  Don't start thinking that the game is consistent, either, since in other ways, the game is unrealistic. 
 The main thing which is too ridiculous to believe is the new highlight stick feature. I completely 
 understand that defenders will not make every tackle, but I also (unlike the developers, apparently) 
 understand that Brian Urlacher will not miss a tackle against a 3rd string, bush league running 
 back. Luckily for these poor excuses for running backs, they have the highlight stick which allows 
 tiny little them to brush off Brian Urlacher or Ray Lewis like they were nothing. The stick is 
 a pretty good idea, for good running backs like LaDainian Tomlinson to separate themselves from 
 the pack, but it should not make awful backups as good as any Pro Bowl back. For that matter, when 
 did it become OK for tiny kick returners to break two tackles on every return? I'm not saying they 
 shimmy away before the tackler gets there, but they just straight up plow over every defender twice 
 their size as if the tacklers were baby kittens.
  
  Some features about the game did stick out to me as being good, however. For example, the ability 
 to work your Superstar out before the draft is great, as it allows you to customize them a bit. 
 You can run 40 yard dashes to get faster or hit the trenches to get stronger, depending on your 
 gameplay style. This customization means that you are not totally stuck with the random attributes 
 you inherit from your random parents, as you were in 06. Also, the role feature which is present 
 in both the franchise mode and in Superstar mode is nice, as it helps your team a bit when certain 
 players are in certain situations. In addition to this, some of the little things which eventually 
 ground on peoples nerves from last year seem to have gone away, such as QBs who appear to fumble 
 the ball from all replay angles, but still have it ruled an incomplete pass as well as other minor 
 details. While I would not recommend buying the game just to see those quirks worked out, they 
 are appreciated.
  
  Basically, Madden has taken a generally fundamentally sound football game and made some parts overly 
 realistic while making other aspects similar to a fantasy game in order to maximize the frustration 
 that the player experiences. Other than that, though, the biggest problem with the game is a certain 
 fat, stupid commentator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  My usual list of good and bad things:
  
  Good: - Cool new cut scenes
  - Crisp sharp graphics
  - Very good superstar mode
  - Fluid moves, pretty lifelike
  - Crowd 
 gets into the game alot
  - Signature moves for certain players
  - Alot of smack talking between players in between plays, gets humorous
  - Superstar mode is 
 unreal, can never get tired of it
  - Cool Madden gamer levels
  
  Bad:
  - Replays suck, alot of glitches and slowdowns in replays
  - Cut scenes are cool, but few of 
 them. They get repetitive
  - More tests for mini-camps, superstar mode other than 40 yard drill, bench press, and Position 
 player skill
  - In superstar mode, your mom annoys you will almost the same e-mail once or twice a week 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, I know I tend to review high if I like it, if I dont I trash it. I traded in Oblivion 
 for a new Madden because I like sports games better than Role players where all you do is run around 
 picking up magic rocks and finding keys; with Elder scrolls rating way higher then Madden 07 you 
 know where my prejudices lie. The bad: no way you can edit current players anymore, I am not going 
 lie that ticks me off. IF you are a Saints fan you will have to create new super blockers for Bush. 
 Being a Seahawks fan-at least for the next couple of years-I dont have to worry about having a 
 good team, and with SA on the cover I am there; they still should not have eliminated this feature. 
 Gone are any real announcers, with the new contract between ESPN and EA I would have expected more, 
 you are stuck with a Mr. Generic radio announcer; The game is a little too easy even for a wimp 
 like me, the pro reviewer from Game spot is right, the AI for the DB's is dog food. Finally their 
 menus have become more complex not less, no reason for this. The Good: everything else. The graphics 
 are great; the sound is so good that you can even hear breathing. It is just plain fun to play. 
 Its Madden so if it isnt broke dont fix it, and for the most part they have kept that motto in 
 spades. There are no radical changes and there doesnt have to be. Is it a better game for Xbox 
 360 than Fight night Round 3, no, but its closer than all the rest of them out there. If you didnt 
 like NCAA 07 you wont like this game so dont even bother buying it, but as for myself, I love 
 it. Maneuvering Walter Jones around so he can splat someone for SA to run into the end zone again 
 is so fun, touchdown Seahawks!!! I rate this game a 9.2 obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borcic0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has outdone all of the previous madden titles. The new features the graphics are good, 
 but still has some bugs. The gameplay is good, new features and abilities make this game outstanding. 
 The pros are the new additions of the training camp where you can do the 40 yard dash and also 
 bench press. The audio i thought is alright, the person is very exaggerating but I miss Maddens 
 voice and doesnt make the game "Complete". I thought everything else was good, the new blocking 
 feature and superstar mode was pretty good as well. The camera angles though i didnt like, but 
 this game is a must have unless your a 2k fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrrus147
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the reviews who rated this game under 7. Madden 2007 is still a very good football 
 games. I think the major problem is that some folks had too many expectations for this game and 
 only got disappointed by some of the flaws of this game. Gameplay
  
  Positive:
  
  -The action on the field is very fluid
  -More options than we had in Madden 2006, Superstar mode 
 is a very interesting mode, more than it was in 2006 (xbox, ps2, gamecube) .
  -The balance between your scoring and the opponent scoring (on ALL-Pro and higher) is realistic. 
 Negative
  
  -There is some slowdown, between each play and on Superstar where you can suffer from major slowdown. 
 -There is some bugs, mostly when you try to tackle somoene (sometime the player will just pass 
 by) . -The view on superstar mode can be annoying if you are a quarterback. Graphics
  
  Positive
  
  -The stadiums, the players details, the fields and the animations are simply amazing, 
 the best graphics on the xbox 360. Negative
  
  - 30 Frame per second is not enough for a next gen game. Sound
  
  Positive
  
  -The sounds 
 on the field are simply amazing Negative
  
  -The radio announcer is plain dull. -Most of the songs on the soundtracks are extremely annoying 
 and bad. No sound is much better than those second zone songs.
  
  Value
  
  The more you will play this game , the more you will like it. The Superstar mode is a very addictive 
 mode. The game controls are more complex than last years, so the more you play, the better you 
 will be. I understand that some guys had BIG expectations for Madden 2007 and only got disappointed 
 by the xbox 360 version. But if you don't have Madden 06 on xbox 360 and you need a good football 
 game, Madden 2007 is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z075056
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This years madden has the best graphics, best running game and the best passing game that has been 
 seen in a football game ( a madden football game that is) . I do not understand why this game got 
 a 7.9 review. Only flaw is there is no madden speaking and for me thats a very good thing as he 
 would always say the obvious. This game is unreal, i love it. The running game is somthing that 
 was missing from madden games before and this year it really works well. The only thing wrong with 
 this game is the frame rate problems but even then its not a big deal. Very solid game, but still 
 not as good as Nfl 2k5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbdowalt
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  The game is like every other Madden game before it. The same game play, a few new gadgets, but 
 at the end of the day its Madden football which is good, but certainly not going to cut into my 
 time with Prey and other titles. I love sports games and this is a decent one, but I am still waiting 
 for this 360 magic in a sporting title as I haven't seen it thus far.
  
  A major minus was EA radio covering "my team" ugh... that was brutual. If you can get it at Circuit 
 City still for $47 bucks, buy it... if not, wait a few months, your not missing anything special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is not the best on 360 but than again it is also not the worst either. At least it 
 has most of the main things in Game Mode that most madden fans will satisfied with until next year. 
 I still don't think that it is worth $59.99 but it is still very decient with the graphics and 
 the most realistic gameplay that i have ever sceene. If you're looking for a good game to pick 
 up just to throw people down on the grassy turf; Madden NFL 07 is the game for you. I still can't 
 help but think that ESPN would have been just a little bit better than Madden. What still gets 
 to me is that the only game to come out with out ESPN intergration in it is Madden; I don't understand 
 why they can use it on all of their other games but not Madden; it does not make any scense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruggdog
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Thedefense always knows what play you called, Call a run play and they have 8 in the box- call 
 a pass play and the called a pass defense. Do you have a audible every play? Its ridiculous.
  
  The latest version of Madden07 for x360 is far better than a lot of the negative reviews. Why 
 is it better? It plays a lot like NCAA and the graphics are really nice -- it is also better since 
 Madden is NOT calling the games. This means you don't hear all of his obvious color comments. Previous 
 versions - it was annoying. I like to rate games also on FUN-Factor.... Its much more fun than 
 other versions. This goes along way... Like ESPN2K5 -lots of fun -- that is a great game!! I think 
 this latest version of Madden will help me move away from ESPN2K5... The negative things with Madden 
 is transition choppiness, menus that don't run smooth... when the game switching between calling 
 a play - showing replays and the live action... its not smooth... I expected the360 could handle 
 all these commands. I am also wondering if EA Sports is really just waiting for PS3... I am afraid 
 they are holding back a little and going to provide PS3 gamers a better product. So far I am happy 
 with the game... I was worried reading the reviews that it may not be very good. I was pleasantly 
 surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypermode101
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  This is the only football game out and its only okay in my opionion. This game should be great 
 period, since it is the only one out. This is what happens when you take away competetion. You 
 can release a sub par football game and football fans will still get it. The players all have about 
 the same body structure. When is the last time you have seen a quarterback with the same arm size 
 of his offensive line..... never. The game plays like you entered in 25 cents a quarter to play. 
 However it is some fun playing wiht others.. but with the way the game plays it is hard to want 
 to play by yourself.. especially season because at least to me I would like some realism.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoov22
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Madden has been in existence for years on various consoles. I was one of those individuals fortunate 
 enough to have played every edition since it's conception. I am a purist of the game. As a result, 
 I will be fair in this review.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Madden NFL 07 for the XBOX 360 are great! The stadiums look awesome and 
 the player models are fair. Fair in that it appears that most of the offensive linemen are at minimum 
 400 lbs. Sound: I'm not sure who thought it was a good idea to elimnate color commentary from the 
 announcement booth. Play by play announcing has been an essential part of football games since 
 Joe Montana's sports talk football on Sega Genesis. The "radio" guy is good, but at least give 
 him a partner and make it seem as if we are watching TV! Playing this game is like watching TV 
 with the sound off while leaving the radio broadcast on. I would have never thought I'd say this, 
 but I actually miss John Madden and Al Michaels.
  Gameplay: The game seems like it's a tad to slow and unresponsive. The passing game is easier than 
 ever while the running game is o. k. To make a long story short, I've played every version of Madden 
 since it first made its appearance on the Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo. In 2005, I bought NFL 
 2K5 only because it was $19.99. Who would've thought that it would become the best football game 
 of all time. It's been 2 years and nothing has even touched it. Why acquire the ESPN license and 
 not have any ESPN personalities grace the screen?? No Chris Berman, no Suzy Tolbert not even Stuart 
 Scott! No halftime show, no postgame show!! The game is boring. I just put it on Ebay yesterday. 
 Highest bidder wins! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fornikator8699
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  First off don't believe all the people giving this game a 1 or a 3, this madden is great. I love 
 the fact that during the season you can train players and modify thier attributes in a realistic 
 way. I like the spring training minigames, but I still like the older ones (except for the punter 
 drill) . The game keeps the passing cone for people like me who like the realistic feel of passing. 
 If you don't like it (wussies) then you don't have to use it. The lead blocking control is easy, 
 and fun to use. Gone are the days where you couldn't break out a bug run cause you lineman froze 
 and didn't block anybody. Know its up to you if you screw up or not. The graphics are amazing and 
 the sounds are great. O NO there's no madden commentary. Who cares. I would much rather listen 
 to the players trash talk and yell out assignments, then listen to madden and al michaels bore 
 me to death with their nonenergetic commentary. They fixed the punt glitch that was on the Ps2 
 version last year. You can actually return punts! The tackles sound great and you can actually 
 hear the players breathing while they're running. I also like how when a player gets hurt they 
 show what the injury is, instead of a player grabbing his leg and he hurt his shoulder like the 
 previous games. The madden gamer level is kinda cool since it keeps track of everything you've 
 done (if you save it) , and you can unlock hall of fame players to play with. O yeah the receivers 
 are smart enough to get both feet in bounds unlike last years game. While I love this years game, 
 there are some things that I madden screwed up. First they got rid of owner mode. I loved how I 
 could upgrade a stadium and move the team to a different state, while creating new jerseys. Also 
 there is no fantasy draft for people who want to do one in their dynasties. The fatigue meters 
 do not work, but Ea said they are going to send a patch to fix it (I'm sure we'll get it in like 
 3 months) . Calling hot routes should have been like last year. It takes to long to call hot routes, 
 and I liked thw fact that I could customize my hot routes. They also should have left the ability 
 to edit players position and their accessories. The thing I'm most pissed about is that the defensive 
 playmaker control is not like the last 2 years. Sure you modify the denfense, but I prefer being 
 able to change every player if I wanted to. Say you have Randy Moss line up with your slow corner, 
 wouldn't you want to double coverage on him if you wanted to. If you can do that on this game then 
 please let me know how. While this game has some bugs I think the main problem with madden is that 
 it was overhyped. The fact that the developers rushed the game and it was so hype, has led to people 
 not liking it. Also don't forget the Nfl 2k5 lovers and the crappy gamers who just want to make 
 their team 99s while playing on rookie. I give madden credit for coming up with another cool innovation, 
 but they come short of meeting everybodies expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I've never missed hearing John Madden yell "BOOM!" on a big hit as much as I do right now. His 
 annual release of Madden this year brought wired
  anticipation to fans of the franchise in the hopes that it would recover from the Madden 06 debacle. 
 In many ways it has.
  
  But much like a team playing in the Superbowl, down by 3 points late in the 4th quarter - marching 
 down the field with a solid drive - Madden fumbles on the 1 yard line and looses the ball. So close 
 to being so good. Madden is arguably the "biggest" video game release of the year. Fans count down 
 the days, weeks and months and lineup around the block to get their mitts on the game when it hits 
 the shelves at midnight. With all this hoopla and high expectations you would think that Madden 
 developers would go the extra mile to bring a must-have NFL game to next-generation 360 owners. 
 Sadly EA Sports falters just shy of the goal line after putting a decent drive together. Fans are 
 left wondering what could have been and are relegated to another long year ahead to see how their 
 team will bounce back.
  
  There are some great things in Madden 07. First and foremost are the
  graphics. Player models 
 and in-game animations are top notch. There are
  plenty of tackles and evasive maneuvers for even the most diehard pigskin
  fan. The highlight 
 of this year is definitely the stadiums and weather
  effects which really make you feel like you are there. The field degrades
  the longer the game 
 goes on. There is only 1 camera angle to choose from and its really the best one for playing the 
 game. However, it would have been nice to have a choice to watch the game from the sideline, press 
 box or bleachers.
  
  The sound in the game is mixed. While the noises on the field have never
  sounded better - the 
 broadcasting has never sounded so stale. The same lame radio announcer says the same boring things 
 that he said last year. But players trash talking and calling plays sound amazing. Most of the 
 real life quarterbacks have put their play calls into the game and can be heard in the huddle and 
 at the line.
  
  The gameplay is very good. The computer AI seems to be getting smarter and more aggressive. Peyton 
 Manning tore my Raiders defense apart with his true-to-life no huddle audible-ridden offence on 
 the All-Pro setting. Pass protection is much tougher - though its still possible to hit those 60 
 yard bombs in double coverage. The running game is much more realistic this year too. The new "lead 
 blocker" control is a fun new feature that helps
  immensely with making those exciting big gains on the ground.
  
  The mini-camps and hall of 
 fame modes are nice additions to the title. These are features that should have been in the game 
 last year and don't do much to put Madden 07 in the hall of fame of videogames. They are fun and 
 widen the experience, but there are so many other areas EA should have focused on instead. There 
 is still no co-op or CPU vs. CPU.
  
  So where exactly does Madden 07 fall short? Its one of those situations
  where we've been so 
 used to having an amazing game for all those years only now to feel like we've lost yardage on 
 3rd down. Next-gen games open the door to so many possibilities, but it feels like EA Sports has 
 neglected to exploit them. Its impossible not to compare football games to the supremely entertaining 
 ESPN NFL 2k5 which had everything - especially in the presentation department. Madden 07 fails 
 miserably at re-creating a dynamic broadcast quality visual style. Granted there are more full 
 screen instant replays this year, but they in no way compare to the telecast quality we were treated 
 to before EA bought the exclusive rights to the NFL. Where is John Madden and Al Michaels? Even 
 NCAA Football 07 has a play by play and color commentary team.
  
  Consumers will always loose when there is a lack of competition. The absence of choice is obvious. 
 But worse is the complacency of a monopolistic empire that knows it will make money on status-quo 
 effort. When a game that is 2 years older, and on a "last-generation" console is far better than 
 what we are getting today there is a serious problem. EA now owns the ESPN rights and thus should 
 incorporate the brilliant presentation (pre-game buildup, halftime/post-game highlights, interviews, 
 weekly sports shows, out of town updates during season games, multiple camera angles, co-op and 
 CPU vs. CPU play, a real running commentary) . These are things that should be an intricate part 
 of next-generation football and are what keeps Madden 07 out of the game hall of fame.
  
  All in all, if you love football this is a game that you should have in your collection. For the 
 casual fan I would suggest passing on Madden 07. I enjoyed playing this game for what it is, but 
 left a bit disappointed in the
  face of some extremely high expectations. As Madden gears up for next
  season, lets hope EA learns 
 from its mistakes and finally scores that much
  needed winning touchdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtyjersey13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  I am not a 2k fan boy. I simply have the ability to recognize a good product when i see it. And 
 Madden has not produced a good product for years. As a die hard gamer and rabid football fan i 
 am utterly disappointed with what EA has done to the franchise, and by purchasing the exclusive 
 rights to the NFL license they have created a monopoly of crap. the graphics are ok, but the overall 
 experience sucks. with the resources and money at the disposal of EA they should be ashamed of 
 themselves for creating this piece of steaming crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desaimastaflash
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  The game is not all that bad. Madden does have some things to be desired, like editing player attributes 
 and graphics in superstar mode, but it is still pretty fun. It is a ten times better than last 
 years installment, which I would prefer to forget. The graphics overall are pretty good and the 
 new running/ blocking controls work fairly well, but need some time to master. I feel this year, 
 just like last year, it is hard to play solid defense. I just don't feel as in control of my players 
 and I did with ESPN 2K football, which I am still clinging to. Otherwise, it is worth picking up 
 for football fans. I am from Philly and with baseball not worth watching, Football is all I have 
 left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwinston91
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  I must first state that I really liked the old 2K series of football games. Especially NFL 2K5. 
 What I really liked about those games is that it felt like I was watching a real football game 
 on TV. Its hard to play Madden 07 and its seems like its quiet when things are happening on the 
 field. Granted you do get to hear the PA announcer, telling some lucky person that they've won 
 a laptop computer (Yup, I really heard that) . But I like the interactions that you get from a couple 
 of TV commentators. The radio announcer rarely comments on the game and when he does, it is really 
 low, so its hard to hear (even in Dolby Digital Surround sound) . The on field sounds are great, 
 but I don't get why the commentators were left out. It just takes a little away from the fun of 
 watching the game. (I know you'll probably say, I should be playing the game) . It would be fine 
 without any commentators, in the Superstar mode. Since I am supposed to be that player, and he 
 wouldn't hear any commentators on the field. But when I am playing against someone I want to hear 
 all the great, funny commentary. And what about a half time show or recap... Is that too much to 
 ask for. Another thing... why can't the refs bring out the chain and measure for 1st down... Or 
 why not have some nice replays with commentary, after a great play.
  
  Multiplayer
  Another really big issue I have with EA is the lack of ability to play with other people on the 
 same team. Why can't I play with 3 other people on the same team on my 360 and over Xbox Live. 
 This is a TEAM SPORT. Why do 1st person shooters get this treatment, but team sports games don't 
 have it. It makes no sense. Another thing about this that makes no sense, is the fact that I can 
 choose to lead block, but my friend can't play as running back. Wouldn't it have been perfect if 
 you could have three of your buddies on the same team: three of you pick a blocker to play as.. and 
 one of you picks the running back. Now thats lead blocking. Other than those complaints its kind 
 of fun to play. I just wish there was some competition in this arena, and the game would have to 
 be phenomenal to compete. Anyway thats my rant. I had to get it off my chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Yes, some minor nuisances aside, this game is turning into one of my favorite Madden's yet. I've 
 noticed a few bugs (like the menu bug where some play sets don't show) and some features are missed 
 (like all the old mini-games and the "Tony Bruno Show") . But here's what sells the game for me:
 
  -Online play for me has been silky-smooth after 10 games online. One game started the get laggy 
 and the opponent was kicked by the game. Otherwise, every other game I've played online has been 
 very smooth.
  
  -The gameplay, while favoring offense and the running game now, is spot on. Yes, you could call 
 this year's version of Madden the "Year of the Running Game" and that would be fairly accurate. 
 But things that other football games get wrong, this year's Madden gets right. The inside running 
 game (and blocking) is good, QBs usually have to set their feet to throw an accurate pass now, 
 and the game feels very momentum based in everything it does (if you are slightly moving backwards 
 for example when you make contact with the ballcarrier, he'll push you forward for an extra few 
 yards. If you try to put a big "stick" on a larger back with a small DB, the DB will get mowed-over) . 
 So all in all, the more I play Madden 07, the more I appreciate their hard work trying to make 
 the on-field action fun and realistic, even if slightly skewed towards the offense/running game 
 (Scores are high online, but they lengthened the game for ranked games, it went from 4 min qtrs 
 online to 5 min qtrs in 07... bring back the quicker/shorter online games EA ;-)
  
  PS. Along with the excellent on the field multiplayer play, EA has added some very cool mulitplayer 
 features on Live. 'Live Aware' let's you either advertise your personal franchise/season game online 
 so anyone can join it as the opposing team (or you can invite a specific friend to play the opposing 
 franchise team!) This is perfect for those folks who always wanted to play a franchise online with 
 friends but hated simming or playing against the CPU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  MY BLOCKERS ARE STUPID, MY WRs ARE STUPID. MY QB IS STUPID!!!!!! I want another game like ESPN NFL 
 2K5 im sorry but that game beats even Madden 07 on the 360. Im jus venting my frustrations on this 
 board so go ahead and bash on this post. i dont care. For one, im tired of the soundtrack. I dont 
 want to listen to EMO. then the AI is so stupid i cant even comprehend. I cant see the fame and 
 glory this game has. yes maybe in the 90s and early 2000 the games were revolutionary. as a matter 
 of fact. jus cuz they have the rights to be the only ones to make a football game. it doesnt make 
 it good. and for the people that are mad cuz im trashing on "the great madden" well u know what 
 u could do u and the Sony fanatics can be together and obsess over things that were both cool in 
 the 90s but now theyre washed up and ignorant. u know what else was big in the 90s that sucks. 
 Grunge music and boy bands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankerton
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  This years madden for the 360, if nothing else towers over its 06 disaster. The gameplay fluid 
 and fast paced (like real NFL) I love the pace of the game.. it keeps you on the edge of your seat.. 
 you reall feal pressure to get rid of the ball and make decisions. The lead blocker controls also 
 add alot to the offensive end of things, making running plays far more easy to pull off in some 
 situations. Madden has taken a huge step up for me in alot of areas. There are a few things that 
 dont quite make it to the quality level i was waiting for. One is the super star mode. When i was 
 playing as a Wide reciever and i was playing games.. i wouldnt have to actually catch the ball 
 to catch the ball... i would run my route and you would hear the announcer say that someone had 
 caught the ball.. i kept running my route figuring one of my team-mates had made a catch and when 
 i got to the inzone it said TOUCH DOWN... i am still confused about this.. Its fun... fast.. and 
 still has alot of skill to be developed for madden fans.. Give it a chance.. i think most people 
 will appreciate the change.. or grow to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrae
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game is way better then Madden 06, just wish that they had the Madden 05 announcers... Its 
 kind of boring to just hear that stupid guy talk just about the drives, need real time announcements... 
 Other then that this way better then I expected!! They made some good new moves and techniques 
 for you to ensure that you are at the top of your game... It sucks though that you cant pick your 
 play in Superstar mode, I really hope that the people that make Madden games fix these things up 
 for Madden 08... The only thing that i cant figure out is why i cant connect to xbox live with 
 this game but i can with my other xbox games... i may have to return this and get another disc... 
 really hope that its the disc cause im really looking forward in playing against some really good 
 people... lets pray that there will be people on live for the sake that i need to smash some people... 
 OHH YEA... OAKLAND RAIDERS IS GOING TO THE SUPER BOWL!! XLI CHAMPIONS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frell69
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a Madden game since Madden 2004 but I rather enjoyed that game. Never played 2005 
 because I got ESPN 2K5 instead. Just as Fun and a lot less money. Now I wanted a football game 
 for My 360. Now I feel as though hours of my life and my hard earned money have been stollen from 
 me and I WANT THEM BACK. !@#$%@!##@ EA!!!! What a complete and total piece of crap Madden 2007 
 is. Now to fill up the rest of my review ("must be at leat 100 words") CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! 
 CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! CRAP!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alky92614
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  I am VERY disappointed in Madden '07 for the Xbox 360. I still cannot believe how this can even 
 be considered part of the Madden franchise. I have been visiting Gamespot frequently for at least 
 the last five years -- this is my first review. I have three reasons for finally deciding to write 
 a review/rant.
  
  1. To let people know that this game is NOT a good football game. Nothing in this game you would 
 have expected to be improved or fixed from previous versions has been touched. I don't give a flying 
 f**k if the game was built from the bottom up. It's a bad football game. Period. I have been playing 
 Madden almost religiously for at least a decade. So I know. Anybody who says or reviews otherwise 
 is very obviously a fanboy. 2. To let EA know that they produced a very poor game that should not 
 have the Madden logo on it. Am I the only gamer who still cares about gameplay rather than graphics? 
 The game has tons of flash -- it actually looks really good -- but that's it. I mean, if you don't 
 know what's up with football strategy or you're a younger gamer that isn't out for a football sim, 
 then this game is for you.
  
  3. To let readers of Gamespot know that Alex Navarro is either A) . simply a bad reviewer, B) . a 
 corporate shill, or C) all of the above. I put my money on the latter. This game is definitely 
 not deserving of the 7.9 rating given to it by Mr. Navarro, especially considering the fact that 
 in the past he has found the Madden franchise to be distasteful. A little payola goin' on here? 
 I don't know.
  
  Did I forget to mention that this game is terrible. Just terrible. Many glitches, flaws, graphic 
 anomolies, SEVERE limitations on user customization, wacky franchise mode with retarded stats. 
 Oh yeah... why hasn't madden allowed users to adjust the simulation game time yet?? WTF? If I play 
 every game in the season with 5 minute quarters ('cause any longer than that will yield scores 
 in the 70+'s) , the stats for my players will be severely less than all the computer teams that 
 simulated their games with 15 minute quarters. If I want to play a season where every game that's 
 played is played with 5 minute quarters, you'd think I'd be able to do that, right? Wrong. Why 
 can't I change anybody's position?? Why are Hall of Fame players getting signed to franchise teams. 
 Why do players take even worse pursuit angles in '07 for the 360 than '06 for the regular Xbox? 
 I could go on, really. I keep going back to the game hoping to find some redeemable quality. But 
 it's just not in Madden '07 for the Xbox 360. Guess I'll have to stick with NCAA '07 (which has 
 its own list of problems, but at least it allows for some user customization. Ah... I feel much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEKELLY52
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  The worst Madden game EVER!!!!!!!!!! EA Sports should be ashamed to have released this game with 
 SOOOO many glitches. Ive never written a review for a game on GameStop or anywhere else, but this 
 game made me insane. The game just seems to freeze and the end & beginning of every play, cut scene, 
 adjustment, when ever you breathe. etc (you get the point) At times I thought I might just be going 
 crazy because I could have sworn I pushed that button.. OH YA I did but it didnt work. If you 
 bought a 360 you did it with the understanding that you would pay more for the games, but you should 
 expect more for that money.. SAD JUST SAD!!! Rent it first then play NCAA 07 much better game. 
 Madden 07 sucks out loud!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. This is a pretty fun game. It's great to play with your friends one-on-one, 
 and the mini camps are fun as balls. But where is the friggin' COMMENTARY??? This game is known 
 for Madden and Michaels speaking the game through and now it's just an annoying guy doing it for 
 a radio station. Holy **** give me a break? How stupid did EA think we were hoping that we wouldn't 
 notice they didn't commentate the games?
  
  My advice to you is to stick to NCAA 07, especially if you are still on a current gen system. NCAA 
 is just a better game overall and has better gameplay in my opinion, especially on 360. I still 
 like Madden and I probly won't trade it, but this review site is all about giving your opinion 
 on something isn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otakusama16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  God.. I swear Gamespot is a little TOO hard on some of their reviews. I mean a 7.9? At least a 8.9.. Jeesh. 
 Its not BAD... Its actually a really good football game with all the substance and gameplay Madden 
 fans have grown to love over the years. It seems like with Gamespot's score.. They were expecting 
 WAY too much. The game came out Great. They improved on EVERYTHING they did wrong the first time 
 and yet and still gamespot gives it a 7.9?? Come on guys. The only things I think were wrong with 
 the game was the selection of Hall Of Fame players... Its a long list of NOBODIES, lol. Dan Marino? 
 Marcus Allen? Joe Montana? Nope... If this game were made for men in their late 50's or 60's, then 
 it be AWESOME. But instead the demographic for which are playing the game.. in the 16-35 year old 
 region.. suffer with a long barrage of ancient football players with few noticeable ones. Besides 
 that my only other gripe is the Achievement points. I mean.. Im not being lazy or anything but some 
 of those achievements can take like..2 weeks to get. Besides that its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, just to start off saying this, i do believe that Ea did a good job of improving some things 
 this year for the xbox 360 version. They added the superstar mode but still did not have all the 
 console version has. They added the practice mode and mini games, which can be fun at times. Lets 
 get into the different aspects of this game.
  
  Graphics- Excellent, improved from the 06 version. Jerseys and stadiums are much more realistic.
 
  
  Gameplay- Overall the gameplay is nice. Not sure about the AI the defensive backs suffer from. 
 The players overall move fluently throughout the game.
  
  Sound- At first i wasnt so sure if i liked that fact that they had John Madden speaking or announcing 
 on the current gen console versions and not on the xbox 360 versions. Then i think about it and 
 realize the announcer on the xbox 360 is much more inthusiastic.
  
  Camera- the one thing i cannot stand is the camera veiw on the superstar mode. When you are a running 
 back or reciever its to hard to do anything productive when you cannot see anything hardly at all, 
 Its rediculous. So far i have not found a way to change the camera settings but there might be 
 a way.
  
  Overall its a decent game and if you want to play some quality football on the xbox 360 you should 
 buy it, i mean, what else are you gonna buy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  It's a little bit more of an improvement for Madden 06 but is still lacking some of the fun things 
 that the made the current gen madden games so great. The game looks fantastic there's no doubt 
 about that. As you know graphics is not everything gameplay is want makes a game great. This years 
 2007 madden has superstar mode, hall of fame, mini games, franchise mode which was included in 
 madden 06. Also this year we have create a player is not as good as the current gen because you 
 can not fully customize your player but at least we can this year. Madden 07 is missing owner mode, 
 the radio show from the current gen, the newspaper article, superbowl post game celebration all 
 those little fun things we had in madden 06 for the current gen. Regardless missing all these things 
 the game is still fun to play. New animation tackles, better crowd models, and the stadiums look 
 amazing. The field also look more realistic. Another addition to this year's madden is this thing 
 called gamer score. These are like the old madden cards you use to get at the end of the game when 
 you make great plays which is pretty cool. Also it has an espn ticker that tells you want games 
 are on that day that you're playing which I think is pretty cool. Aside from the things that are 
 missing this is a big step up from last years madden and regardless of the things that is lacking 
 it is still a great game to play and an awesome game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the xbox 360, is the best looking football game ever, we can all see that, but this 
 time the developers added some depth to the game, with superstar mode and mini camp, it makes the 
 game lots more fun. However, the 360 version is still missing one thing, editing players. For me, 
 I am really strict on what the jersey numbers are, and what the players are wearing on gameday. 
 Yet for the 360, this is totally gone, and it makes me a little mad. Also, the mini camp games 
 are very tough, especially the bench press. However, other than these things, the game still plays 
 a great game of football, and is very fun to play. I recommend this to any 360 owner, who loves 
 football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZXIMZ
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  As far as the game goes, it looks great and plays ok. I think the gameplay has kind of gone down 
 hill. My main issue with this game is the presentation, I really do not like the radio announcer 
 at all. When i play madden 07 i feel like there really isnt anything going on. I liked hearing 
 the color commentary from Al Micheals and John Madden, they may not be as enthusiastic most of 
 the time but they keep the tempo of the game going. I like hearing two commentators talking about 
 the game. Why put a radio announcer in a video game? Are we just listening in? NO we are playing 
 the game, get someone in there that will keep it entertaining. I know most people wont feel this 
 way but thats what i think about it IMO. The other issue i have is they really need to clean up 
 the gameplay and put more damn animations in or randomize them more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironmike1981
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  If you like franchise mode, buy the XBOX, PS2, Gamecube version. The franchise mode on 360 is a 
 joke. No depth and you cant even do a fantasy draft.....
  
  Superstar mode is not bad and will entertain you for awhile. But there are holes and there should 
 be a lot more depth. You of course will have fun playing the new stars (I do not see a way to edit 
 players stats in the 360 version, which stinks) and your friends and even online but that is one 
 of the biggest reasons to buy this game. IF you dont plan on playing online or against your friends 
 a ton, then please please rent this game. Dont waste $60 on a game you will probably play till 
 you can watch regular season football and maybe only a handful of times after that. Personally 
 I LOVE Madden but I will rent next years version first....... then decide if it is worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemini12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game is being judged far too much on missing features, than what it really should 
 be judged by.. How well does it play football. I mean That's what it is right? A FOOTBALL GAME! 
 Real couch ballers could careless if the franchise mode is missing a few features. This game plays 
 way better than last year's version. The running and passing game is right on point. And the graphics 
 are the best ever appearing on a football game. Now there are a few flaws. Some animation just 
 look wierd. I also thought more time could've been spent on the games overall presentation. NFL 
 2k series spoiled me I guess. But neverthe less, the game gets it done where it matters the most. 
 So I'm going to score it based on that. FOOTBALL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallMeHeavy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  What good are new and improved features if the game doesn't work? In the FRANCHISE MODE, the game 
 crashes ALL THE TIME. SAVE OFTEN so you don't have to keep playing the same parts over and over 
 again. Most of the crashes and hangups occur during the OFF SEASON. But during the season, a bug 
 causes the player stats and ratings to VARY big time. Also, player progression is spotty at best. 
 Some improve at inhuman speed. How can FOUR tight ends go from 60's ratings to all 99's in less 
 than 3 season?! I've played 7 years in FRANCHISE MODE but I'm still stuck on the 2010 season. To 
 be fair, I have not played in the other modes yet, but I am already regretting buying this game. 
 I am hoping the other parts are not as bad.
  
  Graphics are not up to the mind blowing next gen standards one would expect out of a second offering 
 on the XBOX 360. Still looks last gen or early new gen at best. Model rendering of the player are 
 better than Madden '06, and overall improved, but not enough so in my opinion.
  
  Sounds are improved and up to standards, but the repetitive song list will have you gritting your 
 teeth in short order. Would be nice to be able to add my own song lists to the game. Thank goodness 
 I have mute on my TV.
  
  The instruction booklet that comes with the game is a JOKE. From cover to cover it is TEN pages 
 long. Once you take out the fluff pages of disclaimers, credits, ads, and picture of controller, 
 you have FIVE whole pages to get started and most of them are the buttons and moves mapped out. 
 Nothing really explains all the modes, menus, or features. A cheesy and CHEAP way to make you buy 
 the $17 "Official Guide" book.
  
  The whole game feels rushed and pushed to the market before it was ready. It could have used a 
 couple more months in the incubator. This seems to be a distressing trend in new game releases: 
 rush to market before ready and than offer patches later to fix problems. MAKE THE GAMES WORK BEFORE 
 RELEASING THEM!!
  
  Having said all that, PATCH PLEASE!!! NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TraXxX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  This is the first time that I'm actually playing Madden, ever! I'm more of a basketball and soccer 
 type of guy but I was like what the heck, I'm gonna get the game and see wht the hype's all about. 
 I have to say the game made a good first impression. First thing I noticed was the game menu which 
 is pretty nice and slick. Then I played a single game to see how the game is. I thought the graphics 
 were really good and realistic. That was until I discovered some bugs and problems. It wasn't that 
 bad at first but it got kinda annoying as I kept playing. First of all, I tried to play the online 
 mode a couple of times and the connection was dropped every single time! Then the game froze once 
 or twice completely while I was playing the franchise mode. The superstar mode is kinda funny too, 
 specially the "influence level" thingy. Basically if your teammates suck, your influence level 
 goes down automatically, even if you're not involved in the play!
  I don't know, as a first time Madden player I have to say it wasn't a bad experience but the game 
 has a lot of room for improvement and it could have been much more better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUFFNECK_365
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I have had my 360 since launch and I must say that launch was not the most plesant situation for 
 the 360. Most of the games were ports over from the current generation and most people really were 
 upset of having to pay the 10 dollar increase. Madden for me was one of those titles. I have and 
 always will be a Madden fan, ever since my Sega Genesis I have always played and loved Madden. 
 Last years version was probably the worst Madden game I have ever played. Thankfully this year 
 EA finally decided to stop making next gen owners pay for crap and give next gen owners a more 
 worthy title. Dont get me wrong this is still not the Madden I know and love but its taking a step 
 in the right direction. The superstar mode could be much more in depth and I feel that with more 
 memory and system upgrades, EA should give owners a more authentic football experience. I would 
 like to feel that I am playing a football game that is making me feel like I am really haggling 
 my agent for a new contract and that team work outs are actually going to pay off on the feild. 
 Over all I feel this years version of Madden is close to being priced @ 59.99, hopefully EA will 
 take the slight momentum from this years Madden and really blow us away next year with a title 
 that is truly next gen football 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akuya32
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game looks good but thats is as much praise as I can give it. Gameplay is so bad it makes 
 me one to buy a psp and play it on there. I am glad I bought it for the ps2 as well so I can return 
 this so called football back. Hell, ESPN footbal 05 was better then this. If you want to play a 
 game that looks great this is the game for you, but if you want to play a football game that might 
 not look as good but has way better gameplay as well as options pick it up for any other system. 
 I am glad I didn't buy it last year, and I am wishing I didn't buy it this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelers41
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing around with the game for bit I feel that this edition is just ok. if there were to 
 be another pro football game produced this year i would have bought it. Graphically it is great, 
 but when you leave out some features that the current gen games have then what is to really make 
 the "next" gen version any better. No alt. uniforms, cannot adjust attributes or change numbers 
 and equipment, I can't wait to see if the pro bowl game has the players wearing their team helmets 
 (which all other current gen games have) and to see if the super bowl has the field decorated properly. 
 I know that some of these items may not be of concern to some hardcore gamers, but for football 
 fans, it makes the gaming experience that much better.
  
  Come to think of it, wasn't the 2k series the game that didn't have the pro bowl helmets? alot 
 of similarities to that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graydon20_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're a casual sports fan, and are a fan of Madden casually, this game is probably for you. 
 If you're looking for something more, more authentic, something more NFL, don't buy this game, 
 go ahead and give it a rental though, worth it to play with the updated rosters, check out the 
 marginal features, and well, lets face it, get the only taste of new NFL video game football you'll 
 see for the next 12 months.
  
  Madden 07 Review for Xbox 360
  -------------------------------------
  
  Initial Thoughts
  Madden 07 is definately an upgrade 
 over Madden 06, but it's still not very good, mediocre/average would be more accurate. I realize 
 most members on this football video gaming forum are casual ones at best, but at the same time 
 we hear of how EA constantly state 'oh we're aiming to create the most authentic football experience 
 each year'. Now this is obviously a blantant lie, and it's more of a marketing PR thing to impress 
 casual gamers. Casual fans of this series will probably like this game even more because of the 
 somewhat 'features' and cool menus, the game is still high-scoring, and filled mind-boggling football 
 plays (like Tiki Barber running through 5 Buccaneer tackles from his own 3 yard line, clearly stepping 
 out of bounds at the 6, being ruled in bounds, and running for a 97 yard touchdown, and not being 
 able to challenge it, even after seeing clearly after replay he was out by about 2 feet) .
  
  Franchise
  The franchise portion of this game is not too bad, yet still lacks any real kind 
 of NFL like agenda. There's no practice squads, no NFL europe off-season allocation, and the scouting 
 reports for teams, are, well, lets just see it looks like an EA intern wrote them on his lunch 
 break. Surprisingly the season stats are better than in years past, but I feel like a starved child 
 when I feel happy that something as trivial as simmed season stats is an upgrade.
  
  Graphics
  Speaking of upgrades, and this is absolutely no suprise, the graphics got its balls 
 polished like usual. Although I see alot of jaggies in the stadium, even on HDTV, on-field graphics 
 are pretty good. Player models still look way off as they did last year, but the environment is 
 good, grass is 'real' now and the players are more shiney (if that makes a difference to you) . 
 Players do get dirty, and the field gets torn up (probably WAY too much) , by the 4th quarter, instead 
 of a football field, it feels like I'm playing Medal of Honor on Omaha beach, little too much deteriation. 
 The menus did get a huge overhaul, and they do actually look like 'hey, this almost justifies menu 
 for me spending $500+ on a video game console'.
  
  Audio
  The 'EA Trax' is garbage (unless you're into pop rock and rap) . Now that that's out of the way, 
 the announcer is just terrible, I think that EA intern did the announcer voice while he was at 
 it. The announcer gets annoying dealthy quick, and after 2 years of this chump, I want Michaels 
 and Madden back up in there. Hell give me PAT SUMMERAL, just not this boring snorefest. The audio 
 quality for the announcer tries to emulate a sound of listening to the game/broadcast through the 
 radio. Well I'm watching the game on an HDTV 50', on a brand new 21st century console, why does 
 the audio have to sound like it's from the 1960s? Just sounds dumb, and I quickly put mr. smartass 
 on perma-mute.
  
  The only good thing (minus the stupid sonic boom noise) is the on field sounds, which I suppose 
 should only really matter, player chatter does sound awesome, but unless you mute the announcer, 
 you miss out on alot of the real sounding player voices (hey, I just found something authentic 
 for this game) .
  
  Online
  Game runs like every EA game online, so I shouldn't have to describe performance. Stat forwarding 
 to an email address is handy however, and the general online interface itself is good and intuitive 
 for the most part. The online game still runs at about 12-15 frames per second, and has slowdowns 
 when you least want to see them.
  
  SuperStar Mode
  When press was coming about this new mode for the 360, I was actually anticipating it and figured 
 there was potential for it to be good, the interviews with EA reps overshadowed everything but 
 this, they made this (aside from lead blocker, which I'm not into) their 'thing' for 07. Here's 
 a little scenario and you can determine what you think about it.
  
  I created a 6'1 - 215 pound WR. Got him created, brings you to a 'calender'. You have a couple 
 of workouts, crappy interviews which are 100% irrelevant, and IQ test that a monkey could score 
 high on (oops, sorry Vince Young) . So I quickly go through those and get to the 'combine'. This 
 sounded like it had ALOT of potential, as it should have. The NFL combine is a huge event and often 
 determines the fate of future NFL athletes (or ones that don't even make it) . Ok so here I go...
 
  
  40-Yard Dash (pain in the ass to do) - 5.89 seconds. I think Warren Sapp ran it in 5.1 seconds, 
 so my 6'1 WR was .8 seconds SLOWER than Warren Sapp. Ok whatever, I'll just be a posession reciever. 
 Bench Press time, uhh another pain in the ass, and I got 3 bench presses. Yes I do SUCK at these 
 mini-games, I'm not denying that, but the results are almost parody material. I finish off with 
 the reciever catch drill, I dominate it, got like 22,000 points.
  
  Ok time for the draft. Go to the draft date and wait for the big fancy draft right? WRONG. 'You 
 have been drafted by the Pittsburg Steelers'. Doesn't tell me what round I was in, no presentation, 
 NOTHING, just a little popup menu telling me that. So I find out I was drafted by the defending 
 WORLD CHAMPIONS in the 3rd Round. I suppose my 3 Bench reps turned them on, or maybe it was my 
 record slow 5.89 40-time. So I go over to the depth chart, and it just blew my mind. I was #1 WR 
 on the team, ahead of Hines Ward and ahead of Santonio Holmes, who was drafted in the 1st round. 
 Here were my stats.
  
  OVR - 73
  Speed - 90
  Catching - 68
  Agility - 92
  Strength - 72
  
  Do you see the issue with that? Yeah, it's a joke, I was laughing out loud 
 when I had seen that.
  
  -----------
  My Beefs
  -----------
  
  -Create-a-Player requires you to 'earn' your attributes. If you want to add a good player missing 
 from the game (especially since season rosters have not been finalized) , you better be damn good 
 at mini-games, or hope EA releases accurate roster upgrades (but isn't that what madden is every 
 year anyway?) .
  
  -Play challenge system is severly flawed. It's non-existent online, and 99% of the time it's greyed 
 out in the menu after a play, I got it to work once, and that was for a random ball-spot after 
 a 1 yard run on first and 10.
  
  -Superstar Mode is just a waste IMO. It might be 'cool' to do a season exclusively as your own 
 player, but most of the time you're controlling the QB or the defense when you're on the field 
 anyway, and trust me when I say the CPU controlling most of the game will just frustrate you.
 
  
  -Many rules are still missing, including being able to challenge down by contact, which was AUTHENTICALLY 
 added to the NFL rule book this year
  
  -No Practice Squads, off season allocation at all.
  
  -No defensive playmaker, which means 
 that games become offensive score fests very quickly.
  
  -Comeback code and Robo QB are definately here. The CPU will play TERRIBLE all half, but as soon 
 as the 2-minute warning come by, watch out.
  
  -Online is laggy as usual, no online franchises
  
  -Many uniforms are subtlely incorrect, there 
 are some crappy eBay jerseys which look better.
  
  -Penalty system is a little flawed, sometimes there are random calls which have absolutely no relation 
 to the play.
  
  -You CANNOT edit current players whatsoever, not even attributes
  
  -NO fantasy draft (which is always fun to do, especially with friends)
  
  -No ESPN integration, 
 which was touted by EA, what, like 2 years ago?
  
  -When you do 'run to daylight' most of the time the CPU RB gets caught or hit before you even get 
 a chance to make a block, let alone switching back to take control of him.
  
  
  Graphics - 8.0
  Audio - 6.5
  Online - 6.0
  Depth - 5.5
  Features - 6.0
  
  Overall - 
 6.9
  
  
  
  A good way to analyze this game is that YES it is an improvement over Madden 06 for the 360, but 
 Madden 06 is like a 1991 Geo Metro, the upgrade is marginal, to maybe a 1995 Chevy Sunfire. It's 
 not the Ferrari Enzo that everyone makes it out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincienzo45
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  First off... where the hell is Madden and Al Michaels at? Who the hell is this guy calling the game 
 with what sounds like a cell phone? No Owner Mode or Fantasy Draft for franchise!? Super Laggy 
 online servers and cheap glitch plays goin on? I must of picked off some pour guy in an online 
 game 5 straight times..??.. the guy never even had a chance to get to the 2nd down when ever he 
 had the ball! I mean i'm okay, but I'm not that awesome in Madden. It also said in the achievements 
 that I get something for reaching at least a 02 gamer level rating... im at 04 and still no points!? 
 wtf is going on over there EA?? I know EA has the monopoly on football games and all, but why must 
 they jerk consumers around and shove half-a** made crap down our throats? Not cool. Next year.. im 
 am boycotting EA's Madden unless they prove that they've made improvements to the series on a demo 
 or something... join me on this, or get tricked for another year by the EA Madden Hype Machine! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxley24
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't include anything!! It's very pathetic that if you want alternate uniforms/stadiums you 
 have to BUY them on the marketplace. All the other Maddens had it included in the game. What is 
 EA doing.... less and less people are not buying EA sport games in general, so they have to make 
 up the profits buy charging for uniforms/stadiums on the marketplace?? READ THE BOARDS EA!!!! This 
 whole board is FILLED, over and over again, with complaints about how CRAPPY this game is. Will 
 EA actually change? Nope, they never have, never will. Now they have the license from the NFL, 
 why put up the extra work when there is no competition. I'm glad I rented this game and not have 
 bought it because I would have been ticked at dropping $60 for this so-called "next gen" game. 
 I'll have another laugh next month when their NASCAR 07 comes out. They have never got that right 
 yet... and they also have the "exclusive" rights to that too..... This was posted on EA sports board 
 as well.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurrtySouf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is alot better than in madden 06 on the 360. Superstar is fun you just gotta get use to 
 the posistion where you are at. Graphics and player specific run styles are real good, even down 
 to the player TD animations. Game has some nice player contact collisions and so on. Overall this 
 game is a must buy for some and a rent for others. I like NCAA 07 but this one is the best in the 
 series to me, even though some small stuff like fantasy draft are left out of the game.
  
  Mini games are kinda frustrating for me right now, but my bro who has played the game for a longer 
 time than me is real good at them. So basically they will get easier and more fun to do later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverzeus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Madden fan since the Sega Genesis days, but once I played the newer 2k series I realized 
 how inferior the franchise had become. I bought it earlier today for the first time since '03. 
 Today is very much the same case. The characters are cartoony and sloppy, the hits are fake and 
 the 360 version's menus are affected by slowdown. It's amazing how much graphics can be put into 
 a game with such little detail. If I want to select a defensive player I have to scroll through 
 all 11 players on the field to get the man I want. There's no simple way to scroll backwards! Creating 
 an enormous waste of time when you're trying to think and react quickly before the snap. The worst 
 thing about this flaw is that since there is a delay in button reaction time by the time you see 
 the player you want to select highlighted your button pressing sequence has already passed your 
 desired player by. This nearly ruins the defense! I greatly regret giving my hard earned money 
 to EA for this half@$$ed game. The NFLPA has bit the hand that fed them when they signed the contract 
 with EA. Among other things.... how could you not get Brett Favre's likeness in your game? Brett 
 Favre in Madden '07 looks like some construction worker in a B movie. One of the most recognizeable 
 figures in all of football and he looks like that? Also this game is filled with gimmicky things 
 that are obviously designed to distract the player away from the fact that the gameplay and realism 
 has been overlooked entirely. Where's the option to assign individual defensive backs specific 
 roles before the snap? I'm sure they'll come out with it next year and call it revolutionary! After 
 the 2k5 series had those capabilities two years ago, better player models, and the option to customize 
 your franchise stadium music w/music from your hard drive. This is the last Madden game I spend 
 money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josue8549
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  After ESPN NFL 2k5 came out I have been taking a second look at Madden. I never bought Madden NFL 
 06 because even being released a full year after ESPN, the game was not even up to par. Madden 
 07 might look pretty and has certainly received over the top hype... but dont believe any of it. 
 EA made a good call buying the rights to all that is NFL and ESPN in video games because if not 
 they would be eating dirt as people would go for the competition. As a football fan, I am sad at 
 the fact that John Madden's great name continues to be disrespected by such lazy ass development 
 by the Madden NFL team. Just a damn shame. Sorry EA, I really wanted to like this game but you 
 failed horribly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyKC
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is deficient at best. Poor presentation (the game is boring) . Poor physics. Poor sound. 
 It's becoming clear that EA spends more money on marketing with the high price athletes and multiple 
 "fun" commercials than they do on improving upon the football experience. I haven't enjoyed a football 
 videogame since NFL 2k5 from 2k Sports. This is really frustrating to have to go back 2 years to 
 find the game that I want. EA, you've done it again. This is just awful. I am starting to believe 
 that EA has it's own employees adding to the reader reviews to improve the overall score; there 
 is no other explanation for the kudos given in some of these reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkycheese_70
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I have been playing Madden for two days and my take is this... the game play is okay, but 
 not spectactular. The graphics are pretty good, but not what I truly expected in quality. Since 
 the next to last 2K football game I have not seen much that has impressed me with football. An 
 earlier reviewer said exactly what most of think. No competition means a weaker product because 
 there is no one to push the envelope and no challenge to the almighty $$$. Congrats to NHL and 
 NBA for keeping the competition open.
  Since it is the only NFL game out there I suggest picking your poision between NCAA and Madden 
 or better yet, just rent it and return it when you are sick of the issues.
  Spend your $$$ on something worthwhile like GRAW or waiting for Splinter Cell or Gears of War and 
 hope they meet the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentbobus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I personally haven't played Madden 06 for the 360 but I've heard it was abysmal. As it stands now, 
 while the graphics and overall play control are very good, this game has less in terms of solid 
 features than Madden 01 had for the PS2. What's even more surprising, is the features they left 
 out, considering how easy some of them would have been to implement. For example, the fantasy draft 
 in franchise mode.
  
  The game has a few technical glitches as well and slowdowns. Mostly minor annoyances with the display, 
 some meters (like fatigue) not working and so forth. Overall I've enjoyed the core game and a little 
 of SS mode, lack of features cuts out a lot of the replay value.
  
  If you really want to get a next-gen football game, this is probably worth your money, but otherwise, 
 wait until next year. EA needs to be sent a message...
  Even with an exclusive license, they should still be competing against last year's version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first read the previews about 07 like may of you i was very excited because it looked like 
 EA finally listen to our suggestions and they did but it came at a price. Like you all expected 
 the graphics are top of line (with some choppy issues) , the running has improved. You'll now make 
 cleaner turns, speed stats are more reflective, breaking tackles feels like you've done them (not 
 the cpu) . The passing is also easier this time around. The players catch the ball with more ease 
 and you'll see less drops or bobbles then you would normally see in 06 (and the Defence also gets 
 more INT's when it's to them) . There is also a new way to kick you just press up on your left thumb 
 stick then down when you reach the top (straight up to get a straight kick) . Also something you 
 might not see (but hear) is Madden doesn't do the play-by-play but it's just as bad.
  
  In Superstar mode you don't get to choose what position you want to play it's preset to go with 
 your parents stats (If your dad was a QB you'll be a QB) but you can do random search as many times 
 as you want to find the position you want to play. You'll do some practices like Run the 40 yard 
 dash, Lift some weights, then (depending on what side of the ball you play) do some scrimmage if 
 your on offence, or varies if your on Defence like 1 on 1 with the WR if your a CB/FS. Then when 
 your on a team you'll do practice with again depending on what side of the ball you play. The step 
 back would be the camera view it's innovative because it's the view from the position your playing 
 but gets in the way too much to make SS a hit. Example: When your a QB it's a hard to see your 
 WR's and when your a FS it's hard to see someone when they passed your. You also don't call the 
 plays on either side of the ball and your coach doesn't know what he's doing. When your not playing 
 time moves fast until your on the Field but the clock moves at normal speed. Last but not least 
 is you get a boost when your playing well but pops up a lot and gets a bit annoying.
  
  They have fixed some other problems you might have seen in 06 like your players block for you during 
 a punt/kick return, players block for you on the rush (move with a QB) , your defence can recover 
 the fumble a little bit better, your players will try to INT the ball on D instead of batting it 
 down most of the time ,and players stats do reflect on them so you wont see a cheetah like speed 
 for a linemen. The only thing they didn't fix is the ability to choose what your challenging for.
 
  
  The worst part from my point of view would be no co-op play (it's a team sport) don't worry for 
 you VS people but if you want to play on the same team with a friend look away you can't you always 
 have to play VS (at least 2 players) .
  
  
  The Good - Better game play
  The Bad - Superstar Mode
  and The Ugly - No Co-op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne70
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Madden since it was introduce into video game console. As many you have also 
 too, like some when 2k came out I was not to keen on trying out a new football game, but I did. 
 I was amazed by the game play and graphics and so were the creators of Madden thats why they bought 
 out the rights. Year after year Madden fails to reach its goal to match that type of game quality, 
 don't get me wrong I look forward to Madden every year like every one else, but it would be nice 
 when Madden fails at produce a great game that we have a choice at something else. I love the graphics 
 with some miner character flaws and what is the deal with superstar. I believe Madden really screwed 
 this up. You can't zoom out, you can't pick your own plays unless you audible out to four five 
 plays set already on offense and the same on defense. This was big mistake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well, I just picked up the game and I was very impressed. I have never played a sports game before 
 and from a first time perspective this game is amazing. I had my brother come over who has been 
 playing Madden for years and when I put the game in my 360 he started chuckling because he was 
 overwhelmed with the sharp graphics. When he browsed around the menu he would tell me what was 
 new. I was very surprised with his positive reactions to the game. My brother comes from the PS2 
 Madden world and he said that he was considering getting a 360 and this made up his mind. So I 
 gave him my extra controller, memory stick and told him I would pick up Madden 07 for him because 
 I like to be a good big brother and he agreed to give me some Madded 101 until I got it down so 
 he could proceed to kick my butt on a regular basis.
  
  My brother then loaded up a quick game with our favorite team the Patriots (we grew up in MA so 
 we are not fan boys) . He played against the Colts with 3 minute quarters but what blew me away 
 was he dropped the temperature down to -10 degrees, heavy precipitation and heavy winds! Needless 
 to say is was snowing like a MUG! I was amazed because him and I used to love watching the Pats 
 perform in the snow which is a cake walk for Tom Brady. The game progressed and he got pulled offsides 
 by the Colts a few time which had him screaming then he got into his grove. I need to mention he 
 didn't even pick up the manual and had never played a 360 before he just said "I should be able 
 to do this from the PS2 version" and he did. He was calling audibles and I was writing down which 
 defense to use when playing a passing offense. I have to say my brother is one of those number 
 crunchers when it comes to sports and is a solid plethora of knowledge for anything related to 
 sports stats especially football stats. The game was close and he caught 3 interceptions from Manning. 
 Later my brother threw 2 passes into the inzone and when he didn't get the touchdown he brought 
 up the instant replay and man was that amazing! We saw one foot come down in the inzone and one 
 out of bounds barely. What an amazing game!
  
  Well as the game closed by brother won by 4 points due to a successful additional point attempt 
 early in the game. It was close because the Colts where on their 6 yard line with 3 seconds left 
 and my brother held them off.
  
  As I mentioned before I am first timer to Madden and luck for me I had my brother a Madden pro 
 to demo the game. I was very impressed and can't wait to play tonight. I found the menu system 
 a little confusing but all in all this game is a pure treat to play. I can understand why so many 
 people could be unhappy because the game doesn't change that much from year to year but for me 
 that is not a problem. I will buy it again next year just to have the stats updated but I would 
 think EA would be smart enough to have a micro transaction on XBox Live to purchase the 08 stats 
 instead of buying the same game again with new stats.
  
  We didn't hit on all of the features but my bro did tweak out my Pats franchise and moved some 
 players around by saying "It's OK we will make him a starter and he will gain 10 points by next 
 year and you will get 3 years out of him" and "Yeah you want your salary cap down because look 
 at this WR, you really need one".
  
  I am very impressed and for a first time player I have never seen anything like this.
  
  Graphics 
 are jaw dropping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  EA has made some huge leaps from the initial offering for the 360. I have read many reviews, some 
 good and others no so good. I found Madden 07 to be five steps better than last year's dry offering 
 however two steps behind in expectations.
  
  I expected the game to move at 60 FPS. Although it is chugging at 30 FPS, the framerate, overall, 
 moves very smoothly.
  
  I expected a boatload of extras, including alternate uniforms, throwback uniforms and improved 
 presentation (ala ESPN 2K5) . Disappointingly, unless EA is going to add the alternate jerseys to 
 the Marketplace for download, these items are missing. I do not understand how the current-gen 
 games get all the fixins and the game is $10 cheaper?????
  
  As far as presentation goes, outside of the player intros, very disappointing. The radio announcer 
 does not cut it. I was expecting to hear Mike Tirico and Joe Theismann, not some canned voice who 
 doesn't comment on the action accurately.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Madden 07 is leaps and bounds over last year's effort. The gameplay is 
 what I would expect from a next-gen football game. Broken tackles, RBs pulling defenders for more 
 yards, etc. The animations are very well done. In summary, although Madden is missing a few items 
 that are found on the current-gen versions, the gameplay is strong and with the large variety of 
 animations, will keep you hooked until next year's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggy2dope69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  EA did alot of great things with this years installment of Madden NFL 2007. The addition of "Lead 
 Blocker" mode is a great one and makes offensive gameplay alot more fun. Superstar mode is cool 
 but alot of the features in it aren't that fun. Some of the mini game drills they've added are 
 very short and are not fun at all like bench pressing and the 40yard dash, plus most of your training 
 and mini games only revolve around the offense rather than the defense. Which gets me to the main 
 point, defense is no longer fun in this game like it was last year. I've found the defense to be 
 alot more sluggish and un-responsive than last years version. Not only is that a problem but on 
 the xbox 360 version of the game i was told that there is no way to hide your plays from your friend 
 while playing on the same console, i tried the play bluff and it would'nt hide the play highlighter 
 so i called EA and they told me there is no way to do it. I think its pretty stupid for EA to make 
 it where you can't hide your plays from your friend, thats almost as bad as last years missing 
 challenge feature. To boot the annoucner is almost non-existent in the game, i hardly hear any 
 commentary at all and its nothing worthwhile either when you actually do. If thats not enough there 
 doesn't seem to be any foreseeable way to do a QB slide when im running with my QB. Ive tried every 
 button and button combination there is as well as looking through all the control grids and even 
 reading the game manual, this is yet another huge letdown of the game. In the graphics department 
 last years lighting effects, grahpical cut scenes as well as the closeups were impressive in 2006 
 but now in 2007 they seem to be rare and when they are there there seems to be a lack of quality, 
 the lighting effects aren't as good and the game's textures aren't as detailed, which was what 
 gave the bare bones version last year some next-gen value. To kicking, we all know EA likes to 
 keep it fresh, but the kicking system works terribly, im still trying to get the hang of this and 
 its not fun either, if it were fun yet challenging it would be a different story, but its not. 
 Out of all of this i can say one more good thing about it and that is the AI is vastly improved, 
 the game is even more realistic, all the modes except owner mode, which i sorely miss, are all 
 here, and no longer can you pick any lolb, mlb, or rolb and sack the qb everytime and get 10-20 
 sacks a game. And ofcourse the online modes rock hard, also the ability to have a live opponent 
 while your playing your franchise is sweet as candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielchandran
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I admit... I was biased against ESPN 2k5. I didn't want to play it... I was a Madden fan... ALL THE 
 WAY!!! But, it had a good reviews. I put my Madden down... and MADE myself get good at it. I belly-ached... and 
 groaned. And... I got good at it. And I fell in love with it. Then, I went back to Madden. It wasn't 
 the same. I did enjoy it... but ESPN was better.
  
  PEOPLE!!! FOOTBALL FANS!!! Madden is seriously messing up here! You have no idea how immersive 
 this gameplay can be.... how immersive this gameplay SHOULD be. OK - the 360 version is different, 
 but not enough. For the most part, every year, they simply template their last years release, and 
 add a few new features. This is the 360. This game should have blown us out of the water.
  
  EA just wants the $$. They prove it every year. Do yourself a favor, and rent it for a night 
 of fun with some of your buddies. (like I did) Buy it for a $1 next year... or something. Demand 
 more. This is ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When Madden 06 launched with the Xbox 360 back in November it received lots of negative reviews 
 on how many many features it had, which were just about none. Well EA has bought its much beloved 
 football franchise back with Madden 07 and I am here to tell you, this is the football game to own 
 if you have an Xbox 360. First of all this years version has just about as many features as the 
 current gen versions have and lots of other improvements over the 06 version in terms of graphics, gameplay 
 and much else. From the start this game is beautiful, the lighting is second to none, the new 3d 
 grass adds a very nice look of realism to the fields and the player models are just about as next 
 gen as you are going to get. To tell you the truth I was dissapointed with the first NCAA on the 
 360 since it had a lacking frame rate and overall lack of polish, I went in to this game xpecting 
 pretty much the same, but thank God I was wrong! Veteran Madden players will feel right at home 
 with the controls. The sounds is great with player chatter, the stadium pa interacting with the 
 crown and you can even hear the sounds of the football whirling throught the air when a long bomb 
 is thrown, nice touch. 
  The game features mini games such as bench pressing and 40 yd dash which are a blast to play. other 
 modes include superstar mode, franchise mode and online play. If you played last years version and 
 hated it along with mostly everybody else, put your worries aside because this game is improved 
 in every category. It is gorgeous (especially in 720p) , very smooth frame rate and plays great!. 
 I highly recommend this game to the 360 owner looking for a great football game. Playing this game 
 makes me very excited to think about the future because it is only going to get even better from 
 here! Fellow 360 owners!, your first truly great football sim has arrived! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 was supposed to be one of the most-annticapted sports games of this year. Now once its 
 been released the hype about the game was getting old why? Well lets evaulutate: The last Madden's 
 Superstar mode was the best ive ever seen you got to control the whole team, your house changed 
 as you became more of a star, like you started off at an apartment and move up to house a mansion, and 
 lastly player customization was fantastic. Now in 07 Superstar mode grew dull. You can only control 
 yourself, you barely get the ball and the interviews are so boring I almost fell asleep myself.
 
  
  The garphics well WoW! All I can say is there better than ever case closed! Soud is great you can 
 hear the players yell things like Hike! and Blue-92 and all that realism. You can even hear the 
 players reaction once they get sacked, the soundtrack is probably the best sound in this game with 
 bands like Fall Out Boy and Cartel. The most annoying thing about this game is the announcers! I 
 yelled SHUT UP to the screen a couple time and I know you're saying why didn't you just turn off 
 sound well there were some important voices that you need hear in order to have a good play.
  
  Well thats pretty much all you need to know about Madden 07 its got a dull Superstar mode, annoying 
 announcers, Great soundtrack, and a good franchise mode. That's why i give Madden 07 for the Xbox 
 360 8.3 pissed off fans out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanfense
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Both my friend and I got our own copys of this game yesterday. We got home and immediately went 
 live to take each other on. We had a great time. The graphics were great, and the game play was 
 really smooth. I was a huge fan of the 2K series, but I really think EA stepped up to the plate 
 with the newest Madden release. I really wonder why people are giving such low ratings for this 
 game. It's not a 10 in my book, but I would give it a 9. See you fools out there.
  
  Much Love,
  GT: Deanfense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludubbz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  I had to write this review because of the lack of attention I have seen on this issue. Let me start 
 by saying this; Madden 07 is a step up from 06 in almost every way, although in many regards it's 
 not as much as I expected, it still delivers a solid Football sim, with greatly improved menus 
 and presentation over last year. It is simply a more complete game, with a decent amount of unlockables, 
 and more of the features fans have come to expect from this long-lived series. Some of the omissions 
 are surprising, but almost all of them have ben addressed in the various reviews I have read, including 
 the one here on Gamespot. My biggest gripe, however, seems to be going largely unaddressed by the 
 gaming community, to my great surprise. The game only supports 1-2 players, with no co-op in any 
 form.
  
  This is, in my opinion, completely ridiculous. I really used to love playing 2 on 2 games of NFL 
 2K5 with my friends, and I was sure this year's Madden would include the ability to play with up 
 to 4 users. How can they leave this out. There is no way to run WR routes with your friend controlling 
 the QB, pop to the outside and snatch the bullet he just tossed you out of the air, and out from 
 under the nose of your other friend, to the chorus of your opponents' curses. Or when your about 
 to be tackled on the 5 yard line when your friend lays down a back breaking block that gives you 
 the room you need to score that winning touchdown. The bottom line is that co-op football leads 
 to lots of fun opportunities to run plays you just can't run by yourself. Even when I was only 
 playing with one friend I would sometimes play against the computer, just so I could run routes, 
 because I love doing that. It would have been really fun if they would have included a 4 on 4 online 
 mode as well. Taking your crew up against others worldwide would be great, but unfortunately the 
 world will have to wait.
  
  To me, that lack of co-op is truly unforgivable, and it drops my score for this game a lot. C'mon 
 EA, just because you own the NFL licence, does't give you the right to screw over your customers. 
 I will not soon forget this. Come back NFL 2K, we miss you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidura
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  While Madden continues to make incremental improvements while neglecting other areas, it occurs 
 to me that having another NFL licensed game around would push EA to make bigger improvements and 
 to address certain missing elements. The gameplay itself -- the most important ingredient -- is 
 fundamentally good -- but there are just a lot of details that are lacking in this game. I've always 
 preferred Madden's game but I have to say the 2K game did some things right that Madden still doesn't 
 bother trying. Ironically, these are mostly presentation issues which EA is usually better at accomplishing 
 than its competitors. For example, wth is with the commentary in this game? It's so dull and sounds 
 like AM radio. Then every once in a while the radio guy speaks to you directly, giving you advice. 
 This doesn't make sense. They need to get a couple of booth commentators -- even generic ones- 
 - 2K5's commentary was leaps and bounds better than this -- and that's a relatively old game by 
 now. Another thing that is missing is half-time shows. It's the NFL! Where are the replays of highlights, 
 cheerleaders, statistical summaries and so on? This just needs to be there to add to the feel of 
 the NFL game. Just pausing at Halftime is really -- REALLY lame.
  
  Need I mention the line-ups of players always standing still looking at the camera between plays? 
 Shouldn't they maybe be talking, or at least moving around a little? Have you ever seen players 
 do this in a real game? They're like statues posing for us. Just because the graphics are nice 
 doesn't mean I can just be hypnotized to stare at these statues after every freakin' play.
  
  Overall, the game plays well enough -- it just doesn't have that flair and sense of a total 
 package that such a high budget -- and high revenue -- game should have. Competition from another 
 developer would force EA to make a better overall effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brous002
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, I put it in and began playing. My first impression was 
 that last years bare bones 360 version felt a little better than this years offering, but then 
 my thoughts were confirmed as my game glitched and I was stuck in a state where I could not choose 
 a play and the game clock was running. After the penalty for delay of game I could choose a play, 
 but next play same thing and so on. This game should have had several more weeks in bug testing, 
 this was not a bug that could be overlooked as it made the game unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeneagle256
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  I will honestly say that my review is probably better than it would have been if I had not read 
 all the negative garbage reviews about this game. I admit it is not perfect, but the improvement 
 over last years game is spectacular. The action on the field is so much better and more realistic. 
 The stadiums have awesome details and the running improvement makes this game much more interesting. 
 On an HD tv this game is a pleasure to just look at. I do wish they had half time shows and highlight 
 shows that would give you a feel of the entire NFL activity as you progress in a career or superstar 
 mode. How about some Chris Berman "he could.. go.. all the way..." summarys of your game! I have 
 always felt the playoffs and Super Bowl were dissapointments in these games. if you get there, 
 you should be rewarded with lots of new material and visuals that would spice things up.
  In summary, this game is FUN to play and offers several different ways to play it. I have not tried 
 online mode yet, but so far this game is a GREAT LEAP FORWARD in next gen sports games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidcastro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  I've bought Madden every year since 94. So I'm definitely a fan of the series who wants to see 
 it do well. The graphics are nice on the 360 and I enjoy the gameplay. However the fatigue not 
 working is a really big bug. Also the commentator sounds like he's talking through a tin can (I 
 guess that's what a radio is supposed to sound like) and there really isn't any color commentary. 
 On a side note, with all the emphasis EA has put on smart crowds it would be nice if the home team 
 crowd would start to leave after their team is getting blown out by 50 points. Instead they act 
 like the Cameron Crazies on a extra point when their team doesn't have a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerp1000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  I personally like madden 07 for the 360. All this negative talk about the game is really from the 
 people that are in love with the 2k football series because they don't have the dough or their 
 welfare check didn't come in yet to buy a true football series like madden!!!!! The game offers 
 great graphics, good sound and i like the way you hear the broadcast instead of madden and michaels 
 talking. I like how you have a coach's pick for plays along with madden! The lead blocking is also 
 a good addition to the series. This game is a must have for all you 360 owners!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffsorbello
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Almost too many issues to report... Graphics are great - the games themselves are okay - Outside 
 of that - very dissapointing. Awful franchise mode... Just awful. I won't rush to buy this next 
 year. Biggest issues are: lack of create a playbook, no minicamp, mini games are annoying and difficult, 
 can't edit players, no fatigue, creating a player is difficult as you must run the 40 and lift 
 weights - and you only get one shot at that - so if you mess up you're player will have a rating 
 in the teens, the draft is clunky, hall of fame players just wind up in the league and you can't 
 turn this option off - awful for football purists - game becomes a total cartoon, the 1 announcer 
 could not be worse, no owner mode. Sorry EA - I have gotten Madden since 1994... It has brought 
 me countless hours of fun - but this is a mess. I do, however, really enjoy NCAA 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23inchesspinnin
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I promise to myself that I will never hype myself up with great anticipation and expect madden 
 to get any better. This just proved to me that renting games is the best thing to do instead of 
 being the first to the store for a midnight release. The best thing that I got the night the game 
 came out was a madden 07 faceplate and new 360 skin from answering trivia questions at the store. 
 I am so happy that I did not trade my college 07 in. I will be taking madden back to trade in for 
 my nba2k7. I feel so bad for buying this game and waisting my money. I wish that I could save more 
 people money. I guess I better stop buying madden and switch to geico if I want to save myself 
 some. This really is not worth rating. Oh, John madden does not talk until you ask him what play 
 to pick. That is so corny. Atleast Kirk talks in college. What did you do in the off season EA? 
 You sure did not work for the money you charged me for a hall of fame edition game that should 
 go down in the hall of shame. You need to give your madden earnings to charity because you did 
 not work for it. You have lost football now and lost basketball last year to 2Ksports. Just keep 
 digging your grave. You will be on your back by the end of the year. I feel like I just found out 
 my wife cheated or something. John Madden, you are a lazy bum and your staff is worse. Anyone who 
 rated this above a 5 is just being nice and not being real with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyet00th
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version is much better than last year's, but there are still noticeable bugs throughout. 
 It's a fun football game, but does absolutely nothing new to the genre. This game will be in the 
 bargain bins in a few months... pick it up then. My copy will probably be there, too!
  
  The lead blocker mode doesn't quite work the way you think it would. Too often, your blocker is 
 in a stand-still of polygons doing nothing to open a hole. The graphics are nice and polished, 
 and load times are fairly quick. The single player mode is deep if you are into the unlockables, 
 but Franchise mode is kind of shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipchase
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. No I'm not a 2k fanboy. In fact I hate 2k. So keep those flames to yourself. 
 I'm simply typing this to warn others not to waste 60 dollars on what really is a dissapointment. 
 Choppy gameplay. This is in menu selection and during plays. Just not very fluid animation for 
 the onscreen action. Really takes away from the speed and pace of the game. Really needs to be 
 running at 60 frames. Just does not convey a exciting game of hard hitting football. Control is 
 fine but the choppy performance takes alot away from it. No John Madden or Al micheals commentary 
 a true lack of atmosphere. In summery very poor presentation. Online play. Absolutely horrible. 
 Laggy and boring. If you want the positives then read the publications reviews of the game. I feel 
 the three things I listed above are the most important aspects of a football game. This is where 
 EA failed. I really feel these sites are letting down the consumer. This is not a 8.5 or even a 
 7.0 game. At most it's a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  I was lead to believe that "next generation" consoles meant better graphics, better gameplay and 
 a vast array of capabilities due to the higher system specs. I will say first off that the graphcs 
 are fantastic. The gameplay is familiar, which is comforting. The sound is questionable, (even 
 with my surround sound) Finally, the menus are needlessly cluttered and confusing. When I first 
 played Dead Rising it was quite apparent by the sheer number of characters onscreen that the "next 
 generation" capabilities were used. In the first few minutes playing this game i felt overwhelmed 
 by two main emotions. Anger and disapointment. Anger because I DO NOT feel that this game was worth 
 $60 and disapointment for the fact that WE HAVE ALL come to expect more from the madden series 
 and they seem to let us down, (moreso in the past 2-3 years) . It seems that all consoles have a 
 game specific trend which shows them releasing more detailed and higher spec games after the first 
 1 or 2 of existence. I truly hope that Madden follows that trend or we will all see the birth of 
 an alternative football game eclipse the reigning NFL Champ. I will review this title in another 
 10-20 hours to see if it grows on me, but from what I have seen; WAIT before you buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbelli
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand Gamespot's review. They call it a "marked improvement" over Madden 06. 
 Yet they only give it a 7.9 when the 06 version got a 7.7.
  
  There's much more improvement in this game than a .2 increase leads on. The game is smoother, has 
 many, many more options and is graphically superior to the 06 version. Sure there are still some 
 issues - the commentator is especially poor. But this is a great game and much more fun than 06. 
 I have to say that I have NFL 2K5 and while I do think it may be a touch better gameplay wise, 
 I'm enjoying Madden 07 more. The Superstar mode is like nothing I've played before and -- with 
 the graphical improvements -- the standard Franchise and Play Now modes are just immersive enough 
 to make you feel like you are there (aside from the commentary) .
  
  EA has some work to do to iron out some of the kinks with occasional framerate hic-cups and needs 
 to take a hint from NFL 2K5 in how to do commentary. But overall this game is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  After a long wait, I was finally ready for 07 to bring back the Madden us 360 owners missed in 
 06.
  
  But it never came.
  
  Sure there are a few new tweaks in the gameplay and the supersatar mode (who cares!!!) , but they 
 didn't fix the franchise mode enough.
  
  How am i supposed to last another year without the depth of owner mode and fantasy draft? NO newspaper? 
 NO emails? NO weekley gameplan?
  
  these are the things that make Madden so valuable. I like the new controls they force on you, that 
 does make the gameplay more of a challenge. The graphics are great.
  
  If 360 is supposed to be next-gen, then why cant they have all the features?
  Is it that hard 
 to do? EA is as out of touch with the wants of the people as much as George Bush.
  
  Maybe i should go buy the xbox version...
  
  or better yet, NFL 2k7!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  First off, I like the game. It definitely has it's share of bugs, but overall the 360 is making 
 more strides than this year's version on the ps2. I had Madden 06 for the PS2 and I cannot tell 
 any difference at all in this years game.
  
  But one thing last years Madden had on the PS2 is it allowed you to play with up to 8 players. 
 How in the hell can Madden 07 not include this feature?
  
  That was so much fun, having friends over and having tournaments and playing two on two while you 
 throw some steaks on the grill.
  
  That feature above all has pissed me off. Not to mention that currently there are no fatigue for 
 players, you cannot edit them, you cannot perform a fantasy draft, and the QB vision seems to be 
 disfunctional. Maybe I just had some high expectations, but I do not think for a minute to let 
 EA off the hook for not including these small features in the game. At least come out with a patch, 
 soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captialpee
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  WHERE 2K WHEN YOU NEED IT. DONT KNOW WHAT IS WRONG WITH EA BUT THEY KEEP RECYCLING THE SAME GAME 
 OVER AND OVER AGAIN. THEY ADD PRESENTATION THEY GET YOU ALL HYPE IN THE COMMERCIAL BY SHOWING UP 
 CLOSE PICS ALL THE TIME BUT WHEN YOU PLAY IT YOU BE I CAN SEE THE REGULAR XBOX DO THE SAME THING. 
 MUSIC IS TERRIBLE EXCEPT THE OLD NFL MUSIC. ITS BETTER FOR YOU TO PUT IN YOUR OWN MUSIC. AND THIS 
 IS SUPPOSED TO BE A NEXT GEN GAME. GRAPHICS ARE NOT BAD BUT CAN EA MAKE THEM BETTER? I THINK THEY 
 RAN OUT OF IDEAS. GAMEPLAY IS OK. BUT WHY DO SUM PEOPLE LOOK OVER WEIGHT TAKE A LOOK AT BRANDON 
 LLOYD... HE LOOKS LIKE HE GAIN 20 POUNDS AND HE IS SKINNY AS HELL. SUPERSTAR MODE YOU ARE STUCK 
 IN THAT STUPID VIEW AND I UNDERSTAND THAT IF YOU ARE IN A CERTAIN POSITION THAT S THE VIEW YOU 
 GET BUT YOU CANT TELL ARE YOU GOING TO CATCH A PASS. SPECIAL RUNNING THE BALL ITS LIKE YOU HAVE 
 TO PRAY THAT YOU ARE GOIN TO GET SOME YARDAGE. ARE THAT YOU ARE NOT GOING TO GET HIT FROM THE SIDE. MINI 
 CAMP THE CONTROLS TO DO SOME OF THE DRILLS BLOWS PRESS THE LEFT STICK AND RIGHT STICK TO RUN FASTER 
 ON THE 40 YARD DASH SUCKS. THEY COULD OF CHOSEN SOMETHING BETTER. COMMENTARY. WHERE IS MADDEN I 
 JUST HERE SOME BOOTLEG GUY IN THE BACKROUND AND HE SOUNDS LIKE HE IS TWO MILES AWAY WHEN HE TALKS. 
 HAVENT HEARD MADDEN TALK YET. TACKLING IS A BIT BETTER. I THINK MADDEN BETTER START PLAYING HIS 
 GAMES AND STOP RAMBLING ABOUT NONSENSE ON THE BOOTH. CAUSE IF THIS IS WHAT EA CAN BRING ON THE 
 TABLE AND SAY ITS FOOTBALL. JOHN MADDEN MUST BE ON SOME STUFF. MADDEN NEEDS COMPETITION WE NEED 
 VARIETY NOT MONOPOLY. WHERES 2K WEN YOU NEED IT. OVERALL ITS AN OK GAME. BUT THIS IS JUST NCAA 
 FOOTBALL WITH NFL PLAYERS BUT BETTER. AT LEAST THEY ARE NOT HOPPING UP AND DOWN ALL THE TIME LIKE 
 IN NCAA. DECENT GAME BY FAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross08
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 for the Xbox 360 is one of the most enjoyable expierences on the 360 I have ever 
 had. To go from Madden NFL 06, which was a disappointment for me, to Madden NFL 07; only one year 
 later, and having all new features, was great. The depth that you can do with the offensive line 
 is amazing. With alittle practise, you can open up the pocket for your RB with one well timed tackle. 
 Superstar Mode is what Ive been waiting for. If you pick QB your only the QB. The only thing I 
 dont like is, how close the camera is to your player.
  
  Pros: - Well Balanced Gameplay
  - Mini Camp Is Enjoyable
  - New Features Are Time Consumming.
  - Superstar Mode
  
  Cons: 
 - I Hate The Madden Gamer Points.
  - Some Of The Songs On EA Trax Is Horrible.
  - Wheres Owners Mode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazed_2300
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  There was no reason to make the play picking by formation the way that they did... liked it the 
 way it was before where you could just move the guys around a bit now you have to select the one 
 you want... it was nicer before. Kicking is another joke that they decided to screw around with... 
 (what is up with making the kicking so much easier) ........ i will have to admit at first i didnt 
 really like the game but after they made some updates and brought back the stamina... i have warmed 
 up to the game......... I am still glad that i didnt buy the collectors edition cause that still 
 would have been a waste of money... never a need to buy the collectors edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I guess with all the negativity in the forums for this game I expected something almost unplayable. 
 I was completely suprised to find the opposite. As far as gameplay goes, it's alright. I like the 
 feel of everything, highlight stick works wonders, but I doubt if to many people will use lead 
 blocker consistantly. There were also a couple instances where my WR would get caught up on a CB 
 making me miss the pass terribly and no pass interference would be called, this only happens once 
 in a great while though.
  
  Graphically this game is pretty solid, it looks really pretty, especially in Superstar Mode with 
 the close up camera angles and all. The only thing that bothers me are the player models. Kickers 
 look like they should be linebackers. It looks like the game is called "Madden 07: Steroid Edition"
 
  
  Now a lot of people were complaining about the missing features like Fantasy Draft, owner mode, 
 being able to edit your 2nd string kicker because you want to change his shoe lace color, etc. 
 But I didn't really mind those being gone and I feel like it shouldn't take THAT much away from 
 the game. Obviously for people who only do fantasy drafts this is a bit of a problem, but I'm sure 
 we'll get there eventually.
  
  Some of the little stuff that people are consistantly complaining about like the lack of refs on 
 the field, lack of chain gang, lack of field goal net, that stuff doesn't and really should discount 
 the game too much. All in all, I'd say it's a solid try by the Madden team. Superstar mode is an 
 absolute blast as well. I'm really feeling this game and I'm very glad I purchased it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royal83
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  This years madden is a whole lot better than the previous one though some of the features are not 
 there such as edit players or crying cause you can't hear madden voice say the same things hes 
 been saying for the last 12 years and BLAH BLAH who cares. The main thing is it does the job of 
 bringing a better simulated football game to the 360. There are not as many money plays as before 
 the control is a whole lot better the before the graphics seem more realistic than last years as 
 well. They also brought in some nice feature as the training camp senarios you can also thrain 
 certain players before every game to improve their stats. I mean come on what else do you people 
 want out of a football game anymore realistic than this and you'll be picking up your mouth piece 
 of your floor. So please stop complaining and realize this is the only football game we and that 
 it is good for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mvil1911
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  Superstar mode? Eeees ok. In theory, it's pretty cool. You choose your player based upon a random 
 system that takes your parents jobs into consideration. It's the same system as was in 06. If you 
 like it, great, if you're like me, I could do without it. In all honesty, let me pick my position 
 and the team that I want to be on and give me an average guy that has a ton of potential. I tried 
 a few different positions and each time I ended up with a guy rated 89-97 overall that was drafted 
 in the third round by a random team. The combine system that you go through is pretty cool the 
 first time, but gets old quickly. You have to run a 40 yd dash and do a bench press, both of which 
 involve button smashing. Then, based upon your position, you take on a roll in a 3-on-3 scrimmage. 
 As far as I could tell, the only thing that had any effect on your player's attributes was how 
 you performed in the scrimmage. My best player was a 97 overall RB the first time I tried the mode. 
 I finished with a 40 time of 4.85 seconds and got a max of 3 reps on the bench press, but tore 
 up the scrimmage. In game, you play the superstar mode from the players perspective. If you're 
 not on the field, you have the option of controlling your team or letting the CPU take over, which 
 runs in a slightly 'sped up' gameplay mode. Unfortunately when you're controlling your superstar, 
 the camera angles are horrible. If you think being a QB is tough with a rush bearing down on you, 
 try having to use the right thumbstick to change where you're looking, trying to look through your 
 offensive line, all while trying to avoid a rush without peripheral version. Impossible. I found 
 myself chucking and praying. Being a WR is impossible. IF the QB actually throws in your direction, 
 good luck beating the DB. They seemed to have a burst of speed at the last second every time and 
 knocked down the ball. You do have the option of two different views; downfield, in front of the 
 WR with the focus on the QB and behind the WR with the focus downfield. Both suck. If you're facing 
 the QB, you can't see where the ball is going to land. If you're facing downfield, you don't know 
 when the ball is in the air and you have no idea what's happening during each play. Being a RB 
 was the best so far. The camera angle isn't bad, but having the CPU be your QB is horrible. I found 
 myself saying 'please no daddy' a bunch of times when the run was set to go to the side of the 
 field stacked with defenders. The QB does flip the play at the line of scrimmage occasionally, 
 but it hardly ever works to your advantage. The game itself isn't bad. The RB physics are much 
 better and CPU intelligence has improved. WR's make some nice grabs in traffic, and it seems like 
 an appropriate amount of passes are caught and dropped. Stud WR's will grab just about anything, 
 which is a nice change from madden 06 on the PS2. I had to move all the sliders for Moss to be 
 able to go up and pull a pass down in 1-on-1 coverage. Graphics and sound wise, it's the same game. 
 The players look like steroid freaks, but the details are amazing. I haven't messed around with 
 franchise mode too much unfortunately so I can't say if they changed much there. The only odd thing 
 that I noticed is that there are several randomly generated 25 year old players rated 99 overall 
 in the free agent pool when you first start your franchise. If you look at their bio, it says that 
 they were released by the Lions, 49ers, etc.. I don't know why EA decided to do that.
  
  All-in-all, the gameplay seems better and, while it's not a great game, will be less aggravating 
 to play than 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBigDrawsz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Although I respect GameSpot for giving a fair review of the game, I think that a little more competition 
 questions need to be raised. We can only imagine what an NFL 2K football game would have been like 
 on the 360 and GameSpot should mention that. Yes, it's years off and may never come if/when EA 
 reups with the NFL. But, a few comments in the review regarding the fact that a little competition 
 would force EA into actually creating a great game instead of rehashing the same version over and 
 over could help the gamer as a whole. GameSpot is here to help the game player to be informed. 
 Well, it's also your responsibility to keep the gaming community informed as well, and that INCLUDES 
 the developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipejc
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  The score speaks for itself and is all that needs to be said. Just another overpriced version of 
 the series with many poor design decisions and ridiculous bugs on behalf of the EA-Tiburon: Madden 
 NFL 07 development team. Buy the Xbox version and donate that extra ten dollars to the NFL 2K Development 
 Foundation. EA Sports . . . If it's in the NFL, it's probably NOT in Madden NFL. This is a prime 
 example of what happens when you hire the wrong people to do a job.
  
  Dear EA Sports:
  
  Please do the right thingcease and desist from developing any more football games. P. S. 2K 
 Sports please develop a generic football game ASAP!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetheballer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was expecting a sub-par game from EA sports since it has no competition to force it 
 to make a good game, but low and behold EA actually put out a fun game to play. Now this is not 
 to sa that there are no faults to this game but from a gameplay perspective it is extremely fun.
 
  
  The game play in this game is very very good. With the new highlight stick (truck stick on steroids) 
 and lead blocking control the running game is very satisfying. Passing is as always very easy on 
 the lower two difficulties, and much more accurately depicted on the higher two. The vision cone, 
 much like on NCAA is optional and I enjoy the freedom this gives you as you are not required to 
 throw a percision pass every pass play. On defense, individual hot routes are removed which is 
 a dissapointment, but the tackling animations and overall A. I. help to keep this from taking away 
 from the game too much. Kicking has also been improved. Superstar mode is suprisingly fun, the 
 only knock I have on it is the difficulty of the drills. I sayunless you have mastered them in 
 mini games, go ahead and simulate through them. My WR was 86 overall and I didn't run a single 
 drill. Franchise mode isnt as in depth as it could be but it still provides the basic team managment 
 style most people love to play. All in all the gameplay is extremely fun and to be fair thats the 
 main part of any game.
  
  The graphics in this game are also very good, with fields slowy fading and several new animations. 
 The only knock on graphics are that some of the player models are a little (alot) bigger then they 
 ought to be. But it still looks much shinier and better then current gen. A few minor glitches 
 occasionaly, but not near as bad as some of the NCAA ones.
  
  As for sound, the player chatter in the game is great and adds to the feel of a real game. However 
 the announcer of the game is iffy to say the best and awful to say the worst. Bring back Madden! 
 But the on field sounds are superb as are the crowd reactions.
  
  The Game has a very good replay value thanks to the depth of superstar mode, but some of the missing 
 features and easy fixes detract from its value, but I will get into those later.
  
  My final say so is that several of the missing elements: No player edit
  No Co-Op
  No full 
 customization of created players
  No owner mode
  No gang tackling (still)
  As well as the clunky menu system take away from the overall game. But the gameplay and superstar 
 mode do infact make for a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jendralite
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I don't follow football, I don't play football, I don't know all the players names, heck, 
 I don't even know all the teams in the NFL, but I do know one thing... I know whether a game is 
 fun or not. And for me, the run of the mill gamer, Madden NFL 07 is a fun game.
  
  I don't think you need all the options to make a game good. For the devout fan of the franchise 
 and the game, you want every tiny detail, whether it makes sense or not. Quantity over quality, 
 weight over substance. Well, whether you believe me or not, I think this game has quality and substance.
 
  
  You have probably read time and again all the features included and excluded from the game, so 
 I won't dull you with the details. Just know, that as a gamer who plays all genres, this is a fun 
 football game that looks good, plays good, sounds good... music is weird... and is just flat out 
 good.
  
  It may not be perfect, but you have to admit, those people who gave Madden 07 bad reviews are still 
 playing the game, are still making custom characters, and are still enjoying kicking AI pixelated 
 butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Eric
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  this years edition of madden was by far the best of the series i loved every thing about this game 
 the game play was awsome and the graphics are just as good the game only got better i would highly 
 recommend picking this game up if u dont already own it. the only bad thing about thi sgame is 
 the mini camps can get a little hard but they are not mandatory so it doesnt really matter much. 
 also with Qb; s like mike vick and vince young who both have great speed are way to fast its almost 
 unfair how fast they are you can pick up a first down almost every play by rushing with a fast 
 QB but that also has its downsides when u start to fumble the ball or get injured. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgreener_34
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Well the new next gen Madden has come out and it was a big improvement from the last madden on 
 the 360. The gaphics are decent and take the whole football sim. to a new level. The phisics are 
 alot better and it feels more like football then any game ever has. Also its Madden so you know 
 what your going to get. Great gameplay and good football fun. Also the rushing in this game is 
 alot better then last years. With the hit stick and new blocking figure it brings it to a new level. 
 Also thier are some bad things in this game. The Ai isnt to good. The defence is just horrid. ERRR 
 you think you have a interseption and next thing you know thier offence is doing a dance in the 
 endzone. Also getting around in the profile is kind of hard and is hard to get used to. Plus why 
 the hell isnt JOHN MADDEN in this game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yarning
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  In this edition of Madden the only part you really want to play is superstar mode, the franchise 
 mode seems to lack the x-factor without owner mode, there is no fantasy draft either but I never 
 liked that anyway.
  
  The thing I really love about this game are the animations, there are so many and it's alot better 
 then the older-gen cersions of the game.
  
  The game lacks some of the features seen in the other versions and the fatigue is weird. The game 
 has fatigue but you cannot tell how fatigued your players are.
  
  A good game but it could be alot better if glitches and lack of features didn't hold it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoratioE
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I guess I was expecting too much. I thought the 360 version would blow my socks off. All it did 
 was blow a hole in my wallet (I bought the HOF edition) .
  All the players look alike. Short and stocky. Even Randy Moss looks like he's gained at least 30lbs 
 of muscle. It seems like anyone can run well with all the variety of buttons and "stick" moves. 
 I'd rather play this on the regular XBOX. The 360 is just way too vanilla and the graphics are 
 not anything worth commenting on. Just drowning in color and over shadowed. If you're wondering... I've 
 been playing Madden since 1995 so I'm no rookie at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pundog
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I really hoped EA would make this game great, I've always loved the Madden games for Xbox (years 
 2004-2006) and when I saw the previews of Madden 07 I thought "finally, EA is going to bring the 
 good Madden to the 360 instead of that fiasco known as Madden 06 for 360", turns out I was wrong. 
 This game takes everything that made Madden great and either breaks it or unnecessarily changes 
 it for the worse. This game is supposed to be the pinnacle of Madden (after all, it is the "next 
 gen" version) but instead for whatever reason is missing standard items for a sports game. No owner 
 mode, no fantasy draft, not even alternate jerseys. Pathetic. It doesn't even have John Madden 
 in it! How can EA expect anyone to take this game seriously? It has a terrible menu system, that 
 while it was a good idea, doesn't work. Also, why did EA decide to change the controls? They made 
 these unnecessary little changes that make the game harder to play (like moving the D-Line moves 
 (spin and power) to the LB and RB instead of the triggers like in the Xbox version. Its almost 
 like EA hates the 360. As for the gameplay, it is extremely weak. The AI sucks majorly, especially 
 when on defense, which allows you to exploit them. The best example of this is their inability 
 to cover the long pass. Also there are many collision detection issues, with players "pinballing" 
 and gliding usually every other play or so. Finally, for whatever reason, EA decided Madden needs 
 a new play selection interface, which is great for singleplayer, but for offline multiplayer, the 
 defense can clearly see which play the offense selects, giving the defense an unfair advantage. 
 Finally, there is a rediculously high number of turnovers, I've averaged about 5-6 per game, with 
 one multiplayer game with my friend getting to, 13 turnovers (9 interceptions, 4, fumbles) , and 
 we both control D-linemen so it isn't our amazing defensive skills causing them.
  
  Seriously, this is the worst game in the Madden series I have ever played and one of the worst 
 sports games, someone tell EA "if it ain't broke, don't fix it", because I would rather have the 
 same Madden game from the good ol' days of Xbox 2004-2006 rehashed than the pathetic 360 versions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casvaldiekun
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I like the game.... but where is my fantasy draft? That's all I ask for. Also, where are Madden 
 and Michaels? They really made the game for me... but... adios I guess? The mini games are pointless 
 as well, the weight lifting one is extremely frustrating. Superstar mode is alright... I really 
 like the influence system. Just wish the camera was a little more friendly. Stadiums don't look 
 as good as they do in NCAA 07... kinda a joke. Hightlight stick is pretty useful, lead blocker 
 control seems to be very useful if I didn't keep missing my blocks... but practice I guess eh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toyungu
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Thsiis what you get when we have only one game company that is alllowed to produce a game to licensing. 
 If we dont watch out football will go the way of all other thing licensed that have been made into 
 game (batman / superman anyone?) EA basically can pack a turd in a box and sell it because guess 
 what? THEY CAN!!! For those of us "unlucky" enough to have 360's this is the fate we will face 
 untill someone above intervenes (Mr, gates, reppresent your system) . I am tired if being shortchangedin 
 the name of next gen. I paid well over $600 for my bundle and if i am buying the same game for 
 $10 more i want to see my scrilla worth. Sports sells consoles in this day and age when video games 
 are not just for kids. ms need to step up / step on somebody (EA) quit with $10 worht of b. s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  holy butt **** **** i got this game after my practice ended and barely got home. with what energy 
 i had left, i tried to play this and i was utterly shocked!!!!! it is the same goddamn game!!!! 
 wxcept for a few features!!!! why the hell cant we have all of the stuff on the 360 azz holes! 
 we are paying 10 bucks more aint we? i want aLL of the **** in this game! well, i havent even tried 
 to use the lead block yrt, but i just might sell this one and buy a copy for the original XBOX. 
 EA u guys suck wee wee. better get an update and add everything in. i get tired of this. i didnt 
 pay 400 bucks for a system and pay 60 bucks and tax to get a good looking but watered down vwesion 
 of a game. and to all the fan boys, grow some balls and write a letter to EA telling them that 
 is is BS! enough letters and they will respond. youd be better off with the original xbox version 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I waited to months to get this game and the Superstar mode is basically the same as last year. 
 The only cool features that were added to the game were those little minigames and the highlight 
 stick. I paid $60 to play the same crap that I bought last year. Also EA overrated every player. 
 C'mon the worst starting QB has a 79 rating. I can name a ton that should be a lot lower. Reggie 
 Bush 87 Ovr. No way, he is just a rookie and his rating is better than Willie Parker's and Willie 
 Parker had a stellar season last year. That offends me to because I am a Steelers fan and I hate 
 Reggie Bush. How does Daunte Culpepper deserve a 92. His stats were terrible before he went in 
 IR, and he only dropped 3 points. Next year's version better be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geebus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  EA just really made me mad on this one. Madden Holiday? I really looked forward to this too. This 
 really is a disgrace. EA please take the time to really build Madden into a great football game. 
 Your money hungry ways make the hardcore fans just hate you even more. Ever since you took over 
 the football license its been disaster after disaster. I seriously had more fun playing Blitz: 
 The League last year then Madden. I know the coding has been built from the ground up and that 
 took a lot of work but, why are you rushing a title as big as Madden out the door without all the 
 features as the older console versions? Did you just plan to disappoint people and take their money 
 anyways? I probably wouldn't have wrote this if you hadn't bought the NFL license... I'd probably 
 be playing a next gen 2K football game and totally ignoring Madden's existence. Thanks EA for disappointing 
 us again. 4/22/06.. Madagain holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiaHeat2K603
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  ppl cant just expect ea too put all there ideas into the game at once cuz then where would you 
 go after that but i'm really dissappointed about the franchise mode not having Fantasy draft i 
 was really hoping to be able to do a madden league and why doesnt madden have leagues online the 
 way say nba 2k has it really brings more too the game and more excitement knowing your playing 
 online with more than a purpose than too just beat your opponent and your done. But all in all 
 its a really good game especially if you have a HDTV and a surround sound., then you really appreciate 
 the attention to graphics, sound, and reality. Miaheat2k7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This is Madden not 2K, the 2K series will not come around for another 5 years or maybe never. And 
 yes I am a 2K series player, I miss the 2K series, but life has to continue. Cant keep on crying 
 over spilled milk, and I never bought a madden game in 5 years until now.
  
  And boy have I missed alot. I cant really diss Madden, the game is solid. Though there are some 
 things that are keeping this game from being perfect.
  
  Gameplay, its fun, mostly presents a challege, but sometimes the AI gets a case of stupidness and 
 will just be easy to pass their defense.
  
  Though I have not bought any Madden games before, I have played them at my friends house. The game 
 buttons were some what easier in the pervious Madden games, but now its some what confusing take 
 a little bit of some time to get used to them. Take the challege, dont expect everything to be 
 easy now.
  
  Another thing I miss and wanted to see is well I wanted to hear Madden himself. Instead EA put 
 a boring jerk, yes he is very very boring, will not talk until you make a play. But the stadium 
 noise, crowd, players, etc make up for it. The sounds in the game are really good, if you got a 
 5.1 surround sound then you know what I'm talking about.
  
  Graphics, I thought it would be better being next gen, but its not jaw dropping. Dont get me wrong 
 it still looks nice, better then current gens, but some animations will make you say "that was 
 weird".
  
  There are some neat features such as superstar mode, which should keep you busy for a while.
 
  
  In all this game is good, could of been better, but aye its something and I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormechi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a OK football game, it's not good and certainly not great. Some of the good things this 
 year, is the added features and little things that make the game more real, such as the addition 
 of challenges. However there just isn't a lot of immersion into the whole experience of an NFL 
 game. Sure they have the superstar mode, but it's not that great and it's not something that I 
 do. I buy a football game to manage the team in the franchise mode and play my friends. I'm not 
 sure what EA does with this franchise every year. Why don't they add a pregame show, a half time 
 show with the standout player, some kind of end game wrapup when it's over. Anything really, there 
 is just nothing there that gets you into the feeling that your playing in an NFL game. I think 
 the biggest disappointment is the music, my wife walked by while I was playing and she was even 
 confused as what it was playing, some kind of parade music. Do the developers ever go to games 
 and hear some of stadium music? And trying to do anything with the menu music playing, is awful. 
 They should just not put any music in and let us players put in our own music, which would be very 
 easy, I don't why it isn't an option. I guess the bottom line is I'm extremely disappointed. I 
 was fine with last year's 360 Madden being rush and incomplete but really there is no excuse for 
 this game. But of course EA will sell millions of copies and us gamers are stuck with a lousy Football 
 game once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peapj
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  this is hands down the best football game ever made ive been playing for 4 hours straight. the presentation 
 is stellar, with improved crowds and jumbotrons, and deformable fields that show weather and the 
 prolonged effect of trampling feet,3d grass. Hands down the best player models in any sports game 
 to date. super star mode is very emmersive and addictive all i have to say is dont listen to the 
 negative reviews this is a great game and when you first load the game and see the menus you will 
 be able to tell that ea really tried hard on this nmh hhj hjhg jhgjh hghh hjhj hjjhjh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakked
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  A good base with definate room for improvement. Hopefully it will only get better from here on 
 out. I think the lack of competion has made ea try a little less to satisfy the masses. There are 
 some features that should be in the game such as edit players a better create a player more like 
 tigerwoods would be nice. I also feel that they could do more with the a. i. also character models 
 while good could also use some work. Not everybody should look like they did steroids and more 
 facial scans for more of the players would help. I didnt really notice if players had accurate 
 tattoos and the like. I thought they used to "sweat the details" but i'm not so sure the tried 
 as hard as they could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BucketSmith
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  A PC gamer since 1990, this 360 title reinforces why I need to stay with Windows. I've dropped 
 a ton on the 360 platform, and to date only have one "decent" game - NCAA 07. How do you have all 
 this power under the hood and such an abysmal linup of games? Madden 07 is disappointing - no Madden 
 commentary, very bizarre player models, a strange "blur" to the field for fake depth perception, 
 ice skating players, and the home unis for my beloved Cowboys have the wrong color pants and strange 
 looking helmets. It seems a ton of features are left out - didn't I pay all the 360 money to have 
 the best gaming experience? The game just feels really weird, and it reminds me to turn off the 
 360 and boot Windows where I can play some real games. I feel duped - $70 bucks for the Hall of 
 Fame edition and so many letdowns... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game at first its so nice and runs very good at first that is. It was very nice great 
 graphics runned smooth at first it was just going great. Then i hit the bad part while playing 
 with my dad it is lagging frame rate bogs down. Then we got this bug were the screen would move 
 around the stadium and we could not play. It was stuck in a timeout. But the clock kept ticking 
 then offence penalty. it happened 3 times. Eventually we started a new game. The AI is absolutly 
 bs it was good looking until your guys are close they get stuck caught some get stuck in others. 
 Then they almost stop moving. I must emphasize on the frame rate bogging down its awfull it looks 
 good at first until you play then frame rate bogs down and it messes up. It seems like its only 
 certain stadiums so I would avoid ones that have issues.
  
  The difficulty to learn can be hard at first because some controls seem messed up.
  
  The announcer 
 instead of john madden sucks.
  
  It is definantly not worth the hype or value i feel very ripped off. I am not going to return it 
 because well i bought it at best buy so il just get a lame 20 bucks at gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daring_sharp
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 once again disappoints with a mediocre product which will be a retail success because 
 it is the only game with the NFL license. There is absolutely no excuse for a gaming giant like 
 EA to release such a "celebrated" title on a "next gen" system with bugs and glitches, half the 
 game modes and extras as the older systems and charge $60 for it. Let's see... owner mode? Nope. 
 Fantasy draft? Missing in action. Can I get a half time show with video highlights please? Guess 
 not. There is no excuse for such a sloppy and half-hashed game. We all purchased the 360 to experience 
 the next generation in gaming, not to play games that are shadows of the x-box and ps2 versions, 
 but with prettier graphics. We are supposed to be getting BETTER games period. People... the fatigue 
 meters don't even work... NONE OF THE FOOTBALL PLAYERS GET TIRED... EVER! How do you mess that up? 
 I don't care if they can fix it with a patch. This kind of mistake should never have been made 
 and it reiterates the simple fact a lack of competition has enabled EA to sit on their hands and 
 charge primo money for mediocre products.
  
  The part that frustrates me the most are the die-hard Madden groupies that try and defend this 
 game. They say it's no big deal that EA released a game with bugs. "Just download the patch when 
 it comes out". They say it like everyone is hooked up to XBOX Live. Others try to explain to me 
 how hard it is to compress all the data for a next gen game and that is why Madden and other EA 
 games are stripped down versions of their "lesser" counterparts. Why oh why then did I pay $400 
 for a next gen system, if it can't handle running next gen games? I've even heard that we as gamers 
 shouldn't even want all the extras, like fantasy draft, and cribs and owner mode... that a REAL 
 football purist should only have the real rosters. Who would want to get together with their friends 
 or siblings in multi player franchise mode, fantasy draft their own teams, and play them through 
 oh 5 or 6 seasons to see who's team could win the most Super Bowls. Well, I don't know about you, 
 but my brother's and I are into our 5th season in NFL2K5 and we have had a blast ever since we 
 started. If you don't want to take my word for it, take our very own GameSpot's word. While NFL 
 2K games were still on the market, both titles were neck and neck in their game reviews, which 
 were always above 9.0. Yet ever since EA bought the exclusive contract, Madden's ratings have clearly 
 declined. Football fans are the most hardcore fans in the world, and because of this fact, alot 
 of us will purchase Madden 07, and sadly our money will only encourage EA's strategy at exclusive 
 licenses. I can only hope that the NFL will not renew an exclusive contract with EA or any other 
 gaming company. Until then, I'll continue to play my $19.99 copy of NFL2K5... speaking of which, 
 my game is up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donjuan2222
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I LIKE MADDEN AS MUCH AS THE NEXT PERSON AND BEFORE I GOT MY COPY I LOOKED AT ALL OF THESE REVIEWS 
 I GOT IT AND DECIDED TO WRITE MY REVIEW BEFORE EVEN PLAYING THIS GAME ) stayed tune it is a great 
 review and i am a serious gamer) . I WAS BADLY DISSAPOINTED because of all of the reviews, it really 
 hurt to see this cause they put great hype on this one and i dont think they are trying anymore. 
 1 year might be acceptable but 2 is just stealing and last year wasnt even worth any money cause 
 of the letdown. which brings me to my next point, MADDEN ISNT TRYING ANYMORE, i think no game should 
 be able to hold a license to be the only official sports game of that certain sport and there are 
 many reasons to support this. the gameing industry is fired by competition and madden doesnt have 
 to offer anything that great and revolutionary anymore because they no people will get sucked in 
 by the hype and it is worng for that to happen. many have been loyal to madden for years and to 
 be letdown now is unacceptable.
  next is it is unfair that people must be subjected to one game of that genre, what if halo got 
 the license to be the only first person shooter, not like its bad but i would greatly miss the 
 assortment of new games, and i feel for the people who miss 2k sports. just like when 2k got the 
 baseball license and MVP which had minor leagues and great mini games pleased me greatly and i 
 miss it so i sympathize with them. finally, EA can , make the price higher and suck us in with 
 this new features to where we buy the hall of fame edition for 70 dollars.
  
  you will ask why write before i play, and i say that i have watched so many videos and seen every 
 litle feature that i no the game and have read nearly 30 reviews from players and gamespots and 
 ign's reviews. i have practically played this game. the bugs in madden never stop and the taking 
 away of the little things and the cool features also take away greatly from this game
  the cheerleaders on the field made it more realistic the fantasy draft and custom teams made it 
 cooler one thing which scared me when i read the gamespot review was that the cd is spinning so 
 fast during gameplay in superstar mode this scares me cause
  1) i saw and episode of that show mythbusters (on discovery channel, it looked interesting and i wanted 
 to see) that they tried to see if they can spin a cd so fast that it would shatter and they shattered 
 it on its own i believe (i think they might of added a motor i saw it a long time ago) and this 
 completely destroyed the inside of the computer because the cd broke into a million little pieces. 
 so if that happens where do i get a new xbox 360 and im not sure if i want madden back for that 
 matter.
  2) my xbox 360 should not be pushed that far and it already has the over heating problem ( i think 
 but i placed it next to a vent and it doesnt heat up as much i think
  
  the sound as i heard in gameplay is good and the gameplay itself is good except for the bugs which 
 scare me cause little things destroy games when they are left out the value is definatley to high. 
 i got a bargan off of ebay for 53 dollars so about 8 less than the price with tax
  
  the curve for serious gamers as i am a serious gamer
  my life revolves around all NHL games all 
 MADDEN GAMES all HALO games all HALF LIFE GAMES all WOLFENSTEIN GAMES all NEED FOR SPEED GAMES 
 all MVP BASEBALL 04 AND 05 GAMES and that is all i play for now the curve for serious gamers should 
 be 10-15 minutes but lesser gamers about a half an hour to an hour the difficulty as i heard seems 
 to be easy on the default but i will up it to all madden at the start for now and see how i do
 
  
  the new blocking feature seems to be useful but needs to be fixed better so the running back is 
 smarter than my 5 year old brother. i would like to see how it is used on xbox live
  
  the highlight stick seems to be a step us from last years truck stick which seemed like u could 
 only find use for this was with bettis also the way that it is different for different running 
 backs is cool as they have taken something 2 steps instead of one step foward that is how the game 
 should be taken as 2 steps foward not just 1 which is a great idea in making something
  
  the minicamps are back which is great but the ones that are in superstar should be available there 
 also cause they do alot of off field working out and you should be able to decide if u want to 
 lose weight one offseason or bulk up for the next year liek a star running bakc wants to be able 
 to break tackles he will get more muscle. this could be made easy by you having a trainer and he 
 puts you on a speical training and diet excercises but they did that one step foward step which 
 seems more like a half a step if u think about it
  
  next is superstar mode which should really have more features like with the haircut place and movie 
 theater place which were stupid but woould be alot cooler if we could of had more than 2 options 
 in the same town and different towns had different places
  how about a mall where i can buy things to put in my room
  maybe i can download a picture on 
 to a poster and hang it up in my room or how about i buy differnet things and have a selection 
 of like 500 hundred things other than 50. but madden took a half a step foward again. another thing 
 is why isnt madden in this game announcing
  and also i noticed that i hear or see the same things to much in games and i want a wide selection 
 cause if i do the same thing over and over again than it gets me mad. that they half as*s this.
 
  
  look i cant really think to much more to say about this game except maybe they can get a celebration 
 maker into the game and i can make my own and see chad johnson or a whole team do them
  
  but the way gamesot rates is lopsided and i really give it a 8.7 for effort but i dont know what 
 tilt is and the value takes away alittle they gave a good effort but it isnt really there yet
 
  
  look i am trying to become recognized here i dont really care if u did or did not like my review 
 but say you would recomend it cause i spoke the truth and i always do and that was important, anyway 
 i really played the game for 20 minutes and just flashed around before i came here and wanted to 
 write a review. when a game is bad it isnt right and this game im not gunna say was horrible cause 
 i am crazy for madden games but it was a dissapoinment from the hype but it was a step up from 
 last year get me recomended even if u didnt like it but also maybe point out some errors or areas 
 i am wrong in and dont say the whole thing was wrong cause it isnt
  if you read this than thanks
  
  donjuan out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnappi319
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, after last year's shortcomings of Madden 06, this year's Madden 07 falls well short 
 of the hype yet again. It is disappointing. Why not go back to the classic madden format, THEN 
 add to it. Instead of messing around with all these new features and not getting the stuff that 
 made madden great to begin with...
  
  I am dissapointed yet again. For 60 bucks... it's not really worth it. Yes the game does look great 
 on 360 HD. However, as we all know, looks aren't everything...
  
  Bring back the Franchise newspapers, player edits, emails, scouting, etc.
  
  Bring back Tony!
 
  
  Bring back individual player audibles!!! That was so cool in 05. Why take it out? Great job adding 
 fatigue, but it never goes down! You can run the same RB all game and he never gets tired. Bottom 
 Line: It is a step in the right direction, but still not worth the price of admission... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmermel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. It's imporves over last years next gengame in many, many ways. Heres a break 
 down.
  Gameplay- 9
  Last yea'rs next gen had downright awful gameplay. That was fixed this year. The floating sensation 
 is no longer there.
  Graphics- 10
  OMG... perfection! Last years next gen graphics were good, but seemed a little unrealisticly bulky. 
 This year, they are just the right proportion and are very crisp.
  Sound- 8
  Venry clear, and the radio broadcast sounds like real radio. Also the anouncer is nowhere near 
 as cheesy. However, The reason I dash this to an 8 is the songs are not very good at all.
  Value- 8
  $60 for about three months, at least , of fun... maybe a little overpriced, but not 
 much
  Reviewer's tilt- 9
  Fun, fun, fun!!! Features- 9 ( I know this isn't a category, but I'll put it up anyway)
  I do 
 miss the owner's mode very much, but What saves this category from a low grade is the new and improved 
 superstar mode, some people might think it stupid to control one player only, but it is actually 
 very fun to do.
  
  
  Overall- I f you're a fan of the series, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Oh wow Madden 07 is here, and its safe to say its better than Madden 06 for the 360. Well thats 
 not saying much. Superstar mode is depressing and an enjoyment. There is so much going on that 
 it makes me want to punch myself in the head. Individual Workouts suck... alot. Why cant I get my 
 reciever to run over a 4.84? And whats up with my Linebacker getting 23 reps and my running back 
 can get 29 reps? Plus it would be nice to get to retry a 40 or a bench rep maybe twice or three 
 times.
  
  Superstar mode is intriguing and a pain in the back. The camera focuses on you. Wether your an 
 o-line men or a DB. Which sounds good on paper but sucks when you cant move the camera to look 
 around you. You cant see the DB's when your a running back so youre basically running blind into 
 the night, not running to daylight like Madden's 07 motto said.
  
  I havent tried dynasty yet because I "unlocked" Hall of Famers as Free Agents. Doesnt sound to 
 bad right? But they all happen to be 99 Overall. If you dont sign them than the CPU signs them 
 and takes the realilism away. (which they tried so hard to do)
  
  I dont know about you but I like to modify the rosters a bit. Make my favorite players a bit better 
 and the ones I hate (*Cough*T. O.*Cough*) suck. I just want to change the #'s of a few others. (I 
 traded LenDale White to the Pack and now U cant change his number to 21 instead of 49.
  
  Madden 07 is a False Start, not a First Down. Why cant EA do something right? Is it so hard to 
 bring back the glory days of Madden 64 through 2004? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tleevz1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm thoroughly unimpressed with this new version of Madden. I was expecting a huge upgrade over 
 last years 360 edition, and EA didn't deliver. There are some improvements but not enough to bring 
 the game up to snuff. I guess that's what happens when there is no competiton. Free market be damned! 
 One thing off the top of my head is I couldn't edit players. I like to change their helmets and 
 some times their positions (OLB to MLB for example) . Another problem was the NFL draft. Is there 
 something I missed or did I have to sit there for several minutes waiting to finish the draft? 
 I had the speed set to max in the draft and it was still way too slow. Yet another annoying thing 
 I noticed is that they play the same 2 or three animations before a play on offense and defense. 
 I'm very disappointed with my purchase. $60 bucks is way too much for this retread. I wouldn't 
 buy this unless you're serious about playing online. Otherwise get the regular xbox version or 
 just spend your money on a better game. Unfortunately there isn't a better NFL game because of 
 the Madden Monopoly. Oh yeah, the music is mostly annoying too, as usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjpiphus
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Horrible BIG WASTE OF MONEY! EA Needs to Keep the current gen gameplay and just enhance the graphics. 
 TERRIBLE!!!!!! Somebody please tell me why 360's madden sucks so bad theres no defense they still 
 run like somethings stuck up there butt. Yeah they added all the modes it was missing last year 
 but they forgot the most important thing GAME PLAY!!!!!!! If enough people complain maybe EA will 
 listen keep everything there is about the current gen and just and i mean just enhance the graphics. 
 I'm tired of not having a football game to play on my 360 and they could at least made the xbox 
 current gen compatible with the 360 just in case it sucked which it does. Anybody who is a real 
 madden player dont waste your money.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogmark25
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make an intelligent review, unlike most of the reviews I see here...
  
  Gameplay: On All Madden mode, the gameplay felt very smooth and fluid, running up the middle was 
 very effective when used the correct way, and the passing game has seen many tweaks and it feels 
 much more balanced. The highlight stick is well implimented, however I wouldve liked it to be a 
 little more responsive. The Run To Daylight feature is somewhat sloppy, yet when you get it right 
 it works really well and feels real cool to make a bone crushing block... its ashame the running 
 backs never actually follow your blocks. Another good thing is that the corner backs dont all act 
 like deon sanders anymore and fly over to any pass. Also, the abuse and cheese of the long bomb 
 in last years game is gone. However, this is still suction blocking, pitch plays still never work, 
 its again impossible to block a kick, playmaker is STILL not implemented, the playbooks and audibles 
 are more limited then their current-gen counterparts, and on lower difficulty levels the game is 
 way too easy. With these improvements gameplay gets a 9.
  
  Graphics: Simply put, these are the best graphics I have ever seen in a sports game... IF you are 
 playing in 1080i... if not, well then the game looks significantly downgraded. The player models 
 are unbelievable, as are the stadiums... I suggest if you have an xbox360 that you get an hdtv, 
 because otherwise you are not taking advantage of its potential. The animations are spot-on and 
 are incredibly fluid. The inclusion of player specific running styles is a major bonus, as now 
 when you are running with people like iki Barber and Shaun Alexander they actually look like their 
 real life counterparts. As for the other running styles... they still looked kinda cramped... however 
 it really doesnt take away from the greatness of the graphics. The crowd is also a MAJOR improvement 
 over last years game; they actually look like real people, not some crap looking paper people. The 
 3D grass isnt all its hyped up to be, as when a player steps on the grass its a polygon that shows 
 the grass around his feet; this makes it look real blocky during close-up replays. Framerate is 
 30 FPS, but it is still much smoother then NCAA 2007's 30 FPS. However, graphics get a definite 
 10. Sound: I was really dissapointed by the sound in this years game. There might as well be no 
 commentary, because the no-name commentator has no life to him. Not only that, but you can barely 
 hear him. I dont know what EA is thinking, but Madden and Michaels need to be brought back for 
 next year. The crowd also sounds unrealistic, as they are basically at a constant sound level for 
 the whole game. They might get loud for a big play, but other then that they sound very dull. Great 
 on-the-field sound saves this from being a total disaster. For that, sound gets a generous 6.
 
  
  Depth (Value) : This is a mixed bag, as it has its strong points and its weak points. I will make 
 it simple and list what is in and what is out, and my thoughts on each item that is in. The rating 
 for each mode is next to the name, with a max of 4 stars.
  
  ***: Superstar Mode is the feature that was put in at the last moment, and I can say that while 
 it is a very fun mode to play around with, the mode in general feels tacked on. You must keep shuffling 
 until you get the position AND the parents you want, and that can become very tedious. Also, the 
 menus are very boring... you have no "home pad" that represents your menus... instead it is just 
 plain text-based menus. How this mode works is that your player get superstar points for what you 
 do at practice, and the more you rack up the better the chance you will have of starting. You can 
 also use the extra points for stat boosts during the game, however this menu pops up at really 
 odd times, such as when you are about to snap the ball... The camera angles are for the most part 
 well done, however each camera angle has a few flaws in it. Its ashame that the cutscene for when 
 you make the hall of fame is very boring, and that there is no cutscene for when you win the superbowl.
 
  
  ***1/2: Minigames: The combine minigames are very well done and feel very realistic. For the 40 
 yard dash, you actually have to time your stick pusing to get a good time, instead of just slamming 
 on the turbo button like in a game. Its a great feeling when you master the technique, and get 
 "in the zone" and run a 4.3 40. Good feeling to a very enjoyable minigame. The bench press is tough 
 at first, but if you have good reflexes you can easily pump out 20 reps. Just be patient and you 
 will get the technique to keep your stamina up and get the reps. All the other minigames are basically 
 the same things weve seen in the past; things such as qb pressure and prescision drills and rb 
 blocker drills. Still they are very well done and a good time waster.
  
  **: Create a Player: It's weak, but at least its there, and at least you can alter some things 
 you couldnot change in NCAA. Its ashame that you cannot edit existing players.
  
  **1/2: Franchise Mode: It is well done as always, but no fantasy draft and no owner mode bring 
 thisscore down... and again, WTF is with no Super Bowl celebration
  
  Overall, with the great minigames and the fun but inconsistent superstar mode, I give Value a 7/10.
 
  
  Online play: My xbox live service is down for the moment, but I watched a friend play at his house 
 and there was some notable lag... however I will not rate this until I get XBL working at my house.
 
  
  So overall, while the game has its flaws, the game does have great gameplay and some good depth 
 to back it up. To me, I believe it deserves the 8.6 it gets, and it will be something I will ENJOY 
 doing when I get home from real football practice... that might be the best thing: Its FUN to play... so 
 stop complaining and ENJOY the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will82
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 adds a few extra features and is much better than last years game, but its not the best 
 football game. The graphics could have been better for a nex-gen video game. The superstar mode 
 is cool but I would rather be in more control with the whole team and all the plays instead of 
 just one player. The only thing I didnt like about create a player mode was you couldnt change 
 the stats at the beginning and make him perfect at everything because who wouldnt want their player 
 the best on the field, right? Also, wheres madden at? The game shouldn't even be called madden 
 07, they should rename it NFL 07. I still believe that since EA took over the NFL license that 
 they havent made a great football game and ESPN NFL 2K5 was the best in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lax14
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited to get this game today, but now I wish I never payed $60 for it. The graphics 
 are amazing and its fun to play, but it gets old very fast. I don't know if this bothers anyone 
 else, but when you create a player you cant make him perfect like in Madden 06 for PS2. Instead 
 it is just like superstar mode except you get to pick your team. You have to go through drills 
 to see how good you are. I guess no more perfect teams for me. Anyway, there are a lot of features 
 removed from this version that are still in the current gen consoles. When madden gets the same 
 features on all the consoles then it will be a good game for 360. Maybe next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tre3bal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games on the 360. The graphics are great and the gameplay is above average. 
 2k's sports game had great game play but it is not around anymore so we have to work with we have. 
 Not only that but Madden has caught up with and passed 2k's game due to the superstar mode. With 
 this edition it would be hard to find another game like it. Madden is a great game for the easy 
 going gamers and the hardcore gamers. If you are not sure the best advice I can give you is go 
 rent the game and make a decision for your self because when it comes down to it this is only my 
 opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchoppie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Madden game for the 360. Nice controls. The main menu and the Combine, 
 40 yard Dash and the Strength test confusing and i wish that they swicth the controls so it is 
 more easier but i can learn. Superstar mode is improved and you feel that you are a Football player 
 and the Lead Blocker controls are nice and it is a little easier to run the ball.
  This game is worth the money for some good fun but if you played NCAA 07 then the offensive and 
 Defensive control like call audiables and Hot Routes will be easier for you. If you like ESPN 2K5 
 then you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played Madden since 94 on the genesis. I have never really been disappointed with the franchise 
 until 06. Now we have 07, and this is supposed to be the "true" next-gen version. Well all I have 
 to say is meh. When it comes to sports games, presentation is a big part of the game. I give kudos 
 to EA for making John Madden less involved in the commentary but at least replace the commentators 
 with actual sports announcers rather than a robotic radio announcer. When is this ESPN license 
 going to take affect in Madden? The game play is mostly the same as the previous versions. The 
 animations are better and there are more of them. Tiki Barber has his signature running style as 
 well as other signature moves and styles of other popular players. The franchise mode does not 
 have fantasy draft which was my favorite part of Madden each and every year. Also owner mode is 
 gone as well. The new thing now is the ability to see and create holes by selecting a blocker before 
 a snap on a running play. Its very good and well implemented. Superstar mode is back and it is 
 still cool. It allows you to create a player and select a position as well as your birth parents. 
 From there you work your way through signing an agent, training at combine then eventually signing 
 with a team. Its a great and very deep mode. The graphics are great but for being on a next0gen 
 console they are just good. The sounds in the game are both good and bad. The player sounds and 
 tackles sound great. The on the field yelling is great. But the announcer which is a Home radio 
 announcer is very bland. He sometimes never comments on fantastic plays and shouts when you recover 
 your own fumble as if you won the game. Also sine he is a home announcer he is not objective. The 
 online is as good as ever. Live Opponent allows you to play a real live opponent that is part of 
 your regular season franchise. Also there is a Madden Gamer level that allows you to "level up" 
 through out the game. Overall this is very disappointing Madden. It is even more so then 06 because 
 EA has no excuse this time. Its still a good football game that I will continue to play but so 
 much more was expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  madden 07 is definitely a step up from last year
  there are so many different things you can do in the game
  
  + the running is a lot better 
 in this game
  + lead blocker control is really useful
  + gorgeous graphics
  + awesome new modes and mini games
  + hall of famers' names are actually in the game and highlight 
 reels are cool
  + good soundtrack and sfx
  
  - still some WACK tackles and plays
  - too many fumbles
  
  the positives of this game outnumber the negatives
  its DEFINITELY 
 worth $60
  the hall of fame edition is really cool too... has a bonus dvd with many cool features
  
  if 
 you're a football fan, DO NOT pass up on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  As I sat down in my comfy game chair, sliding the Madden 07 disc into my Xbox 360, I couldn't help 
 but wonder if this time around, EA would do their homework. Let's just say they did- but got a 
 B on it. First off, the game modes have (thankfully) been expanded from last year- including modes 
 such as Season and Superstar. The new mini games and training exercises make the game just more 
 fun and realistic. Speaking of realistic- the graphics this year are pumping with color, smoothness, 
 and intensity. At times I felt as though I was really at Invesco Field in Denver. Now for the sound- 
 Madden or Michaels never makes an apperance in the game- with the local radio brodcaster telling 
 you what's going on out there on the field. Gameplay= A. This time around, EA made the gameplay 
 smooth yet complicated, but not frustrating. The animations are smooth and flow nicely as you bust 
 a 60 yard run down the sideline. Overall, Madden 07 is a solid title with fun gameplay, awesome 
 graphics and tons of fun. If only EA had included a little more features to make us feel like we 
 got more than what we paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Although this madden has left out a few fun tid bits here and there its still a solid game worth 
 gettin if your a football fan.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is overall good. The new Blocking stick is actaully more fun tahn i thought it would 
 be and teh running system is still great. There could have been more animations as always, but 
 theres a good amount. The new superstar mode is alright takes a while to get used to and if your 
 not on a good team u will lose, Franchise is still a little messed up i mean they only added the 
 basics in which they took out last year theres still no newspaper or pager.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are great probably saved the game imo. One of the pluses to the game are the players 
 look like the actual players. The helmets get scratches, the uniforms get grass stains, and the 
 players sweat, may not sound like muchbut its these small things that make the game worth buying.
 
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is alright i guess nothing special. Madden, thank god doesnt do play by play anymore, 
 well actually i honestly miss and the other dude from the previous games callin play by play. The 
 sound effects are good as usual. The soundtrack is also good imo.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Overal good game, not as bad as everyone is saying imo. I do agree it does have its flaws but it 
 doesnt wreck the game. If your a football fan at least try the game. THE BAD: Its not perfect let 
 me get that out of the way. After playing a few games i can already tell it wont b a super long 
 franchise game for me it just gets boring after a few hours of playing. They also didnt really 
 add too much to the game i mean it doesnt seem to groundbreaking like the madden games used to 
 be.
  
  Final Thoughts: Fun game worth getting if your a football fan
  
  one last thing... GO Packers!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkKUWAIT
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all I am not one of them guys who just worships the 2k Series. Did I own it, yes, but 
 I found both games to be very good in 05'.
  
  Now I sold my original XBOX cause I figured I would get the best in what games could offer with 
 my 360. Well I am feeling that this is not true by any stretch of ones imagination, no matter how 
 hard EA SPORTS tries or spends in ads.
  
  Now I have played the game for awhile now and the game play seems to be up to par with past games. 
 Keep in mind I played Madden 06 on Original XBOX, so I dont know what the complaints were all about 
 clearly.
  
  I like it, especially with winter coming up it is a must have for them New York winters.
  
 
  My biggest and happens to be an important aspect of the game is the Fantasy Draft. Every year 
 with a couple of buddies we would meet one day a week, draft an entire team and then play out the 
 season by meeting one day a week. How in the world could EA leave this out?
  
  If they put the Fantasy Draft I would have no complaints, but since it isn't there... It really 
 puts a black eye on the game if you ask me. I know, I know they are building the game from scratch, 
 but please.. Is it really that hard to put that fun part of the game? I am SURE it will be part 
 of their marketing campaign next year for the games release... Overall some will bash the game 
 no matter what.. But honestly the game is fun and it works... This is all that matters... I have 
 said this all along, we will not see the true strength of the system for about 1-2 more years when 
 game developers really understand how to maximize the potential of the XBOX 360. Not putting the 
 Fantast Draft in the Next Gen Consule should be criminal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeetskeet456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a GREAT game. The player models are beautiful. I love the 3d grass and the way the 
 field changes due to the weather (rain) My favorite thing about the game is the mini camp. the 
 new lead blocker control makes running more fun. Before you snap the ball you can switch to another 
 player and control them at the snap of the ball and make a big block by yourself. Another great 
 addition to the game is the highlight stick and different running back style and abilities. For 
 example a smaller running back won't duck his head and try to run you over instead he will try 
 to get away from you; and a big running back will of course duck his head and just be a big guy 
 and do what he is best at doing. So every style move is done with the right analog stick . The 
 superstar mode is great but you can only control your superstar which makes it feel like the mediocre 
 Nfl head coach; tha is the only thing i find wrong with the game. So go get Madden 07, the producers 
 did a good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonjmp
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  No madden and micheals voice over!
  Jerky, Low frame rate MENU? why?
  Sloppy
  
  I just got the game. I am a casual gamer, not sure I will play much more of it. I was dissapointed 
 that the madden commentary was taken out. Also, not sure why the menus take so long to render, 
 slow slow slow. I feel like it is just kinda broken.
  
  Gameplay is just like any other years, same old same old football game to this casual player. I 
 think that the most innovative game was the N2K series, liked madden, could not wait to really 
 push my HDXbox on my 60inch sony screen, but this football game will get very little play time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankbob_006
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Please tell me why so many people seem to hate this game. I dont understand it. Simply put, this 
 IS Madden. Last years 360 version was horrible, but I think EA has righted the ship. This version 
 feels like Madden. As for Madden and Michaels not annoucing. Doesnt bother me one bit. Madden was 
 annoying with all the "Booms". Im glad he is finally gone. I do wish EA would get a real announcing 
 crew though. Listening to a hollow voice call the game is kind of annoying, but not Madden annoying. 
 Gameplay is good, feels like Madden. Sound is great. Graphics are beutiful. As for the extra stuff 
 that is missing, does that stuff make the game better? Not to me it doesnt. As long as the gameplay 
 is good and the franchise mode is there, Im happy. To me, if you rip this game, you are an EA hater 
 or a Madden hater. A long time Madden fan such as myself will like this game. So all the haters, 
 sit down and shut up and let us enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannonshan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I am just missing it, but I have seen on many Madden07 blogs about that you can edit your 
 SS i. e. helmets, and other equipment. But Everytime I create my SS, it only gives me the option 
 to edit physical stuff. Anyone know how you edit equipmet??? Other than that, I really like this 
 game. I was dissapointed with NCAA 07 and traded it in on Madden. I like the SS mode and it gives 
 a angle to the game that is very fun for me anyway. I do think that the team ratings are a little 
 off, like NO Saints are rated like 86 or something and Reggie is way, way, way overrated. Other 
 than that, very good game but like other people have said, could be a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matricide
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  What is this trash? I mean come on EA, the 360 is a year old madden is your premier sports franchise 
 and you give us incomplete, un-polished garbage? Where's the Owner Mode with the insane options? 
 Where's the Fantasy Draft? is that so hard? Where is Madden!!!!? I bought Madden NFL 2007. What's 
 with the random radio announcer guy? Where's Al and John? Oh and why go out and spend a buttload 
 of money to purchase the rights to ESPN and not use them? NFL 2K5 had it right. The Chris Berman 
 show, Suzy on the field, Video Highlight reels, all in a smart looking (and real) presentation.
 
  
  Shame on you EA for wasting my money on this lemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dankepka
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The main reason why I buy madden is for the fantasy draft and owner mode.. It is gone!!!
  
  Their programmers must be extremely lazy, their testers must suck, and their management must have 
 no clue what people actually want out of a game....
  
  EA Sux, their monopoly is ruining everything for gamers... Then that caused MVP to go away.... 
 So my two favorite games are irrelevant.....
  
  I don't want to role play as a position player when I play sports games... I want to run a franchise 
 from the bottom up and win a super bowl.. I don't want to be the next Terrell Owens, or some wortheless 
 linebacker from Chicago.. That is so stupid --- maybe the little grade schoolers would, but I imagine 
 most gamers who've been playing madden for a while -- would want to play the way the game was meant 
 to play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Ice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  They finally got it right. I agree with blkpanther. The create a player is excellent. Game play 
 is great. Mini-camp mode is challenging. Of course no one should be able to just pick up the controller 
 and be awesome. It takes practice. Lead blocking is great. Just practice folks. Just like anything 
 practice. Graphic wise, lets just say good job. There is a definite difference in this and NCAA. 
 EVEN THE DEVELOPERS WILL TELL YOU THIS. They did it on purpose. I really like the create a player. 
 No more people stacking teams with players with unreal ratings. Of course you can do this but it 
 will take a lot more work . This review is a work in progress since I have only had the game for 
 less than a day and since I am writing this I am not playing; for now anyway. So the folks at EA 
 did a good job. Of course everyone will not be happy, but lets face it; this one was worth the wait, 
 and soon it will get even better. Buy the game it is worth it. By the way I bought the Madden Special 
 edition. 
  
  The little stuff such as music will have something for just about everyone, but if you don't like 
 it download your own or play it through your XBOX 360. Replay ability will of course be very high. 
 I see great things in the future, and who knows 2k might come back and give some much needed competition. 
 Competition drives us to be the very best. Lack of competition, well you know the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkpanther
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  All I have been reading is, that this game is a waste of time, and it isn't worth the money and 
 all this other bull crap.
  
  GIVE ME A BREAK!!!!
  
  This is game is fun. The graphics are way better, everybody loves to play NCAA, but to tell you 
 the truth, the graphics between NCAA for 360 and ps2 are not that much different. 
  
  Now in Madden You can tell the game apart, the graphics are much better for 360 then it is for 
 xbox.
  
  You can officially challenge plays.
  
  The Superstar mode is awsome.
  
  I love the lead blocking, people say it is hard to control, its not that its hard, YOU NEED TO 
 PRACTICE IT!!! You can't just pick up the sticks and be good. what are you guys expecting, just 
 to pick up the sticks and be the greatest madden player ever???
  
  Just like me, im not good at those stupid mini camp runs or lifting.
  
  But I have improved 
 my speed a whole second on the 40 and benching 5 more then i usually did.
  
  People are not just giving this game a chance.
  
  They put the game in, they get scored on 
 a couple of times, and says the game sucks.
  
  Just because you suck at the game, doesn't mean the game sucks. Just don't play it if you can't 
 win.
  
  This game came back a lot stronger then last year. Everybody says same game same game, it isn't 
 close to being the same game. 
  
  1. Lead blocking most is fantasic.
  2. When on defense, you can choose to make the linebackers blitz, even if it isn't part of the 
 play, you can make it the new play
  3. Superstar mode is great.
  4. You can finally create a player.
  5. What most people where complaining about last year, you 
 can finally create your own player.
  
  If you want a true test, go pop madden back into the playstation and xbox and tell me if you see 
 the difference.
  
  Then you will see the true difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landedeagle365
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game that long (less than 3-4 hours) , but my first impression is that of 
 disappointment. Here's why:
  
  1. The menus are way too difficult to navigate. For example, in the depth chart, instead of simply 
 hitting L or R to scroll through the different positions, you have to hold RT, press right on the 
 left analog, then hold down until the position you want to see can be selected... It just doesn't 
 make sense why they would complicate the depth chart when it's been so easy to use for so many 
 years.
  
  2. The player controls are overly complicated, and unlike in Madden 2006, this game does not give 
 you different control options to choose from (such as how you could choose the Madden 2005 controls 
 in Madden 2006) . So if you want to simplify your controls, first you have to figure out the ridiculously 
 complex menu system, then you have to figure out which button should do what. This takes way too 
 much time.
  
  3. This is what disturbs me most... When calling a play, instead of highlighting 3 different plays 
 and having you select 1, only 1 play is highlighted at all times. So, if you're playing against 
 another player, that person can see what play you're selecting, and vice versa. That's just stupid.
 
  
  Note: If for some reason I'm wrong about either 2 or 3, I still blame the menus for being way too 
 complex... I've searched through the labyrinth menus to help solve these problems, but found nothing.
 
  
  4. There are still too many glitches... I saw at least 4 already and i havent even played for more 
 than 2 hours. Here are my two favorites:
  - Players can STILL go through each other as if the other wasn't there.
  - In the control menu, 
 say you wish to change Receiver 1 from button X to A, that receiver can now be thrown to by pressing 
 A... but if you wish to change use a hot route, that receiver will still be accessed by pressing 
 X. This means that whichever receiver was the original button A will get the hot route, not the 
 new receiver. This screws everything up, and pisses me off.
  
  5. Speaking of hot routes, they suck in this game... You have to literally select a receiver, then 
 press the button to hot route, and then choose the route. The problem with this, again, is that 
 the other player will now know that you sent the guy into a hot route, since when you selected 
 him a blue circle goes around him. The other problem with this is that the words "Hot Route" don't 
 appear on the screen anymore, so unless you can hear the quarterback call the audible, you won't 
 know you've even done anything to that receiver.
  
  6. The took out the pre-snap defense playmaker, and I don't know why.
  
  7. Before the snap 
 on defense, you can only back-pedal, run forward and strafe, you CANNOT turn around. What the hell 
 is that? It's even more frustrating on 4th downs when you want to drop a guy back to help block 
 for your punt returner.
  
  8. Controlling the wide receiver will take some getting used to.
  
  So that's my main beef 
 with this year's Madden, on XBOX 360. It's the most frustrating Madden game I've played in a long 
 time, and it makes me sad about life. I wouldn't waste my money or time with this game if I were 
 you. 
  Yes, there are some ups, and I guess I'll leave on a good note by saying that the kick/punt returns 
 are much easier, running in general is easier and there are a ton of good moves you can do, and 
 the graphics are awesome... But so far as I'm concerned, they traded quality gameplay for graphics, 
 and that probably upsets me the most.
  
  Again, I haven't played it that long, but these were my initial impressions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Standing in line for 30 minutes last night was definitly worth it. I think Madden 07 is everything 
 Madden 06 for the 360 should have been. Graphically it's amazing. Stadiums are perfect, players 
 are perfect. Gameplay is still the solid quality that you would expect from the Madden series. 
 The only minor details that i have noticed so far that i would change would have to be.....1) you 
 are not able to change you controller configuration, this isn't a big deal, but i'm so used to 
 having the same Madden controls over the last 6 years on Xbox, even though they haven't changed 
 much. 2) The blurred crowd at the end of the screen, anyone who has played the game knows what 
 i'm talking about, again, it's not a big deal, just kind of annoying. So overall i would have to 
 say it's Amazing, and with a litle work next year's can be absolutely perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDksBggrThnYrs
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Im going to get deep with my fellow gamespotters. 
  First question i ask 30 FPS!!!! 30  is supposed to be a SECOND 
 GEN XBOX360 GAME!!!.. and the dang thing sputters along, with NO FLUIDNESS (hot word lol) .. (ok thats 
 out the way)
  
  Is it me or is that this version (xbox360) of the game uses the same engine as last years? .correct 
 me if im wrong. (Sure as hell looks the same) , Why do players still look like there ice skating?.... Why 
 is that same radio guy stilll in the booth and he doesnt say much when the good things happen?. 
 Why is there still more features in the xbox and ps2 versions?... Why this game has the espn license 
 and YOU HARDLY SEE ESPN represented?.. Why is madden or someone good NOT in the booth (i guess good 
 old madden is to old to do his games) ? Why the animations STILL not fluid enough? Why have the 
 NFL license and use it to this degree? (not much) Why lie to the consumer about we are doing great 
 things when its only been a down hilll motion in what is represented.. First it was the passing 
 cones. Now its the run blocking.. Now that run blocking things is cool once u learn how to pull 
 it off. Well enough about the bad........ I mean the game is ok to play ..., and of course it will 
 have lasting appeal..... but to me there is no way to justify whats broken.. and whats really good..
 
  
  Like when it snows , its snowing like hell.. and on the cutscenes the snow magically disappears 
 8 - o same with rain... The whole real grass thing........ im not going to touch that... and ever 
 single person in the stands look the same and there is no specific fan details like current gen.... the 
 overall feel of presentation doesnt hit me as a full fledge suppose to be next gen experience and 
 for anyone to say someone doesnt understand NEXT GEN.... this is not it..........
  
  I think EA really needs to step back put the NFL license back out there let some other companies 
 drive them to where they are at now... and care about the people to have that choice.... And this 
 is completely un-bias (i grew up on madden) .. but the madddenniss has to stop.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicMushrooms
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Wow i really thought this game was gonna be alot better serious let down graphics are good but 
 it lacks depth and is very dull at times. My serious issue with this game is there is no Madden 
 or Michaels i mean seriously the game is called MADDEN 07 and there is no MADDEN. 03 and 04 i think 
 were the best madden games and ea puts down the madden series by releasing 06 and 07 when there 
 was still much work to be done they need to look at the success of previous games before the release 
 **** WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO THIS GREAT GAME!?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shunsing
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  For one, EA's team of experts who put together the player attribute ratings, are high. They are 
 inconsistent and simply off. One example is having the Cowboys rated as one of the lowest teams 
 in the NFL. Green Bay is rated higher and in fact won the super bowl in my first simulated season. 
 That will not happen. 
  
  Worse yet, they got the postions wrong for many players as well as jersey numbers. Not having the 
 ability to change player positions is critical to me. If I have to go into it, then you probably 
 don't understand football well enough to discuss it anyway...
  
  I returned last years copy for an 04 current gen copy so that I could play with realistic and up 
 to date rosters... I never thought I'd have to do that again.
  
  IF this simple thing were available, I'd be all for the game... without it, it kills it for me.
 
  
  gameplay is good enough
  graphics are cool, but the arms are a bit rediculouse on these guys
  sound, nothing special
 
  value = rosters are already outdated and were not right to begin with. no edit feature, no value.
 
  tilt - two middle fingers up to the guy who thought it was a good idea to leave out edit player 
 feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ok so EA got the rights to the NFL, which means they dont have to work as hard on this title to 
 sell it... why?
  Because noone else can make them now
  And it shows
  This is what happens when one company becomes greedy and buys the rights to a sport, sad but true
 
  And people will be paying for it untill about 2015
  Where has NFL 2K gone?... please EA break the deal and give the rights back for everyone... please?
 
  EA do something kind to buyers... yeah right... well ya can hope right?
  Oh yeah and the whole Fantasy Draft thing is busted... Kinda like Madden himself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeke74
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  The stadium crowd is finally smart and cheers and boos when they are supposed to. Where is the 
 big step up in graphics other than the field. The cut scenes are still the same as last year. How 
 annoying to see the same s**t after every play pick. Where are automaticinstant replays after huge 
 plays. The look is there somewhat but the FEEL is still missing. Sad to charge $60 for this. I 
 can't wait for 2K series to come back in 3 years. I hope. What can we say. It not in the game AGAIN! 
 I just hope others review this with an open mind and dream like I do that just ONE DAY this video 
 game company will FINALLY get it right. Come on its been 16 YEARS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avamarine
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 didn't have this, or why did they have this? A lot of these questions are floating 
 around. People simply think that EA is ignoring them. The real problem is next-gen requires more 
 data, the compression rate for games of this magnitude to fit on a specialized 9 GB regular DVD 
 hurts it. So ultimately this hurts every game although for Madden we always know what is missing. 
 I believe every developer is trying as much as they can to make people happy. Madden 2007 has that 
 effort to me. People it is a football game and the only thing they should be working on is game 
 mechanics when you are on the field and for online. Don't cry bc they took out fantasy draft, if 
 you're a NFL fan then you should love your team no matter how they do and don't jump on any bandwagon. 
 And for some, why should they even improve the game when you say its crap before they even start 
 making it? They needed to improve from last years's version of Next Gen and they accomplish that. 
 Learn to love what a game is. Nobody likes a Negative Nancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtydawg12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  ... The first thing i noticed was that there were actually options on the start up menu, now you 
 can do more than just start a season, which was the only possibility for last years game. The best 
 part about Madden this year is the superstar mode, which is very in depth and allows you to have 
 an experience most madden user arent used to. Another new addition form last year is the stadiums 
 look even better than they did last year, only making the experience that much more real. But what 
 from thier...... NOTHING. The franchise mode is real basic and doesnt give you many options. Thiers 
 also no fantasy draft, madden used to be the only place where ur dream of having Michael Vick, 
 LT and Chad Johnson in the same jersey playing for the same team was possinble. Their also are 
 no alternate jerseys, which may not seem like abig deal, but its the little details that make good 
 games great ones. Plus what is the biggest sports event in the world, THE SUPERBOWL..... So why 
 is it when I play a franchise and make the it to the big game it doesnt feel like a big deal. Its 
 just like another game, just this ones for the ship. I want excitement, something different, be 
 creative EA. So basically since EA has got the lisence to the nfl Madden has been in decline, thiers 
 just no competition. I owned ESPN football and loved it, they were ahead of the game, graphics 
 were better than madden and the play by play was better, plus boomer gave halftime reports. Madden 
 just has no competition any more, resulting in a dull game. Maybe when PS3 and WII come out the 
 games will get better for more poeple will be buying Next Gen games. What have we learned from 
 all this......... game companies shouldnt be allowwd to buy liscensings to pro teams. ANother exmaple 
 if this was 2k6 basbeall, it sucked.......... the show was the best, but it was for ps2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobyneil
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  EA really has a way of just putting out garbage. This game is AWFUL, and definatly doesn't fit 
 as "next gen graphics" The 30 fps is a HUGE deal. Everybody tries to say it doesnt matter, it does. 
 It makes a huge difference when Im running the ball and the instant I get hit, Im laying on the 
 ground. And the graphics are not good looking at all. It looks very similar to last years version. 
 NCAA looked quite good, this does not. It's nice that they added most of the features into the 
 games. Franchise, Superstar, minigames. It actually HAS game modes and feels like a full game, 
 it just doesn't play like one. And why, after all these years of up to 8 players at a time, can 
 EA STILL only get 1 person per team? I love to play on the same team as my friends. I don't understand 
 why its so difficult to let someone play on the same team. I'm getting sick of EA pumping out garbage 
 because thier name is so big. They need to stop resting on thier laurels because true gamers are 
 sick of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Last year I think a lot of us were dissapointed in how Madden turned out. This year the game has 
 not improved that much but it is definatly better. The graphics, the stadiums all look great. The 
 gameplay is so much better than last year. Atleast you can run the ball now. 
  
  My only complaint is there is no tv presentaion, but that may come back one of these years. 
 
  
  I would rent the game first if you are not sure about it. More than likely you'll like it because 
 you have no choice. If there was another football game out there like 2k7, I probably would have 
 2k7 because I loved 2k5. 
  
  This is not a bad game. Its alot better than last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efuste
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Where the hell is the gang tackle!! I cant believe this. Any time a running back runs up the middle, 
 it would be nice to see a LB and a Lineman actually make a tackle together instead of one tackling 
 and the other doing a back flip!!! 
  
  Graphics are nice, individual tackles look great, and the highlight stick truly does create some 
 amazing runs. 
  Grass looks good, but it seems like players feet just completely dissapear when you look at an 
 instant replay. I b=mean almost to the ankle. Field does ware and tare nicely though. 
  
  Passing game is nice and having the option to use the cone or not is there which is good. Running 
 is still so slippery and it I feel you should not be getting stuck at the line at this point. This 
 is next gen and EA cant input realistic gang tackles and the freaking ability to push away from 
 line man so you dont get stuck. Superstar mode is a lot of fun especially if you play the LB or 
 WR postion. One postion I found to be lots of fun as well is the FS position. You have room to 
 react to its not as diffiicult as the CB and at the same time you play the run more. 
  
  Whats missing? Well honetly the GM mode is missing, I figured they would be able to implement that. 
 The gang tackling is missing still, and although that may not seem improtant it really does create 
 a more enjoyable and realistic game of football. Wouldnt it be nice to see some one wrap up a running 
 back by the feet, then a MLB just comes a hit sticks the crap out of him!!! Sounds nice right, 
 well not possible with EA current animation system. How about introducing Euphoria? Good idea EA?
 
  
  Overall a step up from last years game, but still missing a lot of things. The presentation still 
 needs a lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillipo2934
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than I thought. The superstar mode is great. They got 40 yard dash and 
 benchpress that determine stats. There was lagging between plays, but you barely even notice because 
 once you start playing you get so immeresed. I couldn't stop playing it. This is a madden all should 
 buy. The graphics are also solid. You don't see people passin through eachother. Also their are 
 so many ways to tackle. I pressed down on the right stick, and my guy picked the computer up, and 
 slammed him on his back. Even though Madden isn't an anouccer it still brings that same level of 
 excitment to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  The graphics on the game have basically stayed the same, but they appear to be more crisp, and 
 they could actually fit Big Ben's last name on his jersey this time around. The stadiums look really 
 nice, and the Hall Of Fame Players are finally back as unlockables, its about time! I've read a 
 lot of reviews bashing this game, but I think it is very good and is a lot of fun. The Superstar 
 Mode seems to be well done, although I'm not very far into it, but I've had fun with it so far. 
 The franchise mode is pretty good as usual, but the rosters are not very updated and most of the 
 rookies are still in the free agent pool, so a roster update is needed badly. The only thing that 
 makes me angry about the game is that each time you do a franchise you have to reset the CPU settings 
 in the franchise as far as signing free agents, the depth chart and injury management. All in all 
 though, the game is fun and I haven't got to play it on Live yet, but I assume you can't really 
 mess that up considering all you do is play another person. I would recommend this game to football 
 fans and casual gamers alike. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogman666
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I'll leave the complaining to the kiddies My review is simple...... WWAAYYYYY TO MUCH HYPE for a 
 game that dont really live up to nothing sure its better then last years 360 version but come on. 
 That one was as plain as a hamburger gpx are nice the custom team defense is really cool and nothing 
 else to say....... Take Two Rules EA bites the big one again I feel bad for the people that paid 
 full price or the hall of fame version only to be dissapointed like the other 22% owell theres 
 always next year have fun let the countdown begin....... NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game was hyped up so much, and for what? Its broken. The only reason why this game is going 
 to sell is because it has an NFL brand name. No real improvements only minor ones. (Such as blades 
 of grass, roster updates and superstar mode etc) No real reason to play this game after 2months. 
 Its the same thing over and over again.
  
  Gameplay: Game play is ok And I mean just that its ok not great it still has that converbelt running 
 game, that was found in Madden 2004. I'm sorry to say this but when ESPN NFL 2K5 game out they 
 were light years ahead of Madden 2005, and it seems like they still are ahead of Madden 07. Madden 
 07 is light years behind ESPN NFL 2K5 (seriously the presentation in Madden 07 is lacking big time, 
 it doesn't even look like your watching an NFL game.) Here's some examples of this statement I 
 just typed.
  
  No half time show covering highlights of the game
  
  No post game highlights of the game
  
  No cut scenes of the crowd reacting to certain plays 
 or situations
  
  No custom sound tracks over the PA
  
  No custom player celebrations
  
  No great color comentation that has anything to do with the current game being played.
  
 
  No players interacting with the crowd when the home team scores. 
  
  There's alot more wrong with the presentation but there's too man to list.
  It is clear of 2 
 things either EA doesn't like the 360 or they just have a "I'm the only NFL game out there the 
 hell with major inprovments, they'll buy it any" atitude. Maybe the PS3 version will be better, 
 thought I highly doubt it, just like I'v doubted EA crediblity for the past 8 years now. This game 
 is making me doubt them even more. This is fastfood football at it's finest, It looks and smells 
 good, but it's bad for you. 
  graphics: Are good, but not as good as Madden 06 for the 360 for some reason it looks good but 
 not great. (especially if you have a standard TV) And I don't know if it's just me, but the crowd 
 has no females!?! None what so ever. The blades of grass doesn't really help the graphics much. 
 There is high polygon counts though and the arenas have depth. The draw distamce is unlike any 
 other foot ball game to date. (even NFL 2K5)
  
  Sound: sound is excellent.
  
  Value: after you unlock everything in the game its not worth playing anymore 
  
  Its Obvious 
 EA didn't go the "extra mile" with the last 2 editions of there exclusive license. EA has done 
 nothing, to meritt there exclusive license. The last 2 editions of Madden haven't had the apeal 
 that Madden had in the 90's. If the NFL renews this contract with EA I'm giving up on NFL football 
 games. (Of course I'll play them if they get drasticaly better.
  ps Please visual concepts make a football game please. EVEN if you have to develop the next Madden 
 please develop a football game! Just another one we need you deliverance, were going to have to 
 put up with this nonsense for another 2 years? Please save us.
  
  I hope the NFL will have some sense and not renew the license contract.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomservo51
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Basically, this is the same game as Madden 2000 for the PS1. The players feel still slide around 
 the field like they are on ICE. The defensive IA doesnt play the ball. The players still look and 
 move funny. The commentary is poor at best. I feel like EA was trying to appeal to the very casual 
 football fan with the play selection interface and cheesy gameplay
  
  This game will leave the true video game football fans feeling EMPTY inside. Save your $60 and, 
 well, there arent any other NFL games out there, so...... Just sit there and cry because you have 
 no choice.
  
  2 Years down and 3 more to go. Lets all hope and pray that the NFL players assoc doesnt make this 
 mistake again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dionysus0915
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Madden 2007 returns this year far better then last but still lacking features that were bread and 
 butter from previous years. One of the features that is sorely missed by me is the fantasy draft. 
 Most people probably never used it, but it was fun to start a league with a friend and be able 
 to choose your own players and the feel of a team you wanted. I also can't help but feel EA is 
 just milking us consumers at the snails pace of new features it adds to each season. Most of the 
 new features don't seem to make any huge advances when it seems they can add more at a quicker 
 pace. There is no reason why they couldn't add the cones of last year with the running of this 
 year. Perhaps I ask too much by asking for more fetaures per season, but perhaps EA asks too much 
 with their $60 price tag. 
  The defense in Madden needs a lift and doesn't seem to have any luster or personality. In fact, 
 it seems it has gotten worst on next-gen consoles do to the bad hit detection, removal of gang 
 tackles, and sometimes no tackling at all. A player will be in an animation of a previous tackle 
 and completely ignore the fact that another player is right there to make the hit, then run for 
 a touchdown. This happens much more then I feel is acceptable. 
  The sound in Madden 07 I am on the fence about. The on field sounds such as clash of helmets and 
 pads seems to be good as well as the crowd noise; however, the lack of any play by play announcing 
 (besides the radio announcer) seems to take away from the game. 
  The stadium graphics are stellar so no complaint here.; however, there seems to be no improvement 
 over last year's player graphics besides a few extra animations here and there. The players also 
 do not really look like their real life counterpart. Also stutters in framerate at nearly every 
 transition of shots is unacceptable.
  The overall feel of the game is fine but could have been better. The new superstar mode is a fresh 
 addition to the next-gen console as well as the new running feature. They both seem to be fun at 
 first but I wonder how they will stand the test of time. But with improvements in superstar mode 
 that allow a more immersive involvement into your player's life will enhance this mode. Perhaps 
 with an addition and variety animation or cutsenes of interviews, test taking, etc... this mode 
 can move to the next level. The addition of the madden gamer lvl was also a nice feature.
  To conclude this year's Madden 2007 was fair but could have been much better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Okay, so everyone has been anticipating the new installment of Madden. Especially after last year's 
 atrocity. Well, my first impression is that the game is much better than Madden 06. The sorely 
 missed mini games are back. Although, I will admit, I still like the old format circa Madden 2003-2004. 
 The inclusion of the mini games is welcomed with open arms. The similarity in button configuration 
 between NCAA07 and Madden07 makes for a smooth transition between the two. I am sure there are 
 those people who disagree, but I like the fact that I can play both without having to learn an 
 entire new button scheme. As always, 360 Graphics are great. I am a little miffed that you can 
 not change the camera angles. Someone let me know if I am asking for too much with that one. The 
 run to daylight feature takes some getting used to. Well at least for me it did. My tailback has 
 his moments when he decides not to follow my blocking and gets crushed. Perhaps I just need to 
 spend more time running in the mini games and practices. All and all I think that this game is 
 great. A few things are definitely missing that should not be ( refs on the field, field goal nets, 
 Cheerleaders) which take away from the "it's in the Game" battle cry. I still love the Madden Series, 
 but I am going to have to ask the same question that everyone else is asking. EA, do you think 
 you can stop slacking an make a complete game? I know the lack of competition give you a sense 
 of security, but do it for us, the fans, PLEASE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsucougar307
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  I was able to purchase Madden07 this evening. I was skecptical about it. EA has managed to release 
 sub-par products for the 360. NBA Live 06 for example is one of the worst games I have ever played. 
 First I would like you to know that I brought back NCAA07 in order to buy Madden07. Overall I thought 
 the trade was a good one.
  
  PROS:
  
  -Running game. The running is smoother than NCAA07. Backs are slippery on the field. I love running 
 the ball. Blocks are fairly easy to read. 
  
  -Draft. As much as I think Mel Kiper Jr. is an idiot he was a good addition as the games draftnik. 
 
  
  -Graphics. Wow. 
  
  -Franchise Mode. It seems complete. Which is a huge plus because in recent 360 titles this seemed 
 to be skimped on.
  
  CONS:
  
  -Attributes. Some Players will be dissappointed to find players underrated and overrated. I guess 
 that is how most sports games are.
  
  -Player Editing. I haven't been able to figure out how to edit the players in my draft classes 
 from NCAA07. It sucks because I have a couple of good players named HB#17. I also wanted to change 
 numbers and gear. Julian Peterson of the Seahawks is wearing an illegal number of 44 that I couldn't 
 change.
  
  -Draft. Just like in real life Mel Kiper Jr. doesn't know how to spot talent. 
  
  -Signing 
 Free Agents, Draft Picks, and Players on Expiring contracts. There seems to be no reason the why 
 the player will sign one contract and not the other.
  
  -Announcing. I would like a personality to commentate if not Madden himself. What he goes to the 
 Hall of Fame and he doesn't have to annouce on his on game anymore. 
  
  Thanks for spending the time to read this. I hope it was helpful.
  
  Xbox Live: Moose307
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillmaticS
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Maybe even worse than the 06 version. Controls for the 360 are not good. Online play is alright 
 but extremely slow. In general the game runs slow for a next gen console. Too much hype for a game 
 that hasn't even met decent expectations. The game might be better on the p s 2, game cube and 
 x box. But dont buy it for 360, just not worth the price. Also the gameplay feels like NCAA 07, 
 not like the authentic Madden feel. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it.. Not worth it.. Not 
 worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not 
 worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. Not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link300
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Where the heck did fantasy draft a franchise go. That was my favorite part of the game and its 
 completely out of the game. The way the game was presented was to add good features into the game 
 not take out the good ones currently in the game. Also how about increasing or decreasing player 
 stats in the roster outside of franchise, that's gone too. i've had the game for 3 hours now and 
 i'm so angry at the features i haven't even started a game yet. The sub screens can bite the big 
 one too. Navigating through the modes takes forever and actually is quite painful. maybe i'm expecting 
 too much for my money, but this just sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Once again, EA has developed a an incredible looking, mediocre playing football simulation game
 
  
  Madden has always been the #1 football game, but since they got the exclusive liscense, the games 
 have slowly gotten worse and worse
  
  This yeasr is no exception, as some of the important and fun current-gen features were taken out 
 for more polygons on the players faces and more in-depth fan features
  
  Gameplay- The new running features and lead blocking abilities are very useful and fun, but little 
 else has changed than that
  
  Graphics- Look damn good, and really get you into the football experience
  
  Sound- EA does 
 a good job of recreating everything from fans screams to peope manhandling each other, sadly it's 
 a bit repetitive
  
  Value- $60 or $70 for this? Meh, if you really like Madden, go for it, but if you don't have a 
 360, stick with the current-gen
  
  Tilt- No matter how much it changes, it will always be Madden
  
  In the end, EA overhypes this 
 game, again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jswiss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  WTF 30fps ! you can't put an exhibition game cpu vs cpu 
  & some how graphics looks alittle worse then 06
  NO camera angles when the game runs in demo 
 mode 
  the game plays in the same wiew as if you were palying the game
  so it doesnt look like a TV broadcast .
  
  blah blah balh 
  
  WTF 30fps ! you can't put 
 an exhibition game cpu vs cpu 
  & some how graphics looks alittle worse then 06
  NO camera angles when the game runs in demo mode 
  the game plays in the same wiew as if you 
 were palying the game
  so it doesnt look like a TV broadcast .
  
  blah blah balh 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  I wait in line at gamestop to bring it home to play it to find out , That this game is aweful and 
 boring. Now I see why they didnt bring the demo out on Xbox live , Because they know we would be 
 dissapointed . Wow!! it makes u wonder about EA , there games for sports has been so terrible exspecially 
 on the 360. What they should do is give the license back to 2k sports , Before they lose the credibility. 
 This game had to much hype , The graphics are poor and what happen to the running game , its just 
 like NCAA, But i think Ncaa is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diez4life
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game looks nice, but is not the funnest game to play, i just want to play the game! I want to 
 make a player that is da bomb and go rush for 1,000 yards in a game if i want to. I dont want to 
 spend all my time building my player up, thats what warcraft is for. I understand lots of people 
 like this feature and thats fine but what about people who just want to play the game? Overall the 
 game is just not great. It feels like the last 3 maddens, maybe worse. The sad thing is that i dont 
 see it geeting better because they are the only game in town, we as buyers dont really have a choice: ( 
 2k5 still is the best football game. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoridah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played 06 and 07 for 360 knows that 07 is a much more robust and complete experience. 
 It's same excellent graphics engine with a tightened up collision sensor, and an intuitive run 
 blocking scheme. The color commentating is still refreshing. The days of "BOOM!" are behind us. 
 The Superstar mode flat out DOMINATES the original Superstar mode of 06 for XBOX. I expected a 
 little more out of this game, nevertheless, a much better rendition of Madden football. My score 
 is based on Gamespot's official score of 06 and figuring in the added features and gameplay of 
 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenHawk07
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but this game was the straw that broke the camels back for me. EA has ruined Madden 
 once again with their lack of gameplay value on the 360 version of Madden. 
  
  No QB vision from the Hike of the ball. 
  
  Different button scheme.
  
  Horrible Play selection. 
 (Set up for 1 player only) 
  
  NO Madden Voice??? 
  
  Come on......... this is MADDEN 2007, and there's not even a John Madden Voice in the play by play 
 calls.
  
  EA built this game solely to tout the 360 graphics and for On-line gaming. They have completely 
 taken away the two player "fun factor" which Madden is so well known for.
  
  I will never purchase another EA 360 version of Football again and will be returning my copy of 
 Madden. 
  
  This Madden is SO bad, I almost want to return my TWO 360s! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustenat14
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  This Madden Game is horrible the only thing good about this game is the graphics the commentary 
 sucks madden isnt even the commentator no one is its just football radio. more than one replay 
 would be greatly appreciated..... i made a 70 yard run and no replay all that showed was the scoreboard, 
 i think we have a problem. This madden game does not live up to the hype its all about the graphics 
 and making it feel like your watching a football game. i drove to the store at midnight to buy 
 this game waited in a line for an hour got home and it wasnt worth the 60 dollars i spent on it 
 i wouldnt have paid 5 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Do not, I repeat do not believe ANY of the naysayers. This game could be considered a great stepping 
 stone for the rest of the Madden series. It brought back a grip of missing features and added new 
 ones such as hall of fame mode. As far as the game itself, I dont see any reason why this shouldn't 
 begin to boost Madden's reputation back to where it belongs. Lets face it, last years lacked gameplay, 
 it was missing creata player, and was focused solely on graphics.
  
  Well... the graphics are better this year. The detail on the players, fields and stadiums is phenominal. 
 The gameplay is decent but there are still some drop issues and phantom tackles. The controls are 
 easy to learn. The sound is outstanding. Hearing players talk trash, hearing voices in the huddle 
 and the PA announcer trying to hype up the crowd on 3rd and short are just a few of the sound upgrades. 
 The gameplay is real. Finally a game with realistic running. Another dock on the gameplay is that 
 sometimes when runners get stuck behind a blocker, it kinda locks them so they can't move at all... 
 not even back. It happens rarely.
  
  With that being said, this game is a great experience if you like raw football. You will hear a 
 lot of Sega/2k fanboys completely hate on this game, but in all it is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargamer6
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Ummmm, well the game is OK... It is by no means a 9.6 or a 9.1, I mean come on EA has to friggin 
 patch fatigue, or the fatigue interface, depending on who you think is lying. Obviously, everyone 
 knows a lot of things are missing from this game (fantasy draft, edit player, blah blah) ... I don't 
 really care about any of that stuff, I am a straight-SIM player and just like to play real games 
 with real players and such... And for that purpose the game is OK again. Graphics look really tight, 
 but the collision sensor is not good (although not as bad as 2006) , the radio annoucer will literally 
 give you a terminal disease (Madden and Michales were getting old, but I feel it went from bad 
 to worse) .... Graphically, like I said it is top shelf, stadiums look good, fields look nice, unis 
 and helmets seem alright. And overall the gameplay is pretty good, although you can still do most 
 of the $ plays, go deep at will, and yes I rushed for 365 yards with Ronnie Brown of the Dolphins 
 against the CPU (Bears) playing All-pro, so I imagine I will easily bust 500 yards rushing Online 
 this week. against someone. Still have to check out All-Madden, hopefully that will correct stupid 
 DB play, easy bombs, and rushing like mad. I guess I expected much more from this game. It is better 
 that childish 2K5 and is way better than last year's Madden, but you can tell these peeps at EA 
 are true business suits. They are the only game in town and they just keep holding on to the name 
 recognition. The producers over there don't seem to be the sharpest tools in the shed either, but 
 hopefully production gets moved to EA Canada or something, but obviously that ain't happenin. Ok, 
 I could go on and on, but it isn't really worth it, decent game, tight graphics, not many frills, 
 silly frills that are in there, bad audio, same old sloppy gameplay, better than 2006, but nothing 
 to get excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarCry194
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the xbox 360, is the best looking football game ever, we can all see that, but this 
 time the developers added some depth to the game, with superstar mode and mini camp, it makes the 
 game lots more fun. However, the 360 version is still missing one thing, editing players. For me, 
 I am really strict on what the jersey numbers are, and what the players are wearing on gameday. 
 Yet for the 360, this is totally gone, and it makes me a little mad. Also, the mini camp games 
 are very tough, especially the bench press. However, other than these things, the game still plays 
 a great game of football, and is very fun to play. I recommend this to any 360 owner, who loves 
 football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdot2023
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  just clocked in about 24 hours of game play and this game is truly amazing. it takes about 10-15 
 min for madden fans to get the swing of the control. its not hard. i really like it and any madden 
 fan will enjoy it and i cant wait till more people get onto live so we can really take it to the 
 field. i give this game 9.6 it has amazing graphics, the sound of the helmets hitting and tackles 
 are on point. havent played the hall of fame yet but im going to play it right now and let you 
 know how it is. bottom line this game is a cut above the rest, its a true MASTERPIECE. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
