-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/madden08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The new &quot;weapons&quot; feature is a terrific addition.
 A complex but fully manageable control scheme.
 Much deeper franchise mode with owner mode features.
 Excellent animations.
 Much more challenging game than last year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fumbles pop up more than they ought to.
 Audio design is lackluster.
 Still no significant additions to the online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 4,563 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 08 is a significant step forward for the series, bringing to the table features that 
 are legitimately game-changing. 

  It's taken two and a half years and three releases, but Madden is finally back to form. In Madden 
 NFL 08 for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, EA Tiburon has put together the most complete version 
 of Madden seen on either console to date. The gameplay is tight, practically every old feature 
 that had been previously missing is back in some form or another, and new additions have been made 
 that significantly change how you play the game -- for the better. By no means is this year's Madden 
 flawless; it's definitely got some quirks and underpolished aspects that will probably drive some 
 people crazy. But taken as a whole, Madden 08 is easily the first great entry for the series on 
 the 360 and PS3.  

  You'll notice the big difference in this year's title the second you hop into a game. Marquee players 
 have been given icons to specifically represent what type of "weapon" they are on the field. There 
 are a ton of these different designations, separating out multiple types of players at each position. 
 Wide receivers, for instance, come in a wide variety of forms. There are quick receivers who are 
 able to nimbly duck and dodge around defenders to get open; possession receivers are good at catching 
 the ball in traffic; hands receivers can grab onto just about any ball thrown their way; and big 
 play receivers will leap up to make those really spectacular catches. Every position has at least 
 a couple of these different designations, though not every player is truly a weapon. In addition, 
 each weapon type has an opposite, a player on the other side of the field who can, in a sense, 
 cancel out their abilities. Big play receivers, for instance, are vulnerable to big hitters, finesse 
 move defensive linemen have a tougher time getting by top pass blockers, and so on.  

           Say hello to the first great football game for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.      

 
  The system itself works beautifully within the context of the game. Sure, you'll certainly note 
 the differences between QBs like Brett Favre and Vince Young, but that would have been the case 
 in any Madden game of the last few years. Here, you'll notice the differences in just about every 
 position. Power running backs and speedier running backs are more individually defined than ever 
 before, as are the differences between run blockers and pass blockers. On the defensive side of 
 the ball, you see more in the technical differences in play between a shutdown corner that guards 
 against the deep threat, and the press coverage corners who prefer to jam up receivers at the line. 
 And the big hitters? Yes, they hit big.  

  These new weapon designations even go beyond basic techniques -- they can actually give you insight 
 into what the other team is doing. Specifically, the "smart" QB and defender designations come 
 with a meter that fills up as individual plays on the other side of the ball are called throughout 
 a game. After a single play or coverage scheme has been called four times, a quarterback like Peyton 
 Manning or Tom Brady can actually see exactly what the defense is going to do, whereas a smart 
 defender can get a glimpse of where the offensive play is going to go. Obviously the counterattack 
 to something like this is to vary up your playbook as much as possible, which is in itself a great 
 thing, since that's what real offensive and defensive coordinators are forced to do in the real 
 game.  

  The excellent new weapons feature isn't the only way the on-field action has changed. Madden's 
 control scheme is more complex than ever before, with more presnap controls than you'll probably 
 ever know what to do with. Once you get the hang of it, the controls become like second nature, 
 but it's likely that players not extremely well versed in the ways of Madden will get a little 
 confused at first as they fumble around with the controls, especially since practically every button 
 on the controller does at least something presnap. This is especially true on defense. The defensive 
 playmaker controls are back, letting you assign coverage changes to individual players before the 
 ball is snapped. You can also now focus coverage on a specific receiver with a quick button press, 
 though doing so will draw defensive resources away from other receivers. When laying in big hits 
 via the right analog stick, you can hit a player high by pressing up, and low by pressing down. 
 Doing this has different effects on different types of players. Hitting high might cause a less 
 cautious ball carrier to cough up the rock, while going low on a power back is probably the best 
 way to take him down as he pushes past the line. There's also a button that will make your controlled 
 defender attempt to strip the ball from a carrier, provided you time the button press right.  

 
  Between that function and the big hits, you'll actually be seeing quite a few fumbles throughout 
 Madden 08. We're not talking NCAA 08 numbers of turnovers here, nor is the number of fumbles per 
 game outlandish or unrealistic, but fumbling is far more regular an occurrence now than it's ever 
 been in a Madden game to date. It's definitely noticeable enough that it will probably frustrate 
 some players. More than anything else, it simply pays to be extra careful with the ball.  

  Between the new weapons feature and all the various control adjustments to this year's game, Madden 
 08 provides an extremely deep and challenging experience on the field, possibly even a bit too 
 challenging, depending on your tastes. One of the complaints about last year's game was that the 
 defensive back artificial intelligence was too much of a pushover, allowing too many easy completions. 
 That's definitely not the case this year. DBs are quite tough to get out of position, especially 
 on the higher difficulty settings. It's maybe a little overblown in terms of challenge there, as 
 DBs seem to just magnetize themselves to receivers and always find a way to get an arm up to swat 
 a pass away, however unlikely the situation. Even linebackers are tough to get the ball by a lot 
 of times. But that's really the worst thing you can say about the AI on any level. Otherwise, it 
 plays a very realistic game of football across practically every position.  

           The new weapons system of characterizing various players' abilities adds a whole new dimension 
 to the game.      

  nother big complaint about the last couple of iterations of Madden was the distinct lack of features. 
 Madden 06 had only a barren franchise mode and basic online play to its name, and while 07 cranked 
 out a new version of superstar mode and a couple of minigames, franchise and online went basically 
 untouched. In Madden 08, many of these modes have seen at least slight upgrades. The biggest and 
 best differences are to be found in the franchise mode, which, while still not as rich with features 
 as previous installments on older consoles, still has a fair amount to offer. During the season, 
 you can now train individual players before each week's game to try to boost up their stats in 
 certain categories. These stat boosts are tied into point totals you earn during drills. So, say 
 you've got a receiver that's got a high, but not quite high enough rating in the "hands" category; 
 what you'd then do is look at how many points you'd need in order to get him to the next level 
 (points earned are determined by the difficulty level of the drill) , and put him through his reps. 
 These stat bonuses stay put, too, so you won't lose them the next week.  

  In terms of offseason features, the owner mode is back in a relatively new form. During the season, 
 you can keep track of your finances via a series of menus that tell you everything from how your 
 revenues and costs stack up against other teams in the league, to which players are currently in 
 a contract year. You'll also hire a scouting agency at some point, and during the season you can 
 task them with keeping tabs on up to 20 rookies from the upcoming draft class. The reports they 
 give you aren't necessarily much more detailed than the ones you get by default on every player, 
 but they tend to be more accurate in judging potential. Rookie potential is actually a new feature 
 in and of itself, in that now, rookies with different expectation levels can become gems or busts 
 over time. These icons don't pop up until a player has been in the league for a little while, but 
 it's all about what a player's potential is. If a player turns out to be greater than his draft 
 position would initially suggest, he'll get a gem icon and actually perform above his stats. Busts 
 are, as you'd imagine, the polar opposite. Even a bust can still be a useful player if you find 
 a way to get him to make plays, but it's far more challenging a prospect than with any other player. 
     

  Lastly, franchise owners can now maintain their team finances by buying upgrades for their stadiums, 
 gaining sponsorship deals, and even opting to move the whole bloody thing to another town if so 
 inclined. Of course, doing so is a tricky process. You have to find a city interested in a team, 
 and on top of that, the costs of doing so are prohibitive. There's a neat system in place that 
 shows how interested a city is in having you in relation to how much money they'll have to spend 
 in order to do it. You basically have to find ways to cut the city's costs down if you want to 
 move there, and if you submit an offer that isn't up to the city's liking, you lose your chance 
 to move until the following year. Once you do move, you'll build a stadium, edit your squad as 
 you please, and finally have that team in Winnipeg that we're sure you've always dreamed of.  

 
  The superstar mode is much as it was last year, but considering how good the mode was last year, 
 that's not a bad thing. You still create your player, use your influence on the field to boost 
 up your teammates, talk to your agent, sign contracts, and generally go through the motions to 
 try to get yourself into the Hall of Fame. One neat addition is that you can actually choose players 
 from this year's rookie pool, so if you want to live the life as Calvin Johnson or live in a fantasy 
 world where Jamarcus Russell actually signs a contract with the Raiders and gets to start, you 
 can do so. There has also been a slight alteration made to the camera system in this mode. The 
 camera is now a bit more zoomed out, making it easier for you to actually see the field. Granted, 
 the camera is still pretty tight on your player, so it's only a minor improvement.  

           Tired of the fact that Jacksonville has a team, yet not Las Vegas, Los Angeles, or Toronto? 
 Move 'em!      

  Online play is functionally unchanged from the last couple of iterations of Madden. You can go 
 head-to-head against only one other player in ranked and unranked matches. The online matches are 
 certainly solid. Lag popped up here and there, and when it did, it had a palpably negative effect 
 on gameplay -- specifically, it made completing passes nearly impossible in the worst instances. 
 But the bulk of the matches we played weren't very laggy at all. As always, your mileage online 
 may vary. There are some online bells and whistles, like the ability to glance at ESPN-licensed 
 news videos, audio clips, and stories, but nothing you couldn't easily get faster directly from 
 the ESPN Web site. There's still no league play of any kind, which is extra-sad when you consider 
 that EA's NHL franchise plans to debut this exact feature in just a few short weeks.  

  Other ancillary features include the same basic minigames from last year, such as the 40-yard dash 
 and bench press, the same functional create-a-player mode, and, finally, a create-a-team mode, 
 which had been missing. There's a decent amount of customization available for jerseys, stadiums, 
 and whatnot, though you can't actually customize the roster of a created team with actual players 
 unless you bring that team into franchise mode and do a fantasy draft. By default, the game populates 
 the team with generic players that are rated depending on how you set your team up (run heavy, 
 pass heavy, balanced, and the like) . You also can't import a created team into franchise mode without 
 replacing another team, though that's not exactly a new issue.  

  The core graphics engine hasn't evolved much from last year, with maybe a touch more detail in 
 the various player models, and not much else. However, animation is decidedly more impressive than 
 ever before. Essentially, a gaggle of new branching animations have been thrown into the mix. Receivers 
 who catch the ball on the sidelines will drag their toe while falling out of bounds or carefully 
 angle their steps to stay in bounds. Running backs look decidedly more fluid as they juke and spin 
 past defenders. And on defense, gang tackles are finally on board and look fantastic. Watching 
 as two big defenders wrap up a running back, or two defensive backs simultaneously go high and 
 low on a ball carrier, effectively flipping that poor schmuck head over heels, is quite a sight 
 to behold. There are a few slightly off-looking animations, like the way that every single player 
 on a field goal defense or an onside kick return team will simultaneously stand up and then crouch 
 down into proper position, and a few catches we saw looked a little buggy and off-kilter. But by 
 and large, the animation in this year's Madden is the best it's ever been.  

  One of the big points of contention about this year's Madden has been the difference in performance 
 between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. It was announced some time ago that the 360 version 
 would run at 60 frames a second, versus 30 on the PS3. When you compare the two games side by side, 
 yes, there is a noticeable difference. The PS3 version is certainly choppier and slightly more 
 prone to hitching up in-game than the 360 one. However, simply taken on its own merits, the PS3 
 version isn't suddenly awful because of this one issue. The choppiness rarely ever distracts you 
 from the gameplay, and for the most part, the 30 frames a second number holds pretty steady. If 
 you have a choice between the two, certainly the 360 version is the preferable one from a visual 
 standpoint, but the PS3 version isn't unplayable by any means.  

  Madden 08's audio is the one area that really feels like it lacks. The on-the-field sound effects 
 are still great, and the soundtrack consists of the usual roster of modern rock and rap acts, combined 
 with the NFL Films music. Commentary, however, is a sticking point. The EA Sports radio announcer 
 who's been around since Madden 06 sounds like he's still spouting the same lines from two years 
 ago, and he still can't seem to get the correct yardage numbers at the end of each play. John Madden 
 still provides voice work for any plays where you choose to "Ask Madden" for a suggestion, but 
 this dialogue is also largely recycled, and sometimes incorrect. There are times when he'll go 
 off about running a screen play when the play being suggested is a four wide receiver set with 
 nothing but deep routes, or a quick pass play when the suggestion is a run up the middle. Finally, 
 Marshall Faulk tries to provide a bit of preshow and postgame commentary, talking about the matchup, 
 key players, and the like. The problem is that he's terrible. The commentary is flat, monotone, 
 and completely uninteresting, not to mention that he practically never uses a player's name.  

 
           New animations are the high points of this year's visual presentation.      

  Sadly enough, ESPN commentators Merril Hodge and Mark Schlereth pop up to do tutorials for some 
 of the minigames, but that's it. You've got actual broadcasters in the game, and they're not even 
 broadcasting. This speaks to a larger issue with Madden, which is that it still hasn't found a 
 way to do broadcast presentation right. The EA Sports radio guy felt like a placeholder when he 
 first debuted, and while he was good, isn't it time to get a real broadcast team? EA has the ESPN 
 license, so there's not much excuse not to get the Monday Night Football crew for games. And why 
 no ESPN integration into the franchise mode? No commentary or week-in-review from Schlereth, Hodge, 
 or the multitude of other NFL experts floating around the network? Heck, even the Super Bowl feels 
 low-rent. There's practically nothing in the game to separate it from any other game during the 
 regular season. Considering it's the biggest sporting event out there, that just strikes as lazy. 

  It's issues like these that hold Madden NFL 08 back from being a truly stellar effort. Make no 
 mistake, this is a great game of football through and through, especially on the field, where the 
 new weapons feature has a fantastic effect on how you play the game. The new additions to the control 
 scheme, the new animation system, and the franchise upgrades also can't be counted out. If anything, 
 Madden 08 seems to represent a tipping point of sorts for the series. You feel like the game is 
 right on the brink of getting back to where it was four or five years ago in terms of stature and 
 innovation. Still, while it might not be quite there yet, Madden NFL 08 offers more than enough 
 quality content to make it worth your while, and features the best football gameplay you'll find 
 on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (301 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:13 am PT
Review:  I remember when I was a little boy and owned a game gear. I would play Joe Montana American Football 
 and love it, boy things have changed and there are some good improvements since I last played the 
 Madden 04 game . Madden 08 is much improved on the 360, better , smoother graphics and control 
 and handling seems more fluid on a controller, the gameplay has added a player campaign mode where 
 you pick an athlete or create one, and pick a position, then you must keep training the player 
 through games, practices and try-outs. This works best on Madden 09 for some reason I don't know, 
 probably the updated roster, so I think I will be putting Madden 09 on my list next. But then again 
 I haven't tried the Blitz games. Good game to own, great ultiplayer. Buy with no hesitat ions. 
 The level of difficulty is quite good and although being British I was still getting to grips with 
 the offside kick rule etc, some people online helped me out and I learnt quite a few new things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paqrmatt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I think the playability of this game is pretty decent, but it just didn't keep me coming back for 
 more. Even the inferior MLB 2K9 kept me coming back to try to gain the special "unlocks" like uniforms 
 and stadiums. This game has none of that. It has trophies you can win but there is no significance 
 to them. The only goal you seem to be working towards is to get ring points. I haven't finished 
 getting all the ring points as it takes many, many, many games so I'm not sure the significance 
 of attaining them. \
  In all, I'm not overly thrilled with this game. Haven't played Madden 09 yet so I'm not sure how 
 it compares. Also, I'd like to see more details in the game itself. For example, the crowd is very 
 generic and does looks the same in every venue. Some kudos are due to the fact that specific chants, 
 etc. were put in for some stadiums. EA needs more of this kind of detail. Also I haven't figured 
 out how to manage substitutes easily for team mates. In fact I haven't been able to do them at 
 all. This should be made much easier for users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacdaniels006
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
 GAYE GAYE GAYE GAYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Opinion  An improvement over the previous year. Graphics are way better and controls what you 
 expect out of the game. I've been away from Madden for quite sometime and have been slowly catching 
 up by buying each year's game from Ebay. So, comparing one year to the next is easy as I have several 
 years with me at the present time. So far this is best improvement I've seen since Madden 06.
 
  
  Positive Graphics are well suited for the 360 console. Player movements are not so robotic.
 
  
  Negative  Not used to having just four plays available on the screen at a time. To see the next 
 four you have to toggle it by moving the D pad controller to the left or right. Guess I'd like 
 to see that old fashioned 6 or 8 plays to choose from instead of wasting time searching for the 
 right one. 
  
  Overall  An improvement over the previous year, Madden 07. I give this a B. Even though it's much 
 improved, it's still not mind blowing to deserve a higher grade. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I have to say first and formost that the following is going to be slightly bias. Coming off of 
 the xbox platform I was a huge ESPN fan. I thought they had the best mechanic system and the superior 
 overall football game then did Madden. Then the unthinkable happened, the most un-American thing 
 happened. EA sports, in a bullying, monopolizing manor, bought out the rights to create NFL games. 
 So instead of competing in a capitalistic fashion, they took a page right out of Stalin's book 
 and took over. So I suppose I should say something about the actual game... Well, its ok. It has 
 a football and guys tackling each other (pretty much the same tackle over and over) other then 
 that I dont have much to say about it. It is going to take a lot of effort on EA's part to win 
 me over. Show me that you are going to make a quality football game now that you have squelched 
 the competion between your billfolds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 056045
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Really fantastic gameplay, with great graphics. The help commentary in a match is really useful 
 and incredibly well done. Every thing is immproved from last madden games, except a $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu system that drives you up the wall, $hitted menu 
 system that drives you up the wall, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  i havent played madden since i had 06 for my xbox original. but i LOVED this one. this is so innovative 
 its amazing. since i dont fell like typing a lot heres some quick good's and bad's.
  
  Goods:
  
  1. tackling. the tackling is great on this one. its not like the other one i had 
 where u went through the person and it looked like the linebacker stuck his arm through the guys 
 chest and ripped his heart out or somethin. and i honestly laughed sometimes when i used the hit 
 stick and completely owned somebody.
  
  2. visuals. yea they are pretty amazing. much better than last years.
  
  3. the player weapons. 
 this is just a great idea. it was really innovative and a great thinking on ea games behalf.
  
  4. quick acheivments. thats always makes the game fun if u can get points while ur having fun 
 instead of being miserable to get 45 measley points like Command and conquer. 
  
  Bads.
  
  1. Peyton Manning. Once again Peyton Manning and the Indy Colts are ridiculously overrated. 
 
  
  2. too easy. have you ever watched a football game that ended 112-7? only on madden.
  
  3. online leagues. needed some work.
  
  4. Peyton Manning. too overrated
  
  i havent 
 played 09 yet but if you want a cheap good game check this out because its probably cheaper because 
 of the newly released 09. i loved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, I wasn't the biggest fan of Madden 07. The graphics weren't all that great, 
 and the plays weren't well organized. The fixed that in Madden 08. First off, the visuals look 
 just as good as you'd probably expect from a next generation console. Player faces could've been 
 improved, but their mere bodies look great, showing tons of muscle detail. The stadium generally 
 looks good, but you'll often see people in the crowd as the same person. The commentary hasn't 
 changed a whole lot, since the announcers will tend to repeat a whole lot of what they're saying. 
 The audio in the game is probably even better than the visuals. Whether players get tackled, or 
 are just sprinting on the field, you'll hear it all, and it actually sounds great. The core gameplay 
 hasn't changed that much, but the few tweaks are for the better. All the plays are sorted out in 
 an organized way and gives you a descriptive picture of what happens in them. The controls work 
 very smoothly and are easy to come to grips with, making it all the better. Improved AI is a noticeable 
 improvement-players will do a good job of either trying to sack you or fend other players off, 
 depending on which team you're on. There's tons of different modes to play, and there's also a 
 nice 1-on-1 match system on Xbox Live. Overall, this is a very improved Madden game that any casual 
 or hardcore NFL fan can easily enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burney77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 show the realistic side of player proper American football with mode in the game called 
 'superstar mode'. In this particular mode you can create a player that you have total conrol of 
 and the only thing you have to worry about is yourself. This game has many different and new features 
 such as training mode, were you build your stats up during the off season and practice mode through-out 
 the week of each one of your games in superstar mode which increases your 'influence' (another 
 new feature of the game) . There is this feature called 'ring mode' which tallies up your total 
 wins losses and draws through-out the game.
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic and it looks almost like your watching an interactive movie. 
 When you create a player, the game says your first and last name when your coming on the feild. 
 As well as all the other new and outragous attributes the most important one is where you are able 
 to chose what type of player you wish to be, for example you could be a charging, accurate or average 
 quaterback.
  
  This game is awsome and there are no faults that i have found yet and it will recieve the highest 
 rating i have ever given a game. A 10 OUT OF 10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when you boot up a quick game of Madden 08 is the new 'weapon' 
 feature introduced into the game. It works on the basis on the basics of every position on the 
 field has around 3 'weapons' associated with it. For example you can have a smart, cannon arm or 
 accurate quarterback. The smart quarterbacks being able to read the defences play, cannon arm quarterbacks 
 being able to throw the farthest and accurate quarterbacks consistently putting the ball on the 
 money. Also each 'weapon' has another 'weapon' on the other side of the field that can cancel them 
 out.
  
  The 'weapon' feature adds a great deal to the game is a great new addition. You can really see 
 the difference between a power back and an elusive back. The 'weapons' also allow you to pick a 
 play around which weapons you have on the field, thus allowing for some truly dynamic play.
  
  There are however some annoying little features in this game that will annoy the player. For 
 example, many simple catches and interceptions are simply dropped by the receiving corps. Leaving 
 you staring blankly at the TV thinking that you could catch a ball better than Randy Moss. Another 
 frustrating thing is the increasing amount of fumbles that occur in a game. I can understand that 
 if a QB on the run, when hit, could fumble the ball, but i hardly think the starting kick returner 
 is going to fumble when hit on a quarter of his return attempts.
  
  The difficulty in this game is also very challenging to the point where it will leave you screaming 
 at the TV on certain games. Deep passes will rarely fall into your receivers hands even if they 
 have beaten the coverage. This is due to the fact that many safety's will jump, without ever looking 
 at the ball, and bat it away. If you ever feel confident enough to ramp up the difficulty to all-madden 
 you will probably throw about 10 interceptions due to the amazing secondary or be sacked repeatedly 
 by the pass rush, dont even try and run the ball.
  
  The graphics in madden 08 are very good, with some neat new animations throw in to the mix. The 
 elusive back evasions are particularly impressive and never feel unrealistic.
  
  The features and game modes in this years installment are also very impressive. The franchise mode 
 allows you to do pretty much anything with your club, including moving it elsewhere. You can simulate 
 pretty much anything from actual games to re-signing players to drafting rookie's. The superstar 
 mode is also impressive, as you can create a player of your own choice or play aa one of the years 
 rookies already signed to a team. You can also create your own team which is pretty awesome.
  
  Online play in Madden 08 is also OK, but not great. If you live in the UK (like me) you will 
 constantly be matched against opponents from the USA and lag will be a problem. Even in matches 
 against UK opponents lag is still an issue, but a bit less of one.
  
  Finally the control scheme in Madden 08 is pretty good. with the pre-snap audibles easy to access 
 once you know what your doing. The only fault i can find with the control scheme is the actual 
 throwing of the ball. You can tap the receivers button to throw a very high lob pass, or you can 
 hold is to throw a bullet pass. With nothing in the middle you find yourself in the position of 
 needing to throw over a player but a lob pass takes too long to come down and your player is out 
 of bounds. By simply editing this feature the passing plays would be more fun and challenging.
 
  
  Madden NFL 08 is a great game with some awesome new features. however the small niggles that detract 
 from the game stop me giving it a 9.0 or 9.5 rating. I would give it a 8.7 but with some of the 
 features sorted out for next years installment I could easily see it being a truly awesome game.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, 
  Ben 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  
  The first game i bought for my new Xbox 360 as it was a safe bet i would enjoy the game having 
 enjoyed the last 7 years of Madden.
  
  Not sure what i was expecting to see this year as i had not read any reviews or heard any news 
 on Madden 08, but the addition of the player weapon's (basically there special ability) it was 
 a good addition, now you can read a game like Manning, but with most new additions there is a down 
 fall in this instance it was the control of the game, the amount of buttons need to perform different 
 things takes some getting used to, and the sprint button does not make you move any faster.
  
  The franchise mode has taken away the ability to adjust your ticket prices concession's or 
 buy things to upgrade your stadium during the season, it's a case if you play well they will come, 
 there are no more fan day's to try and increase your fan base. You can change bit's of your stadium 
 during the off season as before but you can't add better seats or arcades during the regular season.
 
  
  In franchise mode there is an option of the franchise room at first it looks pointless as there 
 is nothing there and just adds to an annoyance of taking the in-game menu away but win things and 
 this will rapidly fill so you can gaze at the trophies.
  
  I must admit i have not played the superstar mode as yet so i am unable to comment on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  this game was the worst madden yet, the cpu linebackers were rediculously smart and would jump 
 3 yds high and 12 feet across the feild for the interception the have thier own gravitational pull 
 for the ball. fumbles accur every 3 hits it seems. the teams with a 70-60 overall are almost impossible 
 to win with. you cant change up the snap count too much unless you like encroachment calls very 
 often, i play the packers and i can make arron kampmen jump offsides almost every play. no graphic 
 change, crappy jumbo tron animations, crappy same old comentary as last year. the teleport interception 
 are bogus as hell. I would throw the ball to reggie brown who was wide open and the ball went to 
 his hands and teleported to the giants defender for a pic. 90% of all interceptions are taken to 
 the house for a td. the cpu will break 3 tackles in one play apposed to your0-1. a horrible game, 
 needs alot of work franchise and superstar mode sucked.
  
  this game was a waste of 60 dollars, ea has ripped us off again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pennington247
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 had everything you need in a Pro Football or should I say any Football franchise! Madden 
 NFL 08 even had some more features such as Import NCAA Legend, you could build a stadium, you could 
 change your uniform, you could add upgrades to your stadium every off- season it showed you your 
 money growth or decrease. And don't even get me started on the Hit Stick 2.0 thats just simply 
 awesome. Its so cool how it looks so real when you like whack the crap out of someone. Also the 
 graphics are extremely great. The jukking, spinning, passing, running, tackling, kicking, punting 
 is all great. This obviously is the best Football Franchise out at the time but NCAA Football 09 
 will be great but Madden 09 will come out 2 months after so Football Franchises will be back! I 
 mainly only get NCAA Football 09 to Import a NCAA Legend onto Madden so you know like it's a real 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimera2004
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Its football season so outcomes another Madden title. This year I played Madden NFL '08 on Xbox 
 360 and it's the only football game with the NFL license. So is this year's version really worth 
 dropping $60 bucks for?
  One of the big new features in this year's tile is the weapons. No not guns and knives but certain 
 types of players. For example Terrell Owens is a stiff-arm receiver and a quick receiver while 
 Peyton Manning is a smart-QB and an accurate quarterback. Basically the best players in the league 
 are weapons and they'll be the guys to make the big plays on offense, defense, or special teams. 
 It also makes it easy to let you know which players you want to get the ball to or which players 
 can cause the turnover. 
  Another nice little feature is certain players have their own celebrations like Clinton Portis 
 or Michael Strahan. This year they wanted to put more emotion into the game like the opening cut 
 scene with Brian Dawkins. But they still don't make it very rewarding when you when the super bowl. 
 It's just a 10 second celebration and that's all you get. They still don't have John Madden and 
 Al Michaels calling plays, it's just a radio announcer, which I guess can be a good thing since 
 John Madden kind of gets on your nerves after awhile. 
  One huge improvement in this game is the AI. In older versions a play-action pass would nearly 
 guarantee you a touchdown because the DB's would fall for it. You can't just toss up a Hail Mary 
 every play and get a touchdown it will most likely be an interception. The quarterbacks will scramble 
 if they see open field or if they are under pressure. Wide receivers will continue making blocks 
 up the field which is something that didn't happen in other versions. 
  All of the other features are back in the game. You got the superstar mode which really isn't all 
 that great. You start out as a rookie and eventually try to get into the hall of fame. In this 
 mode if you're a wide receiver that's the only position you get to be and the camera can be aggravating 
 at times. Franchise mode is back. That of course is where you pick a team and control all the things 
 that come along with owning a team. For the first time in the Xbox 360 version you can create a 
 team. There are a few problems with that such as not a lot of customization with what you can do 
 and choosing the teams roster gets complicated. 
  The online play is similar to last years. No notable differences from last year. It's still five 
 minute quarters, virtually no lag and the all-pro difficulty. One feature a lot of folks wanted 
 was online leagues which are still not in this year's version for some reason. If you're connected 
 to Xbox live you can listen to ESPN radio and get updates for the NFL or any other kind of sport 
 which is a nice addition. Also this year EA is putting out more roster updates which is something 
 you didn't see a lot of last year.
  The Xbox 360 version is definitely the one to go with. It runs at 60 frames per second while the 
 Playstation 3 version only runs at 30 frames. You can still pick up Madden on the Wii, Playstation 
 2, PSP, Xbox, DS, and even the Gamecube. Overall though the games a lot of fun and still addicting 
 as ever. It's still not quite the greatest football game ever but it's the best on Xbox 360. I'm 
 giving this year's version for the Xbox 360 8.5 out of 10. The only thing you got to wonder is 
 if the "Madden curse" will strike this year put Vince Young on the sidelines?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game last August and it's an good, but not great game. It feels like an true next-gen 
 game as well. There are still some issues on Madden NFL 08 that's keeping from being an great game 
 and here's my pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  gameplay is the same as last year but faster.
  graphics looks real good
  offensive playbook is five times bigger
  weapon icons was smart to 
 put in
  defensive back issue is fixed
  match-up system was an great idea
  owner mode is the same, but was brought in this game.
  sound is good
  
  Neutral
  great 
 multiplayer, but I haven't played it
  
  Cons
  Too many fumbles/interceptions on this game
  where's the offensive line system that you can make 
 them open holes for running plays or pass protection?
  superstar mode is worthless
  Al Michaels and John Madden aren't in this game for third straight year
  computer A. I. will be 
 cheap sometimes
  
  I know Madden Haters/2K Football fanboys are thinking; I'm being biased and ridiculous with this 
 review. I got words for y'all: I'm being honest, don't care what you think about this review and 
 it's an good game. It really improve from last game and I hope next game continues on this path 
 with less issues.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DojoKanooJoto
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08's here and so far it's the best in the series. The rosters were updated and continue 
 to get updated if you have xbox live which is a good new addition. Unless your a Michael Vick fan. 
 Superstar mode is more in depth. The Ai is smarter. I like the addition of weapons for certain 
 players. Franchise mode is a bit better. There are still some problems. Like they took out in superstar 
 mode were you choose parents and how good your player is depends solely on how they do on the 3 
 workouts. So if your good at the 40 yard dash but terrible at the bench press that may me good 
 if you want a wide reciever. But when you want a Defensive end or linebacker they'll be fast but 
 could be knocked over by a 3 year old. Some more trick plays would have been nice or the abilty 
 to do things that NFL players actually do like return missed field goals or laterals. It's good 
 but can get repeatative. Let's hope 09 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPizzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Madden comes in the late summer, making football fanatics like myself chomp-at-the-bit 
 for the next instalment in the best (and only) football sim on the market. Every year Madden has 
 something innovative it brings to the table. Such as, the new weapons system it has introduced 
 this year. It also has it's flaws, some minor, some major. Overall, It's a great game as it usually 
 most always is. The superstar mode is fantastic. Expecially when coupled with the Campus Legend 
 mode in NCAA 08. But, the thing that I am most happy about is the Madden Gamer Ring. It's a ring 
 that upgrades itself by adding diamonds and extra stuff by what you do in the game. For example: 
 if you get 2 interceptions in one game then you get a certain amount of points adding to your total 
 Madden score. 
  
  Anyways, That was a few of the things I liked about this years installment of Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Madden o8 is one of my first 360 games and it is awesome compered to ps2. Thr graphics are the 
 best graphics I have ever seen and if you are A football fan you will love it. All 32 teams and 
 fields are here and it is worth the 50 $ PRICE TAG BUT EVEN IF YOUR NOT A FOOTBALL fan you will 
 still love this gane. It is easy achifments and is diffently worth playing hike I would buy a xbox 
 360 just to play this game. And the folowing is a silute to RIC FLAIR W o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o oo o o oo o oo o o o o o o o o o oo o o oo oo oo o o o o oo o o o o o o o oo o oo oo 
 o oo oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o oo0000 000000 0000 0000 0000 00000 0000000 00000 0 0000 0000 0 0000 0000000 0000 000 000 
 00 000 o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Madden NFL 2006 was released, the series has kind of been on a downfall. In Madden NFL 
 06, the QB Vision was seen as biased and is still not liked by many players today. In Madden NFL 
 07, there was a highlight stick and a few other small features, yet nothing in particular. The 
 360 was especially hard hit, and their games usually scored lower than the PS2 and XBOX games. 
 
  
  However, there are enough new features in Madden NFL 08 to make it a huge improvement in the series, 
 with tons of new features, great graphics and the updated roster.
  
  The biggest new feature is the Weapons Feature. Certain players have certain skills that can be 
 used on the field. For example, Smart Quarterbacks like Tom Brady can read plays occasionally on 
 the field, and Power Runningbacks like Larry Johnson can truck through defenders better than everyone 
 in the game. You can tell if these players have these Weapons in the game if there's an icon below 
 them. Some players can have more than one Weapon. LaDainian Tomlinson, for example, is both a Power 
 Back and an Elusive Back.
  
  There is also a new showcase in the main menu. This allows you to track ring progress (which you 
 get progress for in games) and tropies earned (which are earned by doing certain accomplishments 
 in the game) . It's a small feature, but still pretty nice.
  
  The Franchise has had several new features. The Busts and Gems feature allows you to see how effective 
 drafted players were. Within 2-4 years upon being drafted, a gem or bomb icon will appear beside 
 their name. A gem means that the player was a great draft choice and will perform better than his 
 stats indicate. A bomb icon is the opposite, with it being a poor choice and perform worse that 
 his stats indicate, yet you can always improve them with good playing. 
  
  In the franchise mode, you take control of one or more NFL teams on the way to making a dynasty. 
 There are championships to be won, records to be broken (can be game, season or career records. 
 For example, you can try to get LaDainian Tomlinson the most rushing TD's ever or Peyton Manning 
 the most TD passes) and after retirement players can be entered into the the Hall of Fame. You 
 can sign free agents and trade players to make your team even better.
  
  In the season, you can even try to possibly shorten injury times by trying them in a drill or two. 
 It will show their progress depending on how they do, and can shorten the time of injury. Using 
 the same feature, you can try to get players more Weapons in one drill per week. Using this properly 
 can give you many talented players.
  
  However, there are some flaws in the franchise mode. Progression over years isn't as realistic 
 as it should be. Certain players like Derek Anderson don't seem to improve much don't seem to improve 
 much depending on how much you use them, yet players that you should be using but don't still seem 
 to go up. Another thing that is unrealistic is that many teams don't seem to let go of many talented 
 players, with only about 2-5 players every off season worth getting. This is unrealistic, because 
 teams always lose players, and it feels out of place. 
  
  In Superstar Mode, you take control of a rookie (either custom or a real NFL rookie) and try to 
 get them into Canton. A bar indicates how close you are. You must perform well during games and 
 meet goals for this to go up. This is what makes the feature a decent feature, as you can try to 
 put yourself in the shoes of a players career. You can only take control of your player on the 
 field, yet you can gain influence by doing certain accomplisments. If your a Quarterback and you 
 complete passes for positive gains or touchdowns, it will go up. If you get sacked or get intercepted, 
 you will lose influence. Beware, as many of these, such as yard games and fumbles that were done 
 by others, affect you as well.
  
  The graphics in the game are spectacular. The players look sharp, with the colours, realistic motion 
 and smaller things like detail in helmets and other equipment. Especially if this is your first 
 Madden game and at first glance, you can see that they are great.
  
  The sound is so-so. There are some good sound effects on the field, yet none worth mentioning. 
 The announcer is horrible, as he is a radio broadcaster for your team, and he sounds horrible. 
 Madden (I forgot who was with him) wasn't that great himself, yet it felt in place with them announcing, 
 while this is completely out of place. Madden only talks when you get him to choose a play for 
 you. The music selection in the main menu can be better, but when you choose the songs that you 
 want to listen to, its fine.
  
  Overall, Madden NFL 08 is a huge step forward in the series, the best since 2005 and the first 
 great Madden game for the XBOX 360. The new features are welcomed, yet some smaller issues prevented 
 this game from being better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  As some of you may know, I'm a huge fan of the madden series. I've owned countless iterations and 
 versions of EA's football product, and have both enjoyed them tremendously while been equally disappointed 
 throughout the years. 
  
  To be frank the most disappointing experiences I've had with madden has been with our current gen 
 ('next gen') offerings on the Xbox 360, Wii and Ps3. In owning both the 360 and Wii versions, I 
 can say that, for a madden buff like myself, they're massively disappointing for a variety of different 
 reasons. 
  
  As far as The Xbox 360's (and PS3's) madden is concerned it suffers from a myriad of issues. For 
 example, its gravest fault is in it's terribly basic franchise mode, which doesn't include restricted 
 free agents, realistic or progressive free-agent activity (IE, teams hang on to their players as 
 much as possible, which is not like the NFL at all) , a consistent or effective means of player 
 progression, an effective morale system and so on. As a result, the high powered Madden's of the 
 360 and PS3 fail to provide an engaging experience that really makes you feel like the league is 
 'alive'. One simply feels like nearly every CPU controlled team is stuck in a cryogenic hibernation, 
 where they'll only make the most minimum effort to rework their teams as years go by. In fact, 
 you'll feel like nearly every player is static, as well, due to a sub-par progression system that 
 happens only once a year, and it doesn't happen effectively, at that. (As an example, my friend's 
 Franchise saw Aaron Rogers (under his control) , win Quarterback of the year and the superbowl, 
 but he didn't improve statistically; whilst his backup went up 2 points overall for taking 2 snaps 
 all season.
  
  Furthermore even when gameplay is considered, the lack of on field injuries further hampers the 
 realism, whilst the fact that nearly any player can break away and be uncatchable in the open field, 
 does the same.
  To make matters worse, as far as the Xbox 360 version is concerned, the announcer is simply terrible. 
 This is the first game I have heard of that has a announcer who unapologetically roots for your 
 team? Radio announcer or not, I'm of the mind that it simply fails to capture any sort of realism 
 at all; never mind his comments themselves being bland and unimportant.
  
  Hell, even animations in Madden 08 on the 360 leave something to be desired. The multi-man hits 
 usually feature a scenario where the running is contacted and held up by the first defender, and 
 then is simply pushed to the ground from behind, the side, or the front, by an oncoming second 
 defender who attempts to wrap him up. Needless to say, the majority of the hits are hardly vicious, 
 and the ones that are, (like a safety taking a mid-air receiver out by the legs causing him to 
 flip and land on his head but walk away fine) just don't seem right.
  
  So, with a mediocre franchise mode that misses so much of what made the classic madden's of last 
 generation such fun, a terrible announcer, strange almost hyper-realistic gameplay rife with big 
 plays, massive amounts of interceptions, and strange looking tackles Madden 08 on the 360 (while 
 it may look pretty) is simply a total and utter letdown to anyone who calls themselves a true fan 
 of the game of football.
  
  These so-called "next-gen" football games just don't cut it any longer.
  I honestly suggest going 
 to the classic gameplay of the basically bug-free PC version of 08 this year, and hope that if 
 you're a franchise junkie like me, that great franchise mode will surface in later iterations of 
 the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 1
Date: May 12, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I got the game and took 30 minutes to do a fantasy draft, import my NCAA roster, draft my created 
 player and start up. I started off with a kick return. I passed for 12 yards. I dropped back again, 
 and it locked up.
  
  Of course, I had not saved it. Whatever. It comes with EA games. I should have known. 
  
  I 
 shut the system down and turned it back on. The game said something like 'this X-Box 360 game can 
 only be played in an X-Box 360 console.' I shut it off and let it wait, then ejected the disk and 
 cleaned it. I tried again. It said 'this X-Box 360 game can only be played in an X-Box 360 console.'
 
  
  I've been online and gotten all the updates. I was using my unmodified X-Box 360 system with the 
 original disk from the factory. EA's games don't work long enough to enjoy before they lock up. 
 Why does EA have to put so much protection in their games that you can't play it on the system 
 it's meant to play on? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylin_prince
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  i always get anfry when i play ithis game! don't get me wrong this game is very fun and addictive 
 but just leaves you frustrated. o. k. here's the deal; when you first get the game you don't mind 
 the losing but about 15 games it gets very irritating and you end up restarting cause you're just 
 angry that you're losing horrendously. call me a spoiled sport but that's how i see it. also another 
 thing; madden's advice! i hatr his advice sometimes he tells me to do something like "QB Contain" 
 saying it willmake the quarterback somewhere he didn't intend to throw it at" but the next thing 
 i know is that one of his receivers rather:
  A) ddin't get a first down but short.
  B) made the first down
  C) gained a tremendous amount of yards
  D) got a touchdown
  when 
 my team was correctly doing the play the wise john madden told us to do. 
  other times he tells me tpo do something like the "zone blitz". well, i scroll through the playbook 
 and find NOTHING even related to the zone blitz.! now madden is a pretty cool guy but i hate him 
 passionately in this game when he says a play that doeasn't work or isn't even in the playbook!
 
  well, after many frustrating times in pro and above i decide to go to rookie to win a few games. 
 it's pretty cool but after a while you get tired of winnig and try to find challenge in the game 
 so I'm under a double edged sword choosing the diffuculty.
  nevertheless with all my ranting, the game is pretty fun and has some neat extras. like the franchise 
 which is pretty tight and the create a team (mine is the los angeles pythons) where you get to 
 choose star palyers from the nFL to be your team. also, the create-a-player option where you get 
 to pick his name, team, number, skin tone, body weight wetc. etc. but what i think is very cool about 
 madden 08 is choosing choosing the temparatuyre, the time the game begins, if the weather is manual 
 or november, how cloudy it is, if you rain or not (NOTE: you can only get rain if you have an overcast 
 of cluds) and how much wind the game has. even thoguh it can be frustrating the gmae is still good 
 and grows on you.
  
  OVERALL SCORE:
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajchicago
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  (N/A)
  
  Gameplay:
  I can tell you this right now that this is the fastest MADDEN game ive ever played! The players 
 run a whole lot faster, & inlike the past 2 years where MADDEN looked like it took a dive in the 
 next gen. due to lack of options they offred on the past gens like PS2 or XBOX and then took them 
 out and give less than what its worth, made a dramtic change in realism & real time weather conditons. 
 Last years MADDEN felt slow & exhusting since each game takes almost an hour and a half to finsh 
 no matter what time you set it in. I mean to prove my point last week i played 07 w/ a 2 min time 
 limit & still took me alomost more than 2 hours to finsh, its that F***ing slow, and while MADDEN 
 08 has much faster frame rate and much faster response time and the A. I coudnt be any better so 
 i have absolutly no complants bout 08 when its in that subject. Now the controls... the controls 
 couldnt be any better or as tight! Its the same as b4 but with a few minor changes... like more 
 audible options on defense b4 each snap and more detailed plays & tips between each players. 
 
  I LOVE these options since there left out last year! The modes in madden are diffrent, like they 
 are evry year, coudnlt be more entaining! One of em is for your profile. You get this ring as u 
 first start and as u play more games, or win more, ur superbowl ring will build up over time on 
 each level u pregress threw... lol but one negative i have on madden is superstar mode, personannly 
 i always hated superstar mode but this S**T is impossible becuase thier more strict on earning 
 ur attributes so if u guy turns out to be S****Y then hhis going to blow big nuts!!!! but thats 
 the ONLY thingi dont like bout MADDEN... THE ONLY THING!
  
  Visuals:
  And this MADDEN has the best graphics in the series 65 frams per second there fore is sooooooooo 
 much faster and thats wat makes it harder so thats a good challage!... lol as usahll the 360 delvers 
 its best when it comes to graphics!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellaFatCat
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  i wont make this review long as the game has been out for around 7 months at this point... i just 
 want to warn anyone who might not have bought the game yet or are thinking about buying a console 
 just to play madden.
  the game itself is fun.. ill give it that. still the best NFL game to date. funny thing is there 
 are no others to compair it to... intentionally.
  
  EA dropped the ball on certain areas of this one, and i think signing an exclusive deal with the 
 NFL has hurt them more than it's helped. they didnt have to try as hard and it showed.
  
  if you are looking for online football, you still wont go wrong with this title.. most of the online 
 glitches have been patched out.
  
  now if you are an avid franchise player.. stear WAY clear of this game
  advertised right on the 
 box as 30 seasons of franchise. noone can get past season 3 if their lucky.. i myself cannot get 
 through a single season before my franchise crashes and becomes unusable
  
  you'd think after 7 months they might try to have this fixed, but they dont seem to care
  
 
  http://forums. ea. com/mboards/thread. jspa? threadID=313064&tstart=0&start=150
  
  if you look at their own forums (url above) , they have ignored anyone complaining about this issue 
 and most likeley will not fix it since there are less than 5 months before the next version comes 
 out. if the next game is as untested and broken as this version is, i still doubt they will do 
 anything as this game is the proof they dont care about anyone outside of the online comunity (there 
 have been at least 4 patches fixing online bugs/crashes)
  
  if you ever enjoyed the franchise mode in the past and where looking for a similar experience STEAR 
 CLEAR OF MADDEN 08
  
  i think EA finally cured my madden addiction as i wont be buying madden 09 strait off the shelf 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOblahMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  1. Franchise Mode. This is the best game setting on here. you can go as far as you want, and you 
 can edit the teams and make changes to the roster without it affecting Quick Game play. 2. Superstar 
 Mode. You can create your own player and take him to the NFL draft. You can hire and fire agents 
 and you can add points to enhance your player's stats.
  
  There is only one thing I have a problem with.
  You can't download the current rosters. I play 
 with the skins and Joe Gibbs retired. Jim Zorn is the new head coach and I don't know how to download 
 the roster so that the new players are on my Madden 08 roster and Jim Zorn is the coach. Joe Gibbs 
 is great, but it's kinda weird seeing him on the sidelines. I don't want to have to wait until 
 Madden 09 comes out at the end of this year. When the 360 makes updates, you should make it so 
 that it updates the rosters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Madden 08 on the Xbox 360, I was skeptical. To me, it seemed as though it was 
 too unrealistic, although the graphics were excellent. It didn't seem to me as though it was a 
 worthy addition to the long-running Madden series on consoles. However, I continued to play the 
 game, and eventually realized not to judge a book by its cover. I realized that Madden 08 is actually 
 one of the better sports games that I've played. The game actually is more realistic, and to me, 
 it seems like it mirrors the aggressiveness that is exerted by football players on the field. As 
 usual, there are two main single player modes, Franchise and Superstar, which are essentially the 
 same as all of the other games. However, the online play excels because of Xbox Live. Overall, 
 if you have enjoyed the Madden series thus far, and you are looking for a good football simulator 
 to play, Madden NFL 08 is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DontEvenTry0
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  ONLY BUY IF YOU ARE GOING TO PLAY ONLINE.
  
  Too many glitches and not enough support. Why are things in the old gen still missing from the 
 current gen????????
  EA just take my money every year so I can play on live.
  Franchise is weak and drafted players seem random sometimes a top 5 has a 68 overall? And a "speed" 
 QB will have a low acceleration so hes worthless. And some low round pick will have a horrible 
 overall but a full big hitter weapon or smart linebacker? Makes no sense. Progression is wacked 
 too.
  
  I guess I need 100 words but I cant even use 100 nor do I need them. Blah blah blah why is this 
 game so addicting to me? I guess I need 100 words but I cant even use 100 nor do I need them. Blah 
 blah blah why is this game so addicting to me? I guess I need 100 words but I cant even use 100 
 nor do I need them. Blah blah blah why is this game so addicting to me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: septa_r1dah
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Once again EA puts out a crappy version of Madden, and I ask myself "why?" How many years of practice 
 do they need to make this game good again. I am sorry, this is an Ok football sim, but the third 
 attempt on the next gen, and this is the result? It is such a shame that Sega's attempt to come 
 back into the market didn't do as well as it could have, hopefully next year they can make a better 
 effort. I am so ready to stop wasting my money on these thrown together, incomplete games. I think 
 I will let my friends buy Madden in 09 and play games "on-the-road" if I feel like playing it. 
 And those jumbo-tron animations, what the heck were they thinking. These are the ugliest animations 
 that ever made it into an next gen game, freaking tecmo bowl did better stuff after you made a 
 field goal or scored a touchdown, they even use that to show chain measurements... take me back 
 to Madden 92 when the ambulance road kills 21 players to get to the injured one, at least that 
 was entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  It has it's great qualities, but only a FEW minor setbacks. Generally a good experience. First 
 off, i should say, the Bills, Texans, and Raiders should NOT be so badly rated to the point where 
 you can just barely win, even on pro. Now to the Good stuff.
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Graphics are nice to look at in gameplay and short celebrations on the field or in the endzone.
 
  - Weapons. Distinguishes the great players of the NFL and are the guys you will most likely want 
 to stick with. The smooth controls help in almost every position in the game. You can go up for 
 the highest catch of all time and secure the ball, or catch in stride with the receiving weapons. 
 With Half Backs, you can plow over or evade elusively with these weapons. Nobody escapes the brick 
 wall defenders and shutdown corners as the defensive weapons of the game. It just makes these players 
 genuinely special and fun to watch. 
  - The features are fun and supersim can either be good, or bad, pending on your willingness to 
 use it. It isn't always fun to skip everything, but is good for some people. Franchise is a good 
 step in the right direction. Scouting can help you with the draft and owner mode is cool, managing 
 players and finances, your stadium and it's attractions. Superstar is fun, although the mini game 
 drills are tricky for me.
  - 1 on 1 is fun in this game, where just plain crazy, weird, impossible plays happen frequently 
 with the players still having fun, even with my biggest complaint, which is next.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Wayyy too many turnovers. Whether it's fumbles or interceptions, this is frustrating 
 since you can sometimes not even complete a pass or run a play. This takes away from the game a 
 lot.
  - Transfer in franchise from NCAAF 2008 was hard, since none of them had names or "NFL Numbers" 
 when i transferred them.
  - Certain features such as the trophies and "Ring of a Champion" look fun, but are just sort of 
 meaningless and stupid.
  
  Other than this, the game is very good in it; s own right. Good building block, as usual, for 09, 
 which will, hopefully, blow all us Madden fans away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simple, this game is broken.
  
  Interceptions are a huge problem, players seem to instantly know exactly where a ball is going, 
 and receivers seem content to stand there and watch the pass be picked. Players will slide, fly, 
 literally teleport to the ball and make ridiculous interceptions, while receivers will hardly change 
 their route at all. Especially on All-Madden, the amount of unrealistic interceptions is horrific.
 
  
  Second, the AI in general is awful. Blockers will let players run right by, and plays like the 
 HB Pass or even running with the QB are overpowered as the defense almost never reacts well. The 
 only reason the game is harder at different difficulty levels is because the players stats literally 
 change, not because they actually play smarter.
  
  There are no more historic teams, franchise mode in my opinion has gotten worse, without even the 
 option to practice with your team. Superstar is shallow as ever, and modifying sliders is required 
 to have even a semi-realistic game.
  
  Unfortunately, the exclusive license between the NFL and EA has been renewed until 2012 or something, 
 so unless the developers seriously reform this game, we will probably be stuck with this same garbage 
 every year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zache86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This years installment to the Madden franchise offers many of the same features as the last two 
 years, with a few much needed improvements mixed in.
  
  PROS:
  1. I feel one the biggest features this year is the improved hit stick. This year you can really 
 "feel" it when you hit someone, and the jukes just feel more lifelike. 
  2. The detail in the movement of players; no longer do we have to endure the same animations over 
 and over. One of the small improvements in this category that really stand out to me, is when you 
 dive into the end zone, the computer recognizes what you are doing, and adds a flair to the end. 
 For instance a front flip with the arm extended. You are now also allowed to jump over piles on 
 the goal line. Again not a huge improvement but we'll take it.
  3. The sports update from ESPN radio; this year you can get sports updates from ESPN radio every 
 20 minutes. You get roster, scores, and stats updates, however Xbox live is required. This also 
 deserves a place in the CONS column do to the fact that the roster updates really eliminate the 
 need for Madden 09 unless they really improve the graphics or gameplay.
  
  
  CONS:
  1. Fumbles, fumbles, fumbles. Fumbles run rancid in this game, expect two to three fumbles a game. 
 Even the surest handed players will turn into butterfingers McGee. Along with this the interceptions 
 seem to be a bit much also, but at least believable. 
  2. The season mode/superstar Mode; How many times can I get the same emails? Mom always wants to 
 say "Hi pookie." I mean come on. Another annoyance is the complete lack of skill from your QB 
 in superstar mode. Obviously if you are the QB then that point in invalid. Another big downside 
 is, once you've fought through a 20 fumble season and make it to the big game, you just don't feel 
 like you've accomplished something when you win the super bowl. 
  3. The AI improvement. Wait why is this on the CONS list? Because its WAY too hard that's why. 
 Its like you or I trying to outrun LT or Randy Moss, its impossible. However its way too easy on 
 the easy difficulties. On rookie mode its very easy to haul in 50 points a game, however on all-madden 
 your lucky to get positive yards. Your RB doesn't stand a chance, he'll get buried in the backfield 
 every play, sometimes the QB will get sacked before the handoff
  
  Overall this is very similar to last years edition with a few improvements that make it a worthwhile 
 investment. 
  
  Overall score of 7.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormape
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Alright, first off im gonna say that this review really has taken me awhile to figure out because 
 part of me loves the game, and part of me hates it. Ive really thought about the pros and cons 
 to the game when i was both enjoying it and being completly pissed in an effort to make the review 
 as best as i can. The most comparisons im going to make will be to Madden 08 for the PS2 because 
 i owned it before i got the 360 version. But dont worry, 07 and 08 for the 360 are pretty much 
 the same. I know this is a long review but please take the time to read it because i really did 
 put my best effort into it. 
  
  Cons:
  1. Improved AI: im sure your thinking why this might be a bad thing, but it has become an issue. 
 I feel the AI is a little too good, an example of which that i have seen multiple times is say 
 i throw a pass (as hard as i can) close to the sidelines to an open reciever, the nearest cover 
 man is on the complete opposite side of the field, and what i see is him run double the speed of 
 my reciever and knock the ball down. Another example of the issue is say i have a reciever going 
 on a cross in route and i throw it to him (while he has pretty good seperation on the corner) and 
 what i see happen is the corner speed up and jump in front of my reciever to get the pick. In some 
 instances, i have seen my quarterback scramble out of the pocket to throw a pass and even though 
 he has pressure, he throws it either 20 yards away from the intended reciever or throw it right 
 to a safety. This makes you think twice about squeezing in passes you could usually make, which 
 makes the gameplay a bit harder.
  
  2. Cuts to Franchise mode: So now instead of when you finish a season you go to a big owner menu 
 screen, you go into a tiny staff bar with almost every attribute of a couch cut out (all there 
 is is a bar with offense, special teams, and defense) and very little ways of judging the coach. 
 You can now hire a scouting staff, but that really seems like a very unuseful addition. All you 
 can do as an owner is to check finances, set prices, and relocate. You can no longer switch teams 
 in the offseason, which is a huge blow because i enjoy building up crappy teams and then move on 
 to the next crappy team after that, which i cant do anymore. You no longer have control of you 
 players progression as they took out training camp, so now they just develope by themselves.
  
  3. Superstar mode: it sucks... plain and simple. It still has most of the major flaws as last 
 year and its incredibly hard to see if your quarterback leading to many more INT.
  
  4. Fumbles: this happens way to damn much. in the previous games i hardly ever fumbled, but now 
 i get at least one a game. the new player ID (brickwall defender, cannon arm qb, etc) favors more 
 towards the defense because when you try on run on big hitter or brick wall defender ill say 6/10 
 youll fumble. 
  
  Pros:
  1. Owner AI: what i mean by this is the improved intellegence of other franchises in frnachise 
 mode. no longer will you see a team have 20 gaurds with a rating of 90 or more or say for example 
 the Colts drafting a QB every year in the first round when they already have Manning. that still 
 happens on occation, but not as often. you also wont see the best players being Free Agents every 
 year but there is still some good free agents now and again, so dont panic. Overall this was a 
 big improvement for me, even though i understand why this might not matter to some, but i have 
 a thing for having things being as realistic as possible. 
  
  2. More detailed players: now instead of the tradition 15 - 20 ways of determining the players 
 rating, you now have about 40. each one of them i feel is pretty accurate and an improvement to 
 the gameplay, for it helps to ID peoples roles. there are many more roles with much more detail 
 to them and ways to counter them such as big hitters, power backs, smart qbs, etc.
  
  3. Sports updates: you can now get live ESPN radio every 20 minutes (Xbox live required) to post 
 you on scores and highlights. Also you can update the rosters which to me takes away the reason 
 for me to buy Madden 09, because thats the main reason i keep getting Madden (ill end up getting 
 it though just to see if its better than 08) .
  
  There are other tidbits of annoyances and pros but there nothing to really write about. This game 
 overall is an improvement of the previous years, yet a downfall. However, ill still end up playing 
 this game almost every other day, just because im a football freak and its the only thing on the 
 market. I put 100 hours or more because it is so addicting for me, and hard because the AI can 
 make things rediculously difficult at times (and i was pretty damn good at the other maddens) . 7.5 
 is fare because its still a good game to play and it is an improvement from previous titles, but 
 it still fall short of being great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 delivers a great game for the next gen systems. Not only that but the game is going in 
 the right direction to make it just as fun as the Maddens of a couple years back. The game itself 
 has many improvements. Playing with a friend is where the most fun is because the games graphics 
 and stick layout is outstanding. The games franchise and Superstar mode are good but still have 
 not found a true identity. The franchise lost much of its key components while the superstar mode 
 still is mediocre. However, playing online or with friends in a simple game is really fun as there 
 are not that many bugs or glitches in it. Also i think the offense and defense in playing the game 
 have finally become even somewhat. The special teams however is to easy for kicking a 60 yard field 
 goal can be done. Also kick and punt returns are to easy. However its till a great game to play 
 and overall this is a definite buy for Madden lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Madden '06 and '07 were rather disappointing for the next-gen systems, mainly because the gameplay 
 was somewhat broken and EA took out all the major features, and all that was left was some pretty 
 graphics. Madden '08 fixes all those problems. It brings back all of the old modes, and also adds 
 the Superstar feature. The Superstar feature gives certain players special abilities that can be 
 used to your advantage. They can also be countered by certain 'Superstar' players on the other 
 team. The gameplay this year feels much more refined, and the controls are also much sharper. The 
 highlight stick is also a welcome addition, which allows your player to juke or dodge around other 
 players. Once again the Superstar feature comes into play, being that only strong runners can use 
 the truck stick, and elusive runners can tip-toe their way around defenders. The hit stick has 
 also been changed, allowing you to tackle either high or low. The graphics are solid as always, 
 but you won't really notice much of a difference between last year's graphics and this years. However, 
 the animations in '08 are simply outstanding. You'll see spectacular catches, crushing hits, and 
 gang tackles, and all the animations flow seamlessly together. The radio announcer is back again 
 this year, and to tell the truth, I don't like him all that much. He just doesn't seem like he 
 has a lot to say. Overall, if you have been waiting for a great next-gen Madden, it has come. Go 
 out and pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewshen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  "Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, 
 totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae 
 dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, 
 sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam 
 est, qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam eius 
 modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima 
 veniam, quis nostrum exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi 
 consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse quam nihil molestiae 
 consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolfdawg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  I was wholeheartedly disappointed with Madden 08. When I first began playing it, I was excited. 
 The player's stats, it seemed, would REALLY mean something this year. And how horribly right I 
 was.
  
  The gameplay of Madden this year, was sacrificed very gruesomely to integrate those player ratings 
 onto the field. So concerned with how individuals perform on the field based on those ratings, 
 EA seemed to have totally forgotten how teams play with each other. Custom team playbooks don't 
 cut it, folks. Don't let your team's ratings fool you; once you get onto that field, its ALL about 
 who's got the role players. Forget that your Pats are rated 97, and those Fish you're playing are 
 82, look for the symbols under the player's feet, thats all that matters.
  
  After about 2 weeks of playing, I started to see the patterns. You know, those plays you can run 
 the same way every time successfully. A path to take on a certain run that ALWAYS gets you through. 
 It reminds me of playing Joe Montana football on Game Gear, where you could run your guy back an 
 forth from goal-line to goal-line as long as you knew the angle the AI wouldn't take. The fact 
 that this exists in ANY form on a system as advanced as the 360, is a slap in the face from EA.
 
  
  The one thing I did enjoy (at least for a little while) in 08 was SuperStar mode. That was worth 
 some good hours. But again, even if you are on a rediculously good team, playing a rediculously 
 bad one, don't be suprised if you get blown out by 35. EA sacrificed the realism of how teams match 
 up, for the realism of the NFL slowly becoming more of an "individuals" game.
  
  Maybe a step up for the NFL player's egos, but it destroyed a once great football franchise.
 
  
  Two thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxARESxX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit apprehensive when EA 'took over the NFL'. I worried that due to the fact no one else 
 could make a current NFL game that EA might not work as hard as they would under normal circumstances. 
 I think, however, that the lack of opposition has had a very positive effect. EA has been able 
 to focus less on creating new and annoying game features and more on polishing an already successful 
 series.
  Great new additions in Madden 08 are the 'Weapons'. It's well known by anybody that watches football 
 that although it is a team game there are players that stand out and are able to change the pace 
 and even the outcome of a game. EA recognizes that this year by labeling players as weapons. Instead 
 of increasing a certain skill like Speed or Awareness you increase a players 'Weapon Skill'. Rather 
 than increasing the Catch skill of your WR you can increase his 'Possession Receiver' ability or 
 his 'Spectacular Catch' ability. Doing this will allow your TE to reel in the ball when making 
 their cuts or allow your WR to jump up and catch that overthrown ball with one hand.
  EA also made the player actions much more realistic. In previous Maddens getting stuck on a blocker 
 was very, very frustrating. This year, however, your player will automatically attempt to move 
 around that blocker or even push on his back to power in for the TD. If you're player is elusive 
 enough he might even turn sideways and squeeze between two blockers. The tackles are vastly superior 
 as well. It's rare to see just one player make a tackle. Almost every play will end with about 
 eight players on the ground. The control over the players is much better as well. It takes a bit 
 of getting use to, but EA increased the sensitivity of the joystick making it much easier to make 
 cuts and juke the defense.
  Turnovers seem to happen a bit too often, but that's really only in comparison to previous Madden 
 games. I believe that the game is much more realistic than it has ever been. Only in recent renditions 
 of Madden has the Defense played as big a role as the offense. Offense is fun, but defense wins 
 championships.
  Franchise mode is much more expansive and enjoyable than it has been in the past few years. The 
 scouting feature helps more accurately determine if a player is worth drafting or not. Often in 
 previous Maddens the scouting reports were completely misleading, this year you can gauge, pretty 
 accurately, just how good a player will be. You can change a lot of things in the off-season, like 
 your coaching staff, your medical team, your scouting organization, etc These choices can have 
 very big effects on your players and how well they play.
  I believe that Madden 08's biggest downfall is the fact that it is so complex and in-depth. With 
 all the small details that you can manipulate it could be hard for anyone other than hardcore Madden 
 players to enjoy the game on any difficulty above Pro.
  All in all Madden 08 is the most realistic and most enjoyable Madden to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been a major fan of madden or any sports game, but this incarnation of football has touched 
 my heart. last year was a good, but it just didn't have the oomph to make it worthwhile. This year 
 is all about polish, everything from the graphics, gameplay, and in game modes have been reinvented. 
 New features include various superstar abilities called weapons, front office mode, new camera 
 angles for superstar mode, supersim, and much more. I like the how the players are presented as 
 "weapons" so you know the weaknesses and strengths of your team. so each team plays out differently. 
 the in game cutscenes have updated too, players dont stand there like brain dead zombies and the 
 pick you play menu has changed too. It looks better but it isnt as smooth and fast as 07. Running 
 the ball has never felt so good, these cuts, trucks, and crossovers and just so darn realistic. 
 its so funny to see your back make the defender look like a peewee player. Theres nothing like 
 being a elusive back. Vice versa of the running game is the tackling. that has been reworked too. 
 i am pleased to introduce the hitsick 2.0. now you can choose from high or low hits. and these 
 are just as satisfying as the crossovers as they are high impact. the graphics are just great, 
 the atmosphere of the stadiums are alive and the players look authentic to their real life counter 
 parts. Music is always great in madden and even if you dont like the soundtrack nyou can always 
 play your own. last years superstar mode was horrible due to the camera angles. this year though 
 its actually playable. also new to superstar is the supersim feature, this allows players to skip 
 the parts of the game when you are not on the field in a instant. Most of the polish though is 
 on the field though, you can now go out for the ball on your own and recievers perform spectacular 
 catches at the right moments, and the game does a good job choosing the right time for the possesion 
 catches.
  
  The only thing wrong with the game is that if you are used to madden 07 it is going to take a long 
 time to learn this one, and the game can be really fake sometimes as the corner pick tons of passes. 
 But madden 08 is basically a perfect football game for the hardcore fan or gamer. and should be 
 picked up.
  
  *subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-9.0
  
  Sound-9.0
  
  Control-9.75
  
  story-N/A
  
  Gameplay-9.5
  
  Fun-8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragin_Asian
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Presentation still seems to be an afterthough. EA has the ESPN lincense so why couldn't they get 
 it right? Why not have Chris Berman do halftime highlights? Why not have highlights of all the games 
 after every week , like uh... NFL Prime Time or something? What is the excuse for not having a real 
 commentary crew like the MNF crew instead of this lame radio broadcaster? How about after all these 
 years have a Super Bowl MVP ceremony instead of just player of the game of the SB? How about the 
 Lambeau Leap? How about players on the sideline not having their helmets on like real life and showing 
 emotions on their face reflecting how the game is going? How about the home crowd gets louder when 
 the home team is winning gets real quiet when they're losing or getting blowout? No TD celebration 
 when you just score and you're losing by 70. Why do you only have 1 option to challenge and that's 
 not what you want to challenge? Gameplay is good but still has alot of room for improvement. Bottom 
 line is presntation is not even close to where it should be and "what's the game is rarely in the 
 game." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwedishMob
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Look, the last thing I want to do is piss off any of you Madden-honks. So let me preface this review 
 by saying that I don't play Madden on-line, so maybe that's why I don't get it. I typically like 
 to play my sports games alone, playing in franchise mode, so maybe that's why I feel this game 
 falls way short of my expectations.
  
  I guess I classify myself as an NFL 2K series player. In fact, this year, I found Madden 08 so 
 boring that I ended up trying to update the 2K5 rosters to match this year's rosters so I could 
 play this season. What a loser I am, I know. That junk took me a LONG TIME too!
  
  But really, why would I want to play Madden? Am I the only person to notice that this year's Madden 
 made no attempt at making the experience anything like watching football on TV? There are no stat 
 overlays, the replays are essentially all the same, and there is no feel to the game having any 
 importance as it affects the rest of the season. On top of all that, you never see any pictures 
 of the players. It's basically play after play after play after play with no feeling or emotion 
 in the game -- which is made even more noticeable with the considerably emotional opening to the 
 game's start screen. And is anybody else sick of the stupid radio announcer? Does he ever say anything 
 original? Bring back Madden for goodness sake. The flippin' game is named after him!
  
  As for the game engine: it's good. Yes, probably too many fumbles. Yes, the quarterback throws 
 way too accurately on the run, which -- by the way -- greatly favors mobile quarterbacks. And yes, 
 it's incredibly frustrating to see the defensive backs streak across the field at double the speed 
 of my wide outs to knock down my perfectly thrown passes (on the run) , but still the engine works. 
 It's fun. But you know what kills it? One word. Monotony. I can run play after play and never feel 
 like I've accomplished anything. Because of the lack of presentation, I never feel like I'm in 
 a race to see which player can stack up the most rushing yards in a season. I'm just running. And 
 if by the end of the game I've logged 375 yards passing there's no sense of accomplishment, no 
 way to track how I did it. They're just suddenly there at the end game screen. And that's simply 
 what this game is: there. Way to go EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoward41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the first real next-generation game of Madden, which is all about intuitive football 
 that plays great. 
  
  Between the Read and React system and the new Weapons system, which gives attributes like Peyton's 
 Smart QB (safeties can also be Smart) , Stiff Arm Ball Carrier, and Crushing Run Blocker to elite 
 players, casual gamers will feel like Madden experts in no time. But that's not the only area of 
 the game where Tiburon has put on the shine. Remeber in years pas when you would run in place behind 
 your linemen if they failed to open a hole? A bevy of new animations, like shimmying through gaps 
 with your hands, raised, really keep you immersed. Graphicswise, Madden 08 is stunning. For all 
 you "How's the grass look?" people out there, the grass rules. So do the helmets, the jerseys, 
 and the characer modeling-it's all sweet. Online, games play like a dream, moving at a hitchless 
 framerate tha's as smooth as an offline game, although we wish there were more variants than simple 
 head-to-head (yup, still no online leagues) . I also wish EA would bring back Al Michaels and the 
 big guy himself to announce;
  
  Pound for pound, this is the Madden you've been waiting three years to play. It's the first in 
 the franchise worthy of being called truly next-gen-now that deserves $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is fun even for someone like me who doesn't watch the NFL or hasn't really played any 
 of the previous games before its good fun especially if you just rent it like i did. The best and 
 worst things are the achievements. The first time i played the game, i played as the packers in 
 a 5 minute quarter game and got something ridiculous like 20 achievements equaling like 300 points. 
 Sure i like getting achievements but when there just this easy it doesn't feel like you really 
 had to do anything to achieve them. Other than the achievements the game has next to no flaws except 
 for a few little things so the game is great for a rent and if your a fan of the series you definitely 
 should buy it (i played 07 a little and it was nowhere near as entertaining as this) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  i love playing football. franchise mode is great and superstar is okay. if you get boored make 
 a team or a player its really fun. then you make the player or team 99 overall and you get to crush 
 your rivals.
  
  -Graphics-
  the graphics in this game are amazing, and i dont even have an HD tv! 
  
  -Sound-
  Sound 
 is great, the songs in the jukebox grow on you. i learned lots of songs.
  
  -Value-
  its the best american football franchise out there. 
  
  -Final Thoughts-
  online isnt that 
 great, but get your friends over your house and play with the instant replay, its a good laugh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usaaaaaa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Madden is the biggest franchise when it comes to video game Football, it has also seen a decline 
 in recent years due to the next gen change. 
  
  Madden 08 was the game that was going to be just like last gen Maddens, it would have owner mode 
 back in Franchise and gang tackles. Only problem with this is-Having the goal of making your game 
 as good as your former game made on a lesser console with inferior specs is quite frankly, pathetic. 
 
  
  
  I should probably start off with improvements to the Franchise and gameplay:
  
  Franchise mode: Owner mode is back, and while still not being up to par with last-gen Madden owner 
 mode, it's still nice to have. Franchise mode is extremely addictive (To me atleast) and is probably 
 the reason why I've played Madden so extensively. 
  
  Gameplay: Gang tackles (If you can call them that, I didn't know gang tackles where limited to 
 2 people in real life) are back as well as mid-air collisions (Probably the most satisfying hits 
 in the game) . It feels like old-gen Madden, which can be good sometimes and can be bad at other 
 times. 
  
  Now for the bad things:
  
  
  Franchise mode: 
  
  Glitches: Glitches plague Franchise mode. For example, let's say 1 QB has played for both 2 teams. 
 One of the QBS throws no picks, while the other throws for 1. When you look to see who intercepted 
 those passes, you might see a Defensive Back with 3 INTS. That's just one of the many glitches 
 that are in Franchise mode. 
  
  Owner Mode (Or lack of) : Owner mode is back yes, but not as good as it was in the past. It is stripped 
 down (Surprise? EA likes doing this it seems.) and doesn't have half of what the old gen had. 
 
  
  Other features in Franchise: Other features? Like what? The newspaper from former Maddens? Not 
 there. That radio show? Not there. Feeling that you're actually running a NFL Franchise and what 
 you do on the field has an effect to what you do off the field? Not there and probably never was 
 there.
  
  Gameplay: This is what doesn't make Madden the first real good Next Gen football game. 
  
  
 Glitches: Oh my goodness! Glitches? I'd tell you all of them but I don't think anybody would bother 
 reading 10 pages. I'll give you a general idea:
  
  Your WR goes off, cuts back and the QB throws. The WR is infront of the CB, looks like he's going 
 to catch the ball! What? The ball goes right through the WR's chest and into the CB's arms! Amazing- 
 leather traveling at no more than 60 MPH has gone through a man's chest pads and chest itself, 
 and he is still alive with jersey intact. 
  
  Presentation: Overall, there is none. Presentation is dog-dumb. The pre show is a pathetic laugh. 
 Halftime show? There is none. Post game show? Same as the pre game. 
  
  Players on the sidelines look like they're from an N64 game, they might as well be cheerleaders 
 because they're totally irrelevant to the game. They will do a terrible dance when their team is 
 doing good and a shake of the head when doing bad. Over and over again. Tthe Crowd, while it changes 
 its tone, never changes its look. The crowd could be booing and you'd see the entire stadium jumping 
 up and down happy. 
  
  The field itself is dead- No sideline judges or Refs, the coaches are probably the only models 
 that look like they took longer than a minute to make. After kicking a field goal- A magical invisible 
 wall stops the ball from going into the stands. Awesome! 
  
  This is not the game that EA promised it would be, I'm actually suprised that it got an 8.5 on 
 Gamespot. I wonder how much EA had to do Madden getting a good review...
  
  Make no mistake-A step up from 06 and 07 and seeing how it's your only NFL choice-You should probably 
 buy it if you're an NFL fan who loves video game football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I wanna first say that the value on this game was very good from where I bought it. I got it for 
 37.99, where EB Games wanted 59.99 for it, so I was pleased with the price. The game is good, I 
 just think it could have used a little more work. I dont like the fact that the stats menu never 
 comes up during game play, (u know to keep up with your stats for the game.) I thought that was 
 a downfall. Dont get me wrong, this is a popular game, so I felt the need to get it. If you read 
 this, you might want to try renting it first instead buying it with your money. Now all I'm gonna 
 do now is just take up space here because my size was too short so hopefully this sentence will 
 be enough. No I still didnt meet my size so I'm gonna still gonna talk random words so I can get 
 on with my life. I'm out holla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7t77s777
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  First, know that this game of madden is completely unlike any madden you've ever played before. 
 You cannot blame them for just putting out the same game w/ a new coat of paint, as some have in 
 the past. 
  
  The graphics are totally redone. Everything is smoother, and i would describe it as less "arcady". 
 After thinking about it, the big thing is that the players are bigger, and the field is smaller 
 in proportion. The controls are very different, with Rt being sprint, and a is stiff arm as opposed 
 to sprint, which is ok once you get used to it. One terrific addition is the replays at halftime 
 of the key plays in the 1st half. The replays are terrific graphics-wise. You really have to get 
 used to it. Some people like me, like it a lot, after you get used to it, but some people will 
 prefer the old madden. Sometimes the graphics are almost too good for gameplay, and it becomes 
 hard. 
  
  Some minor things: A lot of fumbles, but if you've played NCAA it's the same, you have to cover 
 up when you get tackled, especially wr's after the catch. The lead blocking is a lot harder, in 
 07 you could totally dominate running-wise w/ lead blocking controls, now it's harder. There are 
 a lot of pre-snap controls, which if mastered i would imagine would give you a huge advantage. 
 I would say that the gap between really good players and bad players is much greater than before, 
 and a really experienced player could easily get a shutout and put up maybe 50 points against a 
 mediocre player. 
  
  Overall a good buy, you might want to rent it if you can, just because some people hate it, but 
 personally i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Madden 08 is a game definately worth buying. The game is much better than 07 or 06, and 
 of course features this years draftees on their respective teams. And thanks to roster updates, 
 trades are can immediately be seen in the game, like Chris chambers playing for the San Diego chargers. 
 The Superstar is balanced, and adds a good depth. However, i do have some complaints about this 
 game. The roster updates can sometimes be unreliable, and in very unbalanced. right now, the Dolphins 
 are 0-13 and have an overasll rating of 81. Plus (although this was in last year's game) the Superstar 
 positions are really confusing. It puts you in the perspective of your player, and the only one 
 that really makes sense is the running back. As a QB. you can't always see your open receivers 
 which can lead to a lot of interceptions for newcomers. And on defense, the screen faces the offense 
 but moves with the ball, which doesn't make any sense. The online play is like a normal game though, 
 much like 06's interface. Overall, Madden 08 is a good game and must-buy for sports lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riplike
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphics is great and the game play play is good too but there's one part that's not 
 there yet. It's that it leaves people thinking, I want more but there are only so many modes to 
 play in. Yeah, I guess you could play a bunch of seasons in the game but it's really boring when 
 you're done with 2-3 seasons. I just train my team with train mode all day when I was done. But 
 the 2 is fun, with a good match of course. So I think it's a good game over all but can still use 
 a few improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Yet again another Madden, but don't worry they have finally fixed most of the problems with it. 
 This Madden finally delivers the first next gen experiance of football. 
  
  The gameplay of Madden has finally become smooth and slick. The hit stick works like a charm. You 
 put the stick low prepared to kill the runner's legs and watch him soar through the air, you put 
 the stick high then comes a plain ole' woopin to his head, see if he can spell OW after you get 
 finished with him. Remember those great throws from 07 near the sidelines that your receivers never 
 could pull in, now EA has made animations for the sidelines so that your receivers tip toe out 
 of bounds. 
  
  Do you remember in the old Maddens the franchise system where you could set your prices and hire 
 coaches, etc.? Guess what, it is finally back and better than ever. This is something I have been 
 whining about for ages and they finally put it in the next gen. They also brought back create a 
 player and create a team if you were fond of those too.
  
  The sound is the same as usual, except they actually put Madden back in. Don't expect much of an 
 upgrade from last year's Madden, the song list is the same genres and before and the sounds of 
 hits and other game noises are all on par. 
  
  This game deserves what I give it, a solid 9/10. This is a great upgrade over previous Maddens 
 and is a must buy for a big football fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ou661
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Madden 2008 best next gen football game. Alrgiht this year in madden you have  
 online. The gameplay in this years game if very solid and tweaked a lot from last years game. Their 
 is a new feature called the wepon system in wich it shows what skill your player is good at. So 
 for example Adrian Peterson is a speed running back so under him thier is a picture of a foot to 
 show that he is fast. I really dont see the purpose in this because really you should be able to 
 know what most players are good at in the game.
  
  The Franchise mode: has been updated a little bit from last years game and is now more of an owner 
 mode because during the off season you can make a new statdium relocate your team and change your 
 uniform. Franchise mode still has everything in it from last year and a little bit more.
  
  Superstar mode: this year in superstar mode you can pick a rookie from the nfl, Create a superstar, 
 or import your superstar from NCAA 2008. You can be any position except kicker or punter. The view 
 of your superstar has been modifed and zoomed out a little bit. This mode is very fun and you should 
 not be tired of it for awhile.
  
  Online: the online mode this year is very fun you have quickplay, lobbys, ranked and unranked matches. 
 The lag is about mediium ussaly it will have little lag or sometimes alot of lag and your game 
 might even frezze you never really know.
  
  Problems: Thier are a lot of glithes in Madden and if u play the game for about 3 hours strait 
 your game might frezze and this is very frusterating if you have not saved in a while
  
  Overall: i give madden a solid 9 because the gameplay and all the improved modes make this game 
 very fun and probably take a couple of months for you to get tired of this game. With this game 
 being fun their are a few frusteration thing like your game frezzeing or the lag in an online game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLavs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  In this game, interceptions are about as common as completions when playing against the AI.
  
  That's my biggest gripe. The AI secondary almost always cover your WRs and TEs perfectly. If 
 you see a clear opening, and you pass the ball... they will often get to your target before the 
 ball does. Penalizing you for acting on the opening.
  
  To make the situation even more difficult --- if the computer's Safety is anywhere in the path between 
 your target receiver and the QB, he will sometimes just jump up and grab the ball while it is traveling 
 through the air. 
  
  What does that mean? It means you are running the ball almost every down. Madden kind of forces 
 your hand in that respect. The AI is not nearly as difficult to beat in the run as it is in the 
 pass. 
  
  What about fumbles? They seem to occur with greater frequency in this game than in the NFL. And 
 it doesn't seem to matter who the ball carrier is. You just have to accept that the fumbles are 
 going to occur periodically. Sometimes to the same side repeatedly.
  
  So a significant element of chance comes into any game. Which may be true in real life on any given 
 NFL Sunday; but in a computer game, it would be nice to minimize the effects of random things that 
 are out of control of human beings... So when you beat your opponent, you can confidently know 
 that it was because of your own skill/strategy...
  
  Minor issues:
  Marshall Faulk predicts which team wins the game before it is played; and the final score. He only 
 has a limited number of things he can say; and he is often wrong with his predictions. Kind of 
 a silly add-in; i would have elimitated this feature. You can pretty much skip it anyway.
  
  John Madden's voiceovers have been reduced substantially. I think too much this time. Put more 
 madden back in Madden 08.
  
  Everything else about this game is pretty solid. Probably the most complete football game I have 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltfan15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  There are really three great componets to this game. you got your quick play which is great if 
 you have friends that come over. its a fun way to get a game to start. i personally love this part 
 of the game. We also throw some mini tournaments on this feature. its great. next you have the 
 dynasty its great if you love to mange a team in a realalsic feel i dont really like this part 
 to tell you the truth its fun but you only want to play this if you have a lot of time to spend 
 on a game. i do but i usally end up doing somehting else or i just end up playing a nother game 
 because i can not play one game for to long. but still a great game. Then you have the part that 
 might make the series. the online play is fun and addictive this might be the one part i can play 
 for a long time. You go into a lobby and find a person to play. pick what ever team you want to 
 be and try put more points on the board then your oppeniet. you can even play for a trophy or for 
 some points on your ring builder. of course ifyou win you will get more points towards your ring 
 builder feature. So overall i think this is the best sports game of the year. not the best game 
 of the year but in the top ten maybe. go out pick it up play it on lan play it on live maybe i 
 will beat you up on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Once again EA managed to produce a game that is good, but not great. The fumble issue is just ridiculous. 
 The player models have improved and the ring addition is cool. 60FPS is always nice on your HDTV. 
 Otherwise, the game hasn't changed much from last year. No Al and John, which sucks in my opinion. 
 The weapons system is good, but its not going to made me do backflips. They really need to imrpove 
 the superstar combines and put a few additions in the franchise mode. It seems like EA is running 
 out of ideas for their games, OR could they be taking adavatage of their monopoly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuDvAyNe_OwNs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest here. The Madden franchise had been going down hill since 2000. With the NFL 2K 
 games out Madden couldn't come close to the gameplay and overall greatness of the games. When I 
 heard that EA bought the rights to the NFL I was disappointed as I loved the 2K series ever so 
 much. I thought the future of NFL gaming was very dim but Madden has surprised me. With 07 I was 
 back in heaven and now 08 is just immaculate. I was sure the Madden franchise would just stay the 
 same old crappy game since they had the rights to it and no competition anymore but that theory 
 has been blown out the water. 08 is everything people expected and more. Let's face it. 
  
  I can't remember how many times last year I was playing 07 and 3 people would hit be but I would 
 shake out of it as no group tackling. I was furious watching the commercials for the PS3 version 
 that had group tackling for 07. Everyone knows that the 360 is the powerhouse of the consoles now-a-days. 
 So why make the PS3 version more in depth? I will tell you why, EA thinks of things too late and 
 makes too much money from Sony. Finally they have made group tackling in the 360 and boy is it 
 tough to get the big break aways for 50-75 yards. The new weapon system is great and now with superstar 
 mode being able to grap the weapons it's an absolutely needed addition. What is great about the 
 weapon system is you can tell where your mismatches are on the field and adjust your plays or defense 
 accordingly, As well as being able to keep track of how close to a weapon your superstar is and 
 try to get him there faster by doing certain things in the game. The new hit stick is amazing and 
 never gets boring and it's always fun to have a powerhouse running back and uses the truck stick 
 to smash away defenders. The animations with the weapons are amazing. Seeing a runningback get 
 nailed by a big hitter never gets old. Each weapon has some of their own animations which is surprising 
 given EA's sports franchise in general. Who's eyes don't light up when you see a reciever reach 
 for a one-handed catch and complete it? No matter what team you are or are cheering for it's a 
 beautiful thing that the boys over at EA has gotten correct for a change. 
  
  Will someone please tell EA that having the same people doing the commentary in the game is getting 
 old. Each team gets the same broadcaster with the same lame sayings, and new ones that don't make 
 sense. For example I play as the Packers and I have never once heard them reffered to as "The Pack". 
 WTF is this? If you are going to nickname a team make it catchy or don't do it at all. What's will 
 the player announcements in the begining of the game? If I have a star player that is the #1 RB 
 in the league I would expect him to be announced just like the other stars. Even if they didn't 
 say his name or w/e it would be nice to see my star recognized once in a while. Overall sound effects 
 are better than previous years but lacks consistency. "Just makes it back to the line" when I lose 
 2 yards? Are you serious EA? Sound is the easiest to get right in the game. Go back to the drawing 
 board and I will see you next year to try the sound.
  
  The graphics in this years game are deffinitely an improvement over last years. And as in ALL multi-platform 
 game the 360 version takes the cake. At least EA gets it right here. Huge library of animations 
 and no more skipping in the game like 07 had. Nice framerate overall. The game looks AMAZING on 
 an HDTV especially if you have the Elite 360 or the Halo 3 Special Edition that both come with 
 HDMI which makes the game one of the best looking games to date. I wish the detail on the body 
 were better such as maybe dirt or mudd on the arms if the player gets hit alot or maybe some blood 
 if they bounce their head off the ground. Something to show the players aren't perfect all the 
 time. EA, next year more player detail. Yea it's nice to see the whole in a players jersey when 
 it's up close but when it's snowing out or raining I want to see weather and field effects on the 
 players. Overall graphics are deffinitely top of the line but as in any true fan it's the little 
 things that makes the game great.
  
  Gameplay deffinitely has had it's best year this year. With so many new animations and variety 
 of mini-games and franchise mode the game doesn't get old quickly. I myself am a superstar guy 
 that loves creating an icon. Superstar mode is much much better than last year for the 360. I had 
 07 for the XBOX and the 360 last year and the XBOX version was actually better. The camera angles 
 were so much better and I am greatful that EA has fixed the camera to a point for the 360. It's 
 still kind of annoying but nothing that ruins the game. With so much to do in the game I will most 
 likely be playing this game up untill 09 comes out. 
  
  Overall the game is a must have for any 360. Even if you don't like football this game is fun and 
 easy to catch on to even with the new control scheme and pre-snap additions. For any true Madden 
 fan, this game is a pick up and play game. The new additions to the game aren't hard to learn to 
 master but they are not needed to play the game and have fun.
  
  The Good:
  Great graphics, new animations, new weapon system, truck stick improved, better camera angles, 
 group tackling.
  
  The Bad:
  Horrible commentary, no player detail during games (mud, dirt, blood) , Same commentary for every 
 team, Very little Madden talking during game, No emphasis on the Superbowl or Probowl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I love football. But this game is a nice one but not as good as i thought. The Patriots being 99 
 overal gives no advange for guys that pick there team like i'm a Jets fan and i have NO chance 
 at beating them with my 80 overal CBs.
  
  
  The one hand grab with 3 guys covering one WR MUST GO RIGHT AWAY. No WR is that sick to be catching 
 passes with 3 CB's i tryed this with toughier teams and its not working for me here.
  
  
  
  I like the weapons i think thats really cool. Online players are quite big trash talkers most 
 of online guys i played anyways in this game that has to chance and more recordings in what these 
 guys say to other players. Some of the trash talking that go's on in this game they need to lost 
 their live account for a month or more.
  
  
  But good game overal to get a 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapinCrunch17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 is what Madden fans have been waiting for the last couple of years. The addtions 
 are great and fun to use. The hit stick is always a pleasure to use. However Madden looks even 
 better if your rockin' an HdTv, wow the picture quality is unbelievable. The Gameplay is outstanding 
 and the new controls are easy to understand and use. One new feature that really intringes me is 
 that you are able to build your own Super Bowl ring, the more you win the more you can add onto 
 the ring. This is one Madden that you don't wan't to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  After Madden 07 on the 360, EA needed to make 08 one to remember because 07 was released in a hurry 
 and ended up disappointing anyone who knew anything about sports games. So what is to be expected 
 of EA after such a failure in 07? the answer is what came out in 08. Madden 08 is amazing, i loved 
 every aspect of it. I thought that the special players would be a bad idea at first, but then i 
 realized it was actually a good next step in virtual football.
  When i play Madden i look for one thing: the gameplay. I don't really give two turds about the 
 franchise or any of that other mumbo jumbo cuz what matters to me is when i'm playing in game and 
 everything that i have to use to win; the graphics, controls, new features, kicking, passing, rushing 
 controls, scoreboard, defensive capabilities and PLAYMAKERS, all that stuff that deals with the 
 actual in-game experience. And Madden 08 did more than please me in that respect.
  Outside of the gameplay, new features on the franchise mode are finally starting to make Madden 
 franchises everything they should be. Mainly, now you can contol more than one team. I hate how 
 NBA Live (i think they fixed it too) and Madden had the single-player franchise mode because when 
 i have LAN parties or just friends over one of the things we do is dynasties and franchises with 
 multiple teams throughout multiple seasons and everything in between and until now, that has only 
 been possible on ncaa football and college basketball, but don't get me wrong... ncaa football 
 dyansties are the shizznit but NFL franchises are just about as good.
  One other thing is superstar mode is now at its peak i believe with only a few more little nicks 
 and nacks needed fixed. So, Madden 08 offers a multiple mode experience that is more satisfying 
 that ever before. That is why this is worth the measly paperbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  For any football fan this would be a good game and it is Madden 08 is just like 07 except updated 
 rosters. In this game the Graphics are very realistic and it is very enjoyable to play. One new 
 feature is the introductions, It introdouces the star players and their main attributes: example 
 Calvin Johnson has a speed Icon over his head, Ray Lewis has a Power meter so on so fourth. It 
 has the same old typical online play it hasnt changed one bit. So this game is pretty fun except 
 for the difficulty it is suprisingly hard. But if you are a fooball fan I recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyankeesjg25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Madden has been one of the greatest Video Game franchises since the begginning of gaming. Madden 
 08 is another great Madden game. One of the new things about the game this year is Weapons system. 
 It is when a player has a special icon showing that they are good at something. For exmple, Tom 
 Brady has the SMART QB sign so when his symbol is yellow he can read the oppsoing defenses' play, 
 Hense him being a smart QB. Besides this its just another great madden game, good franchise, good 
 online. You can download updated rosters and other things via xbox live! This is just another great 
 madden game! Thanks EA SPORTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers8694
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Allrite we have been threw thorugh the interception deal but theres still us throwing 8 interceptions 
 with Drew Brees, or Tom Brady if i put the slider for no interceptions there shouldnt be 4 interceprions. 
 Why is the best running backs in the game like LaDainian or Larry fumbling the ball 2 times in 
 a game. The Dynasty Mode is good but I have to simulate the whole season to escape the boringness. 
 The superstar mode is great you can finally play as a great rookie like Adian Peterson or Calvin 
 Jonson without creating someone or you can create someone the superstar mode is brilliant . This 
 game is an great but doesnt knock my socks off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many who were furious over the fact that madden has the exclusive licences to 
 the NFL. 2K sports made prob. my favorite football game of all time. And with the start off price 
 of 20 bucks.. i can say that i never got more out of my 20 bucks for that game.. BRAND NEW when 
 it first came out at EB. Because of Madden's agreement with the NFL games like NFL 2K, Blitz, and 
 other football games were left with nothing to work with. Along with that they also got the Arena 
 football licenes! they really made it impossible for anyone to compete with them. Blitz and 2K 
 attempted w/o the licences.. but it falls flat. Madden 06/07 were not that great.. lack of next 
 gen features made it seem that they were pushing you to not buy it for your new system but with 
 your old! Now Madden 08 has caught up for the most part and made a much more enjoyable Football 
 game.
  
  Just like always you play football. You have the same jist of the game in all of the madden games.. 
 but this one is different. This Year Madden has added a stick tackle for more accurate and efficant 
 tackles.. you can use it or forget about.. but it makes more of an impact. speaking of tackling.. 
 this year Tiburon has given us the most realistic tackling mechanics. When you play it.. every 
 tackle is a little different.. its kinda cool. Also breaking, and breaking away from tackles is 
 also cool, you watch the guy dive to the ground while you are running along for a TD. The games 
 graphics are a step up this time.. everything looks better from players to feild.. although one 
 knock on them for me has been the crowd and coaches.. they are always ugly looking.. i really hope 
 that some day they make it look more realistic..
  
  The Game also plays a lot better.. when i played madden 07.. it felt chunky and un fun.. like people 
 played robotronically.. Now this game it plays alot more fluently.. more smooth and fun.. playing 
 that game was never unfun. always interesting. Games where more enjoyable and it had a better feel 
 of the game. its hard to describe but you get more out of playing it..
  
  There are also a bunch of different options in the game. You have your franchise mode and season 
 mode.. like always.. but this time you got hall of fame where you can see hall of famers.. and 
 Superstar mode.. you have seen this before.. but it has been greatly improved.. you create your 
 character or import from the NCAA football game. A new feature you can do is take a rookie say 
 Adrian Peterson and play as him through superstar mode. its nice way to play as a new nfl star 
 that you have gotten intersted in.. you have a lot of the same format as in the old Madden like 
 skill setting in mini games.. and messages.. But this time you are a lot more involed with your 
 character.. instead of playing as the team.. you take the role of your player. you play when you 
 are on the field.. follow routes etc.. so you really have a more its you then before where you 
 played as the entrie team.. where you could keep giving your star the ball every possesion of having 
 him get the pick INT.
  
  There is also create a character and create a team. This is the first time on next gen systems 
 where you can make your team.. kinda weird since its been in many sports game for like 5 years. 
 You make your stadium and unis and pick your team type.. its fun and you can make some cool stuff. 
 Also in create a character you can actually take challenges to see how good they will be.. like 
 the bench lift.. you better be good at em.. or you might end up with a crappy character!
  
  Online is also here in full fledge.. lots of options and its fun to play people online.. if your 
 into online gaming, you should check it out.. there are a bunch of different modes like i said 
 so you can do all kinds of things you want online.
  
  Overall its a great Football game.. so much better then the awful 07..
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: 
 Classic football, but it has improved a lot this time
  Graphics: Looks great.. although coaches and stands look bad..
  Sound: nice sound track.. if 
 your into that music.. football sounds are good but not great.. could use some work..
  Value: Well it will last you a year.. when 09 comes out.. Boom! its worthless.. and you will prob. 
 never touch it agian
  Overall: it still lacks some depth.. and still has some annoying bugs.. but you gotta tip your 
 hats off the best Madden game for the next gen systems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopop911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is in my opinion the best madden game to date. The weapons work just as they should and 
 can change the game in an instance. The graphics may not be much better than last years game, but 
 the animations are much more fluid and its easier to run because of this. Finally, all the features 
 from 05 are here. The mini-games are fun when you're bored of the franchise, and superstar is interesting, 
 if frustrating. The franchise is like it always was.
  However, there are some major flaws in this game. Its too easy to fumble. When's the last time 
 you saw Marshawn Lynch fumble the ball more than once in a game. Also, the cornerbacks are crazy 
 good at making catches. They seem to always know where the ball is and step up and make the interception 
 many times. This especially happens on superstar. I was playing as a Colts running back and the 
 final score was 42-0 because peyton manning through 6 interceptions. That doesnt make since.
  overall, the game's good. Madden 09 will be even better with blocking schemes and LESS TURNOVERS!
 
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:8.5
  Value:9
  Fun:9.5
  overall:9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  As someone who was introduced to 2K football games this year, it's easier for me to make the comparison 
 between 2K and EA. I must confess that Madden exceeded my expectations. While I don't know how 
 well some of the transitions worked, it's nice to see them attempt to make improvements to the 
 game. I enjoyed the weapons feature, especially since those players were noticeably powered, but 
 not to the extent that it wasn't fun.
  Gameplay-wise, Madden is much better than years past. In fact, had I not played All-Pro Football 
 2K8, I might have been more impressed. The gameplay is less realistic, as is the physics (gang-tackling 
 for instance) and the playcalling. However, it is nice to see EA making an attempt at improvement. 
 Whether it's fear or whether they just got a soul, it's nice to see a little more than an updated 
 roster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  gameplay in this year for madden is the best ever! its so smooth the AI is better improved. safeties 
 are smarter, qb's wiser and all the all stars have a special ability about them however the games 
 graphics are like the case with ncaa their worse then last year but still good. rosters are constantly 
 updated on xbl which is a plus. the music selection is stellar then ever but last year had a bit 
 of a better tracklist. overall madden is awesome as always go pick it up now!!!! nuff said. 
 
  LETS GO JAGS!!!! MAURICE JONES DREW!!!!!! WE GOIN ALL THE WAY THIS  
 not lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Well there are a lot of differences from last year, but the core of what makes madded is still 
 there. The new weapons features are great. Also the complete fully manageable control scheme, deeper 
 franchise mode with owner mode to boot. The animation is good and they also put in a much more 
 challengig and makes for better game play. The bad side of this game is that there are way to many 
 fumbles, also the online game play is has a lot of things missing. Just to reiterate the game play 
 is great and some of the old features are back and they are at the top of it's game. The new icons 
 that show's what kind of weapons the players have at their disposal.... GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backbreaker98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I thinkmthis game is great, No not just reat amazing, fantastic. There is so much too it. There 
 aren't that many fumbles and it is so cool to get a pic off (interception) . I haven't tried the 
 online because i am too busy, but if you and a friend are playing this and you both know what your 
 doing it could be more exciting than the super bowl. I do think the game is annoying with the rings. 
 It takes for ever. And it takes pretty long justy to geta part of the ring. It feels great to get 
 a full 1. Then after that you look at how much you need for 1 more full one. You just get that 
 holy sh*t i need that much more. The franchise is so detailed and the supersim is great. You can 
 even do the franchise with a friend so it helps you on your file. The training is fun for a while. 
 The mode that was new last year is just terrible. I can hardly take it. First of all it f*ckin 
 zooms on the person and you dont play if it isn't your turn even though you can still pick plays 
 or sim/supersim. Anyway i wanted 1 madden. I wanted not 07 or 07 and i felt this was the year. 
 Unless you really care about superstar mode (new mode from last year) than get this. When you start 
 playing you get so many achievments, but then you get less and less. It is easy. Evven if dont 
 like picking plays it is still fun. But if you do you can have a really long fun detailed game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IH8H8H8ers
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Madden is a series that is pretty consistent when it comes to putting out decently playable football. 
 The graphics are pretty decent, and the game play is pretty smooth. The AI isn't stupid but they 
 aren't necessarily brilliant either. They make the game challenging at times, but at other times 
 they punt the ball when it is third down there is time ticking down in the first half and if they 
 were in field goal range would be perfect time to kick a field goal. I know that sentence is hard 
 to follow, but it is pretty difficult to explain. In short the computer does dumb things.
  
  The one thing that I think you will notice almost instantly is the amount of freakin' fumbles. 
 Maybe make the AI smarter, I don't mind a challenging game, but I do mind a frustrating one. You 
 can be up 28 to 7, the computer isn't out of the game. Not because the computer is so fantastic, 
 or they are so freakin' smart, but because the ball will pop out constantly until they catch up. 
 I have fumbled the ball for a turnover 3 offensive plays in a row while trying to close out a game. 
 It's unrealistic, and to be honest really takes away from the experience of the game. EA what were 
 you thinking? I'm still waiting for them to make a game that doesn't have retarded mistakes in 
 it. I haven't actually played 2K8 but I have seen people play it, and from what I have seen Madden 
 is the better game, but beware you will get pissed off a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventy5cent832
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  A must have for any sports player. The best sports game out there right now, has awesome gameplay 
 which is extremely smooth, the graphics are really stunning, the little details that were left 
 out in the old maddens are all here. The players actually look like the real person, they make 
 facial expressions, there is no Al and Madden commentary which actually is very nice. The superstar 
 mode is improved, you can now play as current rookies, like Peterson, or most other rookies. The 
 online multiplayer is extreamly fun, the running game is improved, its now easier to pound away 
 with the run, juke and trucking moves are easy to do and will help alot when you run. The view 
 just before the snap is much better, it makes you feel like you are really there. An excellent 
 game, worth the money, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is here it took EA a few tries to get it right but this is by far one of the best Madden's 
 to come out in years. First off what i like is the new weapon system what this is its where players 
 have special abilities based on there strongest attributes in the game for example Donovan Mcnabb 
 is a cannon Arm QB so he throws lasers all over the field however there are counters to these special 
 weapons. Franchise mode is deeper as well you can scout during the season move your team to a designated 
 area and most importantly play football to get to ultimately to your goal of winning the super 
 bowl. The AI is smarter the graphics are more realistic and the new physics like gang tackling 
 and many other physics, along with the hits make it really seem like your really in a real NFL 
 football game. There are some nice features like introducing your team out on the field that also 
 makes it realistic as well as analysis for no one other than Marshall Faulk. Franchise is great 
 so lead your team anyway you like. The online hasnt changed much its still the same one on one 
 action but there are levels and the ability for team rings where if you get enough points you unlock 
 the rings. The players look more realistic this time around as well. Online For madden 08 is still 
 good because it goes back to something reliable. The 360 version runs at a full 60 frames per second 
 so you dont see that hitch in game play where as you see it on the PS3. So if you have the choice 
 of the two go with the 360 version. One thing that really needs to be improved on is the amount 
 of fumbles that occur in the game they pop up more than usual that can be an annoyance for some 
 and can be a problem at times. All in All this is a great step for EA in making Madden 08 once 
 of the best Madden's to come out in years as madden is back on track and resurrected
  i recommend this to anyone who likes football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pino4545
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good but not great, the fans look like card board cut outs and the stadiums dont 
 have the greatest detail.
  
  The sound is absolutley no good, for a pro football game the crowd is pretty much mute.
  
  
 The game play is really good and all controls are sharp, and the mini games are good fun. Were 
 the game falls is in the turnover ratio. Every game i average 5 - 6 fumbles and that can be really 
 aggravating espacialy when your driving with little time left and your guy fumbles it for the fifth 
 time.
  
  This game is much much much better than the previous maddens, but is still nothing to brag home 
 about. Madden still needs improvemennt. I just can't wait till 2K gets back in it so we can see 
 a real game developers at work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Very very nice football game, the fumbles always seem to pop up alot, it has alot of sound errors, 
 the players tend to get 'cought' on one another from time to time during passing plays, the computer 
 notes your passing patterns and adapts - thats not a bad thing, but it realizes them very soon 
 into it, makes for an overly-aggressive computer sometime. Now that the negative is out of the 
 way! On to the good! Very nice on showing how players are powerful on their own - L. T. from the 
 chargers is a man monster, and powers past alot of people - on the other hand the skilled wide 
 resevers also show their own skills. QB's show their abilities or flaws... along with the offensive 
 line. The game controls with the ability to stiff arm, conduct spectacular catches, jump over the 
 deffensive line into the touch down zone - all wonderful add-ons. I bought the game, its nice to 
 sit down from time to time and invest afew minutes into some good ol' football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Madden is the best of the series hands down, especially since they let all their fans down last 
 year, I say this game pretty much makes it up. The gameplay and animation is good, not to mention 
 the new Hit Stick 2.0 Everything is back that was missing and the new player Icons are awesome. 
 Good game to buy and awesome game to play. Online is great too, with new features like NFL NEWS, 
 etc. The game is just flat-out awesome
  
  
  
  PS. GO RAIDERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 ALL THE WAY..... ok then, at least 7 wins
  
  
  fs
  fsfsfsfs 
 fsf sfsfsfsfsdfe rthfgghfh h h jip iojij ij ij ij j ij ji pioj oip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrsr5599
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great and they should be for this system. The gameplay is horrible. You can't 
 change camera angles? Now maybe I'm missing something, but when you can't be a CB or see what the 
 other receivers are doing because they are not on screen, that is bad. I've tried playing 2 player 
 co-op, and you can't break off routes, etc. Thank god I rented it before I spent 60.00. It won't 
 happen. Bring back the over head camera so I can see the whole field. I would much rather play 
 a game that has good gameplay, rather than outstanding graphics. Just because it is fun to look 
 at, doesn't do it for me. I watch footbal in HD every sunday, I want to be able to play it now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another Madden game. Lets see if the curse continues shall we? anywho, Madden is 
 great way better than Madden 06 or 07. New additions make this a real good experience for any football 
 fan. Some annoying glitches return; ball literally going through the hands and bodies of players, 
 real bad collision detection at times, there are some really weird plays especially in the running 
 game when a lot of people are bunched up, and can be REAL frustrating. Its great all aroung though 
 go pick urself up a copy.
  
  +Smooth frame rate
  +Great presentation
  +Nice graphics
  +Fun gameplay
  +30year franchise
  +Superstar mode with better camera angles adn u can play 
 as this years rookies
  +Online play
  
  -Can be extremely frustrating
  -Some weird glitches in gameplay
  -Some players are underatted (Donte Stallworth an 83 but Antwaan 
 Randel El an 85?)
  -Some camera angles in superstar still suk
  -Nearly impossible to play as a Cornerback in superstar
  
  ?Why does EA even include the position 
 of offensive lineman in superstar?
  
  !Whoever does the soundtrack for EA's games, needs to be fired! Really bad soundtrack as always! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-beast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  All right, Madden 08 not every thing i though it would be but for me it was a step up for 2k5, 
 but not a big enough step. The player model in madden look very good, the passing animations to 
 the running backs are just right and the game feel more real. But with that said the little things 
 are lacking, the stadiums lack indivisual spirit, the announcers, every single one, are horrible 
 and usless. The radio people didn't even have the real radio dialgue, no explinations of what just 
 happened how the teams are set up or up dates of the score and so on. THis could have been cool 
 but it was poorly done. Oh and M. Faulk sucks. Gameplay: Gameplay is pretty cool. I love being 
 able to dump to the flats and have my running backs catch the ball, and have comeback routes accually 
 work. But playing on defence is way too complicated for me, it woulf take all day for me to do 
 the thing i could do in second on 2k5 so this dissapoointed me. Regaurding the turn overs i've 
 had alot more on default difficulty in 2k5 then in this game. But i have not tried all the difficulties 
 so my judge ment my mean nothing to you.
  
  All in all the game was a step up for me and i'm starting to enjoy it more and more as i learn 
 a little more about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_harris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  While I admit that the Madden series of football games has had a long, storied history, it isn't 
 history, rather the future of this title that concerns me.
  
  See, back in the old days of Madden, there was this idea that every year the game was around, the 
 game was getting better, fuller, and more like the real NFL game. You could always count on some 
 glitch or screwy tweak you could perform to win all the time. But as the years went by, the Madden 
 crew got better at delivering a truer NFL football gameplay experience, leaving out the tweaks 
 and goofy predictability.
  
  For this year's release, the gameplay model seemed to be the major focus of the guys who write 
 this game (or update rosters...) . What I've noticed the most about the gameplay is how the players 
 appear to react with more realism to what's occuring on the field during the play. In the past, 
 you could rely on linebackers watching the ball sail past their heads. You could rely on runningback 
 sprinting to the sidelines and then turning upfield for a big gain. Not this year.
  
  The reaction system written into this release makes the gameplayer's job all the more challenging. 
 You have to look to different formations, hot routes, audibles, and key players to be successful 
 on either side of the ball. You have to adjust your thinking, just as a football coach would. You 
 have to take what a defense gives you in order to sustain drives. The reality is that you just 
 need more practice at making plays, both big and little, to be a success here.
  
  These are good things. Knowing the game of football is important, not just being a button mashing 
 punk. Understanding blitz packages, option routes, clock management, and much more are real concerns 
 you need to account for. If you're trailing in a game, you can't just bomb it down field to catch 
 up. You have to dink and dunk your way down the field sometimes. You can't abandon the run just 
 because you're behind. And, perhaps more importantly, you can't just sit on running plays to eat 
 clock when you're ahead. Now these are all single player concepts, but since I don't play online, 
 I don't give a rip about playing against other people.
  
  The franchise mode is pretty damn cool. You can do a lot here. The superstar mode seems to be the 
 bastard child of this game, as it's stripped down to a calendar view just like NCAA 08. It's a 
 shame too, since the boys who wrote this game really pushed the whole Hall of Fame thing last year. 
 I guess the honeymoon is over.
  
  What's troubling though, is that the general Madden feel has been stripped away and replaced by 
 a homogenized game presentation and play experience. The raspy-voiced radio announcer is a cheap-ass 
 way of replacing the expensive-to-hire Madden and Michaels. The ring builder is pretty dumn, since 
 all you do is build up points. There's nothing you can do with it other than log time. The trophy 
 thing is pretty lame also. Gone are Madden cards with cheats and powerups. But most sadly, gone 
 is John and Al. Even though their voiceovers are tired by now, they were still part of this franchise. 
 Remember the days of Pat Summerall and John Madden? They partnered together broadcasting for CBS 
 and Fox for 22 years together!
  
  I guess what's the most troubling of all is knowing that other game builders and publishers have 
 great ideas on how to make the NFL football experience come to life on consoles, but are asked 
 politely to shut their mouths and bow down to the mighty EA Sports. The contract won't last forever, 
 and if Roger Goddell and his posse help decide things when it comes to console games, they won't 
 offer any exclusive contracts anymore. Monopolies kill competition and kill innovation. The Madden 
 series would be much better today if the exclusive contract was never considered by the NFL.
  
  My only wishlist item would be that next year's game use DVD technology to pack more crap into 
 the same box so EA couldn't shrug and say we had to remove some things to make room for others... 
 What a bunch of crap that is! Sorry guys, but you can't fool me. You have Nex Gen consoles that 
 have hard drives and network connections that can store a butt load more data than you say you 
 pack onto one disc. Get with the damn program and make an all out effort to release a game that 
 leaves nothing out. I want a Disneyland's worth of stuff to do in your game, not just a screen 
 and a calendar!
  
  This game would be perfect if I could change my imported CL quaterback's appearance and so on... 
 Jerks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Madden is back, this time one of the most hyped games the video game industry has ever seen. When 
 I first brought the game home and played my first game, I thought wow, it's all that it's cracked 
 up to be. The running game is incredibly smooth and the controls feel completely natural. The playcalling 
 system is great for noobs (it lets you select plays by category) and for experienced Madden vets. 
 You can make adjustments at the line of scrimmage as usual, but the developers have tweaked this 
 part ever so slightly to make it perfect. However, on the defensive side of the ball it's a bit 
 more difficult. You end up wishing that you had more time because the O ends up snapping the ball 
 in the middle of your adjustments and you end up botching the play. That's only a minor issue, 
 however. The team management and the rosters are very detailed and pretty much perfect, but scouting 
 gets pretty repetitve after week 4. I haven't played to much on the franchise mode, but superstar 
 is awesome. I only wish there was a bit more detail in the financial (contracts) aspects, though. 
 The supersim mode (although occasionally ruining the game) works to perfection.
  
  Then I played a couple more games, and my hope for the perfect Madden were sent burning to the 
 ground. Passing is very frustrating because the precision passing is TOTAL CRAP. It is IMPOSSIBLE 
 to throw a good fade or any kind of lob pass without the QB under throwing his man and the ball 
 getting swatted or picked. This has to improve dramatically. Also, when you audible, so does the 
 defense, almost like they know what play you are going to run. This negates some of the strategy. 
 Weapons are a great idea but those that hinder you work WAY better than those that help you. The 
 game is easy on too easy on pro, but way to hard on all pro, making you wish there was a seting 
 in between.
  
  In conclusion, the game delivers, and is worth the money, but is by no means the perfect Madden. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  First let me start by saying I used to be a NFL2K guy. I loved Madden back when it was on the Genesis, 
 heck I even have it for my Saturn. But it seems like it started fading away and just cloning itself 
 over and over with few added features. This year I decided to purchase Madden 08, with the sour 
 taste in my mouth from Madden 07 for the 360 still looming, and give it a chance. Wow! EA has really 
 LISTENED to the gaming community for once and went back and built a truly next-gen football game. It 
 almost seems like they went and hired some of the 2k guys and put them on the Madden project. The 
 reason I say this is because I also purchased All-Pro 2k8 and boy does it suck! The graphics in 
 2k5 on the xbox beat the snot out of 2k8. The gameplay is not as robotic as the previous years 
 version. The graphics engine is revamped and utilized to take full advantage of the 360's processing 
 power. I do wish they had some more of the Big guy's (John Madden) voice-overs though. So my only 
 gripes with this years version are as follows:
  1) You can't setup a ranked game between you and your friends.
  
  2) Not enough John Madden.
 
  
  3) You can't save replays. The best new feature in my opinion is the ability to watch your teams 
 highlights from the NFL Network. This is very important to me, being a 49er fan living in NC. If 
 you haven't played this years Madden, I highly suggest you rent it and I guarantee you'll fall 
 in love with it and end up purchasing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Once you start playing, you CAN'T put it down!
  Madden 08 is an over all GREAT game! Clearly bounds better than year's past. The graphics are pretty 
 tight (especially the facial features of the player models) , and the new features such as WEAPONS 
 and improved HIT STICK are definitely, strong points for the game. Some low keys for 08 are that 
 the cut scenes can be repetitive and dull at times, and the bland color commentating kinda gets 
 on your nerves. Unlike the soft Madden games of old, this one may take a little time to master 
 all the between play options. As soon as one can grasp the ability to play using the new features 
 unconsciously, one just may win the MADDENBOWL!
  EA, between Madden 08 and NHL 08................ Sports Games of the Year . EASY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I don't get American Football. It's basically rugby, but harder. But tell you the truth, OUR football 
 is better. The game is simple, win. This is done by scoring 'touchdowns', or tries as we call them. 
 And yada, yada, yada. Do you know what, WTF IS AMERICAN FOOTBALL?! WHATS THE POINT IN IT?! And 
 why, oh why, coudn't they call it American Rugby. This is massive, for Americans. But if your British, 
 stay away. This is more confusing than understanding Crush 40's songs, WITHOUT the script. Best 
 in the series though. But it's NEVER going near my PS2. That's for sure!
  Now where's that book about American Football.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camaro9307
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are outstanding and you feel like your right in the game and you have to realize this 
 is the last madden with mike Vick in it .deep within the game is the archives or hall of fame i 
 was surprised they didnt have joe nameth in them .this and ncaa fotball 08 are a deffinet grab 
 off of the shelfs. that dosent mean 07 should be denied a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantherpepper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  well by far this the best madden game yet simply because of the hits. I wish there was a football 
 game like the maddens but where you can hit as hard as you can on the blitz games with the injury 
 mode with it like on the last blitz game. But i love this game mainly because im so good at it. 
 I have not lost to any body in a long time. I think the madden games should do some kind of theme 
 for the injuries, like where you can treat the injurie by taking steriods and so on. I think the 
 game should have more injuriese to especially if the quarterback is getting sack a whole lot. But 
 i hope the madden games in the future that the defensive plyayers will be able to lay down some 
 dirty hits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Well first the graphics are pretty nice there are some really amazing visuals in this game. The 
 game play is allot faster than before everything is a good bit smoother this time also. The 360 
 version runs on 60 frames and the PS3 only runs on I think 30 I havent played the one for PS3 
 but I would just assume its allot better on the 360. there isnt really any commentary though but 
 I really dont pay attention when Im playing I dont even notice. There are a good bit of modes 
 that you can play like superstar, franchise n all that good stuff. But yeah this is a really good 
 game so if you like football Im sure you will like madden 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Another Madden game. Nothing new. Throw there, throw here. Whether its open in the end zone, or 
 getting the fumble that will give you the touchdown that will win the super bowl for you, its all 
 the same. The controls are the same. It was entertaining for a few days. I know that the game isnt 
 supposed to be game of the year, but it could have been a little easier. Playing on rookie is like 
 playing on pro, playing pro is all-pro, playing all-pro is all-madden, and all-madden is super 
 hard. The graphics were great. If you are a big fan of madden football, then this is the game for 
 you, if you like the M games and like to play sports game once in awhile like me, then you wont 
 be as happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKTF
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Madden has always been a good game to play. But its time to make Madden series a AMAZING GAME to 
 play. Madden needs to set to tone for next year, by pushing out of their comfort zone into uncharted 
 land. I think gamers and fans of the series would love to finally see the full likeness of next-gen. 
 I think Madden should include schedule practices during franchise mode, workout session, and basketball 
 training program.
  
  Practices -interactive drills ( which the team runs or just your player)
  -going over gameplay 
 with teammates and coach
  -learn the new game strategy by running new plays before every game.
  
  Workout Sessions
 
  
  -weight training
  -running suicides -defensive workouts
  -offensive workouts
  
  Training Program, this program helps you gain strength in all areas. Its can also help you get 
 in shape. At the begin of the program you'll take before &amp; after picture of yourself . Also 
 a before &amp; after ratings of yourself. The program can involve:
  
  -hard workouts -weight lifting, running, etc.
  -gain needed physique for your position.
  -gain 
 muscle and body mass with it.
  -become a stronger player in 8 weeks training 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huddyseven
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  i cant believe it catch the damn ball. dont let me started on turnovers
  and DROP BALLS. I throw the ball to marvin harrison
  and he had 6 drops, one of them fell out 
 of his hand!!!!!!!. come on ea
  fix this. the weapons are lame, ea should of spent more time on
  FRANCHISE mode than some dumb 
 weapons. I bought this because i thought it would be better than 07, its faster but the turn overs 
 ,catching, franchise sukss!,
  
  presentation: suk bring in espn, wheres the fukin espn commentary tony tony!!!!
  
  graphics: good 
 but nothing improved
  
  gameplay: just a faster and smoother 07
  
  music worst madden sound track ever, comin ozzy osborne why, i thought he was dead
  
  extras: what 
 extras
  
  funfactor:3.5/10 the drop balls!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  in the end madden is average thats all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is the best current football game to date. We all have opinions about how the series 
 changes (or doesn't) from year to year. So all that aside, I will just briefly talk about what 
 is good and bad from this years addition.
  
  Good:
  
  Overall look and feel - The player models look a lot better then last year's huge steroid looking 
 freaks. The graphics also help when it comes to the seemingly thousands of different tackle animations 
 and new branching animations. Both of which make the game feel different each time you play.
  
  Control - The control has also been much improved and is really smooth. Running the ball really 
 feels like running. The ability to cut and spin up field is not exactly easier, but it feels like 
 if you want to stop on a dime and go hard right, you can. Hit stick 2.0 works great and allowing 
 different types of tackles is sweet.
  
  Bad:
  User Interface - I would really like a change in this department just because it looks so much 
 like 07. It sometimes seems as if you are playing the same game. I think it is time for new menus, 
 scoreboard hud and an upped presentation. When will EA use ESPN???
  
  Little things - I don't really know what to call this category, these are the things that make 
 me hate this years game. Their are why too many turnovers. The fumbles are crazy and it really 
 causes this game to fall flat. I have had some plays with 3 fumbles on them. Unacceptable. Their 
 are other weird glitches that they AI has when they can seemingly will a turnover. Not too fun.
 
  
  Online- It's just boring. It is nice that EA carried over your stats from 07, but not a lot has 
 changed since 07. If you look at 2K, they have had leagues for years. All Madden has is ranked 
 and unranked games. Hopefully next year.
  
  If you like the NFL this is a great game for you, but I am sure you already bought it. I think 
 this is the football game of the year, but it still needs work to regain some of the thunder from 
 early last gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Highlights - Spectacular player animations; calling individual player adjustments at the line; 
 silky smooth framerate; it's football
  
  Lurking in the Shadows - a plethora of turnovers; uninspired, recycled commentary; no custom plays 
 or playbooks; only one camera setting; retarded linemen/fullbacks; so many straws, one's bound 
 to break the camel's back; completely tacked on sideline/crowd people.
  
  The quickie version
  Madden is Madden. If you enjoy the series you'll enjoy 08. Like any sports 
 game franchise, usually little changes from year to year so knowing when it's time to invest in 
 the new version is key. With the exception of making player adjustments after you've gotten settled 
 at the line of scrimmage and additional similar defensive adjustments, Madden 08 doesn't really 
 offer anything new. I myself was playing the 360 launch version, Madden 06 and felt it was time 
 to update. Nice for certain, but not a major improvement. Those still playing 07 can probably pass. 
 Those new to the series or looking for that first football title for their 360 or PS3 can forgo 
 getting a cheaper deal on the older versions and just go straight for the latest.
  
  The tantric version
  Madden 08 has solid handling - better than anything in the past. Part of 
 this is due to the increased number of break points in character animations that allow characters 
 to make quick adjustments whilst in the middle of another animation. This means that the players 
 on the field will react a little more realistically when hit or when juking. From a spectator point 
 of view, you're going to get some great replays of big hits and amazing catches - seeing players' 
 bodies get tossed and flipped just as they should.
  
  The most difficult part of any football game is just becoming familiar with the playbooks and different 
 plays available. But with a limited understanding, anyone should be able to pick up the game and 
 have some success. Follow your blockers, run through the holes, find the open receiver.
  
  At the line of scrimmage, after you've called your play, you'll be able to make adjustments as 
 audibles, changing the direction of a run play, coverage changes, shifting the line and linebackers 
 to a particular side as well and adjustments to individual players like changing a receiver's route 
 or telling a safety to blitz. This alone is an awesome addition to the game and really makes up 
 where Madden fails in other respects. Changing passing routes on offense can really expand your 
 playbook and gives you hundreds, if not thousands of play options. That may seem like an exageration 
 but if we're talking combination mathematics, well...
  
  The idea works for defense as well but not quite as well. The greatest limiting factor is that 
 on defense you're bound to the fact that you have no control over when the play will be called 
 which only magnifies the fact that trying to select a particular player before the snap is a pain 
 since you have to cycle through every player until you find the one you want - then call the player's 
 adjustment. Accidentally go past the player you want and you're kind of screwed. Getting a change 
 to one player is usually doable but forget about editing two players.
  
  So while the game handles and plays better, not to forget that the defensive A. I. has also been 
 ramped up a bit, there are numerous faults that add up enough to make you wonder if those previously 
 mentioned improvements are actually enough to make 08 a better game.
  
  The most obvious of the gameplay issues is the high rate of turnovers - both fumbles and interceptions. 
 The interception rate you can adjust; fumbles on the other hand, you cannot. After a few games 
 I turned my interception rate down to 10 (down from 50 out of 100) . Playing as the Denver Broncos 
 with Champ Bailey as my barometer I worked my INT rate up to about 17. (When Champ is dropping 
 easy picks you know it's time to up the slider.) Despite this, on multiple difficulty settings, 
 my defense regularly scores more TDs than my offense. (After one season on the All Pro setting 
 I led the league in wins and points scored yet my offense was one of the worst - mostly because 
 my offense never gets a chance to touch the ball.)
  
  Unless you're choosing your plays based on what John Madden suggests you're not likely to be impacted 
 too much by him. But, as if the developers/publishers/Madden himself felt like he wasn't getting 
 enough in-game action they opted to force his opinion on you when it comes to forth down. If teams 
 are punting or going for the field goal he'll stay quiet. But as soon as the opposing team tries 
 to go for it on forth, Madden will chime in with his play suggestions. Annoying but not a big deal 
 if it weren't for the fact that your playbook is suddenly fixed on his suggested plays and the 
 only way to get to the play you want is to back out to the main play selection screen then work 
 your way back in. When time is of the essence, this can be a killer.
  
  It also illustrates another behavior of the game to reset your playbook ever time it's opened. 
 Say you're ten pages into your playbook and the quarter ends, a timeout is called, or the 2 minute 
 warning hits. Your playbook is reset and you have to dig 10 pages in once again. Oh, and say you're 
 at the 37 and want to kick the field goal? Nope, not an option. Again, you have to back all the 
 way out, then find your special teams plays, then pick field goal.
  
  One of the highly touted additions to Madden this year were Weapons. Marking high performance players 
 as threats with the potential to have dramatic impacts on a game. Those elite players that truly 
 stand above the NFL crowd. Yeah, well it certainly labels them. That's about it. Really all this 
 boils down to is a way of marking players with high ratings so that you don't have to remember 
 who's good on your team. For as much as it was advertised, I think it's a pretty cheap gimmick. 
 It does nothing for gameplay and just serves as a reminder that if you throw to Terrell Owens, 
 he's probably going to catch the ball.
  
  Before and after each game you'll get some dialogue by Marshal Faulk or a couple other former players 
 giving their predictions and stroking their own ego after the game - whether they guessed the outcome 
 right or wrong. This is entertaining, maybe... once. What they have to say is just far too limited 
 and uninteresting. Not to mentioned repeated over and over. It won't matter what the final spread 
 is, if they called the winner, well then they called it all along. 
  
  Other dialogue during gameplay is better and it was good when it was fresh 3 years ago. Honestly, 
 I don't think EA even touched the sound bites and just threw in what they already had. It's not 
 offensive or annoying in anyway which is better than some quirky comment being repeated over and 
 over. But as before, it's simply monotone, unenthusiastic and recycled. At the end of each game 
 you'll also get some update as to your ring builder progress. Apparently it's necessary for Faulk 
 to inform you of this every time as well. It may not sound like a big deal, but leaving it out 
 would have been one less straw.
  
  Outside of the players themselves, the graphics are mediocre. The field looks great and it's fun 
 to watch how players and the field itself will get beat up over the course of a game. But for everything 
 else (the stadium, the players on the sidelines, and the fans) it's simply disappointing. Especially 
 considering how much attention is often drawn to these elements. During replays or while calling 
 plays, the camera will float around view the stadium and everything in it, only bringing focus 
 to how little attention was spent on other aspects. At least give more variety to these characters' 
 actions and make it so they don't all do it at the same time.
  
  FRANCHISE AND SUPERSTAR
  For me, the reason I play Madden, or any sports game for that matter, is the franchise mode. Now 
 I'm not all big on the off-season aspects, and I'm really not that into making trades and draft 
 deals. I simply like playing through a season, evaluating my team, fixing holes and watching players 
 progress. In that regard Madden does a fine job. It has an improved trading system and negotiating 
 contracts is easy as there's no penalty for having a player decline an offer. Just adjust your 
 proposal and see if they'll accept the new one.
  
  An interesting side-effect of the Superstar mode is that it will impact your Achievements. While 
 playing as Viking rookie running back, Adrian Peterson, I earned several passing achievements. 
 Personally, I would have rather earned these myself rather than just being part of a CPU game that 
 they occurred in.
  
  Madden 08 also has a number of team owner related features to make use of during the off-season. 
 You can make sponsorship deals, add a number of amenities to your stadium, or even move the team 
 to a new city. Sponsorship deals will obviously bring in more money - as long as you fulfill the 
 contract obligations. I assume upgrades to the stadium will have an impact on ticket sales as well 
 but they also include yearly maintenance costs as well as the upfront construction fees so you 
 have to choose wisely. Most of the upgrades are pretty ridiculous and quite costly.
  
  Unfortunately, one of the biggest aspects of both the season and the off-season is completely broken. 
 Scouting. For as much as it's supposed to play an integral part of the game (you have to hire a 
 scouting agency for crying out loud) , scouting players appears to do absolutely nothing. Now this 
 may not be true as I've heard some people say that have played multiple teams in the same franchise 
 that they'll get slightly different reports when scouting the same player. But frankly, it's something 
 you can avoid. You can look at any player at any time and get a scouting report. And when it comes 
 time to draft, you should have a pretty good idea of your team priorities already and be able to 
 use the ample amount of time given to you to find the player you need.
  
  For all those other aspects of the off-season already mentioned? Well, if you want to even touch 
 them, you'll have to play through an entire Franchise season first since starting a new season 
 doesn't even give you the option of an off-season.
  
  Most disappointing of all, the biggest game in US sports is treated as just another ordinary game. 
 If you don't realize your team is going to the Superbowl, you're likely to forget you're there. 
 The home team is treated like the regular home team and the away team as if they're nobodies. Worst 
 of all, Faulk's little pre-game commentary will claim that there's no trophy on the line in this 
 one so it's all about bragging rights. 
  
  New this year is the inclusion of Superstar mode. It's similar to Franchise only you play as a 
 single player and can choose to only take part in the game when your player is called upon. Your 
 involvement on a play will also have an impact on how the team responds to you. If the team does 
 well while you're on the field, players on both sides of the line will come to respect you more 
 and you'll gain the ability to not only increase your stats but also affect the stats of those 
 around you through your influence. It's a pretty cool concept and because it doesn't require you 
 to take part in a complete game, it's a great way to play a season when you don't have time or 
 the patience to sit through an entire regular game.
  
  I think the one drawback of the mode is the camera angle. EA tried to make you feel more apart 
 of the game by placing the camera lower and closer to your player, and often offset from center. 
 The angle makes it a bit difficult to run in the proper direction and throwing passes turns into 
 a matter of luck. It's an interesting take but I wish EA had included the option to use the normal 
 camera setting. In that way, Franchise mode would have been a great way to practice and focus on 
 certain aspects of the game.
  
  Personally, the biggest thing missing is the lack of any kind of customizable playbook. Not even 
 the chance to edit existing playbooks by removing or adding plays. It would be nice to be able 
 to get rid of the plays I never use rather than have to sift through them ever time. Better yet 
 would be the ability to create your own plays. (Such as a cover 2, 2 man under - why does this 
 play not exist?) I know NCAA Gameday did this a few years back but it was only limited to three 
 plays. Heck, that was better than nothing.
  
  I don't like to buy games outright. Those I do buy are ones that I know will have some lasting 
 replay value. For me, Madden falls into that category. I wasn't there on launch day, and I may 
 not have been so willing to buy it if it wasn't a free game for me. Initially, it was hard to qualify 
 it as being significantly better than 06. However, despite the number of turnovers, annoying commentary, 
 lack of custom plays, and the fact that I have to manually to the away jersey when I'm the away 
 team, I do think it's a better game and I'm glad to be playing it. The smooth frame rate is easy 
 on the eyes (try going back to an earlier version and your eyes will feel funny) and it's a more 
 solid build with fewer crashes - though is does still freeze or give me unreadable disc errors.
 
  
  Madden 08 isn't a must buy by any means. But it is the best out there right now. EA made vast improvements 
 to how the game handles and how CPU opponents react. Now if only they'd work more on improving 
 what they have instead of continually adding sugar coated features maybe we'd finally get ourselves 
 a real game of football.
  
  Most disheartening is that EA continues to live up to their standard of mediocrity. Many aspects 
 of the game could have so easily been fixed or improved and yet EA is complacent about the issues 
 that plague their entire lineup of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattieshoes
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 27, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The first few games I played, I absolutely loved this game. I was throwing 5 interceptions a game, 
 but I figured I'd just get settled into it a bit and everything would be fine. Only... My team 
 (without my help) actually intercepted the ball ELEVEN times in one game. Okay I thought, I'll 
 just need to tweak the sliders or something. I dropped the interception slider for both sides... 
 then dropped it some more... then dropped it some more.... and some more... then turned weapons 
 off... With the interception slider on zero and weapons off, I still threw 7 interceptions a game 
 and intercept 4+. Now I'm no madden god, but what the hell? I can win every single game in all 
 pro quite easily -- just run the ball 50 times a game, throw a few play action passes or passes 
 to wide open RB's in the flats. But the interceptions and fumbles make this game worthless. With 
 the interception sliders on zero, there should be zero interceptions, and there are 10+ per game? 
 Seriously, what the hell? And dropping players from the roster doesn't put them in the free agent 
 pool, it removes them from the game. Seriously, how was this stuff not caught in beta? All it would 
 take is ONE franchise played through a few years to make this glaringly obvious to any tester. 
 And why is it that the 30th best starting quarterback in the league has a QB rating of 85? Why 
 are world class running backs fumbling the ball 3 and 4 times a game? This game is utterly unplayable. 
 I'm absolutely disgusted. I guess I won't be buying madden on the release date ever again. Do yourself 
 a favor. If you're jonesing for a football game, get madden 07 used practically for free. Seriously, 
 I cannot believe how great the game looks at first and then how bad it actually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed20056969
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the most unrealistic football on the market. The animations look like crap, players move 
 around like the have a stick up their a$$, gameplay is garbage compared to 2k, presentation is the 
 worst of any sports game. EA you suck and will never compare to 2k. Its good to have money to be 
 able to buy out the competition. Bunch of pansies!!!! iF EA never bought the license,2k would of 
 ran them out. 2k5 is still the best football game ever made and its been over 3 years now. EA has 
 everything they need to make a great football game, especially with the ESPN license, and they choose 
 to be lazy and put out half a$$ed games every year. What a waste of time and money. Even with the 
 lack of modes in All Pro 2k8, they still got a 7.5. The animations in 2k are so much better and 
 runs so much smoother. The presentation feels like a real football game. EA tried to make sure 
 there would not be another All Pro, but thats not gonna happen. They already signed the legends 
 to 3 yr contracts. Wait until 2k adds more modes and replay value and then we'll see who makes 
 a better game cuz everyone knows 2k actually watches real sports games, unlike EA. All EA cares 
 about is the money, period!!! What a disgrace to all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Well for Madden it is so much better than 07. That game was a joke. this game is so much fun especially 
 on live.
  I suggest being able to get all achievements before going out for live because you are up against 
 so very big losers that never get off the 360 lol.
  Anyway you should have lots of fun with superstar, and ring builder!.
  
  Ring builder is a 
 new feature too Madden. You get points for different things like say getting a 20 yard run you 
 get 15 points. there are many levels and i believe 4 or 5 total rings.
  
  The best update by far is the Hi-light stick. It is by far Madden's best feature. Knock the crap 
 out of someone with the fick of your pad. This like other games i suggest Live before renting or 
 buying to get the full 60 dollar value.
  
  ~Don't dream it... Live it...~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_kreationz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is so far the best football game . The biggest features this are the weapons which plays 
 a very important part of the game. The key is to master what weapon does what n when to use them. The 
 online play has improved a bit to . Now u have the ability to challenge play. Also there r a few 
 new features in superstar mode, example the ability to play as a rookie and also with the rings 
 n the trophy.
  
  Now the bad Online seems exciting but it would have been better if there was online replay n also 
 if they could have online tournaments monthly that would be great..
  
  But overall this is a great game and a must have for any football fan or gamer. If u don't have 
 this game buy cause you don't know all the excitement you are missing out on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OakLaNdRaiDer14
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just flat out awesome, it delivers everything that you'd think a top flight football 
 game would deliver. The graffics are just perfect, if you have HD cable connected to your xbox 
 then crystal clear graphics are guaranteed. The gameplay is absolutely perfect, everything about 
 this game is perfect in case you were wondering, especially the gameplay. Thank god ea sports brought 
 back the fantasy draft because if their wasn't I'd probably sell this game the instant I bought 
 it and everything about this game would not be perfect at all. But it is and therefore this game 
 is absolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langway
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  With so many movie franchises rebooting (Star Wars, 007, et al...) , maybe it's time EA does the 
 same with Madden. Really, this is the same crap they have been shoving down our throats for years 
 now.
  
  I left the series behind after '04, and figured I would give it a try for '08. I guess I should 
 have rented first - now I simply have decent trade-in for Halo, or Mass Effect.
  
  First, the graphics are good, as expected, and then... well... nothing. The first game I played, 
 the opposing team scored a TD on me at the five yard line... by five yard line, I mean I tackled 
 the guy at the five, and they mysteriously got 6 points out it. I challenged - the replay has the 
 player catching the ball at the 7, and being tackled at the 5, with the ball coming no where close 
 to the end-zone! HUH? This has happened in 4 times as of this writing!
  
  Madden's play calling doesn't always match the play highlighted, the radio announcer is recycled 
 junk, the franchise mode (which apparently made a return in this years game) is nothing more... actually 
 less than what it was in the '04 version.
  
  I could go on and on, I'm just really disappointed in EA's lack-luster effort. The NFL and EA should 
 be embarrassed by this one company fiasco they created. A BIG TURNOVER... or 12. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Game play: THe game play has been greatly step up. THe new weapons are amazing and it really makes 
 the great players even better. Defensive playmaker is back and works very well. The game is packed 
 with so many in game options and the controls feel so right, that the gamaplay finally feels next 
 gen . the biggest problem is that there are a lot of turnovers. It seems like everytime I would 
 get a user pick, the computer would have my RB fumble. Some games I played there would be 4 to 
 5 turnovers. This issue can be easily be fixed with a patch, so I didn't take anything off from 
 the score. score 10
  
  Graphics: the graphics themselves have only slight changes, but thats not a bad thing. The grafics 
 are still amazing and all new animations, from the gang tackling system makes the game have a brutal 
 sense, just like the NFL, but over the top like Blitz the League. score 9
  
  Sound: Easily the most disappointing part of the game. The EA sports radio announcer sucks. He 
 was a great idea but he has been saying the same lines since madden 06. I wish that you could change 
 to John Madden, or even better, let it be that when your team has national televised games or regional 
 games, another announcer like John Madden or someone from ESPN ( EA sports does have the licence) . 
 score 7
  
  Value: The play now mode has lots of depth with all the weapons, defensive playmaker and hitstick 
 2.0. Superstar mode is much better with a pushed back camera and franchise mode, as usual, is huge. 
 With the created team mode you can create your own team and replace them with another team. Even 
 better, you can fantasy draft with Hall of Famer players so that you can have your own team with 
 these legends and take them online ( This reminds me of something!?!) Blieve it or not, there are 
 about 239 hall of famers in madden ( I think i counted right) compared to 240 legend in APL 2k8 
 ( a game I highy recommend,) Sadly there are on leagues, which is disappointing because others 
 have done it before, though next year it should be in the game because EA is exploring online leagues 
 with NHL 08. score 9
  
  Overall: Madden is definitely the best NFL next gen game so far. It really improved a lot and though 
 it has a turnover issue, no online leagues and audio problems, its still an amazing game. score: 
 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghettoness23
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do 
 madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games 
 ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change 
 ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden 
 games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever 
 change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?do madden games ever change ?
 
  
  it was still a little fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techstud
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I've never seen a game where the defense scores more points than the offense. Where calling a pass 
 defense works better against the run than goal line defense. Where a player you see fumble 3 times 
 a year fumbles at least once every game in a games played with 5 minute quarters! The game does 
 look nice, but the game play is frustrating. Online you play against people that have figured out 
 how to take full advantage of the quirks so to win the online game it basiclly becomes a turn over 
 fest with the defense posting the vast majority of the points. EA needs to spend more time on this 
 and quit releasing a quirky, incomplete beta to the public. $60 is a lot to pay for a game still 
 in development.
  
  Buyer beware... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  For those who love Madden, I can finally say it got its next-gen act together and created the best 
 version of its seminal football series since Madden NFL 2005. The new animation system is outstanding 
 and the game itself plays wonderfully. Madden succeeds where it matters most: The gameplay. Theres 
 alot of enjoyment in franchise mode, but Madden 08 falls flat in terms of offering the feel of 
 a televised NFL game. I mean didnt EA games make an agrreement with ESPN. What's the point in having 
 the ESPN license if it's barely used? Overall EA games now has a classic on its hands in the near 
 future. Iam tellin you all this game needs isJohn Madden doing the boradcasting, becuase I personally 
 hate the random guy radio broadcast play-by-play. It's embarrassing to listen to this homer calling 
 (and miscalling) plays. Right now Madden 08 is not the best football game ever made, but it is 
 one of the better versions in the franchise. I will admit it is the best Xbox 360 football game 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCamGrdnr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I put madden 2008 im my 360 with high expectations, i was expecting a game that corrected the flaws 
 of its precursor, and for the most part it has, for the most part..... It definently improved the 
 defense, but it seemed to make throwing interceptions a very common occurence, and fumbles occur 
 way more than you would like, these are great, if you are on defense, but if you are the offense 
 it becomes very frustrating and trying. I would recommend this version of madden over 07, but the 
 franchise mode still isnt as deep as maddden 2005's. You still cant edit ticket prices, or prices 
 of hotdogs etc. and you cant build a new stadium without relocating your team which is rediculous. 
 I recommend this game as a rental first, unless you are a madden die-hard, in which case you are 
 going to buy it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delrim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  i've been waiting for a good xb360 football game for a while now. i usually trust gamespot to be 
 right on reviews so i can decide wether or not to buy a game. madden 08 received an 8.5 and the 
 review was positive. so i went out and bought it. i'm still waiting for a good football game on 
 my xb360.
  the only thing good about this game is the nfl license. too many turnovers. commentators are boring. 
 madden does not give you any worthwhile information. the motion capture is not as good as last 
 generation games. yes, there is a lot of content, but this is supposed to be a football game first. 
 and in my opinion. it does not deliver. get rid of all the extras and focus on the main football 
 game please!!!!. gamespot, you got it wrong this time. how about a retraction? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigWalt211
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  For those of us that have been playing Madden since the beginning, Madden 2008 for 360 is just 
 what the series needed. Graphically, the game is practically flawless, and the AI is just what 
 the doctor ordered. In previous installments, once you find a money play the CPU can't stop you, 
 not this time around. Both the offense and defense adapt as you play the game (provided there is 
 a smart player on the opposing team) . The defensive backs in this year's game have some of the 
 best AI I've ever seen, sometimes maybe to smart (lol) . Bottom line, this year's game forces players 
 to think and plan more than ever before. The branching animations are even better than all of the 
 hype implied. I know I'm not the only one who was sick of animation issues causing a player run 
 out of bounds last year. This year, not only can you prevent that problem manually with a flick 
 of your thumb, but the better WRs will be sure to get both feet down and fall out of bounds with 
 the ball, instead of just running through the canned animation. The spectacular catch animations 
 are for lack of a better word... spectacular. But more important than the actual catches, are the 
 bone-crushing hits WRs have to take from unforgiving defenders. Sometimes the receivers are left 
 out to dry and pay dearly, the up-side however is they sometimes they hold onto the ball.
  
  I have read a lot reviews where people complain about the number of turnovers in the game. 
 I personally have to experienced that issue. I will say that it is easier to throw an interception 
 now, but with practice, you can get around that problem.
  
  All and all, I am pleased with this year's game. So much so that I probably won't buy another for 
 a couple of years because I'll still be very wrapped in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScRP192
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  After a long hard, play on madden x) my initial thougths are that its total football!, its graphically 
 attractive, addictive and a polished version of madden. Positives include the new weapons system, 
 it really defines the character of the players and the team. The hitstick is improved and the high-low 
 tackle scheme is a nice addition to the game.
  
  Negatives include the lack of effort that has gone in too ultimately modifying the gameplay, theres 
 little effort put into the graphics too. Overall, its a nice and as always an addictive series 
 of foootball to play nd this aint an exception but the difference between each series is becoming 
 narrower each time. Its time for a new gamplay and graphics engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJakeness
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  The game looked wonderful (graphics wise) . Madden was the only game left I played on PS2. I decided 
 to move up and cash in my PS2 for the new Madden 08. The game play for Madden 07 was different 
 than PS2 and far more easy to score. It was easy, but still fun. I expected Madden 08 to be about 
 the same.
  
  It turned out completely different. The game play sucks! It's hard to run and pass. Defense is 
 the only thing that works because of all the picks and fumbles. You can't go 2 minutes without 
 a fumble or pick, it's ridiculous. Madden really screwed up and made me wishing I still had my 
 PS2.
  
  Madden 08 for the 360 is a bust! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Madden is great this year in conjunction with NCAA08.... My boys gave me 3 good years... One bowl 
 game and back to back nationals (F. I. U) ... Now they came over to Madden and with some shifty deals, 
 I managed to get them on my squad.. ( The TaylorMade TriggerMen) ... Kicking tail... But in this 
 game... You have to adjust the sliders to meet your standards of fair... If you try to play on 
 all madden or all pro on default, the game is damn near unplayable.... I am talking about corner 
 backs with eyes behind their heads and unstoppable linebackers... Adjust the sliders and you will 
 have a good time with the game... Sometime they fumble to much but it comes from taking punishment... 
 I do appreciate the risk vs reward of gameplay... Good game... I alway prefer 2k football but without 
 the NFL teams and barebone game modes... I just can't give it my all... but they did keep madden 
 on their toes and with a nice coat of paint now that they know what works and what doesn't, next 
 year is going to be a breakthrough in video game football... I do appreciate the fact that madden 
 gave me something to go on this year.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidet22
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I have owned Madden 2008 for the Xbox 360 since the day of its release. The blend of football 
 and video games always has me drooling and I play it far more than any other game year in and year 
 out. Therefore, I take the review of this game seriously. I have played Madden 2008 regularly since 
 its release, taken notes, and tried as best I could to review this from an objective standpoint 
 (in other words, Im not giving graphics a 1 because the game frustrates me from time to time) .
 
  
  The Good: The game is simply stunning. The graphical detail resonates EAs passion to produce an 
 aesthetically appealing and true-to-form game. The added control over players is also wonderful 
 and adds more fluidity. Ultimately, the gameplay feels more realistic than ever.
  
  The Bad: Although more fluid, the game still feels like shifting from one animation to another. 
 Some of the fixes are hardly fixed. There are still too many frustrating passes to running backs 
 in the flats that ends up going out of bounds. Although some exaggerate the prevalence of the problem, 
 fumbles occur more frequently than they should when compared to the NFL. Finally, the game certainly 
 seems to have a catch up system when youre leading the cpu by more than 14 points, especially 
 in the fourth quarter.
  
  Graphics  This part of the review is simple. The game is a work of art. EA has detail down to 
 pigment, hairdos, tattoos, stadium intracies, shiny helmets, and authentic looking grass. I have 
 had people think a real game was on while Ive been playing. Madden 2008 looks better than some 
 real broadcasts I watch. EA  thank you (tear) .
  
  Audio  First, the music offers a good variety of artists and genres. Personally, I am more into 
 rock and found this years selection to be sparse. Nonetheless, you can play your own music through 
 the 360 and no one is buying Madden for the music anyway. They did a fine job of including lots 
 if different flavors of music.
  
  The meat of the audio for EA revolves around the in-game action. EA did a wonderful job of matching 
 quarterbacks with similarly sounding voices. You can really tell the difference between Peyton 
 Manning and Brett Favre. Unfortunately, thats where the good part of the audio ends. First of 
 all, with a name like Madden, youd expect him to make more of an appearance than the ask madden 
 feature which are the same recordings from several years ago (some at least as old as Madden 2004, 
 maybe older) . The radio announcer has a decent variety in comments, but feels uninspired. He is 
 supposedly a home announcer. Of course, it would have been easy for EA to go over the top and 
 have the announcer simply degrade the opposition and sing the praises for the home team, but thats 
 unrealistic. Still, hes too bland. Also, he is wildly mistaken on yards gained. I have gained 
 8 yards to hear him say gain of 3 on the play. What?! That just feels sloppy. Gameplay:
  
  Offense: EA promised to give more controller to the player this year in the running game. They 
 certainly delivered what they promised. I feel like I can cut back more naturally now and Im not 
 weighted down completely by an animation. When carrying the ball, players are more likely to respond 
 to your controls more than ever before. They will even push the lineman forward if needed.
  
  The next step for EA will be to take care of the blocking mechanics. Lets be honest, football 
 is won in the trenches. Peyton Manning would be pretty worthless if he had an awful offensive line 
 that provided only 1.5 seconds for him to pass regularly. I want to stay objective here, but it 
 is hard. The blocking is still a train wreck. Here are the 4 main difficulties with blocking.
 
  
  1) Too many times my running back is following a blocker who should clearly block one guy, but 
 gets distracted by someone irrelevant and leaves my back wide open to get blasted. Lead blocking 
 helps (Im still impressed with how clean that lead blocking works by the way  great implementation 
 last year) , but does not resolve the issue entirely. Even with lead blocking, the running back 
 sometimes fails to follow his blockers appropriately (which is an added difficulty actually in 
 the o-lineman mini game) . Somehow offensive lineman need to learn the next most logical block, 
 not just the nearest guy. 2) Even worse is the pass blocking. First, EA needs to find a way to 
 eliminate the sacks occurring on handoffs. In the NFL, you can probably count on two hands the 
 number of times a qb is sacked before he can get off a handoff. In Madden, it happens about 3 times 
 a game. Youre taking away control and making me a spectator with stuff like that. Second, the 
 cpu often gets a world of time even with blitzes whereas I frequently keep in extra tight ends 
 or backs to block. Despite the added protection, Ill bet I get &frac12; the time of the cpu. In 
 fact, I am tempted to run a little experiment wherein I time the amount of time I get as the player 
 vs what the cpu gets. Id run the same team against itself and make sure to compare similar protection 
 packages. I could also just do an aggregate average from game to game. I am confident that I would 
 find the cpu gets significantly more time. I have a whole plan of how I could carry that out objectively, 
 but then I realized that no one is paying me to do this and I know the answer anyway, the cpu gets 
 more time in the pocket. Although, I have to admit that its better this year. Its still far from 
 realistic, though.
  3) Suction blocking still exists. Lets get past that already.
  4) Blockers will often simply follow the qb when he rolls out of the pocket. Sometimes they will 
 even run into the qb while a lineman charges and obliterates the qbs will to live. Ive actually 
 had occasions when my blocker seems to push me into lineman outside of the pocket. In all fairness 
 though, I typically mock my offensive lineman for being too slow. I think they want me to get hurt.
 
  
  The receiving game has not improved much in years. Overall, its not bad, but there is room for 
 improvement. For example, route running is pretty much the same for all receivers. It seems to 
 me that Marvin Harrison should find a larger gap between him and a defender more frequently than 
 Plexico Burress. Also, the dropped passesits just enough. I crank the AI all the way up and still 
 have tons of dropped passes. I know it happens in the NFL. I love authenticity. However, if youre 
 not going to authentic in this regard, make too FEW dropped passes. There really is nothing more 
 frustrating than setting up a play action pass, picking on the weak corner, finally getting the 
 protection you need, delivering the ball, then watching it fall incomplete because the receiver 
 forgot to put his hands up. Its just not fun.
  
  The quarterbacks are done beautifully. I love the player animation with the qbs as well. EA has 
 really done a good job of making passing look real. The one complaint I have is with the buggy 
 pass control. I can lead my receivers alright, but sometimes when I press right on my analog stick 
 to lead a receiver, the ball ends up way out of play. Its a good system, but needs to be tightened 
 up a little.
  
  Defense:
  
  EA seems to work very hard on creating a better defense every year. It is good, but it feels like 
 they get too bogged down in pass protection. It must be the most difficult aspect to develop for 
 because it remains a weakness. Despite receiver spotlighting and triple-man coverage, Burress can 
 still jump and catch most of what comes his way. You still have defenders watch balls go right 
 over their heads. Or, in some instances, the ball will go right through their helmets into the 
 waiting arms of a cpu controlled receiver. That has to be the most frustrating part. I realize 
 some defenders are smarter than others. Still, even the dumbest defender in the NFL knows that 
 if a ball is flying over his head, he should try to knock it down. I hate having called the right 
 defense, but finding myself pushed back because a defender just watches a ball fly over (or through) 
 his head. Also, EA  defensive backs to NOT have eyes in the back of their heads. The system is 
 clearly set up so that when I press the button for a certain receiver, everyone swarms to that 
 spot. It simply doesnt work that way. For example, if I throw the ball to Vincent Jackson on a 
 fly pattern in the gap of a cover 2 defense, the defender running across the field in man coverage 
 on Antonio Gates (with eyes on Antonio Gates and away from the qb) does not miraculously turn around, 
 find the ball, and intercept/knock down the ball. Or, a linebacker does not make up 10 yards to 
 leap and knock a ball down in a &frac12; second. Sometimes, defense really makes me feel like a 
 spectator. Finally, I dont care who you are, if youre up by 14 or more, especially in the fourth 
 quarter, the fumbles will come in record numbers, miraculous interceptions will mount, and there 
 is NOTHING one can do to stop the cpu sometimes. I had Brandon Jacobs break 7 tackles in one play 
 to score on me. Those 7 broken tackles were nothing to scoff at either, each had its own animation 
 on how he broke it. That just feels rigged.
  
  Overall AI:
  
  Sadly, this is why I have started to rent Madden games most recently before I buy. I bought the 
 game this year because I love football and simply wanted a football game to play (2K sports won 
 my heart over Madden in 2005, in a couple years, it just may give it another run for its money) . 
 Unfortunately, the AI is the biggest problem with Madden. I will put it simply  EA, I do not want 
 to win or lose a game because my guys are dumber and the cpu guys are smarter. Balls flying over 
 (or through) my guys heads, poor blocking, fumbling (oy, the fumbling) , the inhuman defensive cpu 
 plays, my guys watching players run right by them, poor tacklingthe list goes on and on. The bottom 
 line is that this makes me feel like a spectator  like I ultimately have no control on the outcome 
 of the game. Small glitches that have a profound effect often play in the favor of the cpu, like 
 the ones I listed above. Some, however, also play in the favor of the human player, such as the 
 false start glitch (Im sure you know what that is by now) and the fact that the cpu has never 
 challenged a play on me (except with 2:00 or less in the half/game. I dont want to win or lose 
 a game based on glitches, poor AI, or animation erros  plain and simple. Next year, put a coach 
 on the cover and work on improving the AI, please.
  
  Overall, I give Madden 2008 a 7.0 out of 10. Its a good game with a lot of great qualities, but 
 some of the glitches make it frustrating and annoying as well. It averages out to an average game. 
 I will play it because I love football, not because its a good video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  EA has finally put out a decent game of football for the 360. Madden and I have had a long marriage. 
 Since the days of the Sega Genesis. When I 1st purchased my 360 I had such high expectations for 
 EA's sports game, especially Madden. Boy was I disappointed! Madden 06 and 07 were nothing but 
 graphical upgrades. I was somewhat satisfied with NCAA 2007. This years 2008 Madden play even better. 
 2 things you really need to know about this years Madden. #1 when your running the football you 
 must protect the ball. If your caught by a big hitter or gang tackled you might caugh up the ball. 
 Intuitively you can hit the RB button (protect ball) to hold on to the ball. If you have a running 
 back with a decent carry rating he will not cough it up when protecting the ball. I hear alot of 
 people complaining about fumbling this year the RB button is a must when running the ball. A very 
 realistic feature. If an NFL back is carrying it like a loaf of bread he's gonna caugh it up. I 
 never used the protect ball button ever, but know I use it every run. Very cool and alot of fun 
 tucking it in when banging up the middle. #2 Be patient and put your time in to find the right 
 AI and setting. Make use of the AI sliders. If your using The Browns and your playing the Chargers 
 with the All-Pro setting and you hold LT to 15 yards then you know you need to boost up the CPU 
 running ability or try the next level,,, ect. I'm using the pre-season games to perfect my settings. 
 I'm a hardcore guy and like games to be as realistic as possible. A few things that still annoy 
 me to this day. #1 Why is kicking field goals and punts still to easy. Can't they make kicking 
 exciting and realistic. Kicking needs to be revamped and more challenging. #2 Irrelevant to game 
 play but the players on the bench look ridiculous. If your an NFL die hard you will be happy with 
 this game. Expecially if you thought 2006 and 2007 we're terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eporrini
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure how anyone that has played a football game in the past could give this game a score 
 over 5.0 in it's present state. All I can say if you are thinking about getting it is DON'T until 
 a patch is released fixing the turnover problems. I have seen a u-tube video where someone is showing 
 12 turnovers in a game. The reality is, games turn into a turnover fest and as much as I am dying 
 to play football I have had to start and quit a franchise multiple times as my frustration level 
 builds. As nice as graphics or modes are, at a foundational level games need to work and this one 
 doesn't. I have opened a case with EA support and they are ducking their responsibilities in fixing 
 this issue saying it's not their problem. Their advise, post on our forum and maybe someone will 
 hear you. I have to say I can't be more disappointed in EA. Games are an expensive purchase present 
 day with no opportunity for a return.
  
  I am also disappointed at Gamespot. I think you owe it to your faithful to accurately call out 
 what is an obvious and glaring defect in a game so that we don't all flood out to buy it and feel 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersrule56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Ah Madden 08, the excitement, the pleasure, the joy of clobbering your most hated NFL team. The 
 shouting, the screaming, the tears shed, the # of things you've broken after a turnover. All this 
 great stuff all in one juicy package. Let's start with the franchise. You have the ability to change 
 the rosters, coaching staff, trade and cut players, and get your own draft picks. Now we'll move 
 on to Superstar where now, you can be an existing rookie player in the NFL, you can make your own 
 Superstar, or I believe you can import your NCAA Legend from NCAA 07 if you had it on your 360. 
 In all of these you can get drafted, hire an agent and hold press confrences, you can get interviewed 
 and set up your ego, and you can try and improve yourself in camp. They also have some new features 
 you'd probably like to know. They have a new thing called the weapon's system. Every team has a 
 weapon. For example there's power backs, elusive backs, brick wall defender, accurate QB, and many 
 others. They also have the ring mode where when you win (and lose) a game and you get ring points. 
 The further you get in your ring progress, the more fancy the ring gets and the longer it takes 
 to improve your ring. There are 5 total rings and you must improve them to the highest point to 
 move onto the next ring. The last two even have some jewels on them. Also, you get to have a shrine 
 where you have two giant video screens of your favorite teams (and you can have two different teams) 
 and on the rings, you can have your favorite team's logo on there. There's much more to this game 
 than what I've said so you'll have to find out yourself. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  
  Overall Madden plays and feels like NCAA 08. If you already have NCAA then you will be right at 
 home with the controls and overall feel of the game. While there are slight differences between 
 the 2 games, Madden appears to be polished a bit more then NCAA is. To get started, finally the 
 gameplay gets upgraded much like NCAA. Gang tackles and animations for hits are done a bit better 
 in Madden in my opinion. 60 FPS was a much needed and smart addition to the franchise. The owner 
 mode is finally back from which it took a break from next-gen madden lovers. For the most part 
 its as good if not better then it was back on the original Xbox and ps2. Overall the graphics haven't 
 changed a whole lot. And maybe its just me, but i still expect something bigger from EA. Graphically 
 it looks good, but I'm waiting for them to make it look incredible. Online mode is ok at best as 
 it takes a back seat with the online leagues. The sound is ok at best and much like NCAA the announcers 
 will say things that are completely different from whats happening in the game. For instance i 
 scored a 60 yard touchdown and the announcer said what an interception! Overall the game is solid 
 at best. It plays a lot like NCAA. Finally FANTASY DRAFT IS BACK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me say first that yes this is the best Madden so far for the 360. Now that being said let 
 me say that doesn't mean much. Over the last few years Madden has become sort of a run of the mill 
 football franchise. Yes the graphics have improved some what but nothing amazing. The gameplay, 
 as usual, is just not believable. Linebackers jumping 5 feet in the air to make one handed interceptions. 
 Running backs fumbling 4 to 5 times a game. The passing game is lke playing the lottery. Sometimes 
 you win but most of the time you won't. If you even think about using a play action pass play you 
 might as well chalk up a sack and move on to the next down. Now alot of people will argue that 
 I don't now how to play real football or that I am a 2k fan boy, neither which is true. It is just 
 that in reality this game is not that good. It has been living on the Madden name for far too long. 
 Oh and speaking of Madden where the heck is he? He hasn't been in one of the next gen games yet! 
 The feel of the announcer is just blah and you can't tell the difference in a pre-season game or 
 the Super Bowl! Same presentation, same players announced, same everything. All you get for going 
 the whole season and winning the biggest game on earth is a congratulations you won the Super Bowl 
 on the screen. Now that is simply laziness. Total lack of anything special by EA. Shame on you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  No second thoughts on this one, this is the best football sim in the next-gen era. The graphics 
 are smooth and notably at a higher frame rate. Gameplay has remained much the same after several 
 years. Just about all new items are easy enough to use and understand. The ONE glaringly apparent 
 issue which subtracts GREATLY from the game is the absence of booth announcers. The ESPN radio 
 crap that is used subtracts heavily from the overall greatness of Madden 08. The range of options 
 and customization is fantastic and the ability to watch ALL of your favorite sports teams thru 
 ESPN on xbox live is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  We all know EA puts out a Madden to coincide with the new football season. These past few years 
 though, Madden has been going through a transitional stage as it grows into its new surrounding, 
 the next-gen consoles. In 2008, EA has delivered a superb football experience that is one of its 
 best releases yet.
  
  Graphically, Madden has grown tremendously with the inclusion of dozens of extra in between animations 
 as well as a generally sharper presentation. Running, catching and player collision animations 
 have been beefed up and animate and behave just like the real thing. Player model and stadiums 
 (as well as the turf and crowd) have been tweaked to bring more realism to the game. Sound wise 
 though, this game still stinks it up.
  
  The background stadium announcer does little more than announce the yardage gain (or lose) , most 
 of the time inaccurately, and the announcers add nothing to the game. Madden will call your plays 
 and he may even get a play description right but generally he doesnt add much. Dont get my started 
 on the ring progress blurb for profile 1/2. Thankfully, this is a game that you can play and 
 talk trash with your friends and not care about ANY of the dialogue.
  
  Gameplay is as tight as you could ask for in Madden 08. Players move like human beings and behave 
 like human beings. The control layout is a bit awkward (you try running up the field while juking 
 and then shielding the ball and immediately sprinting to hit a hole that just opened in half a 
 second!) and takes time to get use to. Also, there are so many options on both sides of the ball 
 pre-snap that you have to be quick or your pay clock will run out more often then not. Luckily, 
 a deep practice mode allows you time and the arena to practice any play, offense of defense until 
 you are comfortable with it and all your options. Other game modes, include franchise mode (with 
 accompanying mini-games) coach mode and of course online (or offline) multiplayer.
  
  The game comes with multiple single player difficulties but multiplayer is a free for all. If you 
 know you need practice, don't bring your game online, you'll get smoked. You WILL find yourself 
 sinking a ton of time into this game in order to just hang in versus the big boys.
  
  08 offers a great foundation for EA to build upon for the year to come on the 360 (and the PS3) 
 and is definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  The last version i bought was v5 for the 'old' XBox. It was a fantastic ride and one hell of a 
 game. What followed wasn't worthy of standing in the shadow of v5. Now we have V8, and even though 
 i am still looking at the many sides of this game, it is clear that Madden is back and close on 
 par with what was. First of all the interface. It is spithy in excellence. it is well made and 
 like a dream. The way to go through it all is well done, the music is decent, and yes, the sound 
 and graphics of the game is magnificent.
  Perhaps it is not the 'best' that a 360 could offer, however the game reacts decently fast and 
 the graphics are smooooth. Yes, it is one good balance.
  The controls are a different matter. I think that they got the best out of the controller, but 
 i get the idea that there is a market for a 360 Madden controller. It took some time to get the 
 handle on controll and the controller, but i feel that more could be achieved, and better from 
 a player point of view.
  The mini-games are nice and the practice is a must, but all of it is well packaged. Even NFL rule 
 NON-experts (me) might have a decent go at this with the help of the practice and the movies.
 
  The weaponicon section is a nice move forward. it does give it all a excellent edge. Yes, overall 
 Madden is one good achievement. I missed a few things (perhaps i haven't gotten far enough yet) . 
 First of all is the favourite team part. in v5 the entire interface changed (me being a 49er fan) . 
 No matter what team you go for. that part was really tight. The other part was the unlocking of 
 player cards. I saw the unlocking of the ring, but the cards had a little extra. That and the interface 
 arent 'biggies', it was just nice to have. Perhaps we will unlock all kind of 360 themes. Whatever 
 it is. Madden 08 is already a great piece of work. now i only need to make sure that the 49ers 
 get the NFLcup. Perhaps it will unlock a nice chearleader promo movie. Wouldn; t that be cool? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is a step ahead of where the series was a year earlier. The animations and gameplay seems 
 to run better, the new 'weapons' feature on each team is interesting, and the franchise mode has 
 been expanded and makes the replay value of the game much greater.
  
  Yet, I still find some obvious flaws with this year's game. 1st, why are there so many fumbles? 
 It seems that 2-3 times a game, your running back is putting the ball on the ground... makes you 
 not want to run the ball much. 2nd, how come we can't get real in-game announcers (and something 
 better than Marshall Faulk's pre-game?) . I mean, Madden's comments do get old after awhile, but 
 it is still better than the generic PA announcer all the time. If EA has the ESPN sports broadcast 
 license available, why not use it?
  
  The pre-game player introductions are pretty sweet, and the soundtrack for 08 is solid. So, I find 
 that Madden is still better than NCAA on the 360 (by far) and is worth playing for any football 
 fan this fall. But it's not a Hall of Famer, yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has improved a lot from last years game but there were still things that bugged 
 me a lot. The superstar mode kind of sucks. I don't like the workouts that you have to do to make 
 your guy good. I just don't enjoy madden games as much as I used to. Plus playing against the computer 
 really sucked. Either the computer sucked too much or they were just too good. This is probably 
 the last time I buy another Madden game. I guess I just want Madden to be good like it used to 
 be a few years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanlyger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, folks. Football is king in this country. (I'm more of a baseball guy myself, but 
 that's neither here nor there.)
  
  And when it comes to sports video games, Madden NFL Football is the undisputed champion of the 
 world.
  
  That being said, the franchise had gotten stagnant of the past few years, with the new editions 
 of the game being nothing more than roster updates.
  
  360 owners had especially been left in the cold with the '06 and '07 editions being stripped down 
 versions of the current-gen products.
  
  That all changed with Madden NFL '08.
  
  Madden '08 featured the basics; Fantasy Drafts, Franchise Mode and Superstar Mode, but the best 
 feature is the new weapon system.
  
  Star players are given different designations that highlight their specialties. This allows even 
 the untalented Madden players of the world (like me) to know the best ways to use the different 
 players.
  
  The AI of the game is also greatly improved to cater to the hardcore fans, unfortunately that brings 
 me to my only real criticism.
  
  AI balance is tough to do, I'm sure. However, the rookie setting is too easy and the pro setting 
 is too hard.
  
  But thats probably just losers like me.
  
  Nevertheless, with the same great Madden gameplay, several modes to play and the new weapons system, 
 Madden NFL '08 is one of the best sports games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushahid
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this edition of Madden, I was disappointed. I'd read about the fumbling 
 problems and such. When I started the game, that is exactly what I found. However, once you learn 
 the controls (learn to press the Y button when you are about to be tackled, the game becomes a 
 lot more fun and less buggy.)
  
  I don't particularly like the way player faces are done either... don't seem right. And the bug 
 with editing players that makes them all 26 is really, really irritating in franchise mode....
 
  
  Despite all that though, I'm having fun playing it and that's really all that matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I have been extremely disappointed with this series over the last 
 several years. It seemed to have been all about just rehashing the same old stuff at a $60 price 
 tag. For the first time in several years, Madden finally takes a step forward instead of settling 
 for the status quo.
  
  Madden 08 is a much better game than it's predecessor and finally takes steps to improve past hiccups. 
 The graphics are very polished (although the fields still look a little too 'stiff') and the animations 
 are very fluid. I haven't noticed much choppiness or slowdown at all, which is a welcome sight. 
 The players look more like their real-life counterparts as opposed to gigantic steroid enduced 
 supermen of the past several versions. You'll immediately notice a difference between wide receivers 
 and tight ends or fullbacks and safeties.
  
  The gameplay is improved as well. More game modes and more options mean a better all around experience. 
 The addition of weapons in the likes of a smart quarterback who can read defenses to brick-wall 
 defenders who can stop the best runner dead in his tracks makes the game more mental, as players 
 now have to watch what matchups and playcalls they signal for in given situations. It really adds 
 a nice layer of depth to the simple same play style of play you could dominate with previously. 
 Although there are some annoyances in terms of physics that will make you scream at the television 
 (such as the 90 degree mid air magnet ball trick or the fumble when no one touches you trick) , 
 these events are irregular enough to detract from your ability to win a game. I haven't had the 
 same experiences with turnovers that I've read about in other reviews, so I would hate to say that 
 they don't happen too often, but I've yet to experience anything out of the ordinary for turnovers 
 in a real NFL game.
  
  The sound is good in pretty much all aspects... except one. The lame radio announcer is back in 
 all his non-glory. He still shells out the same regurgitated lines as last year and is even more 
 tiresome than before. Despite his homer calls when you nail a big play, there's still very little 
 feeling that you will pick up on from his play-by-play. The sound of a bone jarring hit is still 
 worth hearing over and over in a replay and the crowd noise is pretty well done too. It's just 
 a shame that there are still no TV-style play-by-play and color commentary combinations.
  
  All in all, Madden has finally shown some signs of improvement. While the game still has it's hitches 
 now and again (like the magnet ball and the ball clipping through defenders' bodies/arms, etc.) , 
 it's much less frustrating than previous years. As an NFL fan who hasn't had a great experience 
 with a football game since NFL 2K5, Madden 08 has really done most things right. For once, my Madden 
 copy will make it through the entire length of the NFL season without being traded in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidusdeus1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  If this is the leap to next gen, the bar has been set low. I don't know how reviewers give these 
 games their scores because every review I've read has the same complaints that I see. The announcing 
 is attrocious, it kills the atmosphere previous installments delivered. Everytime the game lets 
 you pick a play the camera pans into a view of the coach (annoying as it is to see him flail his 
 arms around evrytime) with the same scene of players doing some sort of coreographed dance in the 
 background. This is all minor compared to the gameplay. How many fumbles and interceptions can 
 you have in a game you ask? Plenty. It almost makes you afraid to run the ball. It is hard to grade 
 this game when there is no competition out there (2k pro does not count) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmu1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I started Superstar mode on Madden 08 as a HB and skill level Pro. I thought the turnover ratios 
 were fair and very realistic. I upgraded to the All-Pro skill level, and things got crazy. My running 
 back is averaging 3 fumbles a game. I'm playing for the Giants so Eli Manning is my quarterback, 
 he is averaging 4 interceptions a game. In Pro mode, Eli through 10-15 interceptions a year, something 
 realistic. But in All-Pro, 64 INTERCEPTIONS.. Give me a break. I like the changes EA made to Madden 
 this year and Superstar mode is pretty cool with the super sim, however it is unplayable after 
 the Pro Skill level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MlKE-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The Madden football games have been one of the most popular games every year and are easily the 
 most popular sports games. Around the time of the birth of the PlayStation 2, the Madden series 
 raised the bar with improved graphics and gameplay, more features, fun new gameplay elements and 
 better soundtrack. Madden 2004 and 2005 was the peak of the series and beginning with Madden 06 
 the series began to go downhill. Madden 06 featured gimmicky new quarterback features and a terrible, 
 stripped down Xbox 360 version and Madden 07 featured more useless features and the same old gameplay 
 with no meaningful upgrades.
  
  With Madden NFL 08, this is the first game to really feel like you are playing it on a next-gen 
 system. EA doesnt rest on its laurels with the same old stuff we have come to expect over the 
 past few years, instead improving the gameplay to give the game an overall better feel. Instead 
 of adding pointless new features, the developers focused on just making the game better and they 
 have very much succeeded. The game feels and plays good and is a significant upgrade over previous 
 installments in the series.
  
  The graphics are great and dont overdue it by zooming in on a players arms so youd see the sweat 
 (like the Madden games have previously done on Xbox 360.) The sound on the field really sounds 
 like your at a football game and when the players hit each other the sound really hits the nail 
 on the head with its accurate representation of the sounds on the field.
  
  While Madden 08 is easily the best Madden game in a few years it does have its problems. The blatant 
 advertising is especially annoying, especially when its unnecessary for one of the best selling 
 games every year. Youll see Sprint ads on the pause menu and Under Armour ads smacked right in 
 the center of the screen a few times a game and only going away a split second before the snap 
 of the ball. And while he isnt a great announcer, the Madden games should still have John Madden 
 doing the commentary. It would have also been nice to hear the great Al Michaels on play-by-play, 
 instead of being replaced by announcers who you can barely hear because of the radio station 
 that the game is being broadcast on. Unfortunately, the menu system from last years game returns 
 and it is just as bad as it was last year. The menu system is hard to navigate and choppy and slow 
 to use and it would be much better if EAs sports games just went with a normal menu system. And 
 while the soundtrack has always been arguably the best of any videogame, this year continues the 
 downward spiral that the Madden soundtrack has been taking the past few years.
  
  Madden 08 is a significant upgrade from the previous two installments in the series. The game doesnt 
 feature any pointless new features that no one wants or needs, but it does tweak the gameplay by 
 fine-tuning and tightening everything up to make for an overall better game than in previous years. 
 While Madden NFL 08 has its problems, these problems are not big enough to hold the game back from 
 being the best Madden game in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say that Madden 08' is a very well rounded, well put together football game. 
 I'll be the first to admit that I'm a Madden hater... I was always a 2k Football fan... but seeing 
 as how 2k didn't upgrade their franchise I (reluctantly) bought Madden 08'. Upon first playing 
 the game you'll notice the really clean beautiful graphics, the tight controls, the variety in 
 options for both offense and defense... I mean this game is very near a perfect football game (Which 
 I really thought I'd NEVER say about a Madden game, but here we are...) However... every game I've 
 played so far has been riddled with turnovers. First game, Jacksonville vs. Miami... I recorded 
 3 interceptions, 1 fumble recovery... Dolphins managed 2 interceptions off of me... so 6 turnovers 
 in that game. Next game, Jags vs Bucs...2 interceptions, 2 fumble recoveries... Bucs get 1 interception...5 
 turnovers total. The next two games total in 13 turnovers. In my first regular season game against 
 the Titans I get 7 interceptions, 1 with Mike Peterson, 1 with Donavan Darius, 4 with Rashean Mathis 
 and 1 with Terry Cousin. I'm mean SWEET BABY JESUS what the heck is going on?!!! I've played 5 
 games and already 31 turnovers have occurred and I'm only playing 6 minute quarters on Pro difficulty! 
 It's just ridiculous how many turnovers occur. Madden 08' is a technically marvelous football game... but 
 for the love of GOD could they back off on the turnovers? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmillion_4444
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game drives me up the wall. I just finished playing ONE HALF and there were 4 fumbles and 
 3 interceptions, two of the fumbles were by LT (this is on all-pro) . There is so much wrong with 
 this game compared to Madden 06 and 07 from the original XBOX that it doesn't make it worth the 
 better graphics. Too many turn overs, terrible offensive AI and an overly aware secondary make 
 it impossible to not be crazy frustrated. Plus it feels like the tackling defies the laws of physics 
 more than any Madden game since about 02, plus there are so many of the same tackles you see over 
 and over... I thought they were increasing this. The franchise for the 360 needs to look back on 
 the xbox versions and take more from some of the most nearly flawless games ever created. I don't 
 even know if I am going to finish my season, where as I could finish 4 or 5 in a month on XBOX. 
 Oh well, maybe next year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPlus78
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2008 is a significant downgrade over the 2007 version. There are several improvements. The 
 running game has been improved. You get stuffed as often as you have a good run. Run blocking is 
 also a lot better. Gone are the days of ten pancakes per player per game. The gang tackling looks 
 great. It is satisfying to see a back or receiver get wrapped by one defender and then destroyed 
 by another. I also really like the rate at which players fatigue. Huge defensive tackles can no 
 longer remain of the field for long drives.
  
  The problems with the game are significant. The game loses much of its enjoyability because of 
 the amount of turnovers on both sides of the ball. Fumbles are a major problem. It's not uncommon 
 for there to be 6 or 7 fumbles in a game with eight minute quarters. Because fumbles are so common, 
 it's difficult to sustain long drives. It is even more frustrating because you can still fumble 
 even when you are protecting the ball. I do not know how many times I have successfully maintained 
 a 12+ play drive only to fumble the ball in the opponent's red zone. The other problem is interceptions. 
 Someone, I am sure, is saying to themself, Well, be more careful with the ball . It is not that 
 easy. Even with a premier passer like Brees, the ball will often sail high or behind the receiver 
 to a defender that always seems to be in the perfect spot. Receivers never seem to fight for the 
 ball and often allow defenders to simply step around them and jump the route. Linebackers are far 
 too athletic in the game. I love Scott Fujita but he and Simmons should not be leading my team 
 in interceptions. Passing over the middle is almost impossible when linebackers drop back into 
 coverage because they can close on the ball and make leaping catches like the league's best cornerbacks.
 
  Turnovers kill the game. It's not much fun to throw 4 or 5 interceptions in a game. It's also 
 not much fun to win by having 3 or 4 defensive touchdowns scored by your team. It is no fun when 
 you win and no fun when you lose.
  
  My other big complaint with the game is the features that have been removed. You can no longer 
 customize personnel for specific formations. Michaels has disappeared from the game. I prefer the 
 off season training over the weekly training. Restricted free agency seems to be gone. Lastly, 
 you are not able to fine-tune the A. I. in this game like in previous versions.
  
  If you hate passing and love running the ball only to fumble it, Madden 2008 is the game for you. 
 Even with the few improvements to the game, the brutal flaws make it a significant back step for 
 the Madden franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elracing21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  overall i like all the new things on the game from hit stick 2.0 to the weapong on key players. 
 but they left out alot of details. for instance u cant see the ref wile playing and on madden games 
 b-4 they would be in the field and on the sidelines with the 10 yard meter. now u wont see none 
 of that only ppl that make the same movement over and over
  
  wen u challenge the ball spot they dont use the meter how they are suppose to they look at the 
 replay 2x and thats it. madded=n doesnt give his comments on the challenge like b-4 wen he use 
 to say i think he was down b-4 the ball popped out but lets see what the ref decides- nuttin like 
 that. on superstart mose u cant change ur face instead u pick ur skin tone and u use the face they 
 give u no facial hair changes u cant change hair color n'or the style they took of the fan site 
 off superstart they left out so manythings of superstar from doing movie lines to getting endorcements, 
 why have an agent with good endorcements wen u dont have any.
  if any1 could help on how i change my face hair syle on superstar i would appretiate and how do 
 i change my prices in franchise mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachdreamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, Ive come to the conclusion that this game is good but definitely not great. 
 I mean come on, so many problems with the franchise mode that just took this game to such a low 
 level for me. Im all about detail and this game has none of that. Still has no commentary to date 
 besides the monotone guy over the pa. No refs, no cheerleaders, no field goal nets, like i said 
 im all about details. Oh and, the clear visor, if its in the game its in the game. Obviously not. 
 Hand warmers for quarterbacks.
  Dont even get me started on the franchise mode glitches. If there isnt a patch to fix these things 
 soon, I will be taking this game back. I will no longer buy this game ever. If youre in the mood 
 for a halfway decent football game since it is football season, then rent this. Dont spend sixty 
 dollars and support a company who just hypes an unfinished product. What will be the best thing 
 for the football genre in video games is when the nfl license is back on the market. I pray the 
 nfl does not sell out to easports again or we will be doomed to mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Last Year when I first bought my first ever Madden game for the xbox360 it kinda lighted this fire 
 in me like all sport games to get the one year after year after year and this one is no exception 
 and jsut recently I've found out that the Madden series up to last year's on ewas kinda dull and 
 slow and felt really boring at times and now Madden 08 turns it all around!
  
  Starting off with these new weapons system , in the game you will have over a dozen of these weapons 
 which are assinged to the nfl superstars so like someone like Santana Moss, is a very fast WR in 
 real life so he has the speed weapon and runs faster than most of the other players but doesn't 
 have the same strength and juke ability et cetera so you kinda go from there choose what's got 
 the advanatges and what's got the disadvanatges!
  
  last year's one appealed to me because of the Superstar mode it really gave the gamer a chance 
 to experience an NFL season as rookie to a hall of famer, there is no change to the Superstar, 
 still got the same agents and interviews and same drills but still fun n'all bu you think they 
 could add like mayber some TV Interviews or some stuff from like Madden 06/05.
  
  Another was The Franchsie mode again , typical season mode take your team where you can sign free 
 agents , trade , depth chart and really cool stuff and now you have the ablity to change merchandising 
 costs, change stadiums or if you really hate your location move to a different area where it says 
 like if this area is interested in hosting NFL matches in that area or something.... it takes time 
 and at the end you feel well ---what next you know...
  
  Online is still the same, no leagues , tournaments , jsut one-on-one play you win you gain points 
 you lose you los epoints SIMPLE! you feel they should have added traiding Superstars or stuff like 
 that but Madden as always thrives on the more appealing stufff 
  
  The only main problem with Madden is that it........ way to much gives away fumbles in this game 
 seriously you'd be lucky not to fumble the ball at least 4 times it doesn't get on your nerves 
 and you hear y'know OH it was a power move yeah well..... why doesn't happen to the CPU???
  
  All in all Madden fans no question get this game if you liked last year's madden and want more 
 then this a Football game you should own this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quinnsefb3324
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Madden 2008
  
  
  
  Madden. The fans of this game have been waiting for the day this franchise comes back to its glory 
 days... Unfortunately they will have too wait some more. This game is on the right track but still 
 needs to be majorly polished. They had great ideas last year but didn't expand on them at all this 
 year. The addition of front office mode is good thought for the people who like setting ticket 
 prices and customizing their team, but is missing most of the cool things that this feature has 
 on the current gen consoles, like picking the name of the team, and the style of their jersey.
 
  
  WEAPONS
  
  The new weapons system is an EXCELLENT addition to the game. Finally you can make those spectacular 
 one handed catches, throw those huge hits, and bust a move like Ladanian Tomlinson. This is great 
 for the people who like to pick up and play because it shows them who the big play makers are on 
 their team. But it is also good for the die hard fans because it gives more depth to the game, 
 and even more emotion when you make a big play.
  
  HIT STICK 2.0
  
  This is one of the best additions to the 2008 madden. Finally there is a counter for a power back 
 and a counter for an elusive back... but only if you know how to use it correctly. Flick the right 
 stick low and you'll attempt to make a sure stop. Low tackles shouldn't be used on elusive backs 
 because they will have the chance to hurdle over your legs with a simple press of the Y button, 
 but instead on those big backs like Frank Gore who can just bowl over high tackles. If you cant 
 capture and elusive back then what makes this special? The fact that you can by pressing up on 
 the right stick and going for a high hard hit. This can't be used on power backs because they will 
 have the chance to just bowl right over you if they pressed up on the right stick just before you 
 attempt to make the tackle. This is an excellent counter against an elusive back though, because 
 they wont be able to pull of jukes or spins, but instead eat dirt.
  
  Ring of a Champion
  
  This feature shouldn't be wasting space on the disk. It is a nuance. Instead my opinion would 
 be to bring back madden gamer level because it was able to keep better track of what you accomplished 
 in the game, and this just designs a cool looking ring.
  
  Overall this is a good game, not quite as good as it once was. It brings back both, th strategy 
 element and the pick up and play element. Everyone should give this a try, but i'm not sure that 
 those die hard madden fans will get their fill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Every year I buy the newest installment of Madden and this year was no different. I picked it up 
 expecting basically the same game as last year, just with new players and stats. To my surprise 
 I got all that and a little more. This years Madden was an improvement over the last couple years, 
 but its still very similar. The graphics are pretty much the same as last years, although the physics, 
 especially running are better. The gameplay is typical Madden except for a couple of new features 
 that I will use once in a while. I've always liked Madden, so I guess no changes arent really that 
 bad. Hopefully next year they will add some groundbreaking new feature that makes gameplay crazy 
 realistic, but I doubt it. Either way, its still a good game, and I probably will be writing a 
 review for Madden 09 this time next year.
  
  Good: Graphics, New and improved physics, Good old Madden gameplay
  
  Bad: No awesomenew features, 
 but who cares 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  You know i have hated just about all the madden games since 2003 but since 2k games are putting 
 out crap games i needed to try again with madden. Madden 08 was the one i am so glad i tried the 
 franchise mode it so damn good i could play it for hours without quiting and i did the game play 
 is so close to perfect besides the turnover like every set of downs well almost every set, but 
 never the less it's great gameplay cool superstar mode franchise mode rules ,but i think in the 
 game Jemarcus russel sucks prolly just like he will in real life i didn't like that brady quin 
 took like 8 years to get to like 83 overall but the game is truly a masterpiece the second best 
 football game of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  when it comes to football ea has always delivered with madden football. although there are a few 
 that dislike the madden franchise, there are still plenty that salivate at the mouth every year 
 when this game is released. this year the fans should be happy but not overly excited about there 
 purchase. the game delivers a new player skill icon that lets you know the individual players strengths 
 which is nice to see what players on the field are fast, accurate, got a cannon arm, or any of 
 the other 20 icons. other than that it just kinda seems like the same old madden. thats fine and 
 i am a fan of the same old madden but i just wish they would up the realism a little more. give 
 the crowd more emotion, make the side lines look more real and more inter active, in the game just 
 a few minor adjustments, STOP THE GLICHING!!!! as far as the controls i wish they would go primitive, 
 they add a new feature to the button scheme each year and it sticks the years after making it difficult 
 to just play (buy the way i'm 8-2 at this point online so i'm not making excuses for losing, i'm 
 just saying) . other then the few problems i have, i still enjoy the game very much. its very competitive 
 on and off line and it still has the license of the nfl and players association which gives this 
 game two huge thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefsFan4Ever
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was unbeleivable. From the new game smell when i opened it to the crisp pop it made when 
 i took it out of the case. Then when i started playing it was like swimming in pudding. The gameplay 
 was so smooth and quick. Graphics are 360 caliber and the new Playmaker addition is Gr-r-r-reat. 
 The new help thing in the top corners of the screen can kindof get annoying, but it is very useful. 
 The superstar camera angles still kinda suck, but the ability to jack people up makes up for it 
 in my opinion. Everything else kills. This game is sick, and def. worth ever penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjawsk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I was thinking that this years madden would be the same as always, but no! This years Madden comes 
 with some exciting new features and deeper franchises.
  
  The new hit stick is amazing, its possible to make some amazing tackles and there's almost unlimited 
 opportunities. The online is still not superb, but it have had a good update. This game is probably 
 the best madden in the last 5 years. Throw you old ones out and buy this game. If you are a football 
 fan or just enjoy the games. This is the madden for you!
  
  The game does have some letdowns, including quite many interceptions and fumble per game, and sometimes 
 you get really pissed of a fumble where the player clearly should not have dropped the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is, but EA Games does not know how to make a 360 game where the achievements 
 aren't RIDICULOUSLY easy to earn. When I first turned on the game, I was pleased with how well 
 the game looked and handled, in comparison to previous Madden games. Then, I proceeded to open 
 up the achievements menu. Even on Pro difficulty, the achievements are still not too hard to earn 
 (except the 7 sacks in one game one... that was the ONLY challenge) .
  
  I had about 700 points worth of achievements after about two days... and that was only playing for 
 an hour or two a day. I then decided (for a laugh) to see if you could get the achievements by 
 adjusting the game's AI or using the supersim feature, and you can do so with both. That is just 
 ridiculous. Most of them require some sort of time limit for quarters, but they are still easy. 
 In short, if you're looking for some quick points, rent this game. If you're looking for a challenge, 
 either play it on a harder difficulty or play someone online.... or rent/buy a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesB007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  So here we are with the annual Madden game entry. It should come to no surprise to most that this 
 years version offers more polish than the first 2 entries to the Xbox360, however those who are 
 expecting this years offering to offer some sort of unprecedented new gameplay mechanic will be 
 sorely dissapointed. I will tell you up front that I have grown fonder of the NCAA football series 
 in recent years than Madden as the gameplay seems faster and for the most part a tad more fun. 
 So what's new? Well the Owner mode has finally reached the next-gen platform and it provides a 
 bit more replay value for those of you interested in fine tuning the ins and outs of your franchise. 
 My biggest complaint here is that the menu interface seems a bit clunky and navigating through 
 the different screens can be tedious and boring. The game does run very smoothly on the 360 and 
 I have not noticed any significant lag playing online. The graphics are not far different than 
 last years, but the tackling animations have improved and the game moves at a fluid rate. The sound? 
 Well the generic play by play from the announcer is still present from last year. It's ok, but 
 it lacks the authenticity of a real commentary booth. I never thought I would say this, but I sorely 
 miss the madden and sumerall commentary of yesteryear. The achievements are all in game, which 
 is a departure from last years achievements which require you to do certain things in franchise 
 mode in order to unlock them. There are some pretty tough ones here, but if you are a serious madden 
 player, you should have no real problems getting them all. For the most part, this game is a step 
 up from last years version. If you are like me and enjoy Madden, this year will not dissapoint. 
 Just remember, this game is more of the same of last years with only a few improvements. Thats 
 not such a bad thing, it just won't knock your socks off. Maybe next year.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Go ahead, Madden lovers. Keep telling yourself that this is an awesome game. After all, the critics 
 all agree. Even though you get a dry presentation, the replays look like an absolute joke, crowd 
 noise is lame, the announcer is lame, there is no halfime, pregame, or postgame show, gameplay 
 is so fast you have little time to do anything else but call the next play. I guess it's just me 
 that thinks a video game should emulate a tv style presentation of a football game. So keep playing 
 this crap. As for me, 2k football is back. That's what I'll be playing. The teams may not be real, 
 but at least it actually looks like a realistic football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay, finally guys, a proper football game.
  
  Here's MY scoring breakdown...
  
  GamePlay - 10 The smoothness of the gameplay in this game takes it back to Madden 9x. It brings 
 back hurtling and APM (After Play Movement) . EX- After you run the ball, if you gain 5 yards or 
 more, (Generally a good gain) , the RB and OL will show their excitement all the way back to the 
 huddle. That's the main point, you see them walk back to the huddle. Also, im finding much less 
 glitches then there were in 06/07. I would catch a pass, all in a black pit of abyss, ad then pop 
 out and lose 2 yards. Fair right? NOW THIS DOESNT HAPPEN :D
  
  The new branching graphics or w. e really helps the gameplay a lot smoother. Now David Hester doesn't 
 run faster then Sonic the hedgehog (Even though he does get 100 speed. First ever to have a stat 
 at 100.)
  
  Graphics - 10
  I have to say, the graphics are actually better than GRAW2. Sorry shooter fans, i know GRAW2 has 
 great graphics, but this runs at 60+ FPS. That's faster than my computer's GFX card. (It's sucky, 
 like 4.) EA Sports really took the graphics to the house. Julius peppers isn't as fat as Kris Jenkins 
 now, and Peyton Manning doesn't look like the hulk. The graphics are better than i could have dreamed 
 of.
  
  Sound - 8
  I'm a bit disappointed at the sound this time. It's fine as ever, but they didn't add anything 
 new. I gave the sound a 9 on madden 07, but no improvement. Get with technology.
  
  Offline Multiplayer - 9
  Smooth as ever. Just a couple fumble problems.
  
  Online Multiplayer 
 - 6
  This is an aspect ive touched twice, and now im never doing it again on 08. First off, LT is the 
 most unfair player you can use. I've never seen him break 13 tackles before. Why does he now? Anyway... 
 Also, too much lag in Online. They added nothing new. Give me an online league, and i'll give it 
 an 8+
  
  All in all, 8.5-8.6. Fumble problems. NO ONLINE LEAGUES!... Just a couple mistakes.
  
  iN general, 
 this game will appease any football fan (That likes the chargers...) , and is fun as heck in franchise. I 
 would pay over $60 (But not much more) . good game, great improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay first thing first.. Im happy that I can blitz anyone I want to......... especially my Line 
 Backers.. I hated the fact that I could blitz them individually in the last years version. But 
 that is all in the past now. I was ampd that they put that in there. At first I thought that weapons 
 thing would be.. must I say POOP! But it is actually fun to use and I like to say what player 
 can do what. I also like challenging shut downs corners with my best receivers. I also like the 
 fact that you can switch them off any time you want. Franchise mode got a little better, superstar 
 mode is still the same. and graphically!..... HM! I cant imagine how many pollys they have on the 
 helmeteverything looks off the hookI dont even have a HDTV and it still looks amazingnow that 
 is what Nex gen gaming is all about. But madden 08 it still lacks something though. It is still 
 not as depth as the previous gen consoles. until it gets to that point it will always be an 8.5 
 rating game to me. Everything is coo in all but it just lacks depth.. and I still havent figured 
 out the 40 yard dashmy best time it a 4.8 something.. which is.. must a say.. POOP! lol Anyway 
 I luv the game and Im glad that it is at this pointhopefully next year they would add as much 
 depth into the game.. 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics and gameplay
  
  Madden 08 runs at 60 frames per second on the Xbox 360, and 30 frames per second on the PlayStation 
 3. A new branching animation system allows dynamic gameplay for the first time in the franchise. 
 Players are no longer locked into animations but are now controlled more by the players. Features 
 of the new animation system include mid-air collisions, big-time, one-handed catches, hurdles, 
 sideline catches and gang tackling. Madden 08 brings back some features for its online play; for 
 example, there will be a return of Season Mode and tournaments held online. Another updated feature 
  dubbed Hit Stick 2.0  will allow players to hit high or low by flicking the analog stick up 
 or down. A new fatigue system has been implemented, disallowing users from taking a scrambling 
 quarterback and running around behind the line of scrimmage for very long. Fatigue also plays a 
 factor when cold-weather teams play in hot weather during the early months of the season. Also 
 returning to this years incarnation is the much sought after co-op play, which had found itself 
 sitting on the sidelines since making the jump to the next-generation consoles. This mode finds 
 players teaming up with a friend and taking on the CPU or two human opponents.
  
  Presentation
  
  Prior to games, former NFL running back and Madden NFL 2003 cover athlete Marshall 
 Faulk hosts a segment called Marshall's Minute in which he discusses key star players and predicts 
 the score. Weapons (see below) also get special introductions before games.
  
  Features
  
  Weapons
  
  Certain star players have weapons which can enhance their performances and create 
 game-changing plays. Players with the Smart Quarterback weapon are able to read defensive schemes 
 as the games continue. Smart linebackers, Smart corners and Smart safeties will be able to accomplish 
 the same thing on defense, except corners only see receiver art and linebackers see everything 
 but receiver art. Possession receivers will make tough catches over the middle, Shutdown corners 
 will stay on even the toughest receivers, and Spectacular Catch receivers will be able to leap 
 over defenders and make difficult grabs.
  
  Superstar Mode additions
  
  With the addition of the Campus Legend mode to the next-gen version of NCAA Football 08, players 
 are now able to take their player from Campus Legend mode and import him into Madden's Superstar 
 Mode. Be forewarned if you are new to the next gen training camp as the 40 yard dash, bench press, 
 and new drills are tricky to master. In addition, players are able to take over the careers of 
 select rookies from the 2007 NFL Draft and use them in Superstar Mode. Camera angles have also 
 been tweaked for Madden 08 after complaints with its predecessor. However, a number of features 
 have been left out in this years Wii version, most notably, the ability to edit your superstars 
 appearance as the Superstar Mirror is no longer selectable, and the Barber Shop in the City Map 
 is also no longer selectable. Users are stuck with the random hair combination given to the user 
 while registering their new superstar.
  
  Trophy room
  
  The trophy room in Madden 08 is similar to the My Shrine feature in NCAA Football 08. Trophies 
 can be earned by completing in-game tasks such as rushing for over 200 yards or in other game modes 
 such as winning a Super Bowl in franchise mode. Trophies can also be wagered in online head-to-head 
 contests. As your skill and experience progresses, you can earn five EA Challenge rings, which 
 have customizable team logos and colors. These features have been left out in the Wii version.
 
  
  Returning features
  
  A number of features missing from the first two next-generation versions of Madden return in Madden 
 08. These include Owner Mode, fantasy draft, and roster-editing capabilities. Owner Mode includes 
 all features from the previous generation versions, plus more. Alternate uniforms are also included 
 in the game, which were absent from next-gen Madden NFL 06, and only available for download on 
 the Xbox Live Marketplace for Madden NFL 07. The Wii version has had the following features included 
 in last year's version excluded: the ability to create-a-team, the ability to create-a-superstar, 
 the ability to edit equipment on existing players has also been left out. However, players are 
 still able to edit hair, jersey number, name, and height for existing players. However, height no 
 longer matters on the Wii version as all players are rendered the same height while playing on 
 the field.
  
  Other features
  
  In addition to the other versions, the Wii version features online gameplay, a Madden first for 
 a Nintendo console, as well as the integration of Mii avatars, and features a few exclusive game 
 modes.
  
  The previous-generation versions of Madden will have a fantasy football-type game mode called Fantasy 
 Challenge Mode. In this game mode, players draft the ultimate NFL dream team while advancing through 
 four levels of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanhigareda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  It is very interesting to play this game. It is by far the best game of the series, considering 
 just the new gen consoles. Madden 08 brings again simplicity and excitement to the game, but I 
 am still looking for the best of the best.
  
  It s very simple to get involved in the game. They only keep the good things about the game, like 
 the blocking system and the highlight stick and get rid of somethings that didnt matter really 
 much.
  
  Playing the game is simple. Calling plays is very accurate, and you may find a little complicate 
 to make the changes and adibles, but you get to do it quick and easy in not very long time.
  
  Something that I am really satisfied about is that the plays actually work pretty good as they 
 develop, meaning that you have to know what are you doing in order to succeed in the game.
  
  I am really satisfied with the result. Some new options like, making your own team with new 
 players, make this game worth of buying and entertaining.
  
  What I didn't like: - The game is too easy sometimes. - Too many fumbles.
  - Not worthy online 
 gaming. (Could be better)
  
  Things that need to be expected for next year: A chance to make online leagues. With that, the 
 game will probably be the best.
  
  After all the efforts, Madden is now a good game which can be the reference for the best sports 
 franchise ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This basically comes down to who's better, NCAA or Madden. Both have their pros and cons. Madden 
 and NCAA both have great gameplay on the field, but the physics in Madden seem to surpass NCAA. 
 The branching animations work better with Madden and their seem to be more animation. Turnovers 
 are too much in Madden but don't seem to me to be as bad as people say. NCAA has it's share of 
 interceptions but Madden has more. There's no pity from DB on Madden, plus the 90 ft jumping linebackers 
 are back in both games. Wish I could jump that high. In presentation, NCAA owns Madden, and to 
 me that's what the game comes down to. NCAA's announce team trounces Madden. Madden has more on 
 field audio but i'm not really concerned with that. Madden has referee cut scenes, meanwhile NCAA 
 refs are no where at all to be found. The highlights features are nice, however NCAA blows it away. 
 Saving the replays and uploading them plus going back to look at them later is awesome. Madden 
 has replays too, however some are not relevant and they miss good plays, plus you can't save or 
 upload them. Graphically the games are identical. Player models are great. The fields themselves 
 on Madden do look a little bit better. The modes on both are more than enough to keep you busy. 
 Online is basic for both. Madden has more defensive audibles you can do. Madden has the weapon 
 system and NCAA has the motivation boost where your person goes on fire like NBA Jam. The weapons 
 are nice to have and should have been something implemented ages ago. When it comes down to it, 
 both games even out, but when it comes to the frustration of the computer coming back after being 
 14 points down by making you fumble and turn the ball over 30 times, that doesn't happen in NCAA, 
 and there's a better experience playing that. Madden however, is the best it's been since 04. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puck_stopper71
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Well, after owning Madden 07 for all of a week and returning it, I held out little hope that Madden 
 08 would be much better. However, after reading Gamespots' review I decided to try it and see what 
 was there. On starting the game, the menu is more or less like last years EA games. The trophy 
 room that you start out in is kind of cool. As you make accomplishments in games you get trophys 
 for them (2 picks in a game, 2 sacks, etc.) . The ring thing that they started is fairly cool. Not 
 that I'll be dropping $200+ on a ring or anything, but seeing it on screen is good enough for me. 
 On to the game. It's been billed that franchise mode is back. From what I've seen in limited time 
 playing so far, is that it's back in name only. So far I haven't seen anywhere that you can adjust 
 concessions prices, merchandise, or others, much less ticket prices. Perhaps you can only do it 
 in the offseason, but again, Madden 05 seemed to have this mode right, this game is just an imitator. 
 As you've probably read, turnovers are a little too prevalent. Qbs throw ALOT of picks, and if 
 your receiver even catches it, it's pretty likely that when tackeled he'll fumble anyway. For whatever 
 reason, EA has again decided to remove Create-a-player from franchise mode. You can create before 
 you start a franchise, but once you get in there, it's no longer an option. Again, rediculous. 
 Online play is abysmal unfortunatly. I played my first online game last night and it was rife with 
 lag, making the entire game almost impossible. I was sacked 9 times in one game because my QB wouldn't 
 throw when the button was pushed. RBs can't make moves because you have to push the button you 
 want to use 3 seconds before you need to use it and kicking is pretty much the same thing. The 
 NFL needs to give back the money it took and take back its exclusivity deal, and let 2k games give 
 some REAL competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tystock
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports was almost able to copy 2k and produce a decent game. I like the weapons, unfortunately 
 we saw that a month ago. I like the ability to play as legends, except that, again, we did that 
 a month ago. The Cheesy jumbotron graphics. Yep, you guessed it, APF08. In my opinion, Madden tried 
 to be All Pro Football, but with real rosters and stadiums. Problem is, the graphics/animations 
 aren't as good, the gameplay isn't nearly as realistic and the voice overs and presentation is 
 boring. On the plus side, Franchise is fun for a season or two. But then again, you can play all 
 pro football if you only want to play a single season. Stadium visuals are pretty amazing. Too 
 bad they didn't spend some of that time on the players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballplayer4203
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Could be worse, but I just don't get what the developers were thinking when they thought that fumbling 
 and wide open guys due to coverage breakdown in crucial moments was a good thing for this game. 
 I can't tell you how many times I was down by a touchdown and while holding the cover up the ball 
 button I fumbled after a 10+ yard run, its just too common and predictable, and I hate to say it 
 but its... cheap. And far too often I do a 2 or 3 deep zone and set the coverage to play off and 
 back up, and not surprisingly, the mediocre at best receivers still burn the coverage and are literally 
 standing wide open with no one near him. If it wasn't for my addiction to football games this time 
 of year, the impressive graphics, and new gang tackles, I would have demanded for my money back 
 because the often used excuse for games is its cheating , is usually just out of frustration or 
 lack of skill, this game actually does cheat when it feels threatened. I could beat madden 07 on 
 All-Madden 80% of the time, on this one, its a stretch to even beat it on Pro due to convenient 
 fumbles and coverage breakdowns. Did I forget to mention that the aforementioned cheating very 
 rarely goes in your favor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynkerzkid194
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2008 is a very, very goo game, whether it's the great graphics, the good gameplay, online, 
 its amazing. The new additions to the game are the Hitstick 2.0, which is a great feature especially 
 when trying to take down bigger running backs by pressing down on the Right thumbstick &amp; the 
 new Weapons feature, helps to show the elite players on the field from the not so great. The Weapons 
 system includes Speed, Spectactular Catch, Smart QB, LB, CB, Safety, Big Hitter.
  
  The greatest mode in this game has to be online, whether its playing against your friends or others, 
 it will be a great exprience. Franchise mode is the same as it was in Madden '07 with the addition 
 of Finance mode which is like owner mode in the older versions of Madden but you don't only get 
 to relocate the team in this years version, but you also look towards the future with the ability 
 to manage your players salaries &amp; what not. Superstar mode is the same as every year except 
 it gives you the chance to create a new player from scratch, import your campus legend from NCAA 
 08 or start with an actual rookie like Calvin Johnson, Adrian Peterson, Jamarcus. Other then those 
 two new additions, Superstar is the same as '06 &amp; '07. The mini-games are the same as last 
 years with the 40 Yard Dash, Bench Press &amp; Position drills.
  
  The only flat with this game has is the the turnovers. Many people complain about the fumbles, 
 but there aren't any problems with the fumbles, but there is with the interceptions. The CPU will 
 intercept the ball when their about 10 yards away from the ball or the ball will bounce of 5 guys 
 heads &amp; arms into the defenders hands.
  
  Other than that, Madden NFL 2008 is the best madden so far on the Xbox 360 console, hopefully next 
 years version will include new features such as halftime shows, refs, cheerleaders &amp; field 
 goal nets, other than that I give Madden NFL 2008 a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz525
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I love the Madden series, always have; but now with no competition (besides APF) they really just 
 don't care to innovate anymore. I mean if you have madden 07 keep it. The Superstar in this game 
 is a little bit better but it still sucks. The campus legend mode in NCAA is good, why don't they 
 just use that. No they choose **** over gold, but aside from my disapointment in SS mode, this 
 game is pretty good. Not groundbreaking but good if you like Madden, its even easy for people that 
 don't really know football to play due to the player weapons of each player. I'm happy to see an 
 owner mode come back, I really missed that in 07. I missed a create a team in 07 as well. This 
 year create a team is back and with a very in depth editor. I actually might play with my created 
 team this year. The presentation is more or less the same, looks like 07 with Vince Young. I do 
 kind of like the new player score it lets you collect trophies and unlocks rings for your team 
 to get for winning the superbowl. Alot of product placement in this game. Personally, that doesn't 
 bother me (I like it, makes it feel like a game) but if your the kinda person who can't stand that 
 you'll be very very angry. The Madden problems are still there, like zooming tackles, backs bouncing 
 off tacklers, and defenders going literally through blocks; but the glitches aren't as annoying 
 as they were in 07. Graphics and Sound are a bit better then last year. There are more character 
 animations then last year as well. A thing this year that I love and hate is the fact that EA made 
 this game more of a sim, picks are thrown more readily and fumbles happen all the time. If your 
 smart about where you throw the ball, and don't juke at the point of impact, these additions shouldn't 
 bother you.
  
  My final rundown is if your a madden fan then buy it, because its madden and you love madden. If 
 you want a great game buy it used or rent it. If you've never played a football game before, rent 
 it. I think you'll like it.
  
  Anyway thats my 1st review now on to what matters...... THE CURSE!!!!
  
  Vince Young will
 
  
  A. be injured this year
  
  or B. have a terrible season
  
  B will happen no matter what though, poor Vince Young, rookie of the year then they trade away 
 every offensive weapon he has. He will be crucified by the fans if and when he fails to have a 
 decent season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superspy12831
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Not as Good as they would have you think.. It makes me think that EGM is passing out some bucks 
 to these video game reviewers. The graphics are better but not much. In fact they should be leaps 
 and bounds better then the 1st next-gen but there not. Also where is the new training methods.. I'm 
 sure I'm not alone when I say I was totally board with the first set in MAdden 07 after a few weeks 
 in. They didnt add a thing there/ I mean whats the deal with these reviews I'm seeing in these 
 places such as game spot, EGM and etc. Its way under par for what the guys at EA should be doing 
 about this time in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsman_12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Well EA almost had it this year. But then there was the down fall of many glitches check you tube 
 people got tons of them. the up you can customize players abilty's, and they have a fantasy draft 
 in franchise mode. The down you still have to do little training things for your superstar whitch 
 if your bad at i fell bad for you. I put alot of time into making my QB and he got a 12 overall 
 cause im bad at the camps too. So that was the downside for me. The new ring builder it quite cool, 
 hard to get up the level up if you dont play alot through. But that dosent really matter, unless 
 u wanna brag to your friends. In the end i think EA made a good game their is alot of room for 
 improvement, but its alot better than last years. So if u think your gonna be dissopointed again 
 with madden i think u wont. So go out and buy Madden 08 its awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Anyone that has read my reviews and post on here in the past knows that Ive been especially hard 
 on EA Games, and EA Sports. Ive even been harder on the Madden series of sports games than most 
 others. Why, well because EA decided in its infinite wisdom that Madden is so good (or bad) that 
 no other game should compete with it.
  Madden Football, since moving over to the next generation platform, have been ridiculous bad. Two 
 years, two horrid games that shouldnt be giving away more so then sold. This year, though, maybe 
 different, I see light at the end of the tunnel and this football game is actually worth playing 
 for a season or two. I may even keep this game, instead of trading it in before the security seal 
 stop being sticky.
  The graphics, though improved isnt hugely different from last year, but what is different is the 
 many animations that has been added, lots of cool tackles, and after the play stumping around. 
 Very cool and really adds to the enjoyment of the game, though maybe a bit overdone. One thing 
 about this game and the many overlays all over the screen, I think I can honestly say that. If 
 youre not use to playing Madden or any modern football game, you need not apply. There is a lot 
 going in the game, and before and after the snap of the ball. Lots of options lots of right stick 
 left stick action, even before you snap the ball, and it can be downright overwhelming. The game 
 is almost lost with all the icons and playmaker options, but for the most part you can ignore a 
 lot of that until you are ready to use it.
  The sounds in the game are good and awful, the game sound and the PA announcers are all there, 
 doing what they do best, the players trash talking and complaining about calls are there also, 
 and pretty well done, but again, the radio style commutating is about the worst thing Ive seen 
 in all sports games that I have ever played. The game appears to be a TV style game, but with a 
 very weak and very sorry sounding disc jockey calling the game, now how weak as that? Come on EA, 
 you are showing your true cheap colors here, and I would give the sound a big fat F if it wasnt 
 for the fact that this style of broadcasting at lease gets John Madden out of the booth, where 
 he belongs. For the first time there are tons of options in the game, you have all sorts of Superstar 
 modes, and training campus, which I wont touch with a 10ft pole, I have a life. There are drafts, 
 and make your own team and players, and precision passing, the list goes on and on. EA finally 
 started to listen to the outcries of the fans. For the first time I really have to say this game 
 is a keeper. Not perfect but done well enough to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randy120
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is a nice improvement over Madden 06. I was waiting for a strong Madden version for the 
 Xbox 360 and this one is very good. The game looks great in HD. The play is fast and smooth. The 
 sound is a little mixed. When using Ask Madden not all plays have voice. Occasionally he talks 
 about a play, but he is calling a different play. The new power players can make your life difficult 
 for passing. Throw a pass near the better defenders, and there is a strong chance it will be intercepted. 
 It is time for you to step up your passing game. Madden 08 is a solid football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokiddjr
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Its like a broken record with EA - they improve everything but the core gameplay. Yes, the graphics 
 are better with tons more animations. They increased the depth of the Franchise mode and made the 
 UI prettier. Blah, Blah, Blah.
  
  The bottom line, the A. I. and gameplay is worse then any version ever made for the original XBOX. 
 CPU controlled QBs make consistently poor throws (avg 4+ picks a game) . DL rushers magically stick 
 and warp to the blocking OL if they come within one pixel (regardless of angle or what direction 
 they are facing) . WRs routes are constantly being cuttof by defenders who stop in their path well 
 before the ball arrives (egregious pass interferance) . The same pass plays work over and over again. 
 I will admit the running game has been improved enough to be somewhat entertaining.
  
  The EA license with the NFL has ruined football games. What a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfxarts
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. It's a football game so it's very similar every year. For this review I'm going 
 to switch it up and just talk about the features that are:
  
  1) Back From Xbox 07'
  2) Still Missing from 07'
  3) New to 08'
  
  1) BACK
  I'm here to say that the old smooth 
 gameplay is back!! You can actually control your runner and the passing is smooth again. If you 
 played 07' on the Xbox you know what I'm saying. Also, defense is actually fun to play again. That's 
 the biggest plus. Also you're getting franchise mode and you can create uniforms, players, and 
 fantasy draft teams. Back from 08 is a superstar mode. The biggest problem I had with that mode 
 is the first person camera thing. It's a cool 3rd person now that works great if you're an offensive 
 players, however if you're on defense everything is backward and much harder that way.
  
  2) The great NEW additions to the gameplay are the gang tackles. The weapon system is new, but 
 the only weapons that really add to the gameplay are the smart weapons and the two reciever weapons: 
 Possession Receiver and Spectacular Catch Receiver . The smart weapon players actually let you 
 see the play art of your opponent if they run the same play too much. The catch weapons are nice.. 
 if you hold the catch button the reciever will cover the ball and move slowly after making the 
 catch to protect the ball. If you tap the catch button the reciever will fly or dive forward, or 
 reach up with one hand to make some nuts looking catch. These are great additions in my opinion. 
 I have to admit that spin moves, jukes, hurdles, stiff arms and other running features really work 
 better than ever.
  There are also some weird new trophy case achievement bologna, but that's all really the same as 
 07 for the old Xbox.
  
  3) However, the things that are still missing:
  Does anybody remember the old CREATE PLAYBOOK and CREATE PLAYS features?! Those were legendary. 
 I liked a lot of the old minigames better than the new ones.. like pocket presence, kicking, punting, 
 and the catching machine drills were fun.
  TV announcers are still missing. You still listen to a home radio announcer during the game. I 
 like the TV style intros with stats and pictures of the players along with the tunnel stuff. I 
 think it's time to bump it up and talk about players that are doing especially well or something. 
 Also the tournaments and leagues on Xbox live are no longer supported.
  
  Overall I am really enjoying the game. The new smooth challenging gameplay has had me playing a 
 few late nights. Picks are abundant. You'll learn quickly that you can't just throw the ball in 
 traffic when you're in a jam. I say pick it up if you have a 360. It's definitely the best football 
 game for this console right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This years madden has had the best improvements besides the graphics as they havn't changed that 
 much, and players on the sidelines look ugly. Other than that the new specialist feature works 
 well, and doesn't make the offense too good as I thought it would. The defense has been improved 
 a lot this year and isn't prone to long passes because most teams have a good safety or corner. 
 Player physics look realist except from the occasional glitch. Big hits are sweet as you can hit 
 high or low. This year they finally added superstar mode, even though it hasn't changed much. Gameplay 
 feels right besides fumbles that happen to easily, and all the game modes are here so anyone should 
 buy Madden 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Ice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I always review a game after the initial hype is gone so you get a real review. There are allot 
 of things done right but there are some that need work. I have to admit it is the first true effort 
 for next generation so buy it and enjoy it. We will see better products in the future. We finally 
 have a Franchise, and a choice of using Hall of Fame players in a Fantasy Draft. Player editing 
 is back, and still needs a little bit of tweaking. Play books need a little work, since they are 
 lacking. Design a play book needs to return. Create a player has arrived again and is well done. 
 Full Franchise options are there such as relocate, redesign a stadium, etc. The folks at Ea NEED 
 to look at giving the player the option to keep the team name/logos when they move. Over all I 
 give it a 8.2. I had to give it a 8.5 on Gamespot since it moves in .5 intervals. On line is pretty 
 good, less lag and better AI this year.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJ_Shoot
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  How good is a Madden Promise? Well apparently not very good. This game is in its 3rd year for the 
 next gen series of Madden and really nothing drastic has changed. The few things that are left 
 out are really no excuse for a multi million dollar franchise and company. I am all for giving 
 them a couple chances to get it right but please, its been 3 years. I honestly don't how to any 
 hardcore madden fans are accepting the fact that this game has no presentation value, has no refs 
 on the field, no field goal nets, no announcing team, the fans wave there arms in a really annoying 
 pattern, and talk about really bad game play, i don't remember feeling like i had this little control 
 over my players since the genesis days. honestly if you really want a solid madden game with updated 
 rosters stick with the original xbox, pc, or even PS2 version, they are honestly great games that 
 control really good and I think its really unfortunate because i really wanted those amazing graphics 
 to translate into a great experience. Something to me i guess just seems weird when this game is 
 getting scores like an 8.5... honestly i wouldn't be surprised if EA paid for these good reviews 
 on the next gen platforms, because i just don't see it. My online experience with this game was 
 really bad too, very slow and choppy menus, didn't really get me excited at all. Sure the graphics 
 are great, and the animations are great, but wheres ESPN? where madden??? lol, wheres michaels??? 
 cornheiser??? whats going on EA??? Your workers on a tight schedule??? Not letting them finish 
 games??? Spend the extra dough, you can afford it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  now when i bought this game i thought it wouldn't be fun that i can play it for hours and hours, 
 but than the next day I'm done with cause this is what happened with madden 07, but i don't know 
 why but i just love this game it is so much and i just can't seem to let go of it . I only bought 
 the game because i was in hurry just to get a game and there was nothing but this game and i was 
 so glad. that i did another reason i thought i wouldn't like this game was because i am huge basketball 
 fan but that didn't matter in this game i just don't look at it like a normal football game for 
 some strange reason i look at like its a fun game. I recommend this game to anyone! buy it do not 
 rent it trust me oh and the achievements are incredibly easy i got 11 achievements in one day and 
 the next day i got 13 achievements so it is super easy !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Credecrew24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Madden Has been disappointing the last couple of years. But I enjoy using the hit stick in this 
 one. You cant just pass the ball deep every play and score a touchdown. If you throw a ball into 
 double coverage it has a good chance of being picked off. Running is fun with the Highlight stick. 
 Kick returning is always fun. It is a good game and I recommend this game to everyone. Now I have 
 to have a hundred words so This part not might not make any sense. Madden Has been disappointing 
 the last couple of years. But I enjoy using the hit stick in this one. You cant just pass the ball 
 deep every play and score a touchdown. If you throw a ball into double coverage it has a good chance 
 of being picked off. Running is fun with the Highlight stick. Kick returning is always fun. It 
 is a good game and I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball2494
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is the same game then 07 and 06 except the new players, 2 new features and all the bugs 
 taken away. The game is great online or if you play 2 player with your friends but playing with 
 the computer isn't that exciting. If you already have 07 then you shoudn't get this game because 
 you're just throwing away $60.00. But if your a huge Madden fan your going to love it with no more 
 bugs. So if your not a Madden fan then save your money or else you will only like the game for 
 a week or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRZ-numba-1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game has single handedly put my faith back in EA sports. I really like the weapon options. 
 Just brilliant. The weapons let me get a somewhat view of what i have on the field and its great 
 for people who like trying out other teams. I also like the ring level idea. It gives me more to 
 play for when im playing a game. Also betting trophies online is pretty cool. The graphics are 
 great. But, the buttons on defense are sometimes unresponsive. Making it more difficult to get 
 a user pick. Overall the game was polished, but EA missed a spot on the superstar mode. Microsoft 
 should have brought back the PS2 version in 07 of Superstar mode. Just with great graphics and 
 all the next-gen stuff. I was basically forced into choosing a rookie becasue everytime i would 
 make a guy, and i tried basically everything his overall would be horrible. And theres no more 
 of the apartment room, now its just a menu. And u can barely customize urself because u can only 
 change ur gear. You can not get any tatoos, or change ur hair style. But on that note they did 
 make a franchise mode that is extremely deep. Overall this game is a great come back from last 
 years game. And this game is slightly better thatn All-Pro Football 2k8. So to the people there 
 at EA Sports, job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (8/10) - The animations in this year's Madden are absolutely amazing. Gang Tackles look 
 almost spot on, from all the different (and annoying) ways a ball carrier can slip through your 
 grasp. In this aspect of the game, EA did us fans proud. Now, how they didn't make us proud. What's 
 the point of the Player Icons . They are almost pointless. They are cancelled (or should I say 
 neutralized) by whatever icon you see on the opposite side of the ball. EX. A Run Blocking OL can 
 crush a Power Move Defensive Lineman to open up holes. A Power Move Defensive Lineman can bullover 
 a Run Blocking OL. Where's the advantage?
  
  Not only that, but the icons are constantly on display. This distorts my view and I have a hard 
 time seeing who my cursor is on or who I am controlling. They need to make it more presentable, 
 so it's not so disorienting.
  
  Also, there are a ton of turnovers in this game. Defenders move, despite position, seem to move 
 tto exquisitely. They can make a jump on any ball, run down any offensive player, and intercept 
 any pass that touches their hands. In this game, when it come to turnovers Murphy's Law is always 
 in full effect. If you are driving to score late, you are probably going to fumble. Or, like what 
 happened to me, a DL drops in zone and shades one player and then switches to my WR who's running 
 a fade. They kept up with my WR, and ripped the ball out of the air after leaping a mile to grab 
 it. Offense is extremely hampered in this game because of the turnovers. Not that it's hard to 
 move the ball, it's just difficult to sustain long drives without turning the ball over. Really 
 difficult.
  
  Graphics (9/10) - I'm not going to give them a 10 here, because I know they can still do better. 
 At first glance, it looks terrific. I know later down the road I'm going to find a huge flaw somewhere. 
 Also, there isn't much variance in the player models faces yet. After a little more refined work 
 the animations and player models, I might find it worthy of a perfect 10.
  
  Sound (5/10) - I though EA didn't step up enough in this department. The in game sounds, to the 
 player chatter, and Madden screwing up the purpose of plays when asking him for help are all the 
 tip of the iceberg. It just doesn't feel authentic yet. The music this year seems to be the worst 
 yet. Value (5/10) - If you love playing sports games, and playing online, this game will have huge 
 value for you. If you like to just play Franchise and Superstar mode, then not so much. Also the 
 on-line play is still really laggy. Which might turn some people off. All-in-all, this game doesn't 
 have $60 dollars worth of improvements from '07 to be worthy of a perfect 10. It's a roster update 
 with a face lift and some minor accessories.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (3/10) - Madden took huge steps in simulation football when it came onto PS2 for 
 the first time. Now that we are in the age of the 360, PS3, and Wii you'd think this game would 
 have lept off the planet. It hasn't, and the franchise has been stumbling and bumblimg since it 
 came on the next generation consoles. Beautiful on the outside, ugly on the inside is what I can 
 say about this game in short. Front Office Mode is a complete joke. All it is is an extra menu 
 tab in Franchise Mode. There is nothing you can do in it besides check your finances. In the off-season, 
 you can purchase stadium upgrades, get a corporate sponsorship, and/or relocate your team. I can't 
 find where you change ticket, food, and parking prices. So basically, Front Office mode is a worthless 
 tab added to Franchise Mode.
  I don't like the way they do the menus now. I didn't like them in '07 either. They seem to slow 
 down the system for some reason, and they can be eas to get lost in or hard to navigate through. 
 Sure you get used to it, but it wasn't broken in '06, and this wasn't a major improvement (if at 
 all) , so why try to fix what's not broken.
  The game is real glitchy as well. It got stuck in the middle of a draft, where it wouldn't let 
 me draft a player, but I could do other stuff. Then it wouldn't let me sign some of my draft picks. 
 Not because I didn't have enough money or roster spots, it just wouldn't let me open up the negotiating 
 box for only one of my draft picks. Just one, and it let me negotiate with all the others. They 
 took away Mel Kiper in the draft, which I thought they should have expanded on. Another area that 
 they took a step back IMO.
  This game needs a lot of work, and I feel they are doing the loyal EA fans (not the stupid fanboys 
 that rate every new Madden a 10) a huge disservice. I buy every new Madden, and since '05 I've 
 been geeting steadily more dissappointed with each new game. Coincidently, right after 2K Sports 
 wasn't allowed to make NFL games anymore or any other game company for a matter of fact. I feel 
 the lack of competition on NFL simulation games has degraded the effort put into later versions 
 of the game. I think when Madden 2010 comes out they might have it close to right, but by that 
 time, we could be looking at the jump to a PS4, which will set the game back again. This game needs 
 more passion put into it and less emphasis on the sex appeal of the looks. I'm not happy about 
 about paying $60 for a polished '07 Madden game, because that's what '08 is, with little to nothing 
 new added to game to increase my gameplay over last year. Nothing's new, and the few things that 
 are new are pointless and add nothing to the replay value of the game. Overall (6/10) - This game 
 has most of the features we grew to love (except for a legitimate Front Office Mode which is lesser 
 than the one they had in '04) , with few game features for which I could careless. The improvement 
 on gameplay is the only thing I can give a Bravo Zulu to EA for since they jumped to next generation 
 consoles. Honestly, how many times can you beat people or the computer by 100 points with a few 
 new moves and rookies added into the game? They need new modes, and the old loved ones which are 
 missing or not complete, to peek our interest to play this game for more than a week. I've had 
 this game for a day, and I feel like I've played it all last year in '07. EA, put passion into 
 your games again. Use ESPN for all that they are worth. Quit serving the fanboys, but those of 
 us who stick by you every year, spend $60 on your games, just to be disappointed again. We tell 
 you what we want, but you completely keep ignoring us, doing what you want. There is no reason 
 why this game shouldn't have a score of 9 or better every year. Anything less should be a disappointment 
 or unsatisfactory. That's what happens when the developers lose their passion, because they have 
 no more competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I've heard and read quite a few reviews on this game and can't quite figure out why I can't bring 
 myself to love this year's offering like others seem to. I've played a couple games in franchise 
 mode. I've heard tell that you're supposed to be able to control ticket prices, concession, and 
 everything from GM mode that had been excluded, but so far all I've seen are graphs to break down 
 the money coming in without letting me manipulate any part of it. One word.... LAME! Gameplay feels 
 more fluid than past editions. I've found opposing defenses to be a little more intuitive than 
 in the past, ramping up the difficulty somewhat. Defenders close and cover quicker, pass rushes 
 are more intense and it almost seems like the computer is memorizing your play-call history and 
 sniffing out plays that get called too frequently. I like the challenge. It forces you to open 
 up your playbook more. The problem I'm having is that I was sold an idea that this year's Madden 
 was going to be the biggest thing in video football. While this game shines graphically, much of 
 the action and animation are rehashes from previous years that keep you feeling like you're playing 
 an expansion rather than a brand new game. I've also heard more than enough of the horrible play-by-play 
 provided by the EA Sports radio guy. What happened to having legitimate broadcasters doing voice-over?? 
 I haven't checked out online play yet. I'm still trying to get the new subtleties of how the game 
 is played. I fear my review isn't quite complete without having played online, yet I feel compelled 
 to gripe about what I have seen.
  
  I wanted this game to blow me out of my chair. It just didn't. Not having the full owner's mode 
 was like riding a bike with flat tires. It makes it really hard for me to get excited about the 
 game as a whole, even if it's not a complete disaster. it's better than '06... now THAT was a complete 
 disaster!
  
  Ewnt it, shake achievements out, return it and don't look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the worst Madden games ever EA has all kinds of issues with this game the 
 clipping between players is worse then ever the players same to fumble ever 3mins or so the game 
 locks up during training and the players emotion is just dual and the graphics are just bland at 
 best a 350 pound lineman looks the same as a 250 pound linebacker .Whats up with a 300 pound lineman 
 running with a rated speed of 65 running down a 210 pound qb with a rated speed of 75 makes no 
 sense way have a speed rating if they don't mean a thing I'm just hoping that the nfl hope not 
 to renew it contract with ea and goes back to the way it was then i can play a real nfl game and 
 it will be called nlf 2k? a real football game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 for the Xbox 360 is a smooth, fast paced game. The game play in depth and the players 
 are better looking plus easier to control. With 60 frames a second, the game is fluent and smooth. 
 You no longer have to watch that little cut scene when the kicker is about to kick, in fact, you 
 can do an extra point and Kick off in less than 10 seconds... thats fast. The 360 version rarely 
 stutters and is fast paced. The new weapons system is a great, well needed feature that lets you 
 see the great players of today. Superstar is dramatically better with a camera brought back and 
 a chance to play the careers of rookies this season like, Brady Quinn or Adrian Peterson. Owner 
 mode is back (YAY!!) and da bears defence kicks major ass! Madden is a must play for anyone, and 
 a must buy for any Madden, NFL, or Sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmisto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I thought Madden 2008 was good enough. When I say good enough, I mean it's a great upgrade. I never 
 understood why they took out the original commentators. This game would be great, just with ESPN 
 broadcasting. I mean they could at least throw in Madden on Monday Night Football games. And of 
 all people, why isn't Boomer in the game? I mean Marshall Faulk? I mean he did okay in the game. 
 But they have a contract with NFL, and NFL has a contract with ESPN. So why not, have more ESPN 
 broadcasting. If they want to succeed with this franchise, they will have to add in some better 
 broadcasting. I think they should have the regular ESPN Football broadcasting for Sunday games. 
 On Monday games, they should have Jon Madden and the rest of Monday's ABC crew. I hope someone 
 who works for EA Sports, and works with the Madden series reads this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Hey, what can I say, I keep buying Madden for the updated team rosters, but other than that, this 
 game feels the same. I am not much of a sports gamer, but Madden is always fun to play for an hour 
 or two. Online play is the main reason I keep buying it, cause if I want to play against the best, 
 I have to get the newest game to keep up. Also, this game is way better than Bioshock! Cause Bioshock 
 has no multi player at all! Multi player is the reason I bought this again. Other than that, it 
 feels like the same old game. But, I guess I just dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TravisLPruitt
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  First, let me state for the record that I am a HUGE Madden fan. I have probably spent more $$$ 
 on each year's version of Madden for various platforms than on any other piece of software, period 
 (including operating systems, etc.) . Better yet, I actually named my son Madden after the game.
 
  
  Having said that, I've officially thrown in the towel after this latest version. I've returned 
 2008 to the store for a refund and it will take quite a bit to get me to return to the series. 
 While I applaud many of the improvements, gameplay has been ruined by turnovers. While some fanboys 
 argue that I need to practice... fine, I did and I did reduce my turnovers significantly (including 
 the use of slider settings you can find around) . While this helps, my computer opponent STILL averages 
 around 8 turnovers a game. Ultimately, the score of the game seems to be random, no matter what 
 gameplan you call, how well you play, etc.
  
  Elecrtonic Arts: PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, no new features! No passing cones. No new swim tackle. 
 No new extended franchise features. No new weapons features. Just make a game that is somewhat 
 realistic and is fun to play. It's as if nobody at EA actually play tested this game... or, god 
 forbid, ignored the results of their playtesting.
  
  Having managed the development of large-scale software projects, I think I know what is happening. 
 This is a franchise that has a very limited development window. The cash flow is critical to EA's 
 bottom line on an annual basis. They feel the pressure to add new features that look good in reviews 
 and on the back of the box (as opposed to a tag-lines such as This year it doesn't suck!!! ) . As 
 a result, they push in features that are buggy and actually don't add much value to the overall 
 playability of the game and, as the case of 2008, make it much worse.
  
  EA, this is your fault. Your greed has set up the expectations of a new version each year. As opposed 
 to just updating rosters every season and using whatever time it takes to create a successful, 
 bug-free product, you ship out shlock and get your $60. Of course, fans like me purchase it every 
 year like a sucker.
  
  This fan is now on a time-out . It will be a long time until I purchase Madden again (or until 
 at least they put that cool new feature screenshot on the back of the box ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2423
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been a console football player since the nintendo. And I have tried them all. I always enjoyed 
 Madden until 2K5 came out, the presentation was AWESOME, the gameplay was different, but I liked 
 it. I was excited at the possibility of Madden finally having some competition and would have to 
 step up its game (especially in the presentation aspect) BUT Madden decided they liked the status 
 quo and bought the NFL rights. Madden 05 for the xbox was good so I thought big deal.. then 06 
 came out for my xbox360. WHAT A DISSAPOINTMENT. 07 was better but 08 takes leaps and bounds over 
 the previous 2 next-gen attempts, while not perfect the game is very enjoyable despite it's quirks. 
 At first turnovers seem to be a problem, but it is just that we are used to being able to chuck 
 it down the field and juke/truck like madmen.. in 08 you have to THINK! The fumbling is a little 
 too much sometimes but as long as you learn to manange it and have a balanced attack it is ok.
 
  
  I tried APF2K8 but it was just eh.... I like playing with NFL teams and players + it just felt 
 old. Kinda weird.
  
  Madden 08
  Graphics - 8.5
  Gameplay -8.5
  Replay Value - 10 (online is SO fun)
  Presentation - 6 (if they got this right the game would 
 be unstoppable) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports has done a lot wrong lately -- God knows it shouldn't even be allowed to come near a basketball 
 court -- but with Madden NFL 08, the publishing behemoth gets it right. Very right, in fact.
  
  From a sturdier franchise mode to a more elaborate, but realistic and well-implemented control 
 scheme, the game outpaces its two predecessors on the 360 by the length of a deep post pattern. 
 Lest we forget the new animations, the wondrous 60 fps performance benchmark, and the usually outstanding 
 depth of the game -- this is both a solid game technologically and fundamentally. Ironically, in 
 a year in which 2K Sports tried its hand again at gridiron gaming with All-Pro 2K8, this is a year 
 where Madden steals that game's real football catch phrase and pushes it along quite nicely.
  
  Some complaints have been lodged about recycled commentary and a lack of true Sundays-in-the-fall 
 emotion, but I can do without those ancillary matters. At the heart of a good football simulation 
 must be... well, good football simulation. And Madden NFL 08 has that in spades. The improved artificial 
 intelligence, playcalling menus, and season/career modes really justifies the purchase, and brings 
 the series back to its mid-1990s zenith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Madden has finally given us gamers a football game that we will play until the next season of Madden.
 
  
  It offers great animation and graphics. It actually feels like the real thing. I am playing this 
 on the 360 and it is very smooth. just another reason why you should by the 360 instead of the 
 PS3. The ring thing is pretty cool too. It feels like playing a friend or someone online. i like 
 the fact that i can look at how the CPU is better than me in some areas and how i can improve my 
 game. The online is lacking alot, you are still only able to play someone online and thats about 
 it no leagues no tounaments and no seasons.
  
  The other let down to this series is yet again they do not use ESPN to it's full potential like 
 hihglights of the weeks games, or pre-game and post game interfaces. If 2K sports did in NFL2K5 
 why can't Madden do it.
  
  I still miss the 2K series but this Madden finally meets par 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucius_Scipio
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  EA Tiburon reversed the recent deteriorating trend of Madden with a good new version. Madden gets 
 it right where it counts the most: gameplay. Overall, the gameplay is tons of fun but plagued with 
 irritating issues such as fumbilitis, game freezes and other issues that so many other people have 
 noted. Nevertheless, the realism of the gameplay is improved as player animation, hitting, tackling, 
 passing, blocking and running are improved. Also, the Superstar format has proven to be interesting 
 and fun. Furthermore, this version also restores many of their previous Franchise components that 
 they inexcusably left out over the past couple of years. Therefore, one can get the full football 
 management experience in this game.
  
  Madden, comes with a few issues that prevents it from reaching its terrific potental. The game 
 is still good but it could have been much better. For instance, there are times when the game freezes 
 when I try to simulate CPU games of teams that I don't control in Franchise mode. Then there is 
 the lackluster gameplay announcers. Madden RARELY makes any comments and Marshall Faulk's game 
 introductions have no energy or excitement. The in-game commentary is dull. Finally, the Super 
 Bowl presentation is unremarkable and it made me feel like it was any other game. All of these 
 issues are minor indeed but their combined effect prevents me from giving this game a higher rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunner43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Madden 08, the fist football game I have bought since the terribly disappointed 06 version of the 
 game. While the gameplay and graphics has improved with the overall quality, it still has it's 
 problems. The reviewer on gamespot got it right, way too many turnovers.
  
  If you are frustrated with your own teams fumbles and interceptions, this game will drive you nuts. 
 You can expect atleast 3 turnovers a game, but probably average about 5. While everything else 
 has improved, if you can't hang on to the dang ball you can't play the game.
  
  Everything else is pretty good. It is a solid game but don't expect to have a good quarter back 
 rating or a running back that only fumble 3 or 4 times a season. You'll get that in one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plix3110
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are great as with the gameplay and wow the tackles just get you into the game there 
 BOOMING with the new hit stick 2.0
  but there are some problems with this game as the Audio is just annoying, it gets really old to 
 me after i while i like the old commentary in the other maddens 10 times better. Also there is 
 way to many fumbles in this game, sure you love it when the other team fumbles but then BAM there 
 you go and fumble. On one game i intercepted it and then fumbled they got it and fumbled ALL in 
 one play lol pretty crazy and frustating even though i got the ball =) .
  but other than that this game is SOLID and the best in the series.
  skip renting it, BUY IT!! 
 haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTANJ
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  EA doesn't try denying that this is their most prized franchise, as they shouldn't, but since the 
 coming of the next-gen consoles, Madden has been far from excellence. With the release of Madden 
 '08, EA finally has something to bring to the table, but accidentally left it on the roof of the 
 car when they brought it over.
  
  At first glance, '08 looks like a whole new game. The Weapons system was definitely a good idea, 
 with new gameplay additions for key players, creating mismatches on the field. Sadly, The Weapons 
 system is ONLY a good idea, as it creates an insane amount of turnovers.
  
  The graphics are almost identical from '07, though they did get rid of the Popeye arms. There are 
 many new additions to animations. More tackle animations, including gang tackles, and many different 
 receiving and running animations make playing a game fun and exciting, but after a few games, you 
 begin to feel like it is all the same.
  
  There are also many things that just seem to a complete mystery as why they are still in the game. 
 For one thing, where is the net for field goals? Granted it isn't the most important thing in the 
 game, and definitely should not sway your decision on whether or not to pick this up, but it is 
 still frustrating that something as simple as a FG net doesn't get into the game for the SECOND 
 year in a row. Also, why is the radio man doing commentary? Who actually thought he was good at 
 this? EA has the ESPN license, why not get the Monday Night guys?
  
  These are just little things, that shouldn't be mandatory, but there is no reason why they aren't 
 in the game.
  
  The MAIN problem with this game though is TURNOVERS. I cannot tell you how many times Stephen Jackson 
 put the ball on the turf on EVERY drive. Marc Bulger having the Accurate QB weapon, yet throwing 
 the ball 5 yards over the head of Tory Holt for a pick, or underthrowing for the same results. 
 I have noticed that HBs with the Power Back weapon are more tend to fumble than HBs without it. 
 Also QBs with the Accurate QB weapon are more tend to throw more erratic throws than QBs without 
 this weapon. A solution is to play with Weapons off, but the Weapons option is basically the only 
 thing that differs from 07.
  
  All-in-all, if you can enjoy a game riddled with Fumbles and INTs, or get lucky and not encounter 
 this problem, than you will most likely enjoy this game. I, for one, can appreciated where EA was 
 INTENDING to go with '08, and can only hope that they actually put out a game worth the Madden 
 name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  ok first lets get some stuff out of the way.
  
  Graphics: this games graphics are impressive for the most part the jerseys the textures of the 
 players and the field look great. lighting and even the weather looks good. however there is one 
 problem. The crowd and players on the sidelines look like **** The players on ur sidelines look 
 like players from madden 2001. there all the same color, hight, wieght, and all move together at 
 the same time. the crowd looks bad to.
  
  sound: The sound in this game is pretty good. the tackles and player hits sound relistic and really 
 get you into the game. the announcer is good not annoying at all and knows what hes talking about 
 most of the time. The crowds reactions though are terrible and most of the time you can forget 
 the crowd is even there.
  
  now for the most important part.. the game play. Animations in the game are great and realistic 
 as well but of course there is a problem with that to. most of the animations turn a 2 yard run 
 into an 8 yard run because of the long and detail animations. There is new stuff like player weapons 
 which are special attributes certain players get to try to simulate real football with mismatches 
 between players. Hit stick 2.0 is cool to use as well with up hit and a low hit. high hit will 
 cause more fumbles then a low hit would.
  your blocking is better than the last maddens but still sucks on special teams. Now there is a 
 couple of problems and only one can be fixed the others well you have to deal with them.
  
  1. there are for million fumbles a game.
  2. atleast 2-4 injurys a game
  3. every kick off 
 is a touchback past the end zone unless you fix the kickoff power slider from 50 to 35
  4. there still is the case of the madden effect.
  
  for those of you who may not know what 
 the madden effect is... its the computer taking control of the game so you cant win. no matter what 
 play or how good you are if you play the game in all pro difficulty level, if your not meant to 
 win.. ur just not meant to win. you will fumble repeatedly get every tackle broken.. fumble in the 
 end zone ect ect. i have not yet found any sliders to fix the problems but maybe one of you will.
 
  
  now most of this review was pretty much bad stuff but its not a bad game. if you can ignore all 
 the problems i wrote then its the best football game ever.... lol seriously though,, its is a real 
 good game but it WILL cause much frustration guranteed. i reccomend this game ne way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osuc89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  i bought this game figuring well its just another madden game and was i ever wrong. The new features 
 are revolutionary. Superstar is a great new feature that allows you to be just one player and you 
 get to earn you spot and run the baal as well as make key blocks. The franchise is still great 
 . The new mini games are pretty entertaining for being a mini game. The new wepons feature takes 
 a while to get used 2 but once u do its fun. It is much harder to pass which makes the game more 
 realistic. While i think this game is great every game has its flaws. you always seem to fumble 
 more then you should. they took out the create a play which was one of my favorite things. And 
 it seems as tho they dont have enough plays. but besides those i still would say this game is by 
 far the best football game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  As a first year Madden player I am having the time of my life with this game, Knowing a lot about 
 football and understanding the game I can totally translate that knowledge to playing madden.
 
  
  Gameplay- Feels great, the buttons are responsive and accurate, Play calling is fun, running the 
 ball is great when following the play and passing is great but also when following the play.
  
  Graphic- There great but I play Ea fifa series and I know ea can do better
  (play on 32 HDTV)
 
  
  Overall if you have never played madden before but understand the game of football or even have 
 a good idea of how to play football you'll love madden, theres not many things better than breaking 
 a 50 yard TD run with LT!
  
  p. s I know Fumbles have been a discussion but for me when learning to play I fumbled a lot but 
 now that I am a lot better I hardly ever fumble, I guess I am doing things right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eafness
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  finally madden enters the next generation with a bang with smooth visuals and motion capture that 
 finally catches up with the likes of 2k5. the running game has a great feel to it and the infamous 
 spin moves can no longer be abused. the inside running game feels realistic and the ai of the offensive 
 line is outstanding. alas that is where the fun ends, the unbalance gameplay when it comes to the 
 passing game is terrible. every game looks like it is being play with a hot potato with the amount 
 of fumbles and interceptions. defensive players act like high jump champions when it comes to batting 
 and intercepting passes. you will learn quickly that average players rarely make tough catches 
 and unless you know how to switch and catch it yourself they are useless if they arent wide open. 
 the hits are vicious and even regular wrap tackles cause random fumbles. the franchise mode is 
 back and in full effect with rave reviews with the amount of depth that madden users have been 
 accustomed to over the years and will make fantasy buffs shout with glee. the espn integration 
 is a feature that is welcomed once again and the new twist on achievements coming strictly with 
 gameplay gets ten thumbs up. altogether the package is well put together and the way players react 
 to changes in the gameplay environment (slipping on a cut in the rain say what) and adjust to what 
 your doing on offence and defence makes this the best madden ever and would score higher but the 
 unbalance gameplay is holding this title back from true greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Very awesome football game. Great new individual skills for each player I like how they brought 
 back the choice of moving the team to a different location. And i also like being able to see the 
 fiances of my team in franchise mode which was missing in the recent madden game i am glad to see 
 it return.
  
  Downside is i believe the AI scroll bar is messed up or something... I love interceptions and I 
 love the Ravens. So when i play and Ed Reed gets hit right in the chest with a pass and drops the 
 INT that should not happen. So i turn my User INT up to 100% instead of the regular 50% that it 
 is set at. and it actually makes it less likely to intercept the pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  The first 2 Madden games on the Xbox 360 pretty much just made me sick. So many features missing 
 that had been around several years on the PS2, and one huge feature missing, the ability to play 
 on the same team against the computer or 2 on 1 &amp; 2 on 2. Madden 08 includes all those lost 
 features including the return of the offline multiplayer. With all this back added in with the 
 excellent graphics &amp; deep game play EA can finally give them a pat on the back for creating 
 a good Next-Gen Madden game. I really don't have any complaints on this game, except for the fact 
 that they also brought back the entirely too easy list of achievements that after owning the game 
 just 1 week I now have only 4 more to unlock. Its not that their just too easy, but none of them 
 are put into the Franchise or Superstar game modes. Even with the super easy achievements, which 
 did help me reach 20,000 on my gamer score, Madden 08 is a solid football game and a massive improvement 
 from previous titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3ptune
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  As much as I love the Madden Franchise, I can't give this game a positive review. Here are a couple 
 of bugs I've run into with my XBOX 360 during head to head and franchise modes. I haven't tried 
 any other modes.
  
  - Franchise statistics are wrong.
  - Most free agents disappear by the 2nd year in franchise mode (no kickers or punters left in year 
 2)
  - Help menu doesn't show up sometimes (exit game and restart to fix)
  - Weapon menu (Hold RT) does not work sometimes (exit game and restart to fix)
  - Play art does 
 not show up sometimes (exit game and restart to fix)
  - Player appearance edits affect contracts (WTF???)
  - Game freezes during normal gameplay and 
 during franchise mode simulations.
  
  I'm bringing my copy back tomorrow... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  For this review, I want to make some comparisons between the new Madden and the other football 
 games out there. I really liked NCAA 2008, but Madden definitely pushes the quality up even another 
 notch. For those who have been playing NCAA, it has basically the same controls, so its a very 
 easy transition. In terms of game play, it is also quite similar. Madden has the hitstick, but 
 its called the highlight stick. Play calling and menu navigation is also the same as NCAA. In fact, 
 much of the gameplay is similar. This is in most respects a very good thing, since Madden seems 
 to have basically improved on what NCAA had to offer, albeit in NFL style rather than a college 
 context. When comparing Madden to All Pro Football 2k8, Madden is the clear winner. It has much 
 better graphics, and in my opinion it has better gameplay too. One of the things that APF had over 
 NCAA 2008 was the addition of special skills for the star players. Im not sure if EA used some 
 corporate espionage, but it has brought its own assortment of special skills to the NFL players 
 in Madden 2008. This really makes the game great. It enhances the strategic element of gameplay 
 immensely. I especially like the edition of the smart player, who is a player that can read the 
 opponents plays on either offense or defense (depending on his position) . I know that in previous 
 Madden games (and NCAA) I used to get lazy and run the same plays again and again, especially if 
 they were working. I also think that we all have our favorite play that we like to pull out on 
 a crucial third down. However, that type of plan wont work any more. Run the same offensive play 
 more than four times, and the other team gets a free look if they have a smart defensive player. 
 You can expect the defense to audible to try to stop the play as soon as they know it. Of course 
 you can also take control of a single player or try to set the new Receiver Spotlight function 
 to target a specific receiver. You may want to do all of those things if you have time before the 
 snap. On offense you also have a great deal of pre-snap options. As expected, you can call audiles, 
 but now you can also take control of other players, such as a lead blocker (as you could in NCAA 
 2008) . For me, this is what makes Madden great. This year, it is a very deep game that offers the 
 most realistic football experience available (surpassing NCAA 2008) . In comparison to APF, Madden 
 absolutely slaughters it with pre-snap options and customization of defensive plays. Graphically, 
 Madden looks good. It looks way better than APF, but not much better than NCAA. However, the animations 
 are great, especially gang tackles, sideline catches (as the receiver will now try to stay in bounds) , 
 and plays with the highlight stick. The player weapons also have some great animations that suit 
 their abilities. Watching spectacular receivers like Randy Moss make a one handed catch in the 
 end zone is fantastic. Likewise, it is always fun to see one of your big hitter linebackers absolutely 
 cream a receiver running a drag pattern through the middle, laying the guy out and forcing a fumble. 
 The sound is acceptable, but the ESPN radio announcer isnt exactly spellbinding. The crowd noise 
 is ok too. However, there is nothing here to make it stand out in the sound department. What really 
 makes Madden great this year is the gameplay, largely because of animation improvements. Also some 
 clipping issues have been resolved. One of the few gameplay issues, as pointed out in the Gamespot 
 review, is the high number of fumbles. I found this to be the case as well. You can now force fumbles 
 with a new strip ball function (hit A on defense) , and this further contributes to the problem. 
 However, the turnovers seem to be balanced between the two teams playing, and in the overall scheme, 
 its not a big deal really. The game is still as fun as ever. There is of course a deep franchise 
 mode. I actually havent explored this too much yet, but it seems fairly good. You can build up 
 a tem, draft players, and even try to get advertising deals. You also have control over player 
 salaries, as well as the amount of money going to different aspect of the teams program, including 
 the stadium. Also, you can move the team to a different city, and you can create teams of your 
 own. Superstar mode is also available, and it seems to be something like a carry-over from NCAAs 
 Campus Legend mode. I also havent tried it out too much. Nevertheless, it seems that the game 
 is at least as deep as NCAA, and it is way deeper than APF. Madden beats APF in almost every way. 
 Im still going to keep my copy of APF, but only because I like the nostalgia aspect. Im also 
 going to keep NCAA 2008. Both being EA games, Madden and NCAA are very similar in most regards. 
 Madden is slightly better in terms of gameplay. That is, Madden offers a better NFL experience 
 than that NCAA offers in terms of a college experience. However, the NFL is still the NFL and college 
 is still college. There is still no better college game than NCAA. Also, since the games are so 
 similar, it is ridiculously easy to transition between the two. Ill probably end up playing Madden 
 more. However, later on Ill want to have some college game simulations before playoff games.
 
  
  One thing I will say is that Im glad that EA made some effort to make improvements to Madden, 
 especially since they are dominating football gaming. After the last two years, it was getting 
 to the point where I was expecting somewhat of another letdown. I mean seriously, It was getting 
 to the point where I half expected EA to say, OK. This year every purchase of Madden will come 
 with a mandatory swift kick in the balls, and they knew they would get away with it because, well 
 people sill buy Madden no matter what they put out. APF really doesnt offer enough of a threat 
 yet to worry EA, but maybe it got them energized a little bit. I have to wonder how much the Madden 
 player weapons were made in response to APFs abilities for superstar players. Anyway, whatever 
 caused them to do it, EA made a damn good football game. So, go and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MWM5225
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  madden 07-noun-ea's sorry excuse of a next gen football sim
  
  well madden 08 is a big step 4 ea and there football sims for the xbox 360
  and leading that 
 advance is the new graphics. At the risk of sounding like a big fan boy they're not quite at the 
 level of 2K8 but they are the best of all maddens these past 3 years with feats like gang tackling 
 and receivers making a second grab at the ball, however the imaginary running back barriers causing 
 you to run in place for up to 5 seconds has not been fixed.
  
  another big game changer is the special ability players highlighting the field (another possible 
 knock off of 2K8 but who knows who made the move 1st) and really reveals who the better team is 
 by how many abilities r on the field. take the chargers 4 example have people like L. T.-elusive 
 back, power back, and hey wonder back and Shawn Merriman block sheder big hitter and alot more. Speaking 
 of hard hitters, they freakin HARD. take Shaun Taylor for example, Joseph Addai caught the ball 
 in the flats broke a wimpy tackler and headed for the secondary, not knowing it would be the worst 
 mistake of his life, i pushed up on the hit stick and whacked him so hard it caused me 2 shout 
 OUCH!
  
  While Madden has all these feats and also added in old favorites like create a team. but i still 
 am left wanting more, sure this is the best of the years, but it still dosen't do it for me. Not 
 being a fan boy but all pro football is still a better game, and only because of its game play. Madden 
 08 excites me bcuz i no it's the 1st of many great maddens to come from ea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labman522
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  .Another Madden Mishap!!!! Looks like i've been duped again. Why cant they take a hint from 2k 
 sports and get their act together! Every year madden promises a better game and i as a consumer 
 get screwed for $60 bucks. Get rid of Maddens stupid voice from the game!!! I'll be a longggggggggg 
 time before i buy another Madden game. Very disappointed to say the least and you other critics 
 give it a 8-9. Please get real!!!! Marshall Faulk giving predictions is like Houdini comming back 
 to life.
  How many times must cunsumers be suckered to dish out big bucks for a low level game. EAS, looks 
 like you did it to us another year. Whats in store for next year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  As a long time Madden fan I had my hopes high for this year. From the previews it sounded like 
 this would finally be the year to bring Madden back into it's glory. I was so pumped to finally 
 get to play 4 player offline on a Madden game. Sad to say, my first game I gave up 3 fumbles in 
 the 4th quarter w/ LT. I was like, WTF, that is so cheap the CPU needed to force fumbles to make 
 it a close game. This happened again, so I started protecting the ball on every single time I ever 
 held the ball. Still happened almost every game. Then, I adjusted my stats so that all my team 
 had a 99 in ball handling. Guess what? Yep, still mulitple fumbles with LT who was at near perfect 
 stats and covered the ball on every single run. This is what I call a crappy excuse for a running 
 system, when you avoid running as much as you would in a real game simply b/c the chance of fumbling 
 the ball is so amazingly high. Especially in the later half of the game. This takes away any sense 
 of realism or fun from how the game football is meant to be played. Interceptions happen in highly 
 unrealistic fashion as well, but if you are a really smart passer you can avoid this bug, although 
 it is pathetic that the bug got past testing in the first place.
  
  So for me Madden was a big letdown. It seemed really great at first, but the more I play the more 
 problems I find and the more glitches I run into. It seems rushed in many ways.
  
  The weapons feature seems to be the biggest flaw and greatest new feature in the game. Using the 
 hitstick w/ a heavy hitter is cool, it's just VERY stupid that you can force a fumble almost 8 
 times a game if you know how. No player should ever fumble 8 times in one game. It's just beyond 
 unrealistic and takes away any fun had in the game.
  
  If they can patch this game, fix the fumbles and other small glitches, then I would give this game 
 a high score, but as long as most of my games, offline or online, end w/ a bunch of fumbles to 
 determine the winner, I'll just sit back feeling really sorry for anyone stupid enough to think 
 this is a product worth praising.
  
  We should all demand much better product testing from a company as big and as rich as EA. We give 
 them a TON of money and they owe us much better quality than this bug filled game.
  
  And yes, I am very good at Madden and know how to protect the ball, so don't give me that fanboy 
 b. s. about it being my fault or me not being good. That is just childish and foolish.
  
  I concur....... I'll add very hard on All-Madden.... very easy on anything else.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: customgtp
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Im not getting into the fact that everyone has fumble and interception issues. That is a known 
 fact. who even knows if it could be fixed. I have never been a fan of Madden. Always liked 2k sports. 
 But because of monopoly I have played madden for the last 2 years. I honestly like the 06 and 07 
 much better then this one. I feel the 08 is too fast, the hits are unreal. Every hit seems like 
 you are playing Blitz football. The icons to show you what skill your players have.... hello, we 
 usually play with the team we like or know. We know football. We know P. manning is a good passer 
 and T. O. can catch the ball. we don't need these huge signs by them to let us know. and the info 
 on how to audible on the screen. We'll learn.... loose it. this years Madden feel too arcade like 
 and not like true football. And I wish they would make it look televised and not radio chat.
  
  But it's Madden and I guess I still HAVE TO PLAY IT. Thanks EA for ruining the NFL Vidio Games.
 
  thank you.... Go Jets!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Madden 08 scores big with the gameplay this year. The weapon system adds a fun, new twist 
 to the original football game that Madden is. The weapon system also makes Madden 08's gameplay 
 better then the other Madden's gameplay. The online is the same as last years and they could've 
 added some new features to it. I also like the way you can choose to do a low hit and a high hit 
 with the hit stick.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are a lot better then 07's. The animations run a lot smoother than the previous 
 years and it looks a lot better. The players and the field also look a lot better. The thing that 
 really stood out to me the most was that the fans and the players on the side didn't look lifeless 
 and they looked alive.
  
  Sound- The sound of the fans is the same as always. The commentaters are the same and there is 
 nothing really new here.
  
  Value- This game is well worth the $60 if you are a football fan but even if you just like to chill 
 and play games with your friends this is still a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1mpthra
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has taken a MAJOR step forward, from the 2 tactic offence (on madden 07, on XBL) meaning 
 hurling deep and 88% of time get a TD or the they... lets run with Vick... OH YEA... DOGFIGHTING!!! 
 HAHAHA... anyway, this game is just a gameplay master peace, over all the same look but the one 
 handed grabs to the bone jaring hits to even the small thing like the new replay system (it allows 
 u to replay in play in that game) but my main thing is the hurlets and AI... the Hurtles make the 
 game more exciting (as u take a hand off you spin past the MLB then as the CB dives at ur feet 
 u hurtleling over him forgeting about the a SS that fuks ur day up) and the AI is MUCH MUCH improved... 
 you dont need to control EVERY PLAYER that has a chance of making the play, if the ball is near 
 them... they go for it, i gave Allprofootball a 3... i was think it would be the other way around... 
 but no madden gets the 10 and Allpro gets the 3... ps..... the fumbles just add more gameplay meaning 
 u gotta try that much harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The multilplayer is really fun. Playing with your friends is exciting and 
 also fun. There's much more improvement in this game. Like its easier to call an audible to flip 
 the player around or change the play. There's more fumbles which in the other series there wasn't 
 that many. The superstar mode is fun. You can either start as a rookie or you can make your own 
 character. Online play is also fun and exciting. The graphics are amazingly good. The power moves 
 are cool. Like the some of the linemen have a Brick Wall icon underneath them and they can tackle 
 people a lot harder and make the runner or QB fumble the ball a lot easier. Some runner have faster 
 speed and some kickers have power kicks. This game is awesome. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I am surely impressed with the increase of AI in this years installation to the Madden series. 
 The graphics dont change much but they are still good. The flaws are still there and still annoying 
 but unlike last years madden this year i see some problems such as glitches and lagging decreased. 
 The verticle game has become more challenging which is good for a hardcore madden player like myself. 
 Playing on the defensive side of the ball isnt that bad anymore with the reinstallation of the 
 defensive player coverage audibles now i can make my linebackers cover out deep or force them to 
 blitz at the last second pre-snap. Timing may still be a bit of an issue with the hit-stick and 
 highlight-stick and there needs to be more fluid player movement with the 360 like on the ps2 the 
 players dont run real but like..... well a computer. I love that they brought in owner mode and 
 returned with the superstar mode. Online play still is the same with head-to-head games that sometimes 
 lagg and no sign of anything new to look forward to online which tends to frustrate as its been 
 years since i have seem something online that really wowed me and made me enjoy the whole experience 
 more. Overall this years madden is improved and well worth playing and even through the few problem 
 still facing the game EA has done it again and made another solid NFL game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giggi81181
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Man i get tired of madden one year its stupid and then its good this year but the turnovers are 
 horrible and the interception ratio. why if u going to make a good game why not go all out and 
 review every aspect of it before letting it hit the shelves. This game is the best one on the new 
 generation systems so far but at least make the turnovers legit. Computer you dont have to cheat 
 because a good gamer is kicking your but. I mean im winning the game by 14 oops!!! lets make him 
 fumble because your not supposed to make the computer look so horrible. whatever we paying this 
 hard earned money to get a complete foot ball. game the least you could do is make it complete how 
 hard is that. LOL MADDEN 08 EA SPORTS ITS NOT IN THE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgjunkey34n8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  its sad that people attach themselves to a game company. all these companys care about is you pouring 
 your purse into their pockets. i mean really what kind of sad person davotes themselves to a group 
 out to make money off them. any way this is about madden 08, 06 and 07 sucked, 08 on the other 
 hand is a huge step up. its not a 10 i would say its a more like a 9.0 but im giving it a 10 cause 
 there is no way its a 7.8 (sad sad haters when will you get a life) i used to buy both 2k and ea 
 i loved both for their own strengths and i miss 2k but ea did a good job this year. 60 fps awsome 
 but there is a lil lag in the cuts, the graphics are the same, the play by play guy sucks but it 
 doesnt take away from the game, controls are by far better then ever as is A. I. the new features 
 (im sure you know what they are) are cool. this is the best madden made to date and as long as 
 your not a 2k sports activist you WILL enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilimanjaro187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game .
  First off the controls are way smoother than they ever were before compared to 07 madden. The control 
 get a ten in my book just for being able to control your players even better than before. Every 
 thing about the game feels right even the hit stick feels more acurate than before you can even 
 have the option to hit high and low. the game feels a little slower than 07 which is a good thing. why 
 is this a good thing you might ask because you have control of your running back. The graphic in 
 the game is great. The gang tackling in this game is superb with great animation .You must play 
 this game online .The game has ESPN new every 20 minutes. The only thing i could say about that 
 is that it cool ass hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 returns for another season and its defenitely the best madden on next gen consoles 
 to date, everything from graphics to gameplay has been updated in this year's version of madden, 
 there is a new weapon system in madden that adds to the gameplay its varies in all facets of the 
 game offense, defense, and special teams. For example a quaterback like Peyton Manning has the 
 smart qb, cannon arm, and accurate arm these weapons are a great addition to the gameplay and everything 
 that was missing from past versions of madden are back like defensive playmaker all in all madden 
 nfl 08 returns to its roots and is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duddits83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a noticeable improvement over Madden 07. However, just like 07 it grinds in the X-box 
 and makes the disc unreadable!! While the gameplay is still a little rough around the edges, I am 
 satisfied with the improvements. Running the ball is harder as is passing, but forcing turnovers 
 on defense is now ridiculously easy. The franchise mode is revamped and more immersive than last 
 time. A few things are still missing, (like the player e-mails from 05) that made it more interesting. 
 The mini-games are better than 07 but not on par with 05. Maybe I am one of the only people who 
 think the minigames took a downfall, but I do. All in all good game on the verge of being great, 
 maybe next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  I never played Madden games or sports games ,but once I saw the hype and the amount of people waiting 
 to get this game I had to play it!
  
  The game is fun with achivements popping out every game you play! The game was amazingly hyped 
 and once you sit down and actually play this game you'll see why. The online in sports game has 
 seem to be the weekness. With some players who play this game, and this game only, wanting to play 
 against you it's not even that fun, unless a friend wants to play then the whole online concept 
 of Madden changes!
  
  The sounds are great with the commentators giving you a run-down on what recently happened and 
 giving some advice every once in a while. The fans sound like.... fans! This game always impresses 
 gamers in the fields of sound!
  
  The graphics look phenominal! The game seems to show ,once again, that no matter what system it's 
 being played on it has great graphics!
  
  The gameplay is overall fun and lets you play at your own pace. If you're not as good as others 
 Rookie is the difficulty for you. Then if you're way more experinced you'll probably play on All-Madden 
 or Pro .The game has somewhat good online, sound and graphics are much improved, and the Franchise 
 and Superstar mode are still there playing much better than ever!
  
  The give Madden 08 for the Xbox 360 9.5 naked man running through the field commercials out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmanx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Sure it lacks some stuff that were great on previous non next-gen versions, but you get so inmersed 
 in this game, especially on superstar mode, that you practically forget all the things that are 
 not there. Of course, if you are not a football fan, you probably won't get too atracted.
  
  The game looks good and feels good. the new animations prevents the game to look and feel like 
 the previous versions, and they look pretty cool.
  
  This game just got out and i'm already imagining what they could do with the next version if they 
 keep adding and improving, Great work this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  After being rejected from Walmart at 12:00am because they didn't have the shipment AND I travel 
 to the next town that afternoon, I finally got my hands on Madden 08. I popped in the game when 
 I got home and noticed a lot of what the reviewer Alex Navarro stated in his review. I do realize 
 though that this game might turn off the casual sports sim gamer because of the all the features 
 you have in the game. For those hardcore Madden fans out there, this game is for you since Madden 
 06.
  
  The main change you will see will be the players that have icons on their teams. Certain players 
 will have one or many icons that mark them as a character that have a specialty attribute about 
 them. This feature is nice since you know who your key players are and they have a great change 
 of doing these feats when you give them the ball (or not) . Every position has their own certain 
 icons that could be shared with other positions but others have it only in that one position. The 
 idea of the game is no different from the past games but the features in games and how well they 
 presented it. The announcer is just a radio host talking every so often which can be nice because 
 it gives more focus on the game. The gameplay has some more features to getting the play off (audibles, 
 move players, hot routes, Cornerback positioning, etc...) . You have control of the whole field 
 before the snap is made. The movements are more fluent and have some nice graphics of tackles and 
 group tackles that weren't seen before. Everything surrounding the gameplay doesn't seem well developed 
 as the sidelines look and do the same thing (players just have the colors of the teams) . The crowds 
 aren't much of a factor and the only nice thing nice about the background information is the stadium 
 being simular to the original stadiums. The half-time and ending game review are ok but could have 
 been a bit more developed .
  
  The graphics on and off the field has improved as well to make this game more enjoyable for the 
 Madden fans. As stated above, the graphics for group tackles are wonderful. The characters are 
 also wonderfully made and has improved from the last years game. The eye candy in this game will 
 keep you playing with friends and online gamers as well.
  
  Online play hasn't changed much but with some of the small glitches (fumbles) in the game, its 
 hard to really enjoy it (unless those fumbles are in your favor ;) ) .
  
  All in all, the game produced a lot better from the previous 2-3 Madden games and there are always 
 things they can improve. The confusing aspects of the game could hurt in the short run but a must 
 game for hardcore football gamers all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masherzoom
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing the game, you'll think wow this is a huge step up from last year, 
 as defense's play much smarter, computer actually makes mistakes, and just an all around fun game 
 to play. Then that's when EA Sports kicks in with its classic mishaps. First off, Pro difficulty 
 is way way way to easy. So bump it up to all-pro and the computer is much much better. However, 
 why is it that every time you don't make a perfect throw the computer intercepts the ball. Rarely 
 ever is it just an incomplete pass or a ball is batted down. The computer always finds a way to 
 intercept the ball. Blockers continually miss easy blocks and receivers sometimes just forget to 
 catch the ball or simply put their hands out to try and catch the ball. It seems that every year 
 something plagues the madden series and this year its the interceptions and fumbles that happen 
 way to often. Be prepared to throw at least 2 interceptions a game and sometimes even fumble the 
 ball 3 times on all-pro and higher difficulties. EA Sports can never seem to get the difficulty 
 right where its not to easy, but also to give the computer a chance to beat you. You'll often find 
 yourself in tight games but just count on your defense to score for you. (I had 6 ints against 
 Drew Brees, yea like that would ever happen) . Good thing EA Sports really upgrades their online 
 features every year. Sike. Online play is basically bare bones with nothing much going for it. 
 Why is it that EA Sports spends most of their time and money on Madden and can't put in online 
 leagues? Something that NFL 2k5 on the Xbox did so well. (Oh but wait NHL 08 will feature online 
 leagues, and NHL is the far superior title of all EA Sports games) . ESPN liscense is basically 
 non-existant in game but does have cool features with video, audio, and ESPN radio.
  
  Let's not forget that somehow this game got through testing without noticing the multiple times 
 the game freezes online as well as in franchise mode.
  
  This game is a classic example of why the NFL should not have granted EA the exclusive liscense 
 to the NFL. They have no competition, so why upgrade when you don't have to? If 2k Sports still 
 had an NFL liscense, their would be no doubt in my mind that Madden 08 would have been a much better 
 game because they would have been forced to release a better game. All in all Madden 08 is another 
 sub par effort from the crew at EA Sports, as I feel as this game is more worth 40$ then the 60$ 
 that you pay for it. Oh well, can't wait til NFL 2k15 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vert56
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  They definitely gave us the the goods in terms of features. However, little things still plague 
 Madden's next-gen titles. For instance, transition graphics are still glitchy as hell and while 
 we are now able to change a players number, we still cannot change their appearance or position? 
 This is seriously ridiculous for a game that is supposed to be a sports simulation. The big problems 
 are what make Madden 08 not worth the 60 bone asking price. First, the presentation is the worst 
 of any sports tittle on the market. That radio announcer is terrible and I hate hate hate the stupid 
 field chatter that is supposed to put you on the field. I want TV-style presentation with seamless 
 and meaningful commentary. I just do not understand what they are trying to do in this area. They 
 still have the ESPN licence don't they? Why not use the Monday Night Football Crew and presentation 
 graphics? Second, the game is in it's third incarnation on next-gen consoles and still has glitches 
 in between plays and graphical transitions. This is absolutely unacceptable!!! The special abilities 
 are nice and I am happy that they added features; however, these things should have been in the 
 first incarnation and the game should be way ahead of where it currently stands graphically and 
 functionally. Unfortunately, the Madden name has me hooked. I have fallen victim to EA's marketing 
 genius and have spent my hard-earned money on this horrible product every year for the past three 
 years. I guess in our country, where we allow poor quality products to pose as quality ones through 
 marketing and false-advertising (like super fast 60 fps!) , the only person I have to blame is.................... myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdavis
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game and to be disapointed is an understatement. I played one game online and 
 fumbled 6 times, and got intercepted like 5 times. This game is broken, and needs to be patched 
 now. Fix the the fumbles and it will be a good game ( although it doesn't come close to last-gen 
 systems) I think i've had it with the madden franchise and ea sports, its time for the NFL to let 
 other publishers get their games out. Madden games have not been as good since the last great one 
 2005. Hopefully ea spots can get a patch out for this quick, cause i'm not playing it anymore until 
 they do. Of course they already have my money so, **** it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I see the player rating guys really hates the cowboys or specific players on the cowboys, how is 
 trent green, delhomme and eli manning rated higher than Romo. Tony Romo's accuracy rating is a 86 
 ?!! ,thats one of his strengths!?! How did the ratings developers didnt notice he had one of the 
 top 3 completion percentages in the entire nfl and even Rex grossman is rated more accurate than 
 tony romo at 87. How do 65%completion=86 accuracy rating, yall didnt give romo no good awareness 
 rating would i thought would make up for him completing 65% of passes, the rating dont make sense. Oh 
 yeah the game is better than all its old madden games finally still got some work to do on the 
 commentary and Nfl footballl presentation but i enjoy the game, except for head scratching ratings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 is a great game. It's certainly the best Madden since the 2005 edition and a worthy 
 offering for the new generation of gaming. The new animation system is outstanding and the game 
 itself plays wonderfully. Madden succeeds where it matters most: The gameplay. Now Tiburon just 
 needs to bolster the surrounding aspects and it could have a true classic on its hands in the near 
 future. The presentation needs a serious kick in the ass. Let this be the last year with a radio 
 broadcast play-by-play. It's embarrassing to listen to this homer calling (and miscalling) plays. 
 Madden 08 is not the best football game ever made, but it is one of the better iterations in the 
 franchise. It's certainly the best Xbox 360 football game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  People this is ridiculous. As I go through these reviews, people are giving bad scores because 
 of very small issues in the game like no refs on the field or the classic the defense is too fast 
 . A couple of things.
  
  1- Presentation is good but not great. Lack of officials and cut scenes don't deprive a great football 
 game experience. It's small touch up work and not vital to the game or it's replay value.
  
  2- Excuses like Well the defense is too fast on all-pro and the classic The AI is terrible 
 translate into real talk as I really suck at this game and that's the only justification for my 
 review 
  
  I got news for you... APF2k8 was just decent..... Good game, But classic? Pfft... Please tell me 
 how you are going to down a game for not having officials or the fact that you aren't quick enough 
 to read a defense, yet give outstanding ratings or even dub a game as immersive or classic when 
 it lacks any form of franchise mode and 2/3 of the legends in the game were people like Andre Ware, 
 Merrill Hoge, Mike Golic and Ickey Woods. The individual players in 2k8 don't even represent the 
 players personalities correctly.... Barry Sanders never did the dirty bird....
  
  Anyway, onto Madden-
  
  By far the best footballs game released by EA since Madden 2004. The 
 gameplay and engine has seemingly received either an overhaul or a renovation. Either way, this 
 game handles beautifully. The pre-play audibles and weapon usage adds yet another pioneering element 
 for Madden. Player movements are a lot more believable and the AI (more specifically on blocking 
 schemes and defense) has received a much needed boost. Receiving has added a few more catching 
 elements and techniques. Taking over a WR and catching is much more fluid and effective than in 
 previous years. I am glad that individual defensive audibles are back as well. Also added to improve 
 the gameplay was the player focus where you can focus on a weapon of the opposing offense by selecting 
 the right button commands before the play starts. If someone likes trying to burn you with Bush 
 or Harrison or TO, it's MUCH easier to slow them down in this years installment. The tutorials 
 will guide you through all of this.
  
  As far as graphics go, they are pretty much the same this year with a fresh coat of paint and finish. 
 About as good as you can get for a football game. One thing they improved is the fact that not 
 every player looks like their juicing as opposed to the last two versions. Stadiums look excellent, 
 but the crowd animation could use an overhaul.
  
  The sound is OK. Nothing different here. All sports games could use better sound and crowd AI. 
 Player sounds and game action are good but not great. A lot of the same cycled stuff from previous 
 games. Where it could really improve is the game soundtrack, but that's not a big enough deal for 
 it to affect my gaming experience.
  
  The replay value is high but would be perfect if it added some online leagues and tournaments. 
 EA has taken a slight step up with the way they keep stats between Madden and almost every other 
 EA game, but the lack of online leagues hurt it a little and was one of several small things that 
 kept me from giving this a perfect score. Franchise mode is deeper but still lacks the ability 
 to control concessions and memorabilia. And the achievements (if you don't cheese to get them) 
 are all in-game so it will keep you playing for a while if you are into unlocking them. All 1000 
 are obtainable in some fashion. You also be able to build up a ring, which is a cool idea, but 
 seems a little tacked on. Superstar mode returns freshly dusted with some minor improvements to 
 the cams and camera angles. The improved gameplay of Madden makes franchise mode a hit once again.
 
  
  All in all, I like this game.. in fact, I love it. I also enjoy sports games in general. That's 
 why it doesn't matter to me who makes what game. The 2k8 football game was an excellent idea with 
 those developers that fell short the first time around. I expect it to be back next year with a 
 lot of improvements. That's what EA did with Madden 08. While a few things need to be added in 
 future installments to keep a franchise moving, Madden is back on track and is unquestionably back 
 on top of the football video game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshot32
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It is a great games
  
  i like it alot
  
  i won the Super Bowl in all 5 years of my franchise
  
  i just cant beleive the game its awesome
 
  
  i have it for PS2
  
  but it sucks
  
  so get it for 360 or PS3
  
  and i made a career with the Colts
  
  got lucky and drafted by them
  
  won the MVP, Rookie 
 Of The Year, NFC Rookie Of The Year, Offensive Player Of The Year, and i won the RB of the year
  
  and we won the Super Bowl the first 5 years but then we lost to the Jets in the
  
  6the 
 year of my career 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony112791
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Im boycotting Madden this year. I just dont see the point in spending $60 on the same game that 
 i already have. I just dont get it. I have bought every edition of madden since 01. In some of 
 the editions the game has drastictly improved. There is just is not a feature that will revolutionize 
 the game. In past editions they added things like Superstar Mode and Mini Camp and things like 
 that. Tell me when they come out with a first person helmet view or when you could just walk the 
 sidelines as the coach... oh wait they did make a game where you could be the coach, but it was 
 ANOTHER $50! Lets see... $60 for Halo... or $60 for Madden? I think the choice is easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okey13
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Madden has quite alot of luring features that make feel like a next gen gameplay football genre. 
 They made the graphics much better than the ncaa version on the xbox 360. With the array of features 
 and addicting visuals, Madden finally has shown why it is the best football franchise in the videogame 
 industry. As this is my first Madden game I have bought , I was skeptical about the reviews of 
 the other 360 versions. I was not dissapointed at all at the results. My brother and I spent 3 
 hours playing the cpu because of the challenging AI. Bottom line is that this game is the TRUTH 
 and all pro football 2k8 can't compete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  As a long time Madden fan I had my hopes high for this year. From the previews it sounded like 
 this would finally be the year to bring Madden back into it's glory. I was so pumped to finally 
 get to play 4 player offline on a Madden game. Sad to say, my first game I gave up 3 fumbles in 
 the 4th quarter w/ LT. I was like, WTF, that is so cheap the CPU needed to force fumbles to make 
 it a close game. This happened again, so I started protecting the ball on every single time I ever 
 held the ball. Still happened almost every game. Then, I adjusted my stats so that all my team 
 had a 99 in ball handling. Guess what? Yep, still mulitple fumbles with LT who was at near perfect 
 stats and covered the ball on every single run. This is what I call a crappy excuse for a running 
 system, when you avoid running as much as you would in a real game simply b/c the chance of fumbling 
 the ball is so amazingly high. Especially in the later half of the game. This takes away any sense 
 of realism or fun from how the game football is meant to be played. Interceptions happen in highly 
 unrealistic fashion as well, but if you are a really smart passer you can avoid this bug, although 
 it is pathetic that the bug got past testing in the first place.
  
  So for me Madden was a big letdown. It seemed really great at first, but the more I play the more 
 problems I find and the more glitches I run into. It seems rushed in many ways.
  
  The weapons feature seems to be the biggest flaw and greatest new feature in the game. Using the 
 hitstick w/ a heavy hitter is cool, it's just VERY stupid that you can force a fumble almost 8 
 times a game if you know how. No player should ever fumble 8 times in one game. It's just beyond 
 unrealistic and takes away any fun had in the game.
  
  If they can patch this game, fix the fumbles and other small glitches, then I would give this game 
 a high score, but as long as most of my games, offline or online, end w/ a bunch of fumbles to 
 determine the winner, I'll just sit back feeling really sorry for anyone stupid enough to think 
 this is a product worth praising.
  
  We should all demand much better product testing from a company as big and as rich as EA. We give 
 them a TON of money and they owe us much better quality than this bug filled game.
  
  And yes, I am very good at Madden and know how to protect the ball, so don't give me that fanboy 
 b. s. about it being my fault or me not being good. That is just childish and foolish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuJuBomb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  For the most part the game looks and sounds like last years version. Which isn't really a bad thing, 
 but would have been nice if they would have improved some of the player animations. They still 
 look very stiff when they move around, and not very life-like. I am mainly speaking of the cutscene 
 animations where the players are returning to the huddle or when they are anouncing the starting 
 lineup. The onfield animation has had a slight tweak to it. The new gang tackling is nice although 
 sometimes looks a little cartoonish. The difficulty of the game has been bumped up with the additions 
 of the lockdown corners, but you can still pick your way through the D once you get your bearings. 
 The best new feature to the game is the new player types. The smart QB is personally my favorite. 
 Nothing like coming down to the end of a close game with your team on their 15 and being able to 
 read what the defense is going to do. The other ones are fun to mess with as well. The big hitter 
 and spectacular catch players are always fun. The franchise mode has been beefed up a little, and 
 is still my favorite part of the game. The move your team feature is a nice little twist. The ringbuilder 
 feature is just kind of eh . All and all. If I had the change to tell EA what to add or change 
 to this game. I would have to tell them to get some damn announcers. The radio guy was an ok hold-over, 
 but come on!! With the ESPN team you could have some great play by play. I would also tell them 
 to get rid of Marshall Faulk as the pre and post game announcer. At least have him sound less like 
 a robot. As far as whether or not you should buy this game? I will tell that I do believe this 
 is the best football game you will find this year. So if you are a football crazed nut like I am.... yes.... buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21kid
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  The last Madden game that I have owned was '93. And even though it has an enormous user base I 
 just can't get into it. And this year is no exception. I still own and play NFL 2K5 on the Xbox 
 and it is still more fun to me than this Next-Gen version of Madden that's had 3 years to be better.
 
  
  Here are my reasons. The fumbles/interceptions are crazy. I've played 4 online games, and not one 
 of them has had less than 6 turnovers. Offline play has averaged 3-4 turnovers per game for me. 
 I can see how this might happen once in awhile, it should not be this high on average.
  Madden has no cheerleaders or people on the sideline to measure 1st down. They don't even have 
 a net for FGs. And every kickoff going into/past the endzone is a little much. The new animations 
 are good, but some are still off. I can't count how many times I've bumped into someone and been 
 tackled as a result. The announcer is boring and forgettable. Create a team, while good in concept 
 is lacking. You can't edit your players (unless in franchise) , and are stuck with some randomly 
 generated people.
  I've had players get injured and not even know it, except that they weren't in the line up anymore 
 and I had to go find out why!!!
  They don't measure on 3rd down if you're close to the 1st down markers. They just tell you... not 
 very exciting.
  
  The play clock changes... after a kickoff you only get 25 seconds to choose a play? Then the next 
 play you get 35, and for field goals you get 45? I don't understand why it should be different?
 
  
  The graphics aren't as good in action as the screenshots I've seen. They look slightly better than 
 2K5, but I was expecting a lot more from a next gen title with 3 years more development time under 
 it's belt. (My TV is HD, BTW)
  
  The one thing I did like was the hit stick, but even that was hard to time right online.
  
 
  Basically, all the things I mentioned were done better 3 years ago on lesser hardware. And that 
 game was only $20. Gee, I wonder why EA was so eager to buy the rights to the NFL license? *sarcasm*
 
  
  If I had never played the previous games, this one might be better, but since I have, I can't see 
 it as a good investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnhardtfan77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  this game was very well done, you can tell ea actually put some time and effort into this game... even 
 though the graphics have not changed that much, by the game running at 60 fps makes it feel like 
 they did... the tackleing in the game is great, great gameplay and animations i would recommend 
 getting this game to anyone who has not gotten it already, the only problem i see is thier are 
 waaaayyyyy to many fumbles, the int. i accept because there are some places you should just not 
 throw the ball... so the fumbles are the only thing that is keeping me from giving this game a 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why 2k fans won't give madden its props. Madden isn't a perfect guys and yes, 
 the game is fast because players are Fast in the nfl. I do agree that the fumbles and the INTs 
 need to be adjusted because it is not realistic. What is up with these people stating that the 
 game is bad because there arent any refs on the field.... these people need to stop checking ed 
 hockilly (spelling?) out and start watching nfl games because if they are paying attention to where 
 the refs are.... there is a problem. I dont like the fact that e. a does not add info into the book 
 so that it forces you to buy the guide. Yes, there arent any refs and yes, there are tons of fumbles 
 and INTs that has you adjusting sliders so that it evens out. Yes, E. A does not have all of the 
 fluff (presentation) than that other game (2k8) has but come on people, this is the best football 
 game out there and if anyone has played football at an high level realizes that this game actually 
 does a great job in capturing the overall feel of the real football. Just for the slow people:
 
  Yes, if you have a decent corner on a great receiver, he should be able to burn him when ever 
 he wants.. happens in real life. There are flaws with this game that makes it very hard to say 
 that this is will be one of the best football games of all time but its close. For 2k fans:
  I have played every 2k game out there since 2k4 and I must admit that you guys have had the best 
 basketball game since 05. You guys made E. A. sweat with your baseball game, who I thought was almost 
 as good as MVP but fell short due to no true minor leagues system (still doesnt) . I dont hear 
 2k fans complaining about how easy it is to hit home runs in 2k7, or how after years pass, any 
 reliever that is listed as RP doesnt show up in your bullpen and will not be used ever if your 
 sim the season. No one was complaining that when simulating in nfl 2k5 for the xbox that there 
 wasnt hardly any scores that was normal like 3 to 10 or 17 to 10, instead, it was 34 to 22 or 
 54 to 42. The average quarterback was averaging 250 yards per game but there was no complaint there. 
 Overall, give a good game its props and stop hating because u guys make the best basketball game 
 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  One of the longest running and most successful video game franchises of all time makes its return 
 here for the 2007-2008 NFL football season. The game needs no introduction, its Madden NFL 08. 
 You know Madden, your friends know Madden, your parents know Madden, even the ninety year old man 
 living across the street knows Madden. The name Madden has become a household name across the country 
 during the past decade, and its not because of the legendary coach and broadcaster John Madden 
 either. Games like this dont become this popular overnight, but after a while Madden was the only 
 game people thought of when discussing football video games. This led to, as the games front cover 
 will tell you, the series becoming the number one selling football franchise of all time. The series 
 rose to its eventual nirvana in 2004, and even bought the NFL license during this time to prevent 
 any form of competition. Since then the series has seen a steady decline in quality, eventually 
 leading them to release quite possibly the worst installment in 2005 on the Xbox 360. Unfamiliarity 
 of the new console was to blame, and to be fair, we can understand. Although a lot of the problems 
 were addressed in the next installment, Madden NFL 07 still failed to deliver what fans of the 
 series had hoped to see again. So after three years of practice on the new hardware, EA Tiburon 
 has finally hit the sweet spot. Madden NFL 08 is most certainly the best football game of this 
 generation, and one of the better ones in EAs long running series.
  
  One of the most immediate things you will notice upon playing your first game is the new player 
 weapon system. This is a way of letting players easily decipher who the playmakers are on the team, 
 as well as which ones are good in certain situations. There are twenty weapons in all, ranging 
 from an accurate quarterback to a press coverage defensive back, and cover all facets of the game. 
 Not all players are a weapon of course, thus giving the honor of being one a pretty big deal. Before 
 the ball is snapped, the weapons on the field are displayed for each team. This is done with an 
 icon that appears under each impact player. By seeing these playmakers before the snap, you are 
 given the chance to adjust your defense or offense to prevent or exploit mismatches. If youre 
 playing defense and see a big weapon on the other teams offense, you might want to set an extra 
 defender to pay a little more attention to that player. Once the ball is snapped however, all of 
 the icons disappear and the play resumes as usual. The individual ratings of each player are what 
 denotes them as weapons or not. If a quarterback has a high rating in throwing power, then they 
 are labeled as a Cannon Arm QB. Every single weapon has its own set of strengths and weaknesses. 
 The aforementioned quarterback skill is very good at launching the deep ball or throwing a bullet 
 pass over the middle before the defenders can react, but on the other hand, the same quarterback 
 may not be able to always put the ball where he wants it to go. Thus resulting in an array of off 
 passes, sometimes sailing over the receivers head or in the arms of a defensive back. The game 
 has information on each and every weapon class, as well as tips on how to counter them while on 
 the field.
  
  The weapons system isnt the only thing new to Madden NFL 08, as the entire interface and menu 
 system have been seemingly hacked and built from the ground up. The first thing you will encounter 
 once the game is up and running is the new showcase feature. This is a 3D environment that displays 
 trophies you earn while playing the game, as well as your ring progress. The rings are basically 
 the new version of the Madden gamer level that was in 07. It works pretty much the same way as 
 the aforementioned system. You earn points after every game that correspond to your performance 
 during that game. Once the game is over you are shown the progress you are making towards your 
 next ring as well as how many trophies you unlocked. There are six rings in all, with the last 
 one resembling a Super Bowl championship ring with your teams logo on it. You can also order any 
 of these rings from Jostens if you are so inclined, but it does get kind of pricey. You can also 
 view replays of any play that occurred during the game, this is a first for any football game. 
 Most of the other new features in this years Madden are things that were new four years ago 
 but have eluded the series ever since it entered the new generation.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Madden has been historically great, but not always the best. Although 
 fun, the series hasnt really been known for the realistic gameplay that we see in other football 
 games. This was especially evident in 2004 when ESPN NFL 2k5 took on Madden NFL 2005. The differences 
 were enormous and most people thought that 2k5 was the superior product. It seemed like EA were 
 ignoring the critics and gamers on this subject for the past few years, until now. Madden NFL 08 
 is quite possibly the most satisfying and enjoyable game of football the series has ever seen, 
 with tons of new animations and player specific play styles. And yes, the long overdue gang tackles 
 are finally here! Even with these improvements however, the gameplay is still not as good as you 
 would have hoped it to be. It still feels more arcadey than the other big football game on the 
 market, All Pro Football 2k8 (could you make that a hyperlink to the review?) , and there are still 
 things they can improve upon for next years release.
  
  Much has been said about the PlayStation 3s version having half the frames that the Xbox 360 version 
 has, and yes you can definitely tell the difference. The 360 version runs at a smooth sixty frames 
 per second, whereas the PS3s game runs at thirty, and sometimes dips below that and chops up a 
 bit. So if you own both consoles and are trying to decide which is the right one to buy, the Xbox 
 360 version is without a doubt the way to go. If you only own a PlayStation 3 however, dont let 
 this prevent you from getting this game because it is still a very fine product.
  
  When EA made it to the next generation, their one goal was to bring the HD experience into all 
 of their sports titles. This somehow effected all of the games features and left many people thinking 
 they spent a little too much time on those high definition graphics. Well now that they have brought 
 back most of the features that made the series so great in the first place, we can finally feel 
 good about the graphics. Madden NFL 08 looks just as sharp as you would expect, and looks stunning 
 on either an HD or SD television. The grass behaves as youd expect it to, and gets messed up from 
 constant play. The same goes for the players jerseys, and they might even get torn after constant 
 bashing. But like all Madden games, this one ultimately looks just like the other current generation 
 games in the series, with some nice improvements of course.
  
  John Madden and Al Michaels do not announce the games like in years past, instead 08 has the same 
 EA radio announcer that has been used in the previous two installments, and does a pretty good 
 job overall. The audio bits are pretty much the same as the last two years, and this can get tiresome 
 after long play sessions. John still shows up when you select ask Madden when picking plays, so 
 hes not completely gone just yet. One thing that is new to the series is Marshalls Minute, which 
 is just a small segment before and after each game where Marshall Faulk tells you his predictions 
 and some other random tidbits that are hardly worth mentioning. Needless to say this is a pretty 
 terrible feature that adds nothing to the game has a whole, except comedy because its so bad. 
 The crowd noise is pretty unpredictable because they dont seem to know which team to root for 
 at times. Sometimes they will even cheer an away teams touchdown, its really puzzling. Like all 
 Madden games there is a wide variety of music to be heard while surfing the menus, almost too wide 
 in fact. Theres even a new Ozzy tune in the mix, its not Crazy Train but its good none the less.
 
  
  The one remarkable thing about this years Madden is its incredible depth in comparison to the 
 previous games in the series. This is the first time this generation that weve seen any kind of 
 owner mode, create-a-team, create-a-stadium, or even mini games. All of these features are a sight 
 for sore eyes, as its been three long years since weve seen them. Like I mentioned before, the 
 rings system is the new Madden Gamer level, so if youre into that kind of thing it will keep you 
 playing for a while. As far as multiplayer goes, its pretty much untouched from last years game. 
 There are still no online leagues or tournaments, so all you can really do are one on one matches. 
 It really is quite puzzling because other football games have had these features for quite some 
 time now. With the multi-player aside however, this is most definitely the deepest game of football 
 on the market today.
  
  With 2Ks return to the football world, EA responds with one of its better efforts in recent memory. 
 Some people might say that 2Ks return is the sole reason, but I think this would have happened 
 eventually. They were close in 2006, and are there now in 2007. This game is perfect for anyone 
 who enjoys the sport of football, as well as people who are new to the game. Its easy for just 
 about anyone to pick up and play, and still stays true to the hardcore Madden gamers out there. 
 Madden NFL 08 brings back everything you remember from the glory days and even adds some new twists 
 here and there. All together this title is the best football game of this year. Its fun to play, 
 great to look at, and it has tons of content for you to enjoy until next year. Madden Nation is 
 still as strong as ever.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  My first impression of Madden 06 was WHOA nice graphics. But that was all there was. Also pretty 
 much the same thing for Madden 07 besides the Superstar mode... After those two Madden games came 
 out that I had gotten I was so upset. I had to settle for the PS2 Madden games of 06 and 07, the 
 old graphics system was getting really old... Madden 2008 offers everything that Madden 2007 for 
 Current Gen offered. Fantasy Drafts, Superstar Mode, Owner Mode... You name it, it's more than 
 likely in the game. The big let down that people complain over is that there are no online tournaments. 
 Another big issue in the game is that people say you fumble a lot, and I agree, but this is due 
 to the new strip ball feature. The counter to that is the cover ball feature which people cry about 
 and probably forget to use. Don't believe when people say this stuff because there is probably 
 an explanation for it. All in all this is a great solid madden game and I am absolutely satisfied 
 with my purchase. Thank you EA for finally bring a true next gen experience to Xbox 360 and PS3. 
 Now if there is 1 thing I do wish, for my fellow PC gamers, is that you Implement the next gen 
 graphics system into the PC version of madden as an optional choice, rather than forcing PC gamers 
 to settle for old current gen graphics. If I were to rate Madden 2008, since it something is not 
 letting me and forcing me to use this stupid automatic slider, my ratings are as followed. Gameplay 
 - 9, Graphics - 10, Sound - 9, Value - 10, Tilt - 9, Overall 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  well ill start this off bye saying that yeah e. a. has touched up the control and dont get me wrong 
 that makes the game far better than what they brought out last year ,bye light years .but they 
 need to touch it up more cuz at times it can be floaty. also can some one plz tell e. a. to turn 
 down the wack azz int's and fumbles ,god this can for sure kill the game its just not real ,also 
 when will they let us tweak the cam the way we want it on the 360 version. also for the 3rd year 
 again where are the refs on the field side line refs, the line of scrim ,field goal nets ,madden 
 and al talking. online leagues. just an few of things that would improve your game e. a. .but in all 
 its an pretty fresh game .ill play it this year .a little bit lol'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Simple, pick-up-and-play controls * Great and improved graphics * Fans and sound are 
 dynamic.
  
  The Bad: Fumbles and interceptions happen way too often * Score-dominated soundtrack * In high-intensity 
 situations, game can skip and commit errors.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Improved over Madden '07's graphics, the game looks ultra-realistic, even without HD, and the graphics 
 barely ever slip up.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Anyone who has ever played a video game knows that Madden is a classically fun game. But with 60 
 fps and pick-up-and-play controls, '08 redefines the Madden experience. However, the game stutters 
 between plays, which could mean that 60 fps may be a little too much for the 360 to handle.
  
  Sound: 9
  The soundtrack is great, but there are way too many orchestral songs. The fans 
 react like any die-hard NFL fan would, and it sounds just like the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing madden for 15 years (yes I am that old) and I consider myself a great player!
 
  
  I played Madden 08 on both systems (rented them) :
  1. Not impressed
  2. NO noticable difference in the fps (slight freezes when you play online for PS3, but not enough 
 to fustrate anyone) 3. The game still sucks and this is why: they put so much ARCADE type stuff 
 n the game you really have to study to win and if you don't you will be destroyed. For instance, 
 the new weapon system. If you are lined up against two shut down corners (greenbay) and I was the 
 bears I could only pass to my TE or a 3rd slot reciever. Then there are so many option that you 
 don't have time to explore them before your play clock runs out. Then hike the ball. If you are 
 a football fan, YOU DONT NEED A WEAPONS SYSTEM TO TELL YOU WHO IS GOOD AT WHAT! You still cant 
 change the camera view and you cant tell your o-line which way to block or how to block. If you 
 are lined up against a great reciever and you are not a great corner you are burned automatically 
 (unless you press L2 see a mismatch icon, all before they hike the ball) . They play calling is 
 simplified which is a plus, but the game doesn't have that madden feel anymore. It feels like gameday 
 mixed with some 2k5. I don't plan on buying it. What happened to good ol grind it out hardnose, 
 playaction pass football? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i expected a good game and I got a great one, i was expecting it 
 to be better then 07 because that was a total letdown and it was a whole lot better then 07 because 
 it has new features like improved graphics, an enhanced franchise and superstar mode, smoother 
 gameplay, the hitstick 2.0 and the all new showcase which allows you to see all the trophies that 
 you have won and the rings you have unlocked. The smoother gameplay is cool because it makes everything 
 look even more realistic, and my favorite feature is the hitstick 2.0 which allows you to control 
 how you want to level your opponent for example if you want to hit his legs you tilt the hitstick 
 down and your player will go for the opponents legs or if you want to hit his upper body you tilt 
 the hitstick upward. The only flaws in this game is that fumbles pop up a little bit to often and 
 the announcer has been saying the same lines since madden 06 but they did add a couple more lines 
 and once you get over those two minor flaws this game feels amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphically this game does not blow me away and I really thought they would improve that with this 
 version. Gameplay- Top Notch. Love it.. no complaints here..
  
  For god sakes can we start getting more realistic. ESPN license. I want to feel like it is a Monday 
 night game, Playoff game, SuperBowl why are we still not there yet.
  
  Some Players still look absurdly big and some look skinnier than there true life players. For example 
 Charlie Frye's arms are bigger than Winslows. Winslow was maybe this size as a college freshman. 
 He does look much like a soldya in this game.
  
  Modes, Very nice. Love the new weapons system. Announcing. Ouch. I must have jumped into my D Lorean 
 and went back to 1995. anyone have any plutonium.
  
  Overall this game performs where it counts. I still feel that EA games kind of look more cartoony 
 than 2K Sports (NBA and MLB) but this game performs well and it actually takes SKILL in this game 
 to win. Fumbles ouch. Well at least it appears this happens fairly equally. Overall I think this 
 is a more polished version of its NCAA brother. I can actually say it is better than the college 
 version this year but this is mostly because NCAA put nothing at all into the presentation aspect. 
 This is a must have for the 360. I have yet to play All Pro as I usually shy away from first year 
 releases on any system but If you had to choose one game between NCAA and Madden I think Madden 
 takes the cake this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CK_1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe how great this game is its amazing. I could play for days if i had time. The the 
 truck stick and the hit stick are just amazing. the tackles are amazing. Best madden of all time. 
 One of the best sport games ever made. They made a 3 little mistakes more then enough fumbles and 
 interceptions and also picking plays is stupid because second player can see what play u r using. 
 Besides that the game is amazing. Its better then the NCAA football games and the all-pro football 
 games. The last couple of years the madden games were boring. Creating people is amazing in this 
 game also creating teams is fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobfitz666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  madden 06 for the 360 was hugely disappointing and not a very fun game. madden 07 got the game 
 alot better than 06, but still it had some problems.
  madden 08 is a great improvement which seems to have combined last gen and next gen games together. 
 for example it is alot harder to just run through 10 players, if lt has 4 guys in front of him 
 this year, one of the four are going to take him down. last year LT would break everyone of their 
 tackles and score a touchdown. the passing game is alot harder, this year you actually have to 
 think when you play opposed to just chucking a bomb down the field to bethal johnson and hell catch 
 it for the fact that he is 97 speed. defense seems to be alot better than year and im happy about 
 that. no more letting wideouts run right between 3 guys and catch it juke and score. if he attempts 
 to catch the ball between 3 guys, you can hit stick him and teach him a lesson to think twice next 
 time. overall madden this does have some problems, but every year so far seems improvement and 
 im more than happy with the outcome this year.
  
  now for all the people who review madden for the sake of making it look awful get a life. you got 
 your football game back and o yeah it was not very good. you think 2k would make a statement to 
 everyone and show that ea ruined a great football game by Acquiring the rights to the nfl. all 
 they had to do is make a great football game that looked great and played great and what they did 
 is release a worse version of 2k5 with slightly passing ps2 graphics. that had enough time to make 
 the game what like 3 years and you people are the ones giving madden s.. t. . hey 2k ruined mvp 
 baseball to which is alot better than 2k baseball and i got over it. so enjoy madden or enjoy all 
 pro football doesnt matter , but dont just review a game you havent play just for the sake of making 
 a game look bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfred19882000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by stating that 08 is much better than 07 but with that being said its not all 
 that great on its own.
  
  Player weapons- This new feature is a good way to separate the boys from the men, but at times 
 it can feel like player weapons are just too dominant at times. Ex. I had three one handed catches 
 for touchdowns with chambers of the dolphins when in reality you might get only 1 one handed catch 
 per week in the regular season.
  
  Gameplay- The passing game is just as solid as last year with excellent controls, the only problem 
 is the defense has become super human. Don't get me wrong im not saying it is impossible to pass 
 but expect to throw atleast two interceptions, this does not help madden. Still Certain plays like 
 the screen pass still dont work effectivly.
  
  The running in a way has dumbed down some because unless you are playing a god awful team don't 
 expect any big gains when running the ball, also fumbles happen almost every quarter, sometimes 
 there will be two or three fumbles on the same player which kinds of put a damper on the whole 
 authentic football experience.
  
  On the defensive side of the ball EA has added a bunch of pre-snap assignments, such as spotlighting 
 a receiver and making your corners play certain routes like hook routes. The only problem with 
 this is that by the time you evaluate what the offense is doing the ball is being snapped.
  
  Game Modes
  -Superstar mode is basically the same as last year except for two big things 
 that make this the best superstar mode yet, way better camera views and super Sim. The camera views 
 from every position has been pulled back so that you get the best possible view from what that 
 person might see. Super Sim is a new feature which basically Sims the game in seconds while your 
 player is not in the game which is good because superstar mode is meant to be a 20 to 30 minute 
 thing.
  
  -Franchise mode/Finance mode plain and simple is where you will get you moneys worth. There is 
 so much to be done in depth scouting, relocating your team, organizing the whole teams finances, 
 etc. If you can think of it, chances are you probably can do it in this mode.
  
  -Online mode is exactly the same as last year with no major additions
  
  When it is all said 
 and done Madden 08 is better than last year but that does not make it champion. Madden is a football 
 game so when there is large number of interceptions, fumbles and injuries to go along with super-human 
 defenses hurts the game even more that the non-branching animations of last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurf5200
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is broken, just too many turnover and fumbles per games. I had 4 fumbles in just one 
 quarter, it seems the only way to win is let the defense cpu make cheesy interceptions and take 
 it from there, when the cpu make its mind of what team is gonna win it will do everyting it can 
 to make that team win, which is totaly fustrating, common EA pick up an old copy of nfl 2k5 and 
 take some pointers on how really good and fun football games are really like, and u better hurry, 
 cause your contract is almost up. Step up your game before you end up like your nba basketball 
 franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beast383
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt, the BEST MADDEN EVER!! I just rented it yesterday and I am already 
 saying that this is the best game in all of the Madden games to ever come out. The graphics are 
 unbelievable, the gameplay is spectacular, and the commentary is still pretty freakin good even 
 though you dont have Madden commentating. I have been waiting for this game for so long and it 
 is totally worth the wait. Everything is this game is outstanding. Even the difficulty is outstanding 
 on this game. The people who made this game made it so real. So whoever does not have this game 
 now and is trying to wait for opinions, I AM TELLING YOU, GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET 
 IT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny that you pay 
 its so worth getting in the series you know what i mean you can just fall in love with this game 
 you know what i mean superb soundtrack great songs its the mest madden game in years and also the 
 best madden game ever well every year make madden game is the best buy the game right away you 
 will like it in the series in sure you will so yup best game so far yup best game that ive bought 
 in a whale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  To put it very simply, this is THE best madden i've ever played. The hits in this game are really 
 what make it. Some pre-snap controls have changed. Other than that not a lot of changes, but its 
 a lot more crisp on control and kind of give a feel from the 2k football games of old, though it 
 feels more fluent of course. The gamer score is shown at the end of the games, which is another 
 nice feature as well as the ring building and what not. None of that really interests me, it comes 
 down to gameplay overall to decide if a game is good or not, and Madden 08 has taken huge strides 
 compared to last years game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyjb00777
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Madden is a solid Football game, made for true football gamers. I own both APF 2k8 and Madden 08. 
 I have always been faithful to 2k sports. Thats why I hate to say it, but madden is far better 
 than 2k8. Madden 08 has come a long way. Madden 07 was horrible, this game truly made up for it. 
 EA still has a few things to fix. The commentator is horrible. ITs like driving a Bentley with 
 an a track player. The players models still look a bit out dated. Im still yet to see a true 
 next gen football game. Its happen with all other sport games, just not football. The field could 
 also look better. Add the fact that youll fumble the ball 3-4 times a game. The critics for both 
 gamespot and IGN gave this game an extremely favorable rating. At most this game should be rated 
 an 8.2. All in all its a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is simply the best Madden football game released. I don't think it's just the best next-gen 
 Madden, which is a huge understatement, but even better than all of it's previous iterations. The 
 franchise mode is deep, the gameplay is tight and the graphics, including the new animations, are 
 gorgeous.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  I'm playing this game on a 1080P Samsung DLP and this game is the reason HD was invented. Player 
 and coaches faces are realistic, the stadiums are real and the branching animations look fantastic 
 at 60FPS.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  I've heard a lot of complaints about the fumbles and interceptions. Through four preseason games 
 I've only bee frustrated with fumbles once. This game really plays like a real NFL game where you 
 can't mash the spin button or the sprint button. It will punish you. The pre-play controls are 
 great and deeper than ever.
  
  Others: I really would like them to get rid of the radio announcer. That thing is just plain annoying. 
 Some cheerleaders and refs on the field would be nice and I'd like them to broaden the franchise 
 mode some more. All in all a stellar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elithesp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  Seriously, ESPN 2k5 was years ahead of it's time. With 08, Madden finally made a game that looks 
 realistic. Players actually resemble their real life counterparts, not just in face but structure 
 as well. This was a big sore spot last year. A lot of attention has been given to the animations, 
 and it's deserving. Tackles are fun to watch. Also, in previous years there were too many big hits. 
 Because the big hits were so prevalent, it really never stood out when you used the hit stick. 
 With the new animations, the tackling is more realistic. Now you actually see mostly tackles, and 
 a few jarring hits here and there. (Not to mention gang tackles. By the way, branching animations 
 + gang tackles = unlimited possibilities)
  
  Gameplay is spot on. It's been refined and refined, and really feels solid this year. Also, it's 
 much much much deeper. I've barely scratched the surface and I'm not sure if my simple mind can 
 handle any more. I'm happy getting by this way, but for those of you that need to break every play 
 down and do every single pre-snap procedure, go right ahead, you have the ability.
  
  The weapons system is pretty cool, but I'm still trying to figure it out. You can advance your 
 players' weapons by training them between games which makes for a nice change of pace from all 
 the games. On xbox live, I love the connection with espn. in addition to the news ticker at the 
 bottom, you also get radio sportscenter reports every few minutes while you're in the menu screen. 
 Badass. They definitely goofed on not going deep enough in online leagues though. There are some 
 cool features online, but seriously, they're just trinkets. We want leagues. Now my gripes. The 
 interface!!! Many people would say game presentation... I can deal with the presentational shortcomings 
 because the new features and refinements really make the gameplay solid (this is why year in year 
 out I ALWAYS go with winning eleven/pro evolution soccer instead of FIFA) . However, with Madden, 
 the actual gameplay is 50% of the game. There's so much to do between seasons and games that you 
 spend a lot of time on the menu screens using the interface. Last year it blew, this year it's 
 the same but there's so much more to do that it feels even more cumbersome. It's slow, at times 
 confusing, not aesthetically pleasing. It needs work but i'm sure an interface overhaul is pretty 
 difficult. What's good is that I doubt there's much work they need to do to fix gameplay for next 
 year's game so they can focus their time on the menus.
  
  Other gripes: Alright EA. You're with ESPN/ABC. John Madden is not. I know it's going to break 
 hearts, but you need to drop Madden from the name of the game. We don't care if he's in the game. 
 In fact we don't like him. Once you drop his name it'll make it sensible to finally have an actually 
 commentary crew calling the game. I thought the silly radio thing was a one time gig last year 
 because last year's game was sort of a between year. Please get the monday night crew or even anyone 
 on espn. Otherwise... I haven't played in the superbowl, but I've already been told it's nothing 
 special. somebody needs to do something creative with the superbowl game. I don't even care to 
 play it because it doesn't matter if you win or lose. You work all season to develop everyone so 
 you can make it there. Making it there is the reward for all the time and hard work. There isn't 
 any reward for winning the game. Please, someone get the hint!
  
  All in all, the flaws are all cosmetic. This game is rock solid. All gameplay mechanics have been 
 refined and all graphical elements have been overhauled. It runs smooth, great gameplay, graphics, 
 animation, challenge, features. Go out and get it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewart24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Last year I wrote a massive review and well Im not going to do that this year. First off the game 
 play is great, yes there still work that could be done yet whats in this years game it should tie 
 you over till next year any way. There are some nice catch/tackling animations and the game plays 
 a lot like the real thing (mostly) . You can even lateral this year, it seems weird for that to 
 be in Madden but heck I will take that addition any day. Special teams could use some work but 
 for the most part its fine. Franchise mode is almost back to what it was on past gen but it needs 
 to crank it up a bit if it want to be better. Graphics are same as last years mostly but I already 
 think they look good. If you like football this is a must, if you own last years game and were 
 disappointed this game is a must, and if you dont like madden well then at least play one game 
 because EA really has made game play there number one priority this year and it pays off. Madden 
 08 is the real deal (finally no more fake hype) but next years game should be the one that gets 
 the oh my they cant get much better then this reaction, as this years version I will say oh my 
 Im afraid to see what will come next year until then I will play a mostly solid game of football. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trumpwnb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!! Anyone who gave this game a bad score is stuck on the 2K nipple. The controls 
 are better than ever and the player's movements and reactions are superb. No longer are you stuck 
 just replaying the last play, now you can replay all the key plays in your last drive. Then you 
 can give yourself a series of half-time highlights. You can group your play calls by type ( such 
 as short pass, quick passes etc) instead of by formation if you choose. I've heard people moaning 
 about the announcer being boring. Give me a break!! I don't care about the announcer in a video 
 game any more than I do watching a game on TV. If you like Madden you will love this game. If you 
 don't like Madden, well, go play Final Fantasy or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best madden game. although it is my first for the 360 (i had 06 and 07 for 
 xbox) , i can tell it was probably the best. the superstar camera has improved a lot. the weapons 
 systems works real well, the ring builder is a good way to keep you playing the game for a while. 
 ive only played 2 online games, and so far there is very little lag. the frame rate is great. its 
 cool that you can do superstar with this years draft class and you can still import from ncaa football 
 08 and create a player. the gameplay and the game itself is very realistic. in franchise its deep 
 and its cool how you can switch your team to a different city. the mini games are really fun as 
 well
  
  problems: there are no ref's on the field. thats a little weird. there arent any like trick plays 
 for kick returns and punt returns. the players on the sidelines are really strange, they look like 
 the players from madden 2001. but thats really not a big deal. even though i just got this game 
 2 days ago ,8/14/07, the pre-game with the players is pretty good but not enough. and the superbowl 
 should be really good but its not. its lacking the celebration at the end too. the fumbles are 
 crazy, less than ncaa 08 but still a lot.
  
  this game is a must have for anybody who plays 360 and there are little glitches here and there 
 but this game is great. it is not a waste of 60 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supradragon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It is sad that this new game still lacks the features and polish of the older PS2 versions. Graphics 
 are nice, but having a well rounded football sim that is fun far outweighs any graphical achievement. 
 You can't change camera angles in-game (maybe at all) and what is the deal with the boring announcer? 
 How tacky is it to be playing a multi-player game and be able to see every play your opponent is 
 picking and vice-versa??? The game has already froze on me during loading 3 times and I can't recall 
 that happening to me in the countless seasons of Madden's past. I'm a franchise player with buddies 
 and it would have been great to have the ability to carry on a franchise on-line but no such luck. 
 I thought that last years 360 Madden was terrible and had hope that this one would work out the 
 bugs, but the guys at EA figure they'll just roll out the same garbage and the Madden adoring public 
 will buy it up. I wouldn't mind buying the same thing if it had all of the bells and whistles of 
 a say Madden '05 or '06 but it doesn't and I don't see myself finishing even one season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoonToBeT2k7
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 8/10
  
  The graphics IMO are pretty good. A little too shiny, but the player models are a lot closer to 
 real life.
  
  Sound - 1/10
  
  The sound in this year's Madden is the worst of any football game I have ever played. Pat Summeral 
 did a better job than this radio freak. Bring a duo tandem of announcers who have a normal pulse.
 
  
  Gameplay - 6/10
  
  Okay. The big part. The gameplay. Madden's gameplay is improved from last year in some areas but 
 worse in some other areas. For example, the speed. The speed of this game is way too fast and the 
 lack of a pocket for the QB to pass in is completely unrealistic. APF 2k8 may be weaker in graphics, 
 but the game does deliver in terms of on-field gameplay. There is no pocket, WAY too many INT's 
 and fumbles (hopefully this can be patched) . The run game needs some work because quite frankly 
 it is way too unpredictable. Any back in this game turns into LT when they hit the hole, you can 
 break 50 tackles now, and I played my first game with the Steelers and ran over 3 guys with Willie 
 Parker who is small and fast. Not exactly Jerome Bettis. Some of the positives of this game's gameplay 
 is that it does run at a constant 60 fps on field, but sometimes it hiccups in transition (not 
 a big deal) .
  
  Presentation - 0/10
  
  Worst presentation ever. EA has now entered an all-time low. No on field refs, no field goal nets, 
 no real half-time show, no post-game show, no weekly wrap-up, no in game announcers, no visual 
 announcer, barely any cut-scenes, and practically no stat overlays. EA needs to study some film 
 of NFL 2k5, MLB 2k7, and NBA 2k7.
  
  In conclusion, Madden is not god-awful as it was last year, the lack of presentation and audio 
 kills the fun and momentum of a real NFL game. If they can find a way to fix the turnovers, then 
 the game may be worth $40 otherwise, your pretty much looking at an improved framerate, useless 
 weapon system (very poorly implemented) , and Marshall Faulk's 3 second preview (which predicts 
 so randomly : ie.) Pats 3 ; Ravens 35 was one) .
  
  Keep your 60 and pick it up for 39.99 sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cukoo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I like the game but it's not as fun as NFL 2K5 or Madden 05 for the original XBOX. Those games 
 were better in terms of gameplay and excitement. The review score says it all. When this series 
 scores as well as the original XBOX football games then it'll be an instant classic. It's going 
 to be hard to match or top NFL 2K5 or even NfL 2K2 for the Dreamcast. Good luck XBOX 360 owners. 
 I'm waiting for the PS 3 to go down in price so I can buy one of those. I think that system is 
 going to be better than the 360 in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey_stud_joe
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Madden on the 360, and I've gotta say I was a little let down. I didn't go for 
 the 360 version last year because it didn't stack up to the PS2 version in the features department, 
 but this year's edition seems to have, at the very least, closed the gap. The first thing I noticed 
 is that the gameplay is a lot more fast-paced, and that the defense seems to have been built up 
 even stronger than over the past few years, where that has become the main focus. Also the tackling 
 animations are a lot more varied, and the presentation is a lot more enjoyable, with interesting 
 pans from the stands, and a good variety of play celebrations, not to mention the removal of Madden's 
 play by play in favor of the ESPN radio commentary. Now, the radio commentary isn't greay by any 
 means, but anything beats listening to Madden's annoying voice for hours on end. The main complaints 
 have, with my limited several-hour experience playing the game, are as follows: The front office 
 navigation in Franchise mode is not as user friendly as past years. Making trades is time consuming, 
 since you have to pretty much start over if you remove any of the players from the trade. The scouting 
 process is far too time consuming. Free agent signing seems incomplete, because when you enter 
 a player data screen and view their interests, the bars representing their interest in your team 
 always seem to be empty. I haven't done extensive research on this, but having been on a successful, 
 talented team, and to have the players who are interested in joining such a team still have those 
 interest bars empty, left me wondering.
  
  The create-a-superstar drills are much harder than they should be. Either that, or I'm losing my 
 gamer's touch at my ripe old age of 23. The ring-building points / trophies systems aren't explained 
 very well at all. It gives the impression of gaining some kind of experience, like in a role playing 
 game, but there's not a whole lot of mention as to what having more points/trophies does for you 
 in the long run. Fumblitis! I've played one game in the rain, and my team fumbled 8 times. This 
 seemed a little excessive. Could've just been a fluke, but it started getting to me when I fumbled 
 on nearly every drive in the game. All in all, it's pretty fun. But certain aspects can be frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsgamer2411
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  first off the gameplay in my eyes is still very choppy. so many fumbles and interceptions its not 
 even funny. the graphics arent bad and superstar mode is really fun. but the players still run 
 really weird. the weopon system is preety good but they just took tht from all pro football and 
 they also take the create a team and build there stadium from all pro football. im not a 2k fanboy 
 but the gameplay in all pro is way better then maddens. but if u like a game with crappy gameplay 
 and terriable animations with lots of features this is ur game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I, like many of you, were upset when EA bought the rights to the NFL franchise. I always thought 
 competition makes people strive to be better. I felt that over the last 2 years EA did little to 
 make their Madden game better because they had the market locked. This year made me feel different. 
 They made some great changes and made Madden almost as enjoyable as it was before the next gen 
 systems arrived.
  The little changes made this years game much more entertaining and gave the franchise a much needed 
 jump-start. Features like player weapons, fantasy draft and the ring modes all are welcome additions 
 to Madden 08'.
  Graphically it looks good. The player intros are fun to watch and show you what your weapons are. 
 Gameplay wise they made the motions look a little more realistic. The running back motions and 
 the fantastic catches look life-like.
  Musically the game offers a great soundtrack. Artists like the Used and Yellowcard make selecting 
 your team all that much more enjoyable. Madden also throws in his traditional advice that makes 
 most football enthusiasts say No crap Madden . Overall I was impressed with this game. After all 
 of the hype I have been dissapointed and was gearing up for another dissapointing Madden holiday. 
 I recommend this to any football fan or anyone who enjoys fun and challenging sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Let's just get straight to it, Madden 08 is a great football game. But by no means is it flawless. 
 But Madden 08 is still a fun game and if your an NFL fan of any sort, whether u just like watching 
 it, or ur a bandwagon fan, or if u would trade in your girlfriend for an autographed football by 
 Peyton Manning, your going to get this game, and you will probably have a lot of fun with it. Many 
 features were of the old current gen Madden have been brought back, like create a player, create 
 a team, owner mode, fully editable rosters and player equipment, with the exception of changing 
 a players position, and even Fantasy draft. this should plz long time madden gamers and it should 
 encourage you to even get this game. they still include mini games, improved superstar mode, online 
 (still pretty much the same as last year, with the integrated ESPN ticker and radio) franchise 
 mode is also much better and the rating system glitches have been fixed.
  
  Graphics do look pretty good, but it's not much better than last year. it does have an extra coat 
 of pain to make the players look better but other than that, the stadium, crowd, and sidelines 
 pretty much look the same. well the sideline looks pretty crappy . i would say no football game 
 this year has used up the full power of the next gen systems and this is just a half way point 
 before we see true next gen graphics for a football game. in my opinion, better graphics will result 
 in better gameplay. but this year, the slightly improved graphics really didn't have much to do 
 with the improved gameplay. stadiums look good, indoors and outdoors, but the rain looks choppy, 
 some parts of the field aren't even being rained on and i have yet to play in the snow, so i cant 
 comment on that. As far as presenation goes, its below average, and for the most exciting sport 
 in the USA, the most watched sport, the sport with a lot of things going off the actual field and 
 on the field, this game doesn't deliver well there. there are no refs or cheerleaders, or field 
 goal nets (just an imaginary one) no camera guys on the sideline, players sitting on the bench 
 or have their helmets off and cheering and booing whenever the moment is right. there is no halftime 
 show or pregame show. outside the actual game, there is a presentation video when u load up the 
 game, there is marshaul's minute which pretty much blows, and the music is okay, but not as good 
 as year's past. they do still have sam spence's music in the game.
  
  Gameplay in this game is a marked improvement over the previous 2 next gen maddens. you got brand 
 new gangtackling, sideline catches, improved passing animations, players slipping on the ground, 
 improved AI (smarter, for the good and the bad, ill get to that in just a sec) better catching 
 animations, and bigger and badder hits with the hit stick, where u if you flip the hitstick down, 
 u'll go for below the knees, and if u hit it up you'll go for a big time high hit above the waste. 
 gang tackles in this game are pretty good, but there doesn't seem to be enough animation as far 
 as gang tackling goes. the ones included in the game or good, but i feel they need more animations. 
 sure different defenders can come in and join the tackle but sometimes when that happens, it makes 
 the guy currently tackling the ball carrier bounce off and it looks unrealistic in that sense. 
 and the game does still have defenders sometimes not tackling the ball carrier (just going and 
 bouncing off the ballcarrier or running right by) which is also a bummer. there are also mid air 
 collisions and that is a plus. they look really good but sometimes they look a bit unrealistic 
 in the sense that they just just fall straight down and it looks like it was fast forwarded in 
 some mid air collisions. the running gameplay is really good, u can jump over the goalline, there 
 are numerous maneuvers with the highlight stick and improved stiff arms and also if u are stuck 
 behind the o-line, dont worry cuz ur ball carrier will push the o-line while he is behind them. 
 it is pretty kool. one flaw tho is that sometimes when ur juking out some defenders, it looks like 
 ur RB is ice skating across the the field and that kinda makes u go like, well that was weird . 
 somethings that you may not like gameplay wise are the numerous amounts of turnovers. EA has made 
 it so they pretty much require you to cover up the ball while running (pressing RB) but even then 
 you can still fumble. id say the amount of fumbles in a game between you and the CPU is about 6-7. 
 thats a lot. unreal. and as far as interceptions ago, there are also a lot. mainly because of the 
 improved defensive AI and their ability to catch the football even if u turn down INT's to 0. the 
 cpu defenders to interfere in ur route patterns and step in front of ur WR to intercept even in 
 the most unreal situations such as curl patterns or if the Corneback is running behind the WR. 
 they still make superhuman moves to get in front of ur WR and make the pick. this can frustrate 
 many players and result in many int's no matter who the QB is. this is more prone to lower rated 
 QB's mainly because they are lower rated. not because of the accuracy of the throw. also, for kicking, 
 kicking and punting in the game feels too easy, they got the same meter from last year and it just 
 seems to easy. this is where sliders play a role. as for the sound, it is really good and they 
 definetely help make the game feel more realistic, with the trash talking and big hits and players 
 running. the radio announcer is still in this and he still is exactly the same, he plain sucks 
 annd there is no excuse not to get the monday night football crew in the game with the ESPN license. 
 you will tho hear the same menu music in the background of the games in the stadium. overall, it's 
 a really good game and i suggest buying this for just about any football gamer. it's much more 
 complex than previous madden which will definetely confuse new gamers, but it isn't completely 
 unaccessible. game improved a ton over last year (tho i gave last year a high rating cuz i rated 
 it too early) and we can expect an even bigger jump as far as gameplay goes, for madden 09. have 
 fun everyone, and god bless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stim29
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Ok I gave it a week to make honest judgement on this game and I'm still not that happy with Madden 
 08. The graphics &amp; animation are nice and much improved. But the controller settings and terrible. 
 Now you have to hold 2 buttons down to cycle thru the players, hold 2 buttons down to change the 
 players assignments, and if you change the controller button settings the overlay doesn't show 
 before the play anymore, which must be a glitch. Over the years they have added new features which 
 really doesn't improve the game. It just makes the game more complicated to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpass10988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This years madden truly impressed me. I was expecting them to just tack on the features that were 
 not in 07 and send it out. The graphics look fantastic. I know the sidelines seem like they were 
 forgotten. The coach looks great but his players behind him look like **** Also no real interaction. 
 But the glitches and ways players move have been greatly improved. The franchise is still a good 
 mode. But mostly thank god they changed that horrible Superstar mode. New camera is much better 
 and the super sim is a big help. The playcalling is ok though. Its hard to find the perfect play. 
 You have to be very quick through the screens. The audibles, hot routes, are all great including 
 the new weapons. You definately realize that weapon is there, Running against a team will 3 brick 
 walls and a hard hitter is a pain. But you have a speed reciever and a power arm you dominate. 
 Truly creates how true football games are dtermined. Not by who has better players but the combination 
 of different players performing well at different things. Big thumbs up. EA my tip for 09. Same 
 stuff just up the presentation. Big time. Sorry marshall you're a horrible voice actor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splavish
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is far and foremost anticipated by many true sports gamers and as I have played it. It 
 is no longer a guilty pleasure. It is more of a saddened await. When asking players to come back 
 year after year, the expectation is always more, especially when the prices don't get any lower 
 then my expectation should not be lower. The game play is good as usual, but the graphics are the 
 same. It does not feel like a new game. To shell out $60.00 over and over, there should be a more 
 expectation. Online has hit fast and the popularity of it is exhaulted, but it has no new taste. 
 It taste the same as the last three years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazdirector
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me begin by saying, I am a diehard football fan. I love for August, I read all 
 the training camp breakdowns, I'm in a half-dozen fantasy leagues. From August through January, 
 I live, breath, and eat football. The other months of the year are spent preparing/talking about 
 the upcoming season.
  
  Let me also say that I've enjoyed the Madden series in the past. Though I've long felt that the 
 2K series was a better overall game (and entirely more realistic) , I've enjoyed the hard-hitting, 
 stereo-pumping, mini-game pushin' Madden series. I've owned just about every Madden game on most 
 consoles and, despite the fact that most years are simply re-fitted roster upgrades with a dozen 
 new animations, I plunk down the $50 to play the latest edition.
  
  Unfortunately... I just can't seem to find a way to enjoy this year's Madden. Despite the new branching 
 animations, weapon-system and roster updates (can't forget that) , the game has only added a level 
 of frustration and mislabeled it as challenging . Increasing fumble chances by 50% isn't more challenging, 
 it's frustrating. For example, in three games last night (8 minute quarters, All-Pro default settings) , 
 both teams amounted an averaged of six fumbles game. Even more frustrating was that a third of 
 those fumbles were not actual fumbles... they were miscalled on the field, forcing the player to 
 use (a now costly) challenge in order to keep possession. Again, this is not challenging... this 
 is frustrating.
  
  There's been a lot of talk about improved DB coverage. Well, in the three games last night, both 
 teams amounted over 350 yards of passing (remember, eight minute quarters, All-Pro settings) . Even 
 worse, 70% of those yards came from the good 'ole Madden QB style of dropping back 10 yards and 
 throwing a 50 yard pass to your highest rated WR. 50% of the time, they reel in the pass regardless 
 of coverage.
  
  With all of the animation improvements (and those sideline catches do look nice) , why not fix some 
 of the issues that have plagued Madden games for years such as:
  - The ping-pong deflection where a batted football between two defenders and a receiver bounces 
 off each player multiple times creating a hot-potato like appearance. - Is it too much to ask for 
 a QB to lead a receiver on a deep pattern? 2K got it right... if you throw a 30 yard fade, a properly 
 thrown pass goes OVER the WR's shoulders for a basket like catch. In Madden, deep passes almost 
 always result in a jump ball.
  - Once again, a heavy blitz-defense with press coverage is still the most effective. QBs are once 
 again WAY too slow to release the ball on quick release passes.
  - Why, oh why, do you have the pitch buttons linked to the speed burst button. On top of the half-dozen 
 fumbles added to the existing game, I continued to accidentally pitch the ball when I taped the 
 left-trigger while holding down the speed burst (right trigger) . Really? How many pitches are there 
 in an average NFL game? Shouldn't there be an option to turn it off in the controls (hell, it's 
 not even noted in the control scheme) .
  
  All of these issues above continue to degrade the Madden series to a glorified arcade game. Though 
 that may appeal to some, I think the majority of Madden players want to mimic real-like game situations. 
 However, when you're best (and now safest playcall thanks to the fumble-bug) is a deep pass and 
 a ten yard drop, the fun just gets sacked.
  
  Despite the few improvements, Madden 2008 takes one step forward and two steps back in my book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 327jes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is a brief commentary for all of those 2K fanboys (like me) that have, since playing 2K Football 
 on the Dreamcast, vowed never... never... never to play another rendition of Madden. My dear friends 
 it is now ok to put down 2K5 and play some Madden. After a disappointing release by 2K (legends... all 
 pro.... whatever that goofy game is called) , I was looking and itching to play some real football 
 and went to the local EB and bought a copy. I wore a hooded sweatshirt and sunglasses as to ease 
 the my sense of betrayal and demise. But... when I put the game in and played it... I actually liked 
 it!! It was fun, the graphics look... good, and I stayed up all night playing. Hmmmmm I never thought 
 I would be able to say it, but the game is good and I'm happy I purchased it. Empire or Republic... I'm 
 joining forces with whatever EA wants to call itself these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is crazy fun. It is realistic, and has alot of great additons that make it one of the 
 most fun games ever. Other than the outstanding and perfect Madden gameplay, it has surperb graphics, 
 great sound, and is the definitive football game. If you want a true videogame football experience, 
 buy this game. It has a new feature that shows what players are good at what. For instance, a good 
 QB will have a circle under him showing a bullet, which means he can throw really fast. It's a 
 neat feature that might look a but goofy at first, but is really cool if you get into it. Creating 
 your own team is cool too, because making the stadium is fun. So, if want want a great game, but 
 this. You won't be dissapionted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series from what i have heard and i tend to know why after playing 
 5 maches in 1 days.
  
  This game introduces the new weapon system which allows you to pick more defensive tactics and 
 just start slamming into guys and get more accurtate kicks or longer throws. What i enjoyed about 
 this game was the characters and how everything fit togeather pretty well the modes all fit in 
 and the new ring idea makes you want to play longer to get more acheivements and trophies and some 
 new players.
  
  Although the ps3 version runs slower then this version you should proboaly pick up a copy for the 
 Xbox360 Madden will always be made for the Xbox360 and thats where it will stay.
  
  If you like madden or just plain old football and you havent been using your Xbox 360 because the 
 sudden urge to get about 20 new games that you want coming out this month you should definetly 
 rent this game first and see how you go from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  To tell you the truth I wasnt very excited about getting this game. I actually didnt plan on buying 
 this game until later. But all my friends kept telling me it was the best Madden since 2004. Well 
 I bought it played it and yelled at it. To sum this game up I have to say its basically NCAA 08 
 but in a prettier package. The animations are nice and the dont over exaggerate like they do in 
 NCAA 08. So EA says they have made the AI better. Well yes they have. Unfortunately they cant do 
 the same for your CPU controlled players. The CPU Opponent can make some unbelievable plays that 
 your CPU AI cannot. I have almost lost all hope for a good football game. EA Sports has ruined 
 all that was good for me. I hope that one day someone can buy out EA. Then we have a chance of 
 getting to play a good football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakessnake44
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Out of all the madden games i have played, this one by far is the best. With improved graphics, 
 and better controls it is leaps and bounds better than the previous 360 versions of the game. This 
 game gives new meaning to the word fun. Now as far as the ps2 version im sure its still one of 
 the better ones out there, but even though this game is much harder to learn it is the biggest 
 advancement in the series. My regonmendation is that you go out and buy this game. It will be the 
 best money you will spend all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is a very early opinion and may change in the future.
  Madden 08 is an over all decent game. Clearly bounds better than year's past. The graphics are 
 pretty tight (especially the facial features of the player models) , and the new features such as 
 WEAPONS and improved HIT STICK are definitely, strong points for the game. Some low keys for 08 
 are that the cut scenes can be repetitive and dull at times, the bland color commentating kinda 
 gets on your nerves, and last (THE KILLER) there are FAR TOO MANY FUMBLES IN THIS GAME (even when 
 protecting the ball) !!! The latter is what keeps this from being a truly awesome game.
  Unlike the soft Madden games of old, this one may take a little time to master all the between 
 play options. As soon as one can grasp the ability to play using the new features unconsciously, 
 one just may win the MADDENBOWL!
  EA, clean up some of the turnovers and you just might get Game of the Year .
  
  -GOP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayz96
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is my first game review ever so I'm going to be frank and give reason behind why I gave each 
 attribute its score and personal feelings.
  
  Difficulty: Hard Why: Because even if you have played madden 2007 year around this one is still 
 difficulty to master because of the new weapons and animations.
  
  Learning Curve: 1-2 hours Why? Because most people that play Madden have played them every year 
 and they just need to get the groove of the new and for me it took a hour and a half.
  
  Time Spent PTD: Probably Ten Hours in total since the release date
  
  I will get to Classification 
 at the end.
  
  Now Attributes
  
  Gameplay:9 Why? I probably have underrated the gameplay to tell the truth. Its not a ten but it 
 is at least a 9.5 but you know gamespots scoring system. But it get a 9 when compared to all the 
 other maddden in the controls and all. The controls on this game are probably better than any other 
 game i have played, Very responsive. The weapon add a whole new depth of gameplay making it feel 
 like a real dream match when you put Chad Johnson up Against Champ Bailey. In the other sense of 
 gameplay if you don't cut the weapons on the game still feels different than anyone before it. 
 It plays really smooth making it feel and look like a real football game.
  
  Graphics: 10 Why? T date this is the best looking football game I have ever played not to mention 
 the graphics and texture rivial that of Gears of War and Oblivion. Enough Said.
  
  Sound: 8 Why? Would of been a 6 but after putting it online and looking at the nfl text and video 
 news, not to mention I can look up any sport in the world and read of look at outcome on thats 
 a 10 in its self. But the commentary has not changed to take and give a few points and you get 
 a 8
  
  Value: 10 Why? Once again the main people who play madden are football fans so to us this game 
 will be played at least one time a week the whole year.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 9 Why? The don't have a 9.5.
  So in all This games gets a very underappreciated 
 9.2 Underappreciated because the gamespot forums are being blasted by 2k fansboy who hate madden 
 and want the scores to suffer. Not to mention they takling the trash on the forums because madden 
 fan boys are not really there to defend themselves until now. The king of the chaing Gang is here 
 and the madden fanboys will unite to the internet once they here about and read this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  MrBnuts back off Gamspot parole with another review. Apparently my Guitar Hero review was a bit 
 to edgy  sorry it wont happen again. So here we go the new So Fresh &amp; So Clean Madden 2008 
 review! LETS GET IT ON!!!!!! Let me start off with abbreviated review. NextGen Footballin is Finally 
 here fellas! Before I get into my review of the actual game let me take a moment to touch on the 
 Madden experience. Only the realest, harcoreest, gangstaest ballers will venture onto the midnight 
 pickupline at the Gramercy NYC videogame store. I sent the wife to reserve my second copy around 
 5pm, then around midnight I hit the streets to wait on line a half hour with the fiends of the 
 video game world  madden headz. Enough with the jokes - Madden 08 is all about strategy. This 
 game is for experts only. You really have to know football to compete in this years release or 
 you will get killed. The computer AI seems to pick up the run really well, so unless you can read 
 blocks or run playaction on regs, dont plan on running much. One thing I found cool is that if 
 you have a star run blocking lineman and you run behind him, you can get consistent yardage. Also, 
 you must change it up  run inside and outside. My biggest beef with running is the fumbling. You 
 will hear this from many. I cant believe EA released with this big a glitch. I would be interested 
 to hear their argument about how this adds to the realism of the simulation. Passing has a new 
 dimension as well. If you are using a good receiver you can now hold down the Y button and increase 
 your chances of a catch. Super Stars like Plaxico will jump over people and make amazing catches. 
 I am still learning how to throw like a Pro. Certainly you need to make a pre-snap read of the 
 D, but there has to be a way to balance picking up the blitz and looking for receivers who have 
 beat their defender. I threw 8 picks with Lienart in one game!!!! Eli is always getting sacked. 
 Maybe my troubles go to the O-line of those two teams. I was constantly under pressure. Eli got 
 sacked 9 times!
  
  More beefs - The sounds / announcing sucks. Also, I do not see the hyped up fantasy challenge mode, 
 where you can draft your team like a fantasy team.
  
  All in all this game is legit. But even on PRO level there is a steep, steep learning curve. IF 
 you dont understand the game of football and how to exploit mismatches you will not have fun in 
 Madden 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I must say that anything is better than that crap EA put out two years ago with 06, 07 was an imorovement 
 somewhat from that, but 08 is the onyl gamne where it looks like there actually starting to make 
 an effort to fix what wrong with it. The little things are still missing, like refs on the field 
 and so on, and the big things as well, as presentation and actual tv announcers. I dont see what 
 they like about that guy. Speaking of presentation, they have Marshall Faulk give soem pre game 
 analysis before each game, and even though it was a good try it still was not count as presentation, 
 infact I hate it, it is so corny, when you listen to it he doesnt even say why this team is going 
 to win. Its more of a filler that anything.
  Now the good stuff about Madden 08. The graphics are the best yet, the stadiums are pretty much 
 accurate, and the gameplay is awesome. The one thing that I really like is the halftime highlights. 
 If anything is a big improvement it is that. You can select top plays of the first half and watch 
 them again as many times as you want. The thing about Madden is if you have played 06, then you 
 have played 08. Unfortunatly that is the feeling I get. There are such minor changes between games 
 that by the time we get actual real announcers, it could be ten or more years yet. Madden overall, 
 is not a bad game. You have to like it because its the only game out there. The frustrating part 
 is how the little stuff is not in the game and how little the game had changed overtime. Its a 
 great football, of you just want football, but if you want it becasue of football and presentation 
 dont be fooled by Faulks presentation because you'll end us skipping it everytime. I gave madden 
 an 8.3 becasue we need to see some important changes in next years game. The good side is were 
 now starting to see them make changes, so next years should be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgearing
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Let me say up front, I have never liked Madden football games, ever. I have always felt they just 
 lived off the name and have no real insentive to improve. I always felt 2K football games were 
 light years ahead of madden. (2k5 football being my favorite console game of ALL TIME.) Once EA 
 purchased the NFL logo rights, I pretty much wrote off console football games, expecting them to 
 suck. The last 2 versions of Madden have met my expectations, both (06, 07) sucking out loud. The 
 only good point in those games were the graphics, everthing else was very poorly done. Both games 
 were returned for credit with-in a month.
  
  This year is different, they have fixed the most important aspect of the game, game play! The running 
 is now fluid and movement transition appear realistic. You feel like you actually have a chance 
 to make a play and impact the outcome. They also improved on the graphics, adding gang tackles 
 and late grabs that pull the runner back or allow him to shake off the person grabbing him. In 
 prior versions, these things just didnt exist. The weapons feature seems like a useful addition, 
 I'll have to play a bit more to get the full idea of that one, but it basically high lights a player 
 best attribute, so you know who to use or go to in a given play. The audio/broadcast still sucks. 
 The sideline press people look awful. The team on the side line looks silly, when 9 of the are 
 standing the same exact way and all move the same. I do like the new replay feature between quarters. 
 They put the six biggest plays on the game in a menu and you can pick which ones to play, kinda 
 neat.
  
  I still need to play on-line a few more times before I can be sure its solid, but so far no lag 
 issues and it seems pretty tight.
  
  Over all I'd say it's worth buying. Its not perfect, but the things that are wrong can be forgiven 
 because the game play has been improved. It took them 3 tries, but this one will not be returned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is probably the first good, daresay great game for the 360, you seriously need to get 
 it. It has great graphics, and and a much needed improvement over last year's animations. Weapons 
 feature is great, and fun to use. Franchise is finally fun for the average recreational football 
 player! It is very descriptive and it explains and uses its controls very well. this game also uses 
 its 2 player function very well. This very well could be the best sports game ever. If I was you, 
 id definitey reccommend it. This list sentence is entirely contributed to fulfilling the 100 word 
 minimum. I really like to eat steak and to eat some fried chicken with my favorite buddies. Beer 
 is nice, but i like orange juice instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi_trey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  all ready then. hands down like I said. This is the greatest madden in years, and the reason is 
 NEXT GEN. unlike the others made on the next gen platforms they were really slow and choppy. Yes 
 they had very nice graphics but the gameplay would aggravate you every time that it had to stop 
 to load up your play choosing screen. What I liked about this one is that they concentrated on 
 the AI which in past maddens they were pretty stupid and unresponsive. You could QB sneak almost 
 every time and gain a good 10-20 yards. AI in here is smart. ALL-MADDEN was pretty easy in others 
 but this one actually posses a challenge. Another new thing they added was the PLAYER WEAPONS. 
 It does make a difference in how u choose your teams now cause some players want more weapons on 
 there team or they choose carefully at which weapons they want. Graphics stayed the same. They 
 cleaned up a little but not to much of a difference. HIT STICK 2.0 is great. No more getting trucked 
 every time. AUDIO. I didnt really pay attention to it cause its not that good and noticeable. To 
 sum it all up
  -Great Gameplay
  -Graphics had a little touch up
  -AI are alot Smarter
  -Ea Traks are not the good
  -Gameplay is a hell of alot faster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this to the point. By now if you haven't played a Madden (or just a 2k fan boy) . 
 Then somethings wrong. Madden is the best selling football game ever. And that's for two reasons. 
 For one they got the NFL license and two there EA (place flame here)
  
  Game play: Well you would think it's the most important piece in a Football game. Well the smart 
 guys at EA didn't think so with the first two versions on the 360. They thought taking everything 
 out and milking us for two years would be funny. ha ha..... Anyway So with this years madden and 
 football fans needing more realism in the game. EA has done a great job with madden. One of the 
 best things to be changed is the frame rate. Now it's running at 60fps. Which is so much better 
 then the 30 in the other versions (and Ps3 lol) . This makes the game run smooth and fluid. From 
 the run to the pass. That change could be the best in the game.
  
  Weapons are a term EA is using to set the best from the rest. If a player has a weapon then that 
 means he is great at one of 20 things. From a power Qb to Power back. The Offense weapons can be 
 countered by the defense ones. So it turns into a game of football chess. You trying to find a 
 miss match and going for a big play and the other trying to counter it. Great feature EA came up 
 with and I love it.
  
  The Offense for the most part has stayed the same. There's been a little change here and there. 
 Like the Backs go into motion right before you hike the ball (these plays will have a green route) . 
 You can play as a Wide out letting the CPU throw to you. Overall the offense was set in last years 
 version so Im happy with that.
  
  Now what sells this game this year has to be the Defense and what they have done (or bought back) . 
 And really it's a slap in the face to faithful fans. Because we drop Current Gen for Next Gen (xbox 
 1 to 360) . But EA half steps in there Madden 06-07. The D went from the best options in a game 
 to nothing. So now it's back and better then ever. You can change any players roll on D, and that 
 alone speaks for it's self. From blitzing to dropping an extra man in zone. This is something a 
 Vet couldn't live without.
  
  Graphics: More animations are always better. Gang tackling is even better. It only helps the game 
 be more realistic. Also the player bodies have been toned down. Now kickers don't look like XXX 
 from WWE. And also most of the superstars have a face this time (lol) . Something small when you 
 can't really see them in there uniforms. But at least it's there. The menus are recycled from 07 
 but still look great. And now there's a trophy room to track your stats.
  
  Sound: We hated when Madden talked all game about nothing. But now I miss him. I hate the radio 
 guy, he sounds dumb and worst then madden. I'll love to get him back next year. Nothing big but 
 something that works on you when playing the game for hours. The hits all sound like they should 
 and the soundtrack is a good mix of everything.
  
  Value: Madden is Madden. What more can you say? People are going to play this all year long. But 
 now things in other sports games that madden have be missing for so long are coming up in question. 
 A lot of madden is played online. And ranked games are cool. But where are the leagues? Something 
 that is key in the football gaming world. There's nothing like watching the real league and having 
 your own in madden. The outcome can go so many different ways. Then the fantasy draft would be 
 cool too. EAs madden would dominate the sports game market if they had it. But until then you 
 still have Superstar mode. Your a young rookie or your self and try to make a team. And from there 
 make your name heard all over the country. The camera has changed which is good. But it can still 
 be hard to pick up in certain positions. Then Franchise mode is back with a watered down owner 
 mode within it. All good if that's your style of game.
  
  Overall this is the best madden to date. And you have to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  MADDEN 08.
  
  In what is arguably the biggest release of the year (save Halo 3) , EA Sports juggernaut franchise 
 Madden hit the shelves running this year with a stellar effort. While it still isn't the perfect 
 sports experience, it finally feels worthy of being called a next-gen game. EA Sports is obviously 
 concerned with delivering the most comprehensive and accurate sports simulation on the market and 
 thanks to their continuing monopoly with the NFL license they have succeeded in bring us the best 
 (and only) pro football experience this year. Why do I bring this up? Because I cant help but wonder 
 what a rival company like 2K Sports would have delivered if given the chance to make an NFL game 
 year after year. It took 3 years to get Madden back up to its fine-tuned form. There really is 
 no place left to go in the gameplay and features department now. EA has made a game that feels 
 just right in terms of control and options.
  
  Gameplay: (9.5) Easily the most important aspect of any game is how well it plays and this year's 
 Madden hits the nail on the head. The passing game is challenging and fun. Big name receivers make 
 some impressive catches that others will not. There are a ton of pre-snap options on both sides 
 of the ball. From audibles, coverage audibles, double-teaming, hotroutes, and previewing miss-matches 
 (which is huge) it really gives you a sense of the possibilities your team can exercise before 
 a play even starts. Then once the ball is in the hands of the quarterback the game takes even more 
 impressive leaps by giving players more options. Receivers can now make aggressive or possession 
 style catches. The new hitstick allows defenders to hit ball carriers high or low. The biggest 
 addition this year is definitely the Weapons feature which lets you see the best players on your 
 team and what they are capable of. Learning how to execute these unique abilities takes time (there 
 are so many of them) but it gives Madden 08 an added dimension or realism and spectacle.
  
  Graphics: (9.0) The graphics are on par, if not slightly improved over last year - which is to 
 say they are amazing. The in game animations are incredible and much more plentiful this year. 
 From bone crushing hits, new gang tackles and show stopping catches there is enough variety to 
 make each play feel unique. The stadiums are once again very accurate. There are a few eyesores 
 that pop up from time to time. A few small lighting issues in close-up scenes and some choppy transitions 
 from cut scene to cut scene show that this game still has a little more polishing to do. The sideline 
 could be a bit more lively and the game itself could use more variety in terms of between play 
 camera angles (which leads me into the next section Presentation) .
  
  Presentation: (6.5) This category applies to sports games because it really boils down to the complete 
 sports experience. EA Sports secured the rights to the NFL and ESPN, but have done very little 
 to make the game feel like a televised broadcast. Its hard not to compare Madden with 2K5 because 
 that game which was last gen 3 years ago upped the bar for commentary, pregame, postgame and game 
 analysis. A wider variety of camera angles and some more polish is needed to give Madden players 
 everything we know this game could be. I hope EA wakes up and puts more into the presentation of 
 Madden 09 because this is one area where the franchise has sadly lacked. The addition of Marshal 
 Falk's pregame analysis is a great idea that really doesn't achieve the depth and variety that 
 it should. A postgame highlight strip is great, but it could have been better with a little commentary 
 and editing.
  
  Sound: (6.0) What can I say that hasn't already been said the last 2 years. Get rid of the boring 
 and lame radio announcer. With the exact same commentary as 06 and 07 it has gotten to a point 
 where its better to turn the announcer off completely because we've heard it all before. Why EA 
 hasn't flexed its ESPN muscle to secure a dynamic commentary team is beyond me. Bring back John 
 Madden and Al Michaels or some other duo that will breathe some new life into this stale sounding 
 game. The sound effects are very good. Big hits are thundering and QB play calling audibles are 
 a nice touch. The fans are fairly reactive to the situation on the field. The soundtrack is your 
 typical football fare. Overall I really enjoyed playing Madden 08. It is by far the best football 
 game on the market and is a definitely an improvement over last year. There are some issues with 
 too many turnovers which can be frustrating, but all in all the game has perfected the gameplay 
 experience. Just as I said in last year's review, EA Sports has to concentrate on the presentation 
 and sound to push their Madden series over the goal line. Final rating: (8.6/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I feel like I betrayed an old friend. I wanted to purchase this 
 for the PS3 after spending the last decade playing this series on Playstation. However, when I 
 saw a demo of the games running side-by-side, I knew that the 360 version was the one to get. Anyone 
 that says that 60 fps and 30 fps don't matter is a complete moron.
  
  Anyways, onto the game. The first thing I noticed is just how smooth this game plays. I personally 
 think it plays smoother than NCAA. Running game seems to be a lot more forgiving this time around. 
 I also love how they have made the deep ball harder to complete, but not damn near impossible like 
 NCAA. The only real gripe I have so far is the number of fumbles. I'm sorry, but 4-5 fumbles per 
 game is unrealistic. And why don't I ever get a notification that I have fumbled the ball instead 
 of having an incomplete pass?
  
  As I've already mentioned, the graphics are superb. It runs so smooth without any clipping that 
 I've noticed. The presentation is top-notch, with an intro that speaks to the heart of any football 
 fan. If that doesn't get you amped up to play this game, nothing will.
  
  This is by far the best and most improved version of Madden I've played in a very long time. Hopefully 
 EA Sports keeps it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redskins21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  madden 08 for me is great i like the halftime replays as well as the post game replays i also think 
 that the gameplay is way way much better than last year. and for all those people who ask why we 
 play madden and other sports games is because just like boring pokemopn games we never got that 
 chance to play football or sports in general when we was young so we play to re live our dreams 
 of becoming a football player or baseball player. so  
 yea  
 football baby never will i forget u madden for being of the best games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Here is my quickie review...
  
  Gameplay: Definitely the best I have seen for a long time coming out of a madden game. I still 
 think they can improve on the hits by adding ragdolls type of animation
  
  Graphics: Better then last year. Still don't care too much for that out of focus crap. Definitely 
 not NHL07 quality, but does put 2k8 to shame.
  
  Sound: Not trying to offend anybody, but I really think a deaf person worked on the sound. They 
 have no conception of how sounds should be in a sports game. The music is just awful and the PA 
 announcer should be taken back and shot... who came up with that idea. Worst element of the game.
 
  
  Value: I think you will get at least 30 hours out of this game. However, the lackluster franchise 
 mode just doesn't live up to the hype. My Madden 06 for the PC has a better franchise mode. Review 
 Tilt: I just cound let go of the fact that franchise more is still worse then current gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alucard316
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The new weapons feature is truly going to chage the game. The ring feature is good as it's easy 
 to get the points needed to fully aquire one. The superstar mode has been upgraded and is very 
 good training is alot easier and more fun. Since it's out for most major systems everyone can play 
 it and enjoy it. One of the big improvements that I enjoy is the fact you can get trophies as well 
 as rings the weapons system is a great addition to the way one plays the game andI hope it will 
 be included in 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  if of all u can tell the movments are alot smoother in this madden than last year , i have watched 
 all the videos for madden 08 on gamespot and i have to say im impressed ,and has me dreaming about 
 this game everyday. i sometimes talk to my brothers about new features in this game and my brothers 
 continue to say ''ya u told us ,we know ,u keep telling us about madden'' . Looks fun, smooth, 
 its a must buy this year for ANY FOOTBALL FANS. football is my life so i need this game, right 
 now im stuck playing 07 i want this one looks alot better. BIGGER HITS, BIGGER GAMES, BIGGER PIZZAS 
 lol on fridays playing this with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is almost perfect... almost.
  There are a few flaws that keep this from being a great game. 1) Fumbles. There are way too many 
 fumbles when it comes to All-Pro playing. Got a problem with that? Get used to it. I've never fumbled 
 more than 4 times in one game, but I've heard stories of 8 and 9 fumbles per game.
  2) Interceptions. Both sides of this make me a little pissed. The defense in this game is ridiculous. 
 Sometimes they'll stop on a dime, turn around, and catch an interception. Hell, sometimes they'll 
 reach through your player and grab that ball!!! Okay, the defense is a little over the top, but 
 why can't they catch a ball thrown at their face? Sure, a diving, one handed interception is easy 
 but you can't catch it at your face? BUT after playing your fair share of games, you'll get used 
 to this and start making better passes.
  If you don't mind the larger than average amount of turnovers, then this game is perfect for you... or 
 if you like to play on pro. Some of the good stuff are: the Hall of Fame players in Franchise mode
 
  Weapons aren't bad, but a little over-powerful
  There is a create-a-team, but I haven't tried it yet.
  Superstar is mostly the same. If it ain't 
 broken...
  XBL play is pretty fun... until that little bastard you're playing quits.
  There are mysterious level rings. I honestly have no idea WTF these things do. CPU is a little 
 smarter.
  
  If you have NCAA 08, stick with that. I made the mistake of trading NCAA in for Madden 08. Don't 
 get me wrong though, this is still a good game, just a few things here and there that can make 
 you throw your controller once in awhile.
  
  Buy or rent? Rent it first, but I wouldn't be surprised if you ended up buying it soon after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBGUN06
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest football game i have ever played, u got the new feature of weapons which i 
 love, but u know it is a hard game, some people will say that it is too hard, but that to hard 
 is the best part because it gives off more realism, So if u dont like it hard, play on freaking 
 rookie, or u can play on a harder level and make it so u can have a realistic experiance. They 
 brought back team creator, the edit players mode, no salary cap, fantaasy draft, create a player 
 (So u dont have to deal with the traing crap just the d@^&amp; thing, they even brought back the 
 precision passing, it is an excellent source of ure neighborly football, trust me if u liked madden 
 07, u will like $h1t ure pants when u see this!, ooo and the superstar mode has better camera angles 
 now, well if u love football, u will love this, and the super sim option is great, anyway, best 
 ever, play it youll love it
  signed the soultaker2008 (playstation 3 online name) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escocashflow
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  What a game is how I got to start this review. Very nice game and is away better improvement from 
 07, dont listen to those APF fan boys like SlamminSammy.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very immpresive the weaponary and there is so much to do with the playmaker 
 (RT) option. You can come up with different schemes like different audibles, hot routes, etc while 
 keeping you desire play. You can do the same on defense which is so helpful. You will see a lot 
 of turnovers but not really that bad of a problem. Fumbles and Int's are high but Int's are easy 
 to get on defense with the right plays. Defiently a great gameplay but I have to say that the running 
 game is a little hard but you will get use to it, passing is easy though.
  
  Graphics - Wow, nuff said. With a big screen HD t. v. you will be drooling all over yourself. The 
 360 version with it's graphics are very nice, it is so sweet and player animations are good. BTW 
 your kicker dont look steroid up anymore :)
  
  Sound - Meh, same ole radio guy which sucks but at the sametime you feel relief that Mr Obvious 
 is not there. The soundtrack is preety good which is a thumbs up.
  
  Value - The value is worth it, I bought it on friday without any doubts but with so much hype and 
 I wasn't dissapointed. If you have the cash and want some football ass (lol) then this is the game 
 to get. With superstar mode (fun) , and franchise mode (fun) you would feel like you got a steal 
 and should have paid more.
  
  Reviewer's tilt - Superb and Sweet. BTW to all the APF fanboys who come on these reviews and give 
 Madden a bad score without even playing the game, get a life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterTimpa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  It is always hard for me to review Madden just because every year a new one is out
  Well its that time again and Madden 08 delivered on the PS3 and 360 systems finally. I have only 
 played the 360 version so far. I always like the football games the Madden franchise has been in 
 a slump I had felt, but still fun to play. The older systems version of Madden had always been 
 the better one and had more features. but this is the first year that Ea has beat 2k. 2K5 was my 
 fav football game ever and 2k8 was fun but I felt it could have been better than before 2k is just 
 out of practice that is all. Well Madden 08 is one of the first Madden games that I would buy now 
 I just rented it. Usually I am a year behind on the football games just because you can find it 
 dirt cheap about 7 months after the game has been out. But Madden 08 is an exception. The fluidness 
 and smoothness of how the game plays is simply amazing. The detail is really amazing and the weapons 
 system is a very unique idea. Its fun and will have great replay value and is always fun to play 
 with friends. Great job EA you delivered a Touchdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minotauri
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Here's my first take at this game from a review stand point:
  
  I played two games, one exhibition - seahawks vs 49ers, and then one game on xbox live with my 
 cousin.
  
  I will be comparing this game to a few games, just to get this out of the way: Madden 2007 for 
 360, Madden 2007 for regular xbox, and ESPN Football 2K5 (2K Sports) for xbox.
  
  The first thing you notice when playing this as compared to last year's 360 version is that the 
 speed of the game is MUCH improved. Last year, the game, including the menus, were extremely choppy, 
 to the point where I just gave up and went back to the original xbox version of 2007. This year, 
 they did a good job improving that while adding some more animations. That's an EA Sports plus! 
 (but keep in mind, anything could have been an improvement here)
  
  The Franchise mode, quick look, is deeper than last year's 360 version, and now almost on par with 
 the older gen systems. That's still sad to believe that the next gen version is still struggling. 
 More on this later.
  
  The next thing you notice is that the play by play is the same piece of $# (@ trash that was in 
 last year's 360 version. It's stale, MONO, and the guy doesn't even state his name. EA has the 
 freakin ESPN license and doesnt even use it!! It makes me wish the old days where Madden used to 
 talk was back. And I hate it when Madden talks... There's absolutely nothing to show for Replays, 
 and television-style presentation. It's about as dry as I've ever seen in a game. I think NES games 
 had better between play presentation. Serious. Now this brings me back to the last series that 
 had the ESPN license... this was from 2K sports. That game, 2K5, was perhaps the most well presented 
 game I have ever seen - packed with highlights, a full half-time show, and SportsCenter/NFL Primetime 
 weekly wrap up show with highlights and Chris Berman doing his thing! That was amazing.
  
  Anyway, back to the meat of the game, the gameplay feels much more like older gen consoles, again, 
 but the animation still doesnt have the fluidity that I'd expect, especially after playing 2K series 
 games and the more recent All Pro Football. It just feels clunky, and not really realistic. The 
 motions just dont move right, and it still feels like players glide on air, but less so than in 
 the past.
  
  The same plays that you could exploit before are still exploitable now. It's so easy to run a well 
 timed West Coast Offense in this game, but granted they claim you cant throw bombs as easy anymore, 
 but against my cousin online, I was able to hit a few plays of 50+ yards in the air.
  
  Speaking of online, our first game lagged out and we had to start over half way through the 2nd 
 quarter. It was a laggy experience, but manageable, I'd say. The speed of the game dropped many 
 times to what the speed felt like in last year's horrendous game. There were alot of fumbles, turnovers, 
 as all madden's have had. Not really a positive, in my book. I like getting INTs and Fumble Recoveries 
 and all, but 8-10 TOs a game, every game, is just ridiculous.
  
  There's no replays in online games!! But there is a freakin 5 minute (or what felt like) intro 
 to the game...
  
  The Rosters are not up to date, even though you kick off by downloading a new set of rosters. I 
 adjusted and put Culpepper and Donovan Darius on the Raiders. I was too lazy to find more updates, 
 so maybe I'll just wait til a new one comes out, or find a list of changes to implement.
  
  But besides that, I'd say this game is finally playable for next-gen consoles, at least the 360 
 version. I heard otherwise for PS3, so I'd like to hear first impressions.
  
  Final Scores (as IGN would rate...) :
  
  Presentation: 1 - about as lacking as you can get.
 
  Graphics: 7 - grass is ugly. players arent anything special. animations are better, but not as 
 fluid as other football games...
  Sound: 4 - play by play never seemed more important until you experience how bad it is in this 
 game. actual gridiron sounds are pretty good
  Gameplay: 7 - not as good as what the critics think, but finally manageable!
  Long-Lasting: TBD
 
  Overall: my initial score is about a 6.5 right now, but i'm a harsh critic, plus I'd say I have 
 lost alot of respect towards EA Sports in the past 5-10 years, especially when theres other franchises 
 that strive to make innovative and critical improvements (any 2K sports game, Winning Eleven series, 
 to name a few...)
  
  This is based on 2 games. I can see some of the scores improving over time, as I haven't got to 
 really play with the superstar mode, the franchise mode, and this Weapons system - but I was never 
 a big fan of it to begin with - i actually think its sort of lame. ------------- UPDATE ------------------
 
  
  This game just has way too many turnovers and issues to really like. I am struggling and fighting 
 myself to play this game because it's so difficult to appreciate the game but I just want to lead 
 my Seahawks to the promise land. I played more online gaming and it times out half the time. Its 
 frustrating. I've also adjusted some of the sliders to reduce the amount of turnovers and also 
 have used the protect button but i feel like in the end its a button mashing game when you're ball 
 carrying. The hit stick + protect + directional control + sprint + stiff arm... geez that's a lot 
 of work for a running game. It just ends up being button mashing mayhem.
  
  I want to reduce the score of this. EDITED 09/30
  
  This game is unplayable. Too many flaws. 
 Too many turnovers; both fumbles and INTs, on CPU and HUMAN side, even with sliders at 0 for interceptions. 
 Franchise mode has major major flaws in it like players disappearing after being released. Super 
 star mode is not friendly, online mode is laggy, and buggy. The offensive lines break down in miliseconds, 
 equally 10 sacks a game, even if you have a strong O-Line, etc etc etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 is another game in the epic franchise that dates as far back as 1989. But as for 
 the next generation consoles, this is the 3rd installment in what has a been a tough time for this 
 game. Madden 06 was basically showing off the game, but lacked almost all the great features. Madden 
 07 added some new mini-games, and a superstar mode that was tough to play due to the camera. But 
 all in all, these games lacked a lot of what made the games great on the PS2 and XBOX. But the 
 good news is, Madden 08 has a lot of features from past games, which makes this the best version 
 of Madden to come out for the XBOX360.
  
  First off, one of the best improved parts of the game, is the core game itself. On the 360, we 
 have 60 FPS, and the PS3 is stuck with 30 FPS (sorry guys) . This makes the game faster and so much 
 smoother just like in NCAA Football 08. This will make your game experience more realistic and 
 more fun. In this years game, the new feature is the weapons system. This system actually does 
 work, and has an impact on the game. A shutdown cornerback can make your passing game a living 
 hell, or an elusive back can make your defensive look like fish out of water as they attempt to 
 take down the back. This system adds another element of strategy to the game, making you have to 
 plan accordingly to what your offense/defense will do to win. Also along with the weapons, there 
 are now a boat load of things you can do before the snap both on offense and defense. Of course 
 on offense you can do hot routes, switch the run play, audible and fake snap the ball to name a 
 few. But the main ones are on the defensive side of the ball. You can switch your defense to show 
 blitz or pull back like in the last game, but now you can do a little something called receiver 
 spotlight. This is where you highlight a certain receiver that you can then double cover, and keep 
 your eye on (this is also a counter to a hands receiver) . This feature along with a number of things 
 to do before the snap adds a realistic feel to the game.
  
  The only problem with the gameplay, is that it's a little more punishing than the other games in 
 the series. In last year's game, you could just light up the defense with your passes since the 
 corners wouldn't really exactly cover the receiver unless the user was helping him out. Now the 
 corners are actually good at what they are paid to do, but the problem is, they are almost to good. 
 It seems as if they stick to the receiver, covering him like paint covers a wall. Although you 
 can complete passes, sometimes the corner makes INT's in situations when he really shouldn't. But 
 once you are over that hump, you've got yourself one heck of a game.
  
  The Franchise mode brings some things back from the old owner mode that was in the last generation's 
 games. You can now see how much money you are making from ticket sales, and from sponsors, and 
 also see what is costing you the most. You can also see players that are on their contract years, 
 so that you know when to sign them again. The Superstar mode is mainly the same as last year's 
 game. But they did zoom out the camera on the player which makes the mode more enjoyable and playable. 
 This also allows you to play positions you couldn't play before in the last game since the camera 
 was so zoomed in. It could be zoomed out a little more, but hey it's an improvement.
  
  As for the graphics, the player models don't really look any different from last year. But besides 
 the 60 FPS upgrade, the animation system has now been upgraded. In the last game, players never 
 really tried to stay in-bounds to catch a ball, they would just simply run out of bounds going 
 for the ball. Now when the player sees a sideline close by, he will attempt to catch the ball with 
 two feet in. This makes the game a lot more realistic, and thankfully, this has been figured out. 
 There are also some cool catch animations for the receivers with a weapon icon for spectacular 
 catch. There are some amazing, jaw-dropping catches that will make you say Holy $%&amp;@, did he 
 just do that!? This really adds a cool element to the game that should have been in previous titles.
 
  
  As for the sound in the game, you still have the same radio guy from EA sports radio. At least 
 he gets excited when something happens, unlike the monotone Al Michaels. Speaking of monotone, 
 Marshall Faulk does some pre-game analysis (oh that was cold, great running back though) . He sometimes 
 will make the most out-there predictions, and gets really boring after the first time you hear 
 him. As for the on the field sounds, you have your usual grunts of the players. Although sometimes 
 during penalties, you can here chatter amongst them. This a cool little element they have in the 
 game.
  
  The online mode was pretty much left alone. You have a standard 1 on 1 match, and then you can 
 play again. Not much of anything which is a little disappointing. Hopefully the leagues thing works 
 in NHL so we can use it here. Overall your bound to get a lot out of this game with the Franchise 
 mode, and the Superstar mode. All in all this game looks great and feels great. Its great to see 
 that Madden may have just found its legs on the next-gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memnock
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Before I start my review, let me just say that I'm not a Madden franchise fan. Madden 2004 was 
 the last Madden game I remember enjoying. Every other iteration of Madden since has felt like utter 
 trash to me (expecially compared to Visual Concept's football offerings) . So that said, if you're 
 a Madden fanboy, you may think I'm being overly critical, and I am. It's the only NFL game in town, 
 I have a right to be critical.
  
  So lets being shall we...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  I've always had two major complaints about Madden's gameplay. The first is that at the higher settings, 
 it's near impossible to establish a running game, particularly inside. The second is that if you 
 have a good enough receiver, the long ball is yours for the taking, time and time again.
  
  I'm happy to report that both those issues have been addressed in Madden 2008. The running game 
 is now, well, damn near perfect. Your linemen block intelligently and actually open holes for you. 
 Speedy agile half-backs feel like speedy agile half-backs, while power backs feel like they really 
 have power. Stopping a power back on short yardage requires multiple defenders, or impeccable timing 
 with the hit-stick. This is the way it should be.
  
  As for the passing game, well, I still have a lot of gripes with the passing game in Madden 2008. 
 For me, it just doesn't feel realistic. Perhaps I'm spoiled by 2k's All Pro Football, but the passing 
 game doesn't feel as smooth as it should. It's really hard to put into words, but I don't feel 
 like I'm throwing a football, it feels more like I'm pitching a football, they way a baseball pitcher 
 would pitch a baseball. Leading your receiver, just isn't where it needs to be. For example, throwing 
 over my receiver's shoulder, when I WANT to throw it over his shoulder is just not possible. It's 
 not that I don't know the mechanics behind doing so, it's just that I don't have the control over 
 it that I do in 2k's offerings. The ball just doesn't go to a place on the field like in All Pro 
 Football and NFL 2k5 before that, it goes to the receiver, and that just isn't a realistic interpretation 
 of throwing a football.
  
  Another gripe I have with the passing game is that while EA fixed the long ball issue, playing 
 a west-coast offense (at least against the CPU) is far too effective. Linebackers just don't react 
 as well as they should. The AI overall is pretty solid, don't get me wrong, but play long enough, 
 and you'll find consistent holes in it. This problem is not Madden centric however as All Pro Football 
 suffers from the same problem.
  
  Similar to APF, Madden 2008 introduces a superstar feature. I was afraid that much like APF, the 
 superstar feature would be overdone and the stars would perform like football gods amongst mere 
 football mortals. However, EA did a much better job of not letting this get out of hand than Visual 
 Concepts did. The superstars are certainly playmakers, but that doesn't mean the rest of your team 
 is incapable of making plays as well.
  
  GAMEPLAY SCORE = 7.8
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; ANIMATIONS:
  
  I've come to realize that while we have first person shooters 
 and driving games that make you wonder if you're watching a movie or playing a game, there is no 
 football game with anything that resembles realistic graphics. Madden 2008, is not an exception. 
 While the game technically looks great, with it's high polygon, detailed modes; the players, as 
 good as they look technically, still look more like action figures of real players, than actual 
 real players.
  
  The bodies of the players themselves don't look proportionally correct. You can almost break the 
 game down by fat guys, strong guys, and average guys. What I'm saying is that there is not enough 
 diversity between the individual fat guys, or the individual strong guys, etc. You get my drift. 
 I can't help but bring up All Pro Football again, but EA should really take a page out of them 
 and learn how to properly proportion players. In APF, The Fridge doesn't look like every other 
 D-Linemen. He looks like The Fridge. In Madden 2008, that's sadly not the case. All the players 
 also suffer from an unnecessary sheen on their skin that makes them look like they all oiled up 
 in the locker room before the game.
  
  As for the stadiums, and crowd, it's a mixed bag. The stadiums and grass themselves look good, 
 but the crowds and sideline look like they were imported from a last-gen console.
  
  The animations are good but I feel lack the fluidity of All Pro Football. I think that has more 
 to do with the player models than the animations. I hate to hark on it, but the player models just 
 look so much like toys it really takes away from the experience IMO.
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; ANIMATIONS SCORE = 8.5
  
  FEATURES AND DEPTH:
  
  Now this is were Madden 
 2008 really shines. The game is deeper than a hole to the center of the earth. There's franchise 
 mode, superstar mode, there's a special events mode (think combine or QB challenge) . Hell, this 
 game will keep you busy for years, like real years, not just video game years. The one gripe I 
 have with the game is no online leagues or franchises.. 'Cmon EA, get with the program. You offer 
 online leagues for Hockey but not Football? WTF?
  
  I could go on and on about all of the features and the depth of Madden 2008, but I'm afraid I'd 
 eventually put you all to sleep. I'm deducting half a point for the lack of online leagues.
  
  FEATURES AND DEPTH SCORE = 9.5
  
  PRESENTATION &amp; AUDIO:
  
  Presentation is the 
 one aspect where EA has never been able to hold a candle to Visual Concepts in, and not even the 
 Madden fanboys can dispute that. I'm rating presentation and audio together because IMO, audio 
 adds much to the overall atmosphere of a game.
  
  There have been some noticeable improvements in the presentation this year, including, finally, 
 the introduction of half time replays. Though they aren't available with the same charm and personality 
 of the 2k games, as these are just mere replays you can review while looking at the half-time scores. 
 But it's a step in the right direction for EA. There is a trophy and highlight room, much like 
 in NCAA 2008. Finally, the replay angels and they way they are presented seem to have improved 
 as well.
  
  The audio on the other hand is a step in the wrong direction. The lone commentator with the monotonous 
 voice is back, and well, he just sucks. The commentary is so bad, it makes me year for captain 
 obvious himself, John Madden. The crowds on the other hand are much better than in previous years 
 and react realistically to what's going on in the game.
  
  PRESENTATION AND AUDIO SCORE = 6.5
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Overall, with all it's shortcomings, 
 this is the best Madden game in years. Even for a 2k fanboy like myself, this game is definately 
 worth getting. If EA can improve the passing game, commentary, and overall presentation for next 
 year, as well as introduce online franchises they may actually justify hogging up the NFL and ESPN 
 licenses.
  
  OVERALL SCORE = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laughlyn12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I know what youre all thinking. Whats the point of reading a review of Madden 08 when its probably 
 exactly like 07 and 06. Well, the honest truth is that a lot of people who buy and play Madden 
 will buy 08 just based on the updated rosters and nothing else. They need to have the latest players 
 and much like the real football season the release of Madden symbolizes hope springing eternal 
 in the land of football.
  
  The truth of it is that as far as next-gen Madden releases go this one is by far the best to date. 
 Does that mean that EA should just go back to resting on their laurels and not continue to push 
 the envelope? Of course not. What it does mean is that this iteration of Madden is what weve been 
 waiting on for three years now, a solid, responsive and great looking football title.
  
  Lets start with the graphics since their overhaul is the foundation on which a lot of the new gameplay 
 for Madden 08 is built By now youve probably heard of the complete and total renovation of the 
 animations with the term branching animations to describe what has been done. What that means 
 is that the animations are able to be broken in the middle to react better to what is going on 
 around the players. What this means is that instead of just catching a ball and running out of 
 bounds a player will now drag their toes on the sidelines or other things like that. It also means 
 that breaking tackles is much more fluid and believable. What this leads to is players that look 
 and act much more like they would in real football. With things like gang tackles and high or low 
 hits on ball carriers this leads to a much better look and feel to the game.
  
  As far as the non-gameplay graphics they also look like they got a little bit of a polish over 
 last year. The coaches actually look distinguished from each other and the players appear to actually 
 be grounded on the field instead of appearing to just kind of skate on it. The stadiums look great 
 as always and the crowd looks better than it has in the past but could probably still use a little 
 work. Overall, nothing to really complain about here.
  
  The big new gameplay feature this year is the weapons feature which is a designation of each 
 teams best players and their particular strong suits. Things like elusive back and power back 
 describe how your running backs strengths can be used to exploit defenses. Every position has 
 a strength that it can utilize from crushing run blocker for your O-linemen to press coverage 
 defender for DBs. These designations are all shown on screen pre-snap with some icon under the 
 player so as to make it easier to create mismatches before the snap. The whole idea is brilliant 
 as it allows you to play to your particular players strengths and makes the game much more strategic 
 than in past years.
  
  One of the other differences this year that is a particular favorite of mine is the new pre-snap 
 interface. Instead of cycling through players and changing their routes like last year routes can 
 be changed with a more intuitive string of buttom pushing and the hot routes are a lot more in 
 depth this year as both the right and left analog stick are used to give your receivers their new 
 assignments. As someone who loves to change the plays at the line of scrimmage this might be my 
 favorite new feature personally but probably isnt as big of a deal to others.
  
  With the combination of the new branching animations and the new weapons features this is definitely 
 the best playing Madden game in a long time.
  
  The audio department, which to me has always been a weak point of the Madden franchise, hasnt 
 faired quite as well as the graphics this year. The music is an obvious cross-promotional cash 
 grab for EA and whoever the artists are that appear in the game. The play-by-play guy is the destitute 
 mans Joe Buck and really needs to be replaced. If the game can have both Ron Jaworski and Merril 
 Hodge doing the voice work for the tutorials and EA promotes featuring ESPN on the back of the 
 box then theres no reason why EA cant go the extra mile and get the Monday Night Football booth 
 crew of Tirico, Jaws and Kornheiser. As far as the rest of the presentation its quite good. At 
 halftime (Presented by Nextel) you can select replays of the major plays of the first half which 
 is kind of a nice touch. Another nice touch, in between plays, is that you can hear the players 
 jawing at each other. Its nothing too specific but it still adds a nice touch to the game.
  
  Now before everyone gets their panties in a bunch and thinks that I have nothing bad to say 
 about this game (other than how bad the audio is) I do have some minor complaints but these could 
 just be personal to me and will doubtfully ruin anyone elses experience with the game.
  
  My first complaint is the lack of a custom playbook which I know Madden had a few years back. As 
 an X and O football geek I think that is something that is really fun to tinker around with and 
 would be a nice addition in future editions of Madden. Another minor complaint is that the scoreboard 
 in the stadium has a severe case of dyslexia. The clock that ticks on the scoreboard is not the 
 actual time on the field. If the game has 1:49 remaining the scoreboard will say 1:94 and the home 
 and visitors scores are switched on the scoreboard, as well. Like I said, minor complaints but 
 still, something that should have been taken care of before its release.
  
  Overall this iteration of the Madden franchise is becoming what we have expected on the next-gen 
 consoles. Its not quite that next-gen WOW game but its getting there. The complaints are minor 
 and the improved animations and gameplay features really make this the must own Madden to this 
 point. Great game and I hope to see you guys online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Thats all I have to say this game isn't at all the Madden I loved 14 years ago. (Yes there's time 
 for change but change for the better not for the worst) Yes the game runs at a brisk 60 fps. Yes 
 the game is improved over last 2 years but it was done with minimal effort. And No I'm not waiting 
 for 2K Football to make a miraculious come back either. But this game is annoying, too many fumbles. 
 the AI is still predictable. (And I'm not even going to get into how much of a joke the special 
 teams are in this game its almost as if they don't exist.) The graphics are great but thats about 
 it. The game play is lack luster after you understand how the plays work. And shift as many audibles 
 as you possibly can the game puts you to sleep. Yeah they added some new modes such as the finance 
 mode etc, but they are boring to say the least. And the presentation is some of the worst I have 
 ever seen. (How are you going to have Marshall Faulk giving you the tail of the tape, and then 
 don't hear his input at all until the end of the game!?! Then you have that idiot savant radio 
 DJ commentating on things that didn't happen in the game playing or a past play that happen 5 seconds 
 ago.) And Madden fans tell me this Why in the world did EA get the ESPN license for? This game 
 is more comical than anything else. maybe the last gen versions are still better. Because the next 
 gen one is very much off this planet and i mean that with pun intended. This game has made me loose 
 all hope of football video games. I guess I'll wait until next gen. (For PS4 and or the Next Xbox, 
 next nintendo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comebackkid1701
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better then 07 in almost every aspect. the graphics look nicer because there 
 is no longer the steroid looking players. the weapons system is fantastic even though its hard 
 to catch on to. fantasy draft and owner mode is all back giving franchise more depth. one of my 
 complaints is the radio announcer. they need to get rid of him hes no impressing anybody and is 
 really annoying. the gameplay is very smooth at 60 fps and i love how the play is and its much 
 tougher now. you can no longer bomb the ball down the field and get a td 5 times a game like last 
 year and the weapons system helps seperate players so players like Marcus Vick cant do things like 
 Randy Moss. all together i think this is the first great next gen football game. The problems can 
 easily be fixed and are not big problems but just little things that could be fixed. all in all 
 i think this game beats all pro and NCAA and is finally back to where madden used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaucasianHustla
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The best Madden I have played to date. The gameplay is great, and the new weapons feature is a 
 plus. The secondary weapons may almost be too great, so I'm still getting the hang of beating the 
 coverage to complete passes. But, the weapons feature truly does seperate the best players from 
 the average players, and if you want your non-weapons to make an impact, you have to train them 
 to become weapons. The franchise mode is great, and I'm glad they finally brought the fantasy draft 
 back to the 360. The trading has also gotten better- the player values are more realistic. Haven't 
 gotten a chance to play superstar yet, but if last year and NCAA 08 are any indication, it should 
 be spectacular. The graphics are much improved from last year. I am dissapointed that they still 
 are left with just the radio announcer, they should either have Madden-Michaels or the MNF crew. 
 The music in the game is always dissapointing aside from the NFL Films music. But overall, if you 
 are a football fan, you gotta buy this game. Madden for the XBOX 360 is finally for real, and is 
 by far the best football game on the 360 over All-Pro Football and NCAA Football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viktory2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  very difficult to win long strings of games. You may win 2 or 3 in a row, even big wins, then lose 
 a game that you SHOULD win and you can't figure out why.. you just won't win... no matter what!
 
  
  The biggest let down in this years game (so far) is the inability to adjust performance sliders 
 for things that matter. First of all, there are 3 or 10 to many fumbles in this game. On all pro 
 i find the best backs drop the ball 1 to 4 times in what feels like EVERY game. Receivers are no 
 better, don't be surprised when your wide open TE drops a pass after he has already caught it and 
 begins to run . I know drops and fumbles are real in the nfl, but not this often, and not without 
 sliders!!! I agree everything else in the game is fantastic, the look is a little odd, it feels 
 good but somewhat computerish - but still very realistic. I don't care a whole lot about sound 
 and the crowd drones away doing the same 3 second waving animation for the entire game, every game, 
 every down, every quarter. This little nit picky issues (except the fumble/drops thing, that ruins 
 a game) don't really hold madden back.. A great upgrade, once i overcome the dropping/fumbles issues, 
 i'll really enjoy this game..... until next year!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I must say its an improvement from the last two maddens. But it still has
  issuses ,but only minor ones. One thing i must confess is that on HD this
  game looks very good 
 and the gameplay is much better. This game needs
  some serious sportrs anaylist . The Ea radio Announcer should get fired
  for the same commentating 
 they used in 06 &amp; 07 Madden and now in 08..
  There is something also i noticed in the tackles, so of the tackles look very
  cornballish but 
 some of the high hits are very cool. I like cracking wide recievers in the air. And i also noticed 
 running throw walls, If they gonna
  run throw walls ,someone tell him to get drunk or high so the pain isnt that
  baby.. This game 
 is also not that easy as before which is a good thing. And
  the lighting is much better for the time of day , Last year it was like playing
  in the dark 
 with blindfolds on. Theres really nothing bad to say about this years madden,, I understand the 
 process each year just keep adding back
  everything which is cool must young gamers will not understand but i do..
  keep up the good work.. 
 EA 2k keep there asses on fire.. it helps EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynot410a
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  game is lacking in certain areas especially comentary anouncer is very dull sounds like he's bored 
 need to get madden back to call game plays or espn guys game play is good after you get used to 
 the new features online is cool franchise is better than last year graphics are awsome but game 
 still lacks in some areas half time recaps not that cool if your thinking about buying the game 
 you should rent it first it could have been beter is all im saying still not as good as it should 
 be i think maybe next year they will get it right or let 2k make a football game get some competition 
 out there they have good comentary &amp; presentation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Areola54
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Not much different from 2007. $60 for a roaster update. Why not release DLC with player updates 
 and addition gameplay. Charge $30 for it. thats fair. This is a ripoff.
  
  60fps is good but no improvement in animation or physics. Same plastic looking players doing the 
 same thing as the year before. At least improve the AI and physics if you are going to charge $60 
 for this. Players run up and down like zombies. 300lbs players has the same dynamics as a 180lbs 
 player, only slower. Cheap dev work. How can anyone be proud of this?
  
  Same old boring gameplay. No major improvement there. Cannot even call this an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumpas
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Again another year, and again another Madden that is marginally better, or even worse then the 
 previous. and what worse is the game play seems to be slipping, UUGGHH All I want is 2k back with 
 modern players, please NFL drop this dang contract with EA...... ..... and design your own ring, 
 what kind of improvement is that? How about testing the game a little better, my first 10 games 
 187 carries, 24 fumbles, WHAT!?! And has anyone else notice the animation is a little choppy, after 
 seeing the bioshock demo, I just do not understand why a better product can not be made. oh well, 
 another wasted $60... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espy2288
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I got to admit, i let them hype me right in, and that is something that i dont
  get cought doing, i watched the movies, read all the blogs, and did anyone who played the game to 
 make those awsome game clips that we have been watching for months now say anything about the fact 
 that you are going to fumble at least 12 times a fu@#%&amp;* game, blockers still running around 
 nowhere near the play, the graphics of course are awsome as expected, frame rate good, hit stick awsome, but 
 the fumbles is something that you cant just overlook and dont say cover up the ball because that 
 does not work either, and dont get me started on how when it rains it doesnt cover the whole field, well 
 like the saying goes fool me once shame on me fool me twice and i'm a freakin retard, But i will 
 ad that if they can get a patch for the fumbles it will be worth playing, i just dont know how every 
 year they mess up stuff that has been good for years, and improve on others,
  and please do something about the announcers, I'M OUT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Let's make this quick and straight to the point. This game is fun. It has it's slight flaws, like 
 every game out there does. It has solid gameplay, big, but subtle changes have been made from last 
 year's version while some have not. There is something about 08 that makes it x101010 better than 
 07, i don't know what it is, maybe it's the player abilities which are awesome or just the more 
 modes, options, w/e it may be. This game is worth buying. (That's the beef, here are the side dishes) .
 
  
  Flaws: That freggin cannon sound when you do a long pass.
  2) Sometimes it feels like you're out of control with the many many options at the line of scrimmage.
 
  3) Still a BIT choppy on the menu's, but not as much.
  4) No half-time show, only something where you pick your fav plays from the half.
  5) Personally, 
 controlling defense is kinda hard, but you'll get the hang of it eventually, then it shouldn't 
 be a problem. 6) Kicking meter seems outdated thanks to the 2K series. Pros: 1) ABILITIES. This 
 brings life and realism into the game. The abilities make this game fun and add so many options 
 to the gameplay. 2) Smooth gameplay.
  3) Much more animations
  4) Gang tackling (Although 2k had this since 04)
  5) Many, many, many modes and options.
  6) 
 FRANCHISE MODE, a good one too.
  7) A very deep strategy game if you get into it.
  8) Graphics are bettered slightly, just slightly. (You can tell though)
  9) Easier to control 
 you're players.
  
  Now, this game is similar to 07, but not nearly as much as people say it is. If you took out the 
 abilities, this game would still be far better than 07. This is madden shown up to the next generation, 
 FINALLY. It came late, but it came with a great present for all of us to play. I also do have 2K8. 
 When comparing the two, i'd have to say 2K wins in presentation and in gameplay, but it's really 
 two different expierences. It's all up to the gamer, it really is. Madden has amazing gameplay, 
 it's realistic and fun, just not as realistic as 2K is. Either way, this game is great, they made 
 alot of changes from last year, added alot of deph into the game and really made it a good football 
 game to play. On a personal note, i'm not THAT impressed, i'm just happy that it's still a fun 
 game to play, you know? If this game wanted a 10 out of me, it should've made me jump out of my 
 seat, and it didn't. Final word, fun, realistic, will keep you playing for a while to come. In 
 other words, it's a solid game. You should definitely get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally the Madden that all madden fans has been waiting for is finally here. All the modes that 
 were included in the PS2 and Xbox version for the past 2 years are finally here. It took 2 next 
 gen titles to finally get the madden that we have been looking for. And the modes that I'm talking 
 about that we didn't fully have access to a full depth mode of Franchise where you have control 
 over certain things like players salaries, contracts of players, signing, and scouting etc. This 
 year we also get create a player which we had last year but couldn't fully customized them like 
 we wanted to in the past. We also have create a team which we didn't have before finally makes 
 it to the next gen madden for 08.
  
  Also they have new ways of achieving goals in game. In return you'll get this ring that you built 
 on as you progress in the game. Also you'll receive trophies for different accomplishments within 
 the game which is cool. Another addition to this year's madden is the weapons. These weapons appear 
 on screen as icons. This lets you know what players you have to be aware of in the field. This 
 also let's you know what strenghts and impact certain players have on the field as well. This is 
 good and bad because sometimes there are teams that have more weapons than your team and sometimes 
 this can dictate the outcome of the game depending on how many weapons the team you're up against 
 has. Online mode is back but no online leagues hopefully they'll add this next year.
  
  Now on to the gameplay and graphics. The gameplay this year's madden hasn't changed much from last 
 year but madden 08 looks to be fill with more fun and intensity than the previous years. It looks 
 like this year's madden AI got an upgrade. The AI is so brutal and put up a good chanllenge on 
 the field, but there are times that it feels like their are too many turnovers in the game and 
 it feels like this is a must win game for the computer. Which could be annoying at times. I've 
 also noticed the interceptions and fumbles happen way too often in the game to a point that it 
 feels like it's overdone. But regardless of this little annoyance the game is still fun to play. 
 EA as put in alot of work into the tackles and animation this year. With a lot of intense and brutal 
 tackles and more improved animations. It makes the game feel and look more realistic and a little 
 rest robotic. The graphics haven't improved much but that's not a bad thing because madden has 
 been a great looking game in the past. The game also is running on a smooth 60 fps which is a big 
 plus to this year's madden.
  
  If you're a be football fan like myself and were wondering when will we get the complete madden 
 experience well it's finally here and it's waiting for you to buy it! I have to say this is getting 
 close to be one of the best madden ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoridah
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  For starters, this review is coming from someone who loved 2k and was alright with Madden. However, 
 in the past two years I came to hate Madden, and I wasn't even going to buy Madden until I played 
 the DISASTER that is APF. The 60fps feels great, even smoother than NCAA. All in all it is just 
 a better playing game. This really is like a sequel to Madden '05, which is definitely a good thing. 
 The game play is so solid with all of the new animations. The spectacular catch receivers actually 
 JUMP. Some people think this looks fake, but those people are people who have been numbed by Madden 
 of old. I've got news for ya, the NFL's best receivers can get UP. In addition to all of the upgraded 
 game play, Franchise mode is finally back to a respectable level. Owner mode features, fantasy 
 drafts, etc. This game is finally what Madden should have been on next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaepi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I will make this simple and sweet. Gameplay is amazing. Game modes are extensive, deep and all are 
 fun to play. AI is improved. Animations have been added and the framerate is 60fps. Presentation 
 needs a little work but all presentation and no gameplay equals madden'06, which sucked. So all 
 the people giving low OVERALL scores, do not really appreciate all the effort put in to developing 
 all the areas of this fantastic game of football. Replays are phenomenal. Catch, run and tackle 
 animations are sweet. If you are a football fan, definitely consider picking this game up over 
 Sega's 2k counterpart. This is a much better game of football. If you are a madden fan, then welcome 
 to Next-Gen greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsearch11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Just bought it and I love it. I had totally written EA off this year after feeling burned by the 
 last two versions of Madden for next gen systems. I had made up my mind that if this years version 
 didnt cut it ( meaning I would rent before I bought) then I was finished with the Madden series. 
 But I really like Madden 08. It runs soo much smoother in general than last year's iteration. The 
 music is nice, however the announcer still sucks. Why EA won't fix this is beyond me. They must 
 have signed the guy to a long term contract thru 09. Its almost as if they enjoy having one GLARING 
 drawback. But beyond that, the game moves at a much faster pace, with much tighter controls that 
 are very responsive. This year the hits also feel heavy/solid (meaning, a hit looks and feels like 
 a hit, instead of a mere collision of two objects) . I dig the player icons also. I hear much more 
 authentic sounding trash talk as well. At any rate I would highly recommend this game for football 
 lovers. And this comes from someone who was dead set against buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDyabolik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  What took SO LONG?! We should've had this type of gameplay back in '06! Defensive Hot Routes, better 
 defensive AI, and new high-powered tackles... but ultimate addition is the READ &amp; REACT and 
 Weapons! Being able to Read plays offensively or defensively after several completed passes or 
 tackles is HOT!!!!!!! Turnovers are A PLENTY...., but I think that's realistic. In previous Madden 
 games, QBs would throw passes to defenders and they drop them 85% of the time... NOW, forget it. 
 Fumbles are extra, but hey... you can challenge those calls on-line, now (finally!) .
  
  The next gen uses ALL of the buttons (analog sticks included) to it's highest potential.
  
 
  This is EASILY the best Madden for the next generation console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StacyJr5000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is the greatest football game ever! It is a must buy for any sport fan. It is ten times 
 better than All-Pro Football. Everyone was eagerly awaiting the grand sale of madden nfl 08. The 
 graphics are just unbeliveable. Even though the PS3 graphics are only 30 fps, it still looks awesome. 
 The Xbox 360 runs at 60 fps, which makes the gameplay run as smooth as possible. The franchise 
 mode has been completely redone, and it has been made much better than the past three or four years. 
 Also, on the franchise mode, you are now able to enjoy co-op mode, which is a nice touch. The Online 
 play is too great to describe in words. Madden 08 includes more than 150 legends including the 
 hard to find, Joe Montana. The A. I is much better this year making the game much more of a challenge. 
 The passing game has finally been leveled on an even playing field with the defense. The superstar 
 mode has been taken onto a whole new level. All in all madden 08 is the greatest sports game ever 
 created. I guarentee that you will be playing this year's edition of madden -3 years from now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garak0410
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I am not a hater of this football series and own both Madden 07, 08 and APF 2K8.
  
  This is coming from a 2K fan who found Madden 07 decent but not great...
  
  My initial thoughts 
 on 08, from simply firing it up and playing without learning the pre-snap functions and such... this 
 is simply 07 slightly upgraded. All this talk about 60 FPS graphics and they look slightly worse 
 than last year... a lot of choppiness...
  
  The presentation is mostly the same... there is a pregame with Marshall Faulk predicting the winner 
 and it shows your current record... The player announcements are almost the same, except it show's 
 the players abilities (I. E. Willie Parker - Speed) ... the quarters end with no Team names and scores 
 on the screen... just zooms into the scoreboard like 07.
  
  There is halftime highlight show but it is like a video cell phone... you choose among 5-6 big plays 
 and it will show them full screen... but nothing like 2Kx halftime shows.
  
  I won't write it off just yet... I wanted to write off APF 2K8 right away but now that I am online, 
 I am having a blast and realizing how realstic it is and how the graphics aren't that bad.
  
  I will play it for several weeks before giving a final review... initial thoughts: 5.9 out of 
 10. Here's to discovering the game more in the next few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mde42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Last year NCAA was the only football game that mattered. I played 2 games of madden and tossed 
 it aside. This year Madden is back in form and a very enjoyable game.
  
  Fumbles do pop up a lot.
  
  The graphics aren't really up to NCAA. But it is a much more challenging 
 fulfilling game than some people will believe. The pre-game presentation is a very nice touch, 
 and the marshall faulk commentary is very cool. It could have been done better (I started a franchise 
 as the lions and he predicted I'd beat the eagles 40-17) . The gameplay is flawless. The different 
 way to catch the ball is challenging but with practice it'll become second nature.
  
  Overall I say it's a step in the right direction. And with just a bit more fine tuning it'll be 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  well the more i played the 360 madden 08 the more i did not like it. passing is very hard in the 
 game and dont say i dont know how to play football, the defence backs stick s to you like glue. 
 i think football is hard to make. make it to easy then its no fun make it to hard its no fun, madden 
 08 is no fun the game looks great, the dumb radio man is just awful, the best football games i 
 have played is 2k8 and wii madden. the wii madden you can have fun, but at times its to easy. the 
 AI side of the ball on the wii plays well on offence not so well on defence, but it is fun. so 
 2k8 wins it this year in my book, then wii madden, the 360 madden looks great but very hard and 
 unfair no fun, want football fun buy 2k8 are madden 08 are 07 for the wii, toss the 360 madden 
 08 out the window, again EA falls short the fat cow EA every year people rush down and spend 64 
 bucks on madden to find themselfs mad ,hoping for that great game of football, and EA laughs all 
 the way to the bank they did it again, i did not buy the 360 madden rented the game and took it 
 right back, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosox2005
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I've seen a bunch of people trash this game and all I can say is they probably fall into two categories. 
 Long-time Madden cheesers who can't handle the MUCH improved AI, or 2K fans who want to try to 
 defend their miserable 2K8 game. As a disclaimer, I'll just say this. I hated 06, tolerated 07 
 (although tolerated might be a bit generous) and was among many wishing for a time when a football 
 option was available other than Madden. I was genuinly excited to see APF2K8 come out... and was 
 genuinly disappointed when it felt like a cheaply rehashed version of 2K5. Fans will argue that 
 isn't a bad thing. I'll remind you that A) 2k5 had NFL players, adn B) 2k5 was only 19.99. Anyway, 
 this is not meant to bash 2K, so on with the review.
  
  Good: FAST gameplay, excellent graphics, weapons are actually useful. Gameplay is the tightest 
 it's been in years (maybe ever) , franchise mode is fun again (and, as a side note, after simming 
 multiple seasons the progression issues seem to be fixed... no more 95 offense and 65 defense) , 
 the hitting is BIG... feels more NFL IMO.
  
  Bad: although I hardly touch it, online needs work (no leagues, barebones options, and, at times, 
 finding a game to join seemed glitchy) , still some collision glitches, turnovers can be too frequent 
 (only if the CPU is down IMO, the rest can be covered by smarter play) , presentation is downright 
 horrible... EA Radio Guy... YOU'VE GOTTA GO!!!
  
  Reccommendations: Add online leagues, beef up franchise mode even more (maybe an ESPN radio show 
 or ESPN news coverage) , better presentation (Gimmie REAL announcers, pre and post-game shows, weekly 
 wrap-ups, etc) , organize weapons system a bit better (a lot of smart players don't show their lightbulb) .
 
  
  Summary: The tightened up gameplay and finally relevant franchise mode make this game great. Highly 
 addictive and fun, just needs a bit more polish in the features and presentation. This series is 
 once again heading in the right direction. It's great now and could be amazing next year.
  
  P. S. All you Maddenites who hate 2k should calm down and hope that 2k makes a great game next 
 year. I think the competition can only help Madden.
  
  For all the 2K fans who are bashing Madden and praising 2K8... all I can say is better luck next 
 year. This year is a lost cause for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicmachina
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 has terrific new game play. But the anouncer already drives me crazy. the games audio 
 still makes you feel like your playing one of the older and rather under par madden titles on the 
 next gen. one of the good things about madden is the teams have alternate unies instead of having 
 to down load extras to enjoy that feature. the stadiums are nice and the kick offs look really 
 good. another feature that has taken some of the repetitiveness outta madden. things like the heavy 
 snow fall do not look nearly as cool as the effect on ncaa 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oubrett
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that both the Madden and NCAA franchises are better this year. For many enthusiasts, 
 that is not saying much considering how weak these games have been in past years. While gameplay 
 has certainly improved, it is the very poor implementation of presentatioon and sound that leaves 
 players wondering why again. Why does EA do such a poor job in this area especially when having 
 the availability of the ESPN brand could be such a tremendous asset? Why does the game environments 
 feel so sterile? Why are the people on sidelines with the press passes not actually holding cameras? 
 Why do players not react to onfield actions? Why do the menu seems confused and poorly executed? z
 
  For all the steps forward EA makes in gameplay, they always seem to trip and fall over what should 
 be just as important - the environment. Especially this year, the sound before and during games 
 is very poorly executed. If EA ever fires on all cylinders, they will be unstoppable. But every 
 year, these games leave me wishing there was an alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darrko_Glangsta
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Basically you know everything about the gameplay. Won't waste your time there. EA has constantly 
 ignored adding depth to their franchise mode. Absolutely no one cares about setting ticket prices 
 for a hotdog. Or scouting a faceless name in the off-season. Where is all the preparation during 
 the week for the upcoming team your going to face. I want all the modes from NFL Head Coach in 
 franchise mode. Scouting the other team, running full team practices to actually Improve a teams 
 ability to run a play with enough practice, ect ect. (not player drills) , Player personalities, 
 you have High, Medium, or Low character guys and random off the field issues can pop up and affect 
 your season. Just.. get creative. Instead of the same old same old. Blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Graphics in this game are the first thing, and they are very good of course. The gameplay is good 
 too in this game. Passing the ball is ok but the only problem I have with it is there is a lot 
 of interceptions. Fumbles seem to come randomly and not a whole lot, which is good. The new audible 
 system is amazing though, and makes the game soo much better. It's so much easier to call an audible 
 now, and adjust your defense, probably the best thing they did to the game. The new classifications 
 such as smart qb are good and innovative too, they bring a whole new level to the game. Overall 
 if you like football you should definently buy this game, it's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myles04_2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Game play: THe game play has been greatly step up. THe new weapons are amazing and it really makes 
 the great players even better. Defensive playmaker is back and works very well. The game is packed 
 with so many in game options and the controls feel so right, that the gamaplay finally feels next 
 gen . the biggest problem is that there are a lot of turnovers. It seems like everytime I would 
 get a user pick, the computer would have my RB fumble. Some games I played there would be 4 to 
 5 turnovers. This issue can be easily be fixed with a patch, so I didn't take anything off from 
 the score. score 10
  
  Graphics: the graphics themselves have only slight changes, but thats not a bad thing. The grafics 
 are still amazing and all new animations, from the gang tackling system makes the game have a brutal 
 sense, just like the NFL, but over the top like Blitz the League. score 9
  
  Sound: Easily the most disappointing part of the game. The EA sports radio announcer sucks. He 
 was a great idea but he has been saying the same lines since madden 06. I wish that you could change 
 to John Madden, or even better, let it be that when your team has national televised games or regional 
 games, another announcer like John Madden or someone from ESPN ( EA sports does have the licence) . 
 score 7
  
  Value: The play now mode has lots of depth with all the weapons, defensive playmaker and hitstick 
 2.0. Superstar mode is much better with a pushed back camera and franchise mode, as usual, is huge. 
 With the created team mode you can create your own team and replace them with another team. Even 
 better, you can fantasy draft with Hall of Famer players so that you can have your own team with 
 these legends and take them online ( This reminds me of something!?!) Blieve it or not, there are 
 about 239 hall of famers in madden ( I think i counted right) compared to 240 legend in APL 2k8 
 ( a game I highy recommend,) Sadly there are on leagues, which is disappointing because others 
 have done it before, though next year it should be in the game because EA is exploring online leagues 
 with NHL 08. score 9
  
  Overall: Madden is definitely the best NFL next gen game so far. It really improved a lot and though 
 it has a turnover issue, no online leagues and audio problems, its sill an amazing game. score: 
 9.1
  
  Suggestions for next year: 1) online leagues NEED to be in the game.
  2) some type of singe player mode where the player takes his team and plays every other team in 
 the NFL, almost like a tournament (then mybe extra, created teams could be added to make it harder) .
 
  3) Bring madden make to the audio stage or at least someone else because the EA sports radio announcer 
 is horrible.
  4) create a playbook so that I can get the best of both playbooks.
  5) the playpicking for madden 07 was great so I hope next year that is back as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastro18
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I enjoy any sports game but i say this sports game is fantastical its absolutley incredible!! ! 
 ! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! !!!!!!! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! !! !! !! !! ! 
 !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! im definatly donna spend my entire week playing this game i love madden 
 nfl 08!! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!!! ! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estasbolas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  this is the best madden to date on any console gameplay, graphics, i am not goin to nick pick like 
 most of the critics like owner mode setting ticket prices special teams reversal because remember 
 this is a video game it suppose to be fun not so technicle like a mmo rpg this years madden is 
 solid on the 360 . they added alternate jersey which is nice the stadiums like very authentic player 
 animation is smooth 60 fps the tackling is awsome and the catches the running game is very good 
 with the new blocking schemes i hear i lot of critics are saying that there is to many turnovers 
 they dont know how to play football you have to know how to read defenses and know when and where 
 to throw the ball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vectah_Sigma
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Madden since the Sega Genesis and all i'm going to say is about time. As powerfully 
 as the 360 claims to be, for the past 3 years, the ps2 has OWNED Madden. The reason why i say this 
 is because everyone knows that last years ran A WHOLE LOT faster on the ps2. The controll was better 
 for the ps2, hands down, it was just a better game. I've been playing this years Madden since Aug 
 the 11th and havent put it down yet. This years Madden for the 360 .... to me anyway... feels like 
 the past 2 Maddens for the ps2, but with the next gen look. As you can tell, I havent been this 
 pumped over Madden since the ps2. EA made Madden fun again..... even online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogart69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  After two miserable outings EA finally got it right.
  
  Perhaps it was from fear of losing revenue to 2K Sports with their release of All Pro Football 
 that prompted EA to wake up. And wake up they did. This years Madden is so vastly superior to anything 
 out there now. It's in a class all by itself. So many of the little things that were wrong were 
 fixed. A number of the missing features such as defensive playmaker were re-introduced. This is 
 what Madden '06 should have been.
  
  The video stuttering is about 90% gone. The game runs as smooth as silk now. The video clipping 
 is finally down to an acceptable level and the zombie like player movements between plays have 
 been replaced with wonderful chatter and realistic animations. You can tell they worked hard on 
 collision detection this time around. The controls are tight and very responsive. The menus are 
 right on, reminiscent of Madden of old.
  
  The big feature this year is the new weapons system. When a player is in the zone his Icon will 
 illuminate, telling you to beware if he is an opposing defender and get him the ball if he's on 
 your offense. So far it has been very impressive. While playing against the Broncos Champ Bailey 
 intercepted me twice while he was in the zone. I now realize you have to really change your strategy 
 and have a nice variety of audibles to counter these special players. The days of running the same 
 play over and over and over are now gone.
  
  Graphically the game is still nice. The players faces seemed to be toned down a bit, probably to 
 free up some needed memory, but their physiques are now accurate. No more kickers with bulging 
 Balco biceps ala Barry Bonds.
  
  The new animations are also super. From the various spectacular catches to my favorite, when two 
 defenders try to wrestle the ball carrier to the ground. It looks so good you will want to watch 
 the replay.
  
  EA also added a little presentation to the mix with Marshall Faulk predicting the score before 
 the game and video highlights at half time. Also, every play can be viewed again after the game. 
 And unlike NCAA there is absolutely no stutter before the play as the system saves the prior play.
 
  
  You will also earn ponts after each game to build your championship ring. You will need to accumulate 
 numerous points, obtained by completing a number of on field and off field activities in order 
 to receive the ultimate prize, the level 5 ring. There is also a trophy room where you can view 
 all of your treasures as well as your player stats.
  
  EA has been harshly and justifiably criticized for its last two efforts. Well now its time for 
 praise. This is a super football simulation and it just may very well be the best Madden ever.
 
  
  My score is a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  After a few games of Madden I decided this was the best title EA has come up with. Unfortunately 
 it falls way short of what we expected. Here is an in depth look at what I think is a truly an 
 EA Sports title review.
  
  So I was impressed with the all new read and react system, front office and championship rings. 
 I was mostly impressed with the all new player moves, auto motion, backward passes and low hitting 
 tackles, plus the smooth gameplay provides for a realistic NFL game experience. Controlling WR's 
 and making spectacular catches or possession receptions, or roam the secondary and jar the ball 
 loose with big hits and ball strip tackles. I believe you can strip the ball almost every down, 
 not a good idea on EA's part especially if 85% of the player base are online players. This can 
 make for really cheap games using teams like the Chicago Bears, Ravens or Bucs, teams with enough 
 talent to rip that ball out of your hands.
  
  Gameplay has always been the most important part of video games. Whether you are playing sports 
 titles or RPG's, gameplay plays a major factor in determining if the game is worth getting. Since 
 madden published for the next-gen system, 06 was incomplete, 07 had it's issues with fatigue and 
 lack of FPS but how did 08 compare to these inadequate versions? Madden 08 is probably the best 
 year EA has come to making madden a complete football experience. The overall gameplay feels a 
 bit more polished now that they're using a higher FPS (only for the xbox) and definitely feels 
 like you have more control over what's going on. In previous versions I felt like I don't have 
 control especially playing the secondary when you try to pick the ball off only to fall short of 
 the ball and the CPU heads for a 80+ yard TD. EA implemented some new features as well. I'm really 
 excited with Receiver Spotlight, WR Control, Possession and Aggressive catches, Player Icons/Play 
 recognition and View Player Weapons/mismatches. I'm not really excited about the Strip Ball feature. 
 This tends to become frequent and hurts the games realistic feeling. Seriously, would LT fumble 
 4+ times in one game when he's only fumbled 4 in a season? Kickoffs are also a major problem for 
 me. It seems no matter how hard you try to get that ball in the end zone, you or the CPU will always 
 get the ball pass the 30 yard line. What really hurts madden this year are Sound and Presentation. 
 How many of you are sick and tired of Marashall Faulk pick an underdog to win the game? How would 
 the Browns beat the Bears 24-14 or the Raiders beat the Patriots 14-3. Does he seriously think 
 Tom Brady can't throw a TD pass against a weak raiders team? I'm tired of listening to the play 
 by play announcer. As much as we hated madden and his stupid rants, we kinda seem to miss him now. 
 Why do I want to listen to a radio announcer when every single day of my life I've watched sunday 
 football on TV rather then listen to it on the radio.
  
  Franchise mode has always been a strong point for EA's Madden title. Front Office Mode, scouting, 
 Busts and Gems and Supersim. How many times have you decided to quit a game when you can actually 
 simulate it and see what the end result would be? Then your going ot love Supersim. I've never 
 been a fan of superstar mode so I'll keep my mouth shut on that. Visual Concepts introduced it 
 on the 2k series and it wasn't that bad. Madden is trying it with a little twist and it's not as 
 pleasing to me as most of you would think.
  
  Once again EA fails for online mode. I've played a few matches online and didn't seem to enjoy 
 it. You just don't have that smooth feeling as you do offline. You feel as though your loosing 
 control of your player or your struggling to move them around the field. The delay really bites 
 and hinders your online play. My Final Thoughts:
  
  After a few games of madden and slider tweaks; I've come to the conclusion that 08 is probably 
 the best madden title ever. It still has it's problems with online play, frequent fumbles and the 
 ability to easily strip the ball. The overall gameplay is pretty darn good. All you maddenites 
 will be excited for this years title while those who are still waiting for a perfect 10 madden 
 need wait a few more years. I doubt EA will ever get madden to perfect form. For some reason, I 
 feel that EA purposely tries to put something in the game that will leave us raving and ranting 
 for changes. Last years title was fatigue and this year we're dealing with fumbles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  This year's edition of madden has been had a number of big differences compared to the 06, 07 edition 
 on the xbox 360. Some of the big changes are that this year their is a brand new Weapon's System 
 . This allows player to see which players on the field they should get the ball to in different 
 situations, and also it is very easy for people who are not familiar to NFL Players and might therefore 
 hae no clue who to give the ball to. The other major difference gameplay wise is the Branching 
 Animation System which lets the player to break off any animation unlike last years edition. This 
 is what will seperate the good players from the not so good players since the game responds to 
 the smallest twitch' on the controller. This however does not sacrifice the fuidity of the gameplay. 
 This year's edition of Madden has added Finance Mode (previously called owner mode) . This allows 
 players to do everything they could on last generation's Owner Mode, example, from changing ticket 
 prices to buying or selling players... However what I thought was neat was that the player is able 
 to change the location of their team and this would require building a stadium, which you can't 
 do specifically. However, you can add a ton of upgrades to a stadium to make it your own. Some 
 of the small changes to this year's game is the new Foot Planting System and the Hitstick 2.0. 
 The new Foot Planting System makes players look realistic when they run, unlike last years edition 
 where the player looked like robots while running. This edition also shows players tire while they 
 run, making it visible when they are about to collapse with 10 yards left to the Endzone after 
 a kick return. The Hitstick 2.0 now lets player choose whether to hit high or low on the players. 
 So if you are a small corner and you are about to hit a fullback, in order to make sure that he 
 does not brake the tackle, go for his legs. This is also very useful when a reciever down the middle 
 just catches the ball and then your DB can hit him low in the middle of the catch animation sending 
 him spinning without the ball in possesion (if it weren't for the new Branching Animation System 
 the player would have had to wait for the catch animation to finish and then hit the reciever) . 
 Lastly, the amount of animations put into this game is an amount where with paying this game for 
 weeks you will still see something new.
  
  This is by far the best Madden game to date and will steal many hours of your life if you decide 
 to purchase the game. Being a big fan of the 2k series this is the year I am going to get a solid 
 game of NFL Football for the first time from the madden series.
  
  Favorite modes: Superstar and Finance mode
  Favorite Team: Buccaneers
  Favorite Player: Brett 
 Favre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow after playing Madden for a week now im gonna have to lower my score from a 9.2 because apon 
 further review this game does not deserve such high numbers. AsFor the gameplay after playing a 
 bit longer turnovers have beacome an issue still nowhere as much as College Football but still 
 UNREALISTIC turnoverrate. The Franchise was the weaskest link in my previous review that to has 
 nosedived to an embarrassing level. I feel sorry for EA players come into the leauge in draft class 
 and they still wear UNREALISTIC jersey numbers into the game. Lets take Steve Slaton for example 
 he comes in to the leauge as # 10. SO at the start of every season i go ahead and try to fix some 
 of EA's problems and and change the jersey # of all the UNREALISTIC player numbers to somthing 
 more sutible. SO when i change Slatons # to 30 I realize that the game has changed his age to 26! 
 ANd that all your imported players share the same birthday of Jan1 1981. DOES EA NOT HAVE GAME 
 TESTERS? ARE U KIDDING? Or do they spend all theyre time on superstar mode witch is pointless and 
 unenjoyable. Or are they testing the game play that still has holes in it? I mean how does Ea justify 
 haveing unsigned free agent players that are rated higher than an 80 disapear totally out of your 
 dynasty mode? I had P. Manning, C. Johnson and B. Westbrook all unexpicably vanish out of my game. EA 
 ARE YOU KIDDING. Dont get me wrong the graphics are beautiful and the new anamations are great. 
 But I feel its time that Ea hire a new creative team. Mr Ortiz and CO are making a slacking game. 
 This game is supposed to be playable through out the year. Their are so many bugs that it feels 
 like EA needs to make a patch to make the game playable and enjoyable again. It was not finished. 
 Take the extra month or 6 months to make a complete game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
